But this is the most OP buckler I think you I mean that's stuck under two bars. Good and Hi it's Tod from Tod's Workshop and Tod Cutler there's a whole series of films that Matt and go check them out if you want, they're brilliant. weird from history, little bit unusual, from a of my abilities and I hand it over to Matt without those. So we've done chain flails, tournament done one of these. Right, it's not sharp. So oh Ah it's one of these! It is one of those. So of those is. So it's this and it is a buckler on the front. So bucklers, a normal kind of but you wear them about town, you're getting in That's about the size of it isn't it? Yeah so the sort of rectangular type is known as a targa. so it is a buckler but it's specifically a type of shield I guess. But and they're really about their use from Italian treatises such as in 1536 in a book called Opera Nova. Because this Yeah and there's a good chance that they dated it they are they're one of those things that I don't and then suddenly they come out of nowhere and separate sections for sword and buckler or Right so there's slight differences in how they're they're sort of trapezoid so that they're usually corrugated like this. And have you ever used one actually. I do know some people that fence I've never fenced with one. But you've used a the hook on the front here? Yeah there are that I can think of, both got hooks on the They're different and there are round bucklers I guess we'll probably never really know is that off your pocket whatever. It would make sense or the other point being of course is So in a nutshell I don't know there's been a lot, about these yeah and obviously you could hook are never shown in artwork being worn with the worn with the front outwards, bucklers that is. I of an example which I don't know about yeah. There do know that sometimes lanterns or other objects watch going around the town at night would walk hanging. So interestingly is it just simply with one hand or um a staff weapon or whatever in now undefended if you got the lantern hanging or it could just be a degree of laziness that if you may as well have something to hang the lantern because certain cities in Europe uh and this was around the streets after a after curfew which was the unwritten thing was if you were going around up to no good. So it was the law that you have to you might as well hang it off something I guess, of it is you've already got all these bars on need that hook? Yeah you know it's if that's no I'll agree I'll agree with that analysis, so type event. I mean I think the other thing that of the grip. I didn't have a picture on the back. different way I sometimes see so we have this because it has to be like that because of this is the way that you hold the buckler is with the plate to put your thumb on with an actual thumb earliest example that I'm aware of of any weapon thumb up there and that actually helps you steer bars aside, because obviously the bars are there themselves gives you greater control over the targa in in actual use is usually held at angles. back and it it's usually held at diagonal angles hit this and skip off one way or the other they will essentially glance off either side. in order to trap and control them against the thumb against the grip is really important as can deliberately deflect with them, they can also a person threatened this side and you angled what we call a disengage, underneath your buckler, engage that side and then attack here so they're well they are a cross between a bigger pavaise of both. But I think we should have a look at people? I'm sure I can find a couple of willing uh for another Tod Cutler related interesting fact. left hand dagger. English and you can tell that small pommel, small blade. Love them. Big on Go figure. Anyway you'll find this and loads of So it's time to do a bit of sparring, to see he's got a YouTube channel actually the have Jordan over here. But the first thing is the reason for that is I am proud of this thing, dings and scrapes, but you can see with this thin that is then the possibility to just move the you want to do. We're not doing that because I can see with weapons like this partisan here underneath and then the user is in trouble. Oh teeth, oh there we go. So they really do catch sword that will not fit through that cage, Jordan guys. So obviously when the point goes past the that point so one of the great things about a left guards you can sort of uh control the thrusting but I mean every time.... it oh that was that oh the hook the hook got it. Oh went between the hook and the bars and then it the hook like that okay so whether that but the hook definitely interacted with the blade, was yeah caught again. So I mean it is it is very doesn't yeah for anyone who doesn't necessarily at all. A typical buckler everything just glances you do one thing for me Nick, that hook if you try and work out if there's a reasonable way that choreograph it see if there's a reasonable way some way. Just hold your sword out sack in front way. Right handed this is much harder but your fist towards Jordan's point, there's a good yeah yeah it's almost like punching the his tip. oh oh nice that it stopped it dead. Yeah so under the hook, it went under the circular one that ring so you can actually be more aggressive passively as soon as a person puts their tip down they they they have to react backwards to get it with a normal buckler because as you said blades about something that's not a sword. Okay let's do what do you want to use? Uh I'll use the partisan, question here is Tod if a partisan gets stuck you supposed to do next, because you're too far you just drop the buckler? I think you drop the Well so obviously this is a a nylon simulator and but even then just the friction against the bar to close in which is all he really needs. Like point online. Yeah exactly, so it makes you far couldn't hear that, Jordan, oh there we go Oh in happened. Jordan what do you do now? Yeah all was. Oh see that would have got stuck it's just oh oh nice but it is I think we're not seeing because it's not really binding the blades like me. But I think its utility is just written all of that yeah and and also in an age where swords under two bars, look at that. So the question is yeah let's assume Jordan that you can't pull this is to drop the partisan and either run or pull you are kind of divided because if he drops the the whole lot, yeah if he keeps hold of the weapon each other so at that point your best option got a partisan but it's got a buckler attached he can't stab you and it's really.....but he can other option of course from here would be to let his weapon instead. So well that's not coming out the camera because that's literally stuck under so oh hold on like, bear in mind and there we are blade. A steel blade would be well truly right completely jammed underneath there. I think so that's it really. Informally, thoughts? Talk. I smash in the centre into the tips and the moment of the partisan or the tip of the sword it's just was quite interesting and you're keeping it kind really well, just just aggressively smashing were driving the centre of the shield into your just swing the shield, crash the shield into probably will catch. And you can obviously use so much easier and far it's it's it's there are the corrugated nature of it and the nature of that intuitive. I get the impression you can really weapon and you stand a really high percentage Let's wrap it up, I would say fabulous. Matt? Honestly I think of all the weird weapons we've and convincing weird weapon of all of them. No I to thank Nick and Jordan again don't forget to go the notes and then Matt really I'm going to give really as valid as yours in this context, but it's now leaving me with the thought why wasn't brilliant it was just obviously brilliant. Yeah I this comes at the beginning of the age of the the swords used at this time as side swords, 1550 you're already starting to see a lot and thrust centric and so this comes around at you're dealing with opponents who are now instead moving around like this they're now holding the If you're the guy you're not quite caught up with new fangled swords and you want to have something that's the ultimate anti. It really it really wanting to commit. Yeah it makes the person who start to think about not holding the point on this can be used I think people always think of really offensively I think. So all together weird for this one well that and the chain flail as well of view, I wouldn't want to really have to fight so Matt and Lucy Easton, Skirmish, brilliant thank you, thank you guys thank you