(PBS Digital Studios theme) Does the speed of light actually (Space Time theme) So what is it about the speed Why does the universe 1) keep photons from traveling at any speed but 300,000 kilometers per second in a vacuum, according to 2) keep anything from traveling faster than that speed? The answer: this statement is The universe doesn't arrange itself In fact, spacetime couldn't The cosmic speed limit is This universal constant is, perhaps more accurately, In a previous episode, we talked about causality Causal connections give us the only ordering of events that all observers will agree on. But why must causality And why is that speed the To understand this, let's first get our heads around two of the most important insights in physics ever. Ready? First, 1632--frilly collars, and in Italy, Galileo was by the Inquisition for his and the whole, &quot;Earth is not the But in his book, there's another, less This is not Einstein's Relativity, but instead, the brilliant precursor. Not only is Earth or, indeed, but Galileo posits that no To put it another way, all experiments should give the same results regardless of the velocity of your non-accelerating, or This Galilean Relativity that Isaac Newton would later Fast forward to the 1800s-- and mad experiments to uncover Enter James Clerk Maxwell, who weaves these laws into describing the entire electromagnetic By the late 1800s, we Newton's mechanics, various And there's this sense except there are hints of something horribly wrong lurking in the math--actually, two hints. The first clues to the bizarre And more importantly Maxwell's equations had cast confusion In fact, we now know that were using assumptions that implied an It would imply that space and But I'm getting ahead of myself. First, let me explain the Imagine a pony on roller blades And make it an electric monkey. Why? Well, magnetism comes from So an electric skater monkey generates a magnetic And I can figure out the based on what I see is the monkey's total velocity. But what is that velocity? Galileo and Newton tell equals pony blade speed But what if this very clever pony She sees the monkey moving at only monkey skate speed, and so gets a totally different magnetic field. So who's right, me or the pony? The key lies in what We don't measure magnetic field. And the pony measures See, there's a velocity-dependent trade-off between the electric and magnetic fields. The two work together to give you the same electromagnetic--the Lorentz--force, regardless of reference frame. This tells us that the electromagnetic force holds clues to the fundamental interplay between How do we unravel that connection? It's going to be encoded in the transformation that will allow Maxwell's equations to jump seamlessly between reference frames--the transformation that represents space and time in our reality. This transformation thing, that you wave at your description And it'll bump you between Wingardium leviosa. An example is the Galilean transformation, velocities add together and space and time Newton's mechanics use it, and we just applied it to Maxwell's equations to get total monkey speed. But it turns out that there's no way that they give consistent results They aren't invariant They sort of give the right force at low speeds, And at high speeds-- So does this mean No, it means that Galilean The transformation underpinning The only transformation that works And it was discovered even But it was Einstein who realized tells us how space and that it also predicts Now, you can get to this transformation the way Lorentz and Einstein did by requiring a constant speed of light. As an example, there's via the spacetime interval But forget about This transformation is so profound based on a few simple statements Let me show you how. First, we're not going to pretend We don't know that, &quot;total monkey speed equals pony blade speed plus monkey skate speed.&quot; Why would you assume Next, no preferred Under our new transformation, regardless of position, orientation, or velocity. It doesn't matter where the or in what direction This must be true. The Earth is whizzing around the sun, Position, orientation, and velocity Yet our experiments don't Finally, assume that Require that we can consistently I should be able to use to get to the monkey's frame just by using the different velocities. I should also be able through multiple frames of E.g., I can go to the monkey's frame and then going from pony to monkey. And I can also get by putting a minus Essentially, we're just in how the dimensions work. Finally, finally--use these axioms See the link in the description. The result is the It's the only one that satisfies all of these pretty fundamental statements about the relativity, symmetry, It must describe our reality. And therefore, there must This absolute speed limit--let's call it 'c'--is the one parameter defining the Lorentz transformation. Through this parameter, predicts the cosmic speed limit. Now, the Galilean transformation a special case of the Lorentz transformation And honestly, just from the symmetry and relativity arguments that we made, c could be infinity. But for other reasons--still unrelated to light-- The Lorentz transformation finally allows us to write down a version of Maxwell's equation that is invariant With it, we can write down that works in all This is further evidence accurately describes But it only works for a That value has to of the fundamental constants For the laws of electricity we need a finite maximum cosmic speed, But check this out: the exact same combination that gives us the cosmic speed limit also happens to define the speed of propagation of electromagnetic waves--the speed of light. c is the speed of light. But it's the speed It's the maximum speed at which any two parts of the universe can talk to each other. In fact, it's the any observers can see two Because of this, that any massless So lights or photons, also gravitational waves And so they travel at the Mass is an impediment to motion. No mass, no impediment. So massless things go as In fact, the very existence tells us that the universal Einstein's interpretation of the meaning gives us the Special Theory of Relativity-- and, of course, mass as described by the famous Awesome episode These are unavoidable the basic relationship between as described by the and we accept Einstein's So what happens without a and we pretend c equals infinity? There is no matter, because it would take There is only massless particles Time dilation and length There is no time and space, because all locations and times The universe is an This is all pretty paradoxical, and so there are, However, the paradox itself tells us that The finite speed of causality is fundamental to us having a universe in the first place. And we want a universe, so I can see you back here Last time on &quot;Space Time,&quot; we talked about the edge of the universe and Counter-Strike. Let's get into the comments. Denny Hiu asks how a universe and what is it expanding into? Great question. The weird thing here is that some infinities can be bigger than other infinities. Imagine an infinitely long ruler If we stretched the ruler spaced at every two inches, But every section of the Now replace the and that's basically what's It doesn't need to Every chunk of internal RedomaxRedomax asks what you would see if you traveled 18 times the distance to the particle horizon to come back to where you started. So that number, 18 times only applies if the universe making it a hyposphere--and the curvature is the maximum that it could be, But if you travelled that distance-- again, assuming the universe froze in its expansion, which it won't-- then you'd get back to your starting point If you travelled at it would take around or 55 times the current The Milky Way would have and all stars besides red Epsilon Lazerface says that, &quot;... if you go outside the universe, you become a Super Saiyan.&quot; Well, there really would be no way to know that unless you traveled outside *The Universe*. LassieDog999 makes fun of &quot;geo-dez-ic&quot; &quot;geo-dee-zic&quot; If it's good enough for the Queen of England, Tenebrae says, &quot;This was they have ever heard of saying, Thank you. I knew my PhD would end up (Space Time theme)