- My name's Davie and this is my story how I went from $500 to 500 million. I was a very insecure kid. I was slightly pudgy. And now I'm on the Australian under Margot Robbie. I have bought my dream home, bought my girlfriend her dream car. I don't actually like Sometimes I feel like they especially, for people that don't know me, and I'm slightly introverted. But it is a really, really good story for young entrepreneurs to hear and there's lots of lessons. So here it is. This is my story from $500 to 500 million in just five years. So I was born in a, not it's called Adelaide. I was a very insecure kid. I was the kid that went to the beach and just wouldn't take their shirt off. I would have to swim in my shirt. I had a very supportive They, you know, supported but they also worked incredibly hard to support me financially. After school, I would go and They had a small furniture and I would just get to just, you know, working to put me through school. School was difficult for I was told that I was especially, through primary It was probably and I just never tried. Constantly arguing with teachers, constantly getting detentions. And everything was just felt I had a parent-teacher interview, all of my five teachers and I was incredibly difficult to teach. After that, my parents They gave me an ultimatum to or they're going to find another school, or even just stop supporting me overall. I felt a deep feeling I knew that there was something within me. I knew that I wasn't stupid and I had a decent amount of intelligence, enough to make a good life for myself. But it wasn't until I was I used to watch mind numbing And I came across all of These were so, so exhilarating You would watch them and you could just feel like I watched the Jordan about how many game-winning and he's lost. After that moment, I started to pick up that all greatness was, to work hard and fail. So I knew I needed a plan. I needed to get better grades. I needed to get a job and I to make money. Well, I thought university was This was the path that I and maybe achieve greatness, which I didn't actually but I knew I wanted to The first job, I was moving and I was getting minimum wage, which I think was about Then I used that money to go to the gym. I started to get absolutely which made me feel so much better and was kind of the first lesson that small bits of compounded effort can actually improve over time and just help your mental Then I got a tutor as well that I was struggling with. I enrolled in difficult physics, chemistry. I knew it was working when one year after I decided to change, I I only had one teacher that He said in my career turn their life around as Which really cemented that And ended up finishing and getting into mining engineering. I just chose mining engineering because I thought it sounded cool and you could go straight which sounded also cool. On my first day of mining engineering, I walked into this giant and I couldn't even see the lecturer. He was so far away. He was on a big screen. And he said, &quot;You are all used to being the smartest in your class. Look to the left, look to the right. Only one of you is going And turns out I was not I hated university. I didn't like the subject. I was only doing it because I got told that I could get six figures out of it and it sounded cool. And because there is no structured or forced way of turning up, I, you know, didn't rock up at all I'd say one of the main was because I was just so and I just was constantly I was trying to sell singlets and hats. And I actually started on Instagram. I started an Instagram supplement stores and take and write reviews, what's good about them. Then I was able to sell to, you know, fitness tea It started off small, I'd be out on a night young party stage and I But then I would sell a shout because I'd be able to It started to grow really quickly. I created lots of different I created them in workouts, in nutrition. I was doing cooking recipes It probably got to a the six figures that I wanted just from Instagram. Which felt huge compared to, you know, having minimum wage just previously. Then I decided to do personal you know, I could get more learn more about it. During the day, I would have People thought I was a drug dealer. I think dad thought I was a because they would all have I'd sell shout outs during the day, train my clients in the working 16-hour days. And I remember, yeah, I had about $100,000. Then it all kind of and things went very, very downhill. I decided to take a lot of the money that I made from personal training to try to build a huge food franchise. I was really into Vietnamese and I thought that there could which there now is. It's called Roll'd in Australia. So I stopped personal training and I set up a shop in my local area where there wasn't really a shop before. 5:00 a.m. I would wake up, and And then I would cook pork in the morning, and then I would just I'd still do my Instagrams during the day, wash dishes at 5:00 p.m., and I wasn't seeing my friends at all. Food businesses are actually to make work. I was losing money. Lucky, I did still have It kind of evolved. I was flipping Instagram so I'd buy them and then sell them to other people for a bit of a higher price. I would also just grow them and that was working really well, until I ended up buying It was probably my biggest buy ever. It cost $40,000. Bought the Instagram, everything was all sweet. Then it turns out that, The original owner was Instagram gave the account The scammer already had my $40,000 and I was just left with nothing. That was almost all of so I couldn't buy any more My Vietnamese roll shop going down the drain and I got I remember completely being mentally just not even there And it was a really good moment to. For my family, completely I was constantly drinking so my family taught me I remember dad put a rock in my shoe and he made me walk down the driveway with the rock on the shoe. And it was poking me and hurting me. And then he took the rock out of the shoe and then put it on again and said, walk down the track. Obviously, it stopped hurting. And he said, these mistakes they're just going to hurt you. Just learn from them and move on. So I knew I needed a new plan. I packed up, basically gave the shop away. I was gonna move to Melbourne, surround myself with great people, learn as much as I can about Hopefully this brand would and make me financially free. I was working at the 5TH WATCHES influencer management. Also learning photography, videography, Facebook Ads, Google Ads. It was an amazing time. I learned so much. I never gave up on At that time, I remember I while I was over there. I ordered six kilograms of parsley and delivered it to my I remember getting a text from And he said, &quot;Why are all of I think that mixed with he definitely thought I was a drug dealer for a very, very long time because none of those and I was constantly flying 'cause I missed my friends. And my girlfriend ended up that I'd made. I remember checking my bank It felt like I was back at square one. I had $0, I was back But my mind and the knowledge that I had was just invaluable. All I needed now was a product that was just gonna change my life. I was looking for products And then I came across around how weighted with sensory disorders or insomnia. Naturally, I wanted to test it out, got every single blanket in the house, was on the couch, piled them up. While that didn't really feel that good because it was maybe 400 I did keep looking into it. And there were so many And there wasn't that especially, in Australia So I had decided to commit to it. I decided this was gonna be the product. It was helping people. It could really make a difference and I definitely thought So I ended up ordering I got one sample, initially. Got my girlfriend and my neighbors. She was about 11 at the time and I did a photo shoot in the house. I had so many skills from that I could launch I could launch the Facebook I could do everything from scratch. So I really didn't need any I had about $500 at that from doing weddings and To get the cash for the business, I decided to sell on pre-sell. Which is where you sell stock that isn't actually in the country yet. You are making a promise at this, this date. So I would take the order, buy the stock, and bring it in. Because I had no idea what I was doing. They were sending me paperwork to sign. I had no idea it'd actually get caught in a customs border hold. But the Australian Federal especially, if it's the first time that you're bringing in stock. And I remember it was just The stock was about five weeks delayed and I had about 400 customers. My first 400 customers for my big business were waiting five weeks I almost thought, I'm gonna throw away this huge opportunity. Ended up getting the email after just constant emails And it was just the most ecstatic feeling. I was just off from there. I did about $200 in the first day. $1,000 in the first week. $10,000 in the second month. Ended up scaling to in its first year. From there I started I bought my Range Rover that I was, was always a goal for me as a kid. Remember getting and People thinking that I was And I just couldn't stop smiling with it. Was able to buy my girlfriend her car. Bought my house that I love. I'm currently looking for a beach house. I get to travel the world because we've just got so So after launching Calming which took me from earning We have millions of happy customers. All of the team, the 60 love the brand. We are inclusive, fun, happy. We make people feel very It's a brand that I'm incredibly proud of. When I look back at myself in school, watching those Nike commercials and how amazing that couldn't have imagined that I'd create something like Oodie that on certain types of people. There was always times through the journey, but the main thing is to just never give up. Constantly, keep learning and just really, at least try to enjoy the process as well. Enjoy the process of learning. If I can give one piece of advice as well through this video is You are in a position to and just, yeah, enjoy the process. Don't forget to like and subscribe. Thanks. (inspiring music)