Hello and welcome back to PASS. In this class types and skills tested in the reading and writing give you the essential information and some tips based on our PASS method and our experience in if you're new to the exam you may want to watch gives all the essential information you need about Okay just before we start some of you may be new is James and I've been working in teaching, long time. Too long! I created PASS in order English exams. I developed a framework for exam Awareness, Strategies and Skills. If you want find free resources and also our selection of you'll first find it useful to download the free That way you can see the questions and answers link is provided Below in the description. Right the iISE III has two modules which you can take with the reading and writing module and then we'll What are the basics about the reading and and the skills are assessed through an integrated interact in real life. The reading texts reflect in an educational or academic context, and also report information. The writing tasks reflect the or college, for example such as essay writing. to highlight parts of the texts or questions. both when you're preparing ISE III and in keywords and phrases, and sections of text. It's There's an integrated writing task called to write a response to a prompt, and they need One of these texts will be an infographic. In representation of information or data, usually example. There's also an independent writing respond to a short prompt. So you can see some them separately. There's a mix. You can see the slavishly. Really, discipline with your timing is at the tasks one by one. First up is the Long answer 15 questions. Here's a sample text from five and each group of five questions tests a For questions one to five you need to choose of the text. The text has five paragraphs For questions six to ten you need to select statements. In the list five statements are false. Please note, in the instruction Have a think about that. Stop the class I don't want to say much more but imagine you have likely but just imagine. What's the probable any five of those eight statements. Well clearly You do the math! However, having said that, most as in any exam, using your skills and knowledge of you need. Not by hacking or tricking the system. the very least it will help you remember that you answer, and never leave anything blank. Finally, you to complete sentences with a word or phrase see from the instruction, there is no paraphrasing or number. Now, we talked about some strategies us with some really useful detail. You can see ebook that accompanies this video. There are links exam practice you should use these strategies. On together on exam tasks using these strategies, before. Okay, one further point for questions one only one incorrect option. So if you get one incorrect as well. So be really careful with this you may end up with only one correct answer out of course I can. Here's a great tip! Before you make make a simple yes / no question of the option, from this task, &quot;Is paragraph one about the birth clarify your thinking. If you can't clearly find Okay, let's move on to the Multi-text reading about 700 words, and answer 15 questions based on we mentioned before, one text will always be an the previous task the 15 questions are in three tests a different reading skill. Questions 16 sentence to describe each text. There are five The same text can be the correct answer for up to really important. Just do the math. There are four you think will correspond to more than one text? Okay, what's the answer? It's likely to be just made available by Trinity and they all had an was an answer for two texts. Again, this is not the task. What's most important is to have the sentence for each text then make sure just one of for questions 21 to 25 you have to select possible answers. In the list five statements are Does this sound familiar? Yes, I hope you've this is the same task type as in the Long reading tip for this task type? Okay, now you know that definitely accessible to you if you prepare That is one third of the reading skill marks And if you study well and prepare, you can easily specifically. Okay, what about questions 26 to word or phrase taken from the text. The completed texts in the task. Well you know the text by As before, Trinity have helpfully provided us with the downloadable ebook, and I highly recommend as the advice is really great, Also you should tasks or practice exams. Make a note of the time What can I add to this, apart from what I've much more detail in our PASS course but I can way skills are being tested on a global level. but not exclusively, skimming skills. This means and purpose. The next five questions test skimming you need to find sentences which confirm what you texts for more specific detail and information. test scanning skills because you're looking for see the structure of the task as a whole. We move the way we use real-life reading skills. To get read, read, read. On our courses we give you more Just before we move on to the next task. Have you same structure? Yes, it did. It's really important skimming and scanning, and then scanning. You need English. Okay, Reading into writing. We've talked exams in that skills are tested in an integrated is a special exam. You use the same four reading to a prompt in about 200 230 words. This task and to transform and adapt what you've of writing might you find? Possible genres are a so three types of essay, an article, an informal a review or a report. Here's an example. Please focus on the instructions in bold. You're words as far as possible. Also you're told you You're given space to do this. It's imperative plan, write and check your essay. You have 40 about 30 minutes writing, and at least five The other really important thing to remember It's really important. Candidates often whole exam. So be prepared, follow all the a good teacher to give you advice. We spend a tough but if you understand what the examiners As always. Trinity have provided very useful I'll just add one more thing. Make sure you read text type and how to interpret the data is really reading and writing module? Can you remember? Yes, respond to a prompt which requires you to write example here. The possible writing genres are the letter, formal email or letter, review or report. Always identify the keywords in the task. You with examples, and you must plan your work plan, write, check. At least five minutes for A good plan is the cornerstone of a good and make sure you check your work for five 40 minutes. Your spelling and punctuation For essays, of course, you should follow the this up as one day I was planning an essay and bread at the top and bottom of the burger are like The filling of the burger, the part in the middle are like the middle paragraphs of the essay. Two For this essay I'd plan my introduction carefully stating my opinion.Then I'd plan to write two or point that illustrates my opinion. I would write then I would give further explanation which justify my opinion. And I would use linking connect my sentences and my paragraphs. Finally, and summing up. And of course throughout my essay take unnecessary risks, such as using language I and I would check my spelling and punctuation as tips too and you should follow their advice. On for each writing genre. It's important to know all but as you can see from the example the tasks (usually). So, finally how are these writing tasks of time learning how each task is assessed. task and what you do. You need to think like For the Reading into writing tasks the examiners The first criterion is Reading for writing. source texts, selection of relevant content, use common themes across the texts. Then there is as the overall achievement of the communicative coverage of the topic. Next up is Organization presentation of ideas, use of format and are words, such as discourse markers, essay. Just like signs guide you when you are you're assessed on Language control. This includes and control of spelling and punctuation. Remember, Extended writing task you're also given a score Task fulfilment, Organization and structure, and are the same as the other one, just that there's Right that was intense, wasn't it? I hope it the accompanying ebook, go to the PASS website great deal on our How to Pass Trinity ISE III score possible in your exam. In the next video Well the best of luck with your preparation.