[music] I'm in Kathmandu, One of the oldest Today we'll discover the veneration of known as the Kumari. My name is Giuseppe, and I have a mission: to travel the world, to meet the most extraordinary and to ask them a simple question: &quot;What does happiness mean to you?&quot; Welcome to Progetto Happiness. THE LIVING GODDESS This is Durba Square, It's a truly magical atmosphere, I'm surrounded by wonderful temples. Today's story will focus on who is said to have been the goddess of female fertility. Becoming a Kumari The chosen girl must be a virgin. Who has not yet reached puberty, who has not shed and must possess a set of The life of a Kumari She cannot touch nor leave the house except until her first menstrual period, when the spirit of the goddess to choose another child. It's hard to meet the Kumari. I am waiting for Manisha, She agreed to take Is this living goddess Oh, tricky question. This is a very interesting thing. She is a Hindu goddess and also a Buddhist goddess. So why Hindu? All Hindus and even Buddhists worship her. -Really? So she is a mixture of both. That's beautiful! Buddhists and Hindus Yeah, we live in harmony. Do you believe that there's Yes, I believe that within I'm not sure if it's if it's only one time, if it's just continuing It's traditional culture This has been done And I think it's, in a way, continuing the culture It is very far from my culture a person who is a goddess. But as always I'm open and curious. I want to meet her [in Italian] [in Italian] Let's go! [music] Before going to the we want to show her respect. We do that by buying or some dry snacks, We can give some strawberries. Are you sure she likes strawberries? Every girl loves strawberries. - Should we get one? He ran away because I didn't pay for it. He will come back. He can't sell things here, They sell sets for the Kumari. If you have to visit Kumari, they give you a set lip gloss, a shawl... For the hair, for the eyes. A comb for hair... So Kumari must always look Another important they use it to ward off evil spirits. So our gift should be The last ingredient It is called tika and by making a mark in the So we'll gift it to the Kumari, We're going to present it We don't want to give her We'll be eco-friendly, - And then... Okay, let's do it! This is my first time in Nepal. Kathmandu is simply magnificent. Life on the street explodes of ancient ceremonies This city is a gateway And today it's our turn. [music] My attention is drawn to two girls who may be the Kumari's age, but they clearly did not [Manisha] Not here. What's their job? We collect plastic. How much money 100- 200 rupees per day They earn the money now And then study later. It doesn't make sense, but... It's not true? No, I don't think They'd love to go to school. But they cannot afford it? They can't. How old are they? Nine. Do you get enough food and sleep? Does anyone treat you badly? - Some do.. The one who forces Do you have only Yes. Do you shower? Lately on Fridays. It might be a stupid question, You can ask her what The responses of are always the most sincere. After a hard day of what can make you It's ironic that whose lives are the complete who is a revered child but in reality she's Only her fate was different. Before we continue with I want to thank today's sponsor Gimme5, which is my digital piggy bank. It's an app that helps you and set aside large in order to achieve I use the app to set I set for my next big trip. This app places great emphasis to develop a path when it comes to and the business world in general. It makes you want to save while thinking of the future, by investing them in solutions That is, they take into consideration environmental, social and to combine our needs for savings with those of the world around us. The funds are managed by professionals to help you achieve your goals and to seek to accrue interest preventing them from and losing value due to inflation. You're always in control whether and when to reimburse. You'll find many tools to help you I set up the rule that for EUR10 are set aside, so I I recommend that you try Gimme5 because it's super And, by entering the or by simply clicking on the you receive the first EUR5 of and you can try the app The others took a cab, of touring Kathmandu's John, Manisha's fiance, Perhaps it was a bad idea, we're breathing in so much pollution But we're almost there, and we'll finally We'll meet her, give her the gifts and then talk to her parents. Clearly we can't speak because she doesn't talk to anyone apart from family members. This is Ratnakar Bihar. The palace of the Kumari We'll go up, take off our shoes and anything made of leather. We'll go up and wash our hands. As soon as we enter, the &quot;namaste&quot; gesture She will be sitting on her throne. We never want to turn Turning your back to a goddess is very disrespectful. Ok. Can we speak with the parents? Since we cannot talk to we'll talk to her family. And if we're lucky, the ex Kumari, she lives They are neighbors. - She lives there? The home of the living so that believers or ask for grace. Right next door to her who has agreed Let's go and meet her. How old were you when I was eight years old. How does it feel I was very lucky to I had a chance to live a blissful life. It rarely happens that There are so many people even the president of for a blessing once a year so yes, I feel very proud You didn't miss playing or going to school when I wasn't allowed to go outside or go to school but my teachers and also my friends So I didn't miss it. How did you feel the day When I stopped being a goddess... When you get your When I got my period, I knew that one day I would but I didn't expect it to I took it normally. What makes a Kumari happy? I had an important responsibility, I had the power to bless people That made me happy. It was a great blessing with an ex-Kumari what it means to live as a deity. But now the big moment has come to meet the current child goddess. That is her throne. This is the hall where the She's not here yet, her She has to carry the child because her feet so she doesn't get hurt or We're waiting here The living goddess Kumari is coming. I'm quite nervous. She's here. [music] She blessed me I think she's done now, she's only Then her mother brings She will not speak. She is just looking at us, but she doesn't express She must be neutral. As Manisha said, Because if she were to it could mean something negative to the person she interacts with. Can you describe the feeling of being the mother of a child goddess? It is very difficult. When she was younger because she did not understand. Now she is slowly beginning to Doesn't she miss playing going to school, She plays with her cousins come here So he never says, Right now, she doesn't. Whatever she needs, When she can go out and sees something outside she asks me in private and we do what we can I feel sad when I can't But she understands her Sometimes she does, And you and your husband Yeah. What is the meaning of happiness for the mother of a living goddess? My heart is filled with joy to worship my daughter Through her blessing all Financial troubles... Women who struggle to conceive But my real happiness is to dedicate my life to the Being a living deity. Imagine what a great responsibility or what an immense burden to In the end, the Kumari But she has the power In our society this may But in traveling, distant cultures and traditions to be discovered and In Nepal, immense value is placed on the purity of children, as if childhood were that must be worshiped You may or may not believe but I can assure you so uncorrupted and so aware impresses you so much that the sacredness of that moment and the power of her blessing. ENGLISH SUBTITLES: