Here we go -- okay! Let's make sure we're good here... I don't know why I'm making Welcome to the lab everyone! Today real human small intestines with this. For those of you who've never we are an anatomy lab so we But why do this? Well I typically small intestine is about 20 to 21 So we're going to measure not just one, we're one of which is outside the body The other two are in the individual body so measuring those. We want to compare the three and also compare it to that 20-foot figure that we always and even compare it to these outlandish figures will say the human intestinal tract can be So a six foot tall person could I think we'd need a different one So we'll try to debunk that, as well as talk and even compare to carnivores, Which do you think is going to be the longest? So let's start with small intestine number one. This reminds me of back in the day when and I went to the digestive system lab and my a digestive tract and then plopped it Now what did my teacher mean by, &quot;fix it&quot;? a really important point after he plopped down that he wanted us to understand that the digestive If you guys have heard of the first part of the you go to the structure called the esophagus. You can see the bottom part Then we just expand and we call it the stomach, and as the stomach narrows -- as you can see Now the majority of all this coiling is the small the name is because of the diameter, This is what we're going to measure today to claim -- and you can see me just pulling it out here and we're going to uncoil this Let's just mention real briefly here intestine. You can definitely see a and the large intestine kind of sits like this: So, we might as well kind of orient it like that. Put the stomach about where it would be in wonderful gut tubey -- you know that's a technical Real quick before we measure -- the small except for the very beginning part of it and that's about 10 inches on average so we're we'd have some digestion taking place, and then That'll come back when we have a little bit of to the measuring table! I don't think this is going to be 20 feet! and yes I touched my shirt... So let's go ahead and measure this -- now that I've we'll see what it comes out to. Let me use this may be a few centimeters millimeters off but Oh! It fell off... Yeah, here we go. Okay! Let's make sure we're good here! I don't know why I'm making Okay! Huh... we're good here -- pyloris down to large intestine and the small intestine, We're at 10.7 -- in between 10.7 and Hmmm... I'm slightly disappointed... on why this could be shorter, however we need to small intestine number two, I just do want to the small intestine is in a living person. Because tone is there -- or present -- or that smooth muscle person passes away, and therefore in a cadaver, they get the 20 to 21 feet -- at least what we first before we draw all of our final conclusions. So now we're to small intestine number two, and of a different measuring process because the I've got my snazzy pink twine that we're gonna pin it to the beginning -- I did have to change you could see better -- but let's pin this at the Some of you may be wondering what this yellowy hold the intestine to the body wall and also it so we can absorb as many nutrients as Okay! We are to the end of the small intestine where we can see There's the beginning of the large intestine, and then -- whoops! Then we'll measure! measure the third small intestine, and And again -- finally to the end, oh look! There's not doing that right now, we are to the end and So we are finally all set up and three different small intestines. intestine -- the real one -- out on the We've got the tape measure so we can check out the So let's do this! So let's start with the first string here, is small intestine number one, and we already 10 feet seven and a half inches, and we could That was pretty short, and a If we go to the second string here, this that I measured, but I put it right If we continue going down we can see right about here on the tape measure, Still not knocking on that door of 20 feet yet. If we move down to the third string, This gets to about 17 feet eight inches. So there's some variation between or small bowels, and we didn't quite get So first let's talk about some of the perfect measuring technique. It wasn't to the but we got a pretty good idea that there's Also you have to take into consideration small intestine from has been embalmed You see, embalming fluid tends to have a I'm not saying that's going to shrink the the intestine that was about close to 18 feet, you that was not embalmed, as again, it wouldn't have So is it inaccurate to say that the No, it's not. There are plenty of reputable sources out there that have measured small bowels and have It just so happens that in this lab, we have all embalmed bodies, and the longest one What I think is probably more important as you can see from these differences that An accurate range might be saying 4 to 7 What I think is fascinating about all this, is We're even going to compare but when we talk about this length the That's why it's so long. We haven't even but this whole thing here that we've strung It's still longer than any other structure in feet or 19 or 21 feet. It's all about absorbing Back to this whole idea of variation -- have you issues or different abilities to digest food You see, I always tell students, Meaning we all have a biceps. but how that absorbs the nutrients it or more suited at eating, or absorbing and This is one of those variables So let's illustrate this a little different ends of the spectrum here when the spectrum would be say like, a cow -- a Whereas the other end of the spectrum would When you compare the length of their intestinal the carnivores like cats have the smallest whereas the cows have the longest length. I just went over a research study where they kind of sad, baby calves -- they So why is that? Why so long? Well plant or at least takes more time, and needs to digest things like cellulose and plant So cows for example are more suited for that. Whereas if you're a little cat pouncing the bowel is actually a little bit more simple and you can do that with There are some other cool things that to have a pretty acidic stomach, but So where does that leave the omnivore? middle of the two extremes of the That's where we fall into this omnivore diet, where our digestive tract falls somewhere Where we can break down some meats and break down That probably contributes to some of the success that humans have through Again that's super fascinating to think are probably better at digesting meats, where products and kind of this variation Again like I mentioned, you guys, that's just We did not get to talk about Cliffhanger!! Yes -- I'm sorry we'll intestine in a future video, but hopefully you of the small intestine and how that influences If your minds were blown -- yes our merch below for our mind-blown t-shirts. I know that was a shameless plug, but it does help support the channel and helps Please like, subscribe, ring the bell so And blow up our comment section, Until the next video, think about all those eat, just pushing through that four to seven