Transcriber: TED Translators admin Thank you. Yes, it is true that I am Don't hold that against me, okay? My son goes to Cal, It is really an honor but to open one up So last night I told my wife, in your wildest dreams, did you ever think that I would And she said, honey, (Laughter) So, welcome to my life. (Applause) You know, the theme of thinking is all about innovation, so my talk is about the art of innovation. I use the top ten format. That's because I've seen and I'll tell you, so I figured out very early in my career at least the audience can track so if they think you suck, they know about So I have ten key points for you. I worked at Apple, I've been a venture capitalist, I've done a lot of things, which I would like to pass on to you now Okay? This is my top ten It starts with the desire to make meaning Making meaning means And I think you'll notice that if you you will also probably make money, but if you start off you probably won't make money, you won't change the world, So my first thought for you is: How can you change the world? Here are some examples. With Apple, Apple wanted They wanted to bring computing That's the meaning they made. With Google, they wanted making information available to everyone. With eBay, they wanted so that anyone with the website could stand toe-to-toe Examples of companies making meaning. And YouTube, finally, wanted to upload video, to share video. So this is an example of the company And, as you know, they all made this kind of meaning So what I noticed in my career it's the first step towards innovation. The second step is to make a mantra: a two- or three-, of why your meaning should exist. This is an anti-example. This is the mission statement of Wendy's. The mission of Wendy's is to deliver for our customers and communities through leadership, I have been through Wendy's I've eaten at Wendy's; and in every occasion, that &quot;Guy, what you are participating in is leadership, innovation, (Laughter) You know, excuse me, but I thought I was just getting This is the problem Don't make a mission statement. Wendy's mantra Three words that determine Somewhat oxymoronic - Nike. Nike has a great slogan: Just do it. That's a slogan. A mantra explains why you should exist, and the Nike mantra And finally, there's FedEx. When you absolutely, positively what does FedEx stand for? It stands for &quot;Peace of mind.&quot; So my second recommendation to you is that when you decide try to find two or three words that describe why Not a 50-word mission statement, two- or three-word mantra. The third thing The perspective is to jump curves. Not to stay on the same Not to try to do things 10% better. When we were creating the Macintosh, we were not trying or a slightly better MS-DOS machine. We were trying to jump The greatest example Ice 1.0. In the late 1800s early 1900s, there was an ice harvesting business This meant that Bubba would go to a frozen lake or pond, Nine million pounds of ice Their idea of innovation more horses, bigger sleigh, sharper saw. But it was fundamentally: wait for winter, 30 years later, we have Ice 2.0. Now we have the ice factory. Major technological breakthrough. It did not have to be winter; You froze water centrally and delivered it Imagine the breakthrough this was. No more limitations by climate. You could have an ice factory. 30 years go by, we have Ice 3.0. Refrigerator curve. Now, it's not a matter of Can you put it in a truck? Can you deliver the ice to people? Now, everybody could A PC, if you will. A Personal Chiller. (Laughter) The very interesting story is that none of the organizations became ice factories, and ice factories did not because most companies define themselves not the benefits they provide. If you define yourself you remain an ice harvester. If you define yourself you remain an ice factory. If you define yourself as we make a mechanical gadget then you stay on the refrigerator curve. Great innovation occurs when you go from telephone to Internet, when you go from a Daisy-wheel printer Great innovation occurs on the next curve. The fourth thing is to roll the DICEE. These are the five qualities Great innovation is deep. Lots of features. Lots of functionality. This is a picture Arguably the deepest sandal ever made. Every sandal has one primary purpose: If you look at that circled area, That metal clip is for the sandal This sandal has twice the functionality. Twice the depth of any other Great products are also intelligent. When you look at it, you say, &quot;Aha, somebody understood my pain; This is a GT500 Shelby Mustang. For those of you in Berkeley who do not rate the horsepower (Laughter) I would love to buy one of these cars. 59 years old, going through a midlife crisis, (Laughter) I would love to buy this car to compensate However, I have two teenage boys; And I know that no matter there may be instances And the thought of them (Laughter) I've learned, however, that Ford makes called the MyKey. And what the MyKey enables you to do is program the top speed Very intelligent product. Great products are also complete. It's the totality of the product. In the software business, it's not just the DVD. It's the webinar; it's the documentation; it's the android developers it's the iOS developers it's the totality. Great products are also empowering. They make you more creative, They enhance you. They change the meaning of your life. This is a picture of a MacBook Air. If you use a Macintosh, It makes you more creative More productive. Windows you have to fight. You have to wrestle Windows to the ground. You need to defeat Windows. (Laughter) And, finally, great products are elegant. Somebody cared about the user interface. So as you go through life, ask yourself, &quot;Am I creating something and complete, and empowering, and elegant? Am I rolling the DICEE?&quot; The fifth thing is - He had a great song. Don't Worry. Be Happy. But what innovators do which is to say, when you there may be elements of crappiness to it. When you have the first laser printer, there may be elements of crappiness to it. When you had the first Macintosh, thanks to my efforts there was no hard disk, Lots of elements of crappiness to it. But, if you waited for the perfect world and you waited till the chips and everything was in place, And I learned a very valuable lesson. Don't worry. Be Crappy. When you have jumped to the next curve, it's OK to have elements of crappiness I am not saying you should ship crap. I am saying that you should innovative, on the next curve Biotech people, ignore this slide. (Laughter) Number six is to let 100 flowers blossom. I stole this from chairman Mao although it's not clear to me Letting 100 flowers blossom means that at the start you may think you have in mind exactly who your customer is, And you may be surprised that people are going to use your product It's going to be people who you did not And when this occurs: hallelujah! Thank God that it's occurring. Positioning and branding to what the consumer decides, So, with Macintosh, we thought and word processing machine. We were zero for three there. What made Macintosh successful PageMaker created a field Desktop publishing Not spreadsheet, database, If we focused on spreadsheet, database, and ignored desktop publishing, With Apple dead, We'd all have phones with real keypads; the GPS would actually work. It would be a different world, right? Aldus PageMaker was a gift I believe in God, and one reason why I believe in God for Apple's continued survival (Laughter) Let 100 flowers blossom. Take your best shot but then when customers use your product, if they say it's a desktop Hallelujah! Declare victory. Number seven, polarize people. Great products, great services, This is a TiVo. People like me, We have four TiVos in our house. I need to time shift a lot of TV; There are people who also hate TiVo. People who hate TiVo usually work for large brands because people like me, About a week ago, right? We watch Super Bowl ads. The rest of the year, we are fast-forwarding Great products polarize people. If you're an agency, you hate TiVo. If you're me, you love TiVo. You can love or hate a Harley-Davidson. You can love or hate a Macintosh. You can love or hate an iPhone. I'm not saying that you should but I'm telling you Don't be afraid of polarizing people. Number eight is churn, baby, churn. This is stolen from the Black Panthers, But what innovators in business do They take version 1, and they make it 1.1, 1.2, the hardest thing in the world. Because to be an innovator, You need to be in denial it can't be done, You need to ignore those people. But as soon as you ship, and start listening to people Change it, change it, and change it, Number nine is all the marketing It is to niche thyself. On the vertical axis, On the horizontal axis, This is a 2 x 2 matrices. When you graduate, you'll be charging five million dollars that they want to be in the upper (Laughter) Let's go through all corners, is where you have something There, you have to compete on price. This is what I call the Dell corner. Slap the same operating system You have to compete on price. In the opposite corner, Only you do it, but it is of no value. In that corner you are just plain stupid. (Laughter) Bottom left corner, The bottom left corner ... (Laughter) (Applause) (Cheering) The bottom left corner In the .com corner, you have something that's not Like buying dog food online. You pay as much for the dog food, and then you have to be at home when UPS drops off So it's not very convenient so it's not valuable. And then stupid people like me, we decided we had to have our so there were multiple ways to spend the same amount of money That's the worst corner. Not valuable. Not unique. If you want to be in In that corner, you are unique. Where I go to movies, When you take kids to a movie, you really want to know By the way, may I highly It is a fantastic movie. Go see the Lego Movie. Fandango. The only way you can buy a ticket. Breitling emergency watch. The only watch that can save your life. Pull out the big knob, That watch can save your life. Smart car. Everybody has cars when there's lots of parking. How many of us have a car that can If you're an engineer, If you're a marketing person, you communicate to the world Number ten, perfect your pitch. If you're an innovator, Two key points about pitching. First, customize your introduction. Start with something This is a picture I used these pictures to introduce when I was speaking to the LG management. However, to tell you I was already in Brazil well, I should use the picture of So I didn't have pictures, Pictures of your washer and dryer. So I sent a text message one of whom is in the audience right now. His name is Nic, older boy. Younger boy, Noah. So I sent them a message saying, you know, get off on the Xbox that I bought you Take your iPhone that I bought you; go downstairs - both of you - I need it right away. 15 minutes go by, nothing happens, right? So, again, Nic is the older boy. The other one is in high school still. So this is what happens. This is the text message. Did you get my text message Nick responds that Noah, said he would take the pictures. By the way, can you get us some free TVs? (Laughter) Welcome to my life. And then you see my bottom response. I don't think so, Nic. Welcome to my life. The key here is to customize When I spoke in Moscow, I opened up with this slide and I said, &quot;Wow, you Russians have big balls.&quot; (Laughter) In Istanbul, I opened up with this picture That guy behind me is the shopkeeper. He is really happy. Because he's thinking, this dumbass (Laughter) This fez has been in my family I finally found somebody Trust me when I tell you, with a thing like that, Customize your introduction. 10, 20, 30 rule of presentations. The optimal number of slides Ten. Now, you're all Cal people. You know I'm way past ten. You may be thinking I'm a hypocrite. How should I explain this? I will explain this: you are not me, OK? (Laughter) Ten slides. You should be able to give Yes, you may have an hour slot, 95% of the world uses Windows laptops. Those people need 40 minutes (Laughter) And the last thing is the optimal A good rule of thumb is to take divide their age by two: 60-year-old divided by two, 30. 50-year-old divided by two, 25 points. Someday, you may That day, God bless you. (Laughter) Eleven, as a bonus don't let the Bozos grind you down; The more innovative you are, There's two kinds of Bozos in the world. Two kinds of Bozos. Slovenly, disgusting, pocket protector, Rusty car. Japanese watch. You look at and say, &quot;Wow, what a loser!&quot; That person is not dangerous because that person only a loser would listen to that loser. Because you're not losers, hence, that person is not dangerous. The dangerous Bozo dresses in all black. The dangerous Bozo Like Armani, Maserati, (Laughter) Audi is OK, a rare exception. (Laughter) That's the dangerous Bozo because you think But rich and famous parses at least half the time. So I believe that Bozosity you need to be exposed to Bozosity so that when you encounter big Bozosity, I am going to expose you to some Bozosity. &quot;I think there is a world market Thomas Watson of IBM. Five computers. I have In other words, I have all the computers he anticipated in the world, &quot;This telephone has too many shortcomings to be seriously considered The device is inherently Western Union, internal memo, 1876. Western Union wrote off telephony in 1876. Western Union should be PayPal today. Oops! (Laughter) There is no reason by anyone would Great innovator, great entrepreneur, There's no reason to have How many have a computer Because according to Ken Olsen He was a great innovator, extremely good entrepreneur, but he was so successful on, he could not appreciate the next curve, the refrigerator curve. And that is the art of innovation. Thank you very much. (Cheering) (Applause)