[ INTRO] Over half of all insects eat plants, but most The spittlebug, on the other hand, falls into It seems like an innocuous critter, named Yet when farmers see this foam, it might throw Because though the bugs themselves aren't they could be a sign of imminent crop doom. Cercopoidea is a superfamily of bugs containing that can be found all over the world. They're more commonly known as spittlebugs These little guys usually come in somewhere between the size of a short grain of rice But what makes spittlebugs unique -- and Spittlebugs feed exclusively on a substance which is the liquid that moves dissolved nutrients through a plant's root system and into the Xylem sap is a little different from phloem which transports sugars produced by photosynthesis. Luckily for spittlebugs, lots of plants have like, all vascular plants, ones that use a That's most plants, outside of mosses and So spittlebugs have options when deciding When spittlebugs are in their nymph stage, they feed on xylem sap by piercing plants designed for sucking up liquid. Now unfortunately for them, xylem sap isn't since it's low in nutrients. That means spittlebugs eat a ton -- one spittlebug can consume 280 times their in a twenty-four hour period. That would be like you eating 19 tons of food Of course, all that delicious sap has to go So spittlebug nymphs excrete the excess... The spittlebug adds some chemicals and then The result is a foamy substance known as cuckoo which spittlebugs use to envelop themselves that actually looks like spit, but is more It doesn't have anything to do with the but it does tend to show up in early spring, It's not bird spit; it's bug pee. Just so we're clear on that. It's cute, if also disgusting, and doesn't that much of a problem. But spittlebugs are a huge threat to plants. Not on their own, though their feeding can The real reason spittlebugs are actually dangerous they can spread a deadly plant bacterium called That sounds a lot like it is a Hogwarts spell, but it causes a very real and very deadly disease In fact, it's considered one of the most and can infect more than 560 plant species These bacteria infect a plant's xylem -- which is exactly where the bug's mouthparts When a plant becomes infected with Xyella the bacteria forms colonies that clog up the and block the flow of water and nutrients As a result, the plant can't absorb the which is definitely not a good thing. Once a plant is infected, its leaves begin and if the infection continues unchecked, These tiny, cuckoo-spit-producing bugs transmit from plant to plant as they feed. When a spittlebug drinks from an infected So when the spittlebug moves to the next plant it passes along the bacteria, too. That's bad for plants, of course, but it's which can be hard hit by this spittlebug-borne Xylella fastidiosa is the culprit behind a that affect food-producing plants. Unfortunately, there's no cure for the infection, into crops like grapes, olives, or citrus, It was 2008 when the first case of one such olive quick decline syndrome was discovered By 2015, scientists were estimating that 10,000 had become infected -- basically half. In other words, the bacteria had spread to some of which were over a hundred years old And this disease has stubbornly resisted attempts Luckily, researchers are working on developing to protect farmland from Xyllela fastidiosa. Like by determining which of the three thousand are actually responsible for spreading it. Researchers reported that the meadow spittlebug was the main culprit in spreading the bacteria The scientists discovered that in August 2014, of meadow spittlebugs they collected in Italy's tested positive for the bacteria. Researchers are also testing other types of including chemical sprays that help slow the It seems unfair to blame tiny spittlebugs After all, they're just trying to live their swathed in cocoons of their foam excrement. So maybe with a little more research, we can and go back to living peacefully alongside these little guys decorating our plants with Thanks for watching this episode of SciShow. If you want to help us make more videos about weird bugs, consider supporting Patrons get to join our patron-only Discord and members of our team -- not to mention like behind the scenes photos and bloopers. If you're interested, check out patreon.com/scishow. [ OUTRO]