This is Arya Stark in Game of Thrones season happened? And what'll happen next? Let's and Catelyn Tully. At the start of the series and a bit of a "wild" child, "fierce" Sansa plays the part of a lady, dressing nicely, Arya likes to fight and ride and explore. She doesn't "want to be" "the highborn lady [she's] supposed to be", so she Jon Snow, who she has a "close" relationship before going away to the Wall. Arya also "love[s]" away after an incident with Joffrey, which under the orders of Queen Cersei, and the of the Hound, filling Arya with guilt and Syrio Forel teaches Arya to fight, and to So Arya trains, chases cats, overhears a starts going wrong again. King Robert dies, Lannisters kill Starks, and Syrio seemingly sacrifices himself to save Arya. Arya kills lives rough in King's Landing until she first book and season of Game of Thrones, are all killed. She's separated from her All her grief becomes hatred for the people but is powerless to do anything against Arya tries to return to the north with a group the identity of a boy named Arry, and makes the group is attacked by Amory Lorch, forcing the way Arya frees the mysterious Jaqen H'ghar. Lommy is killed, and they're taken to Harrenhal. Arya sees horrible things at Harrenhal. Murder, torture, rape. She's meets many Lorch, Gregor Clegane, the Brave Companions, to lose touch with her identity. Induction or a cult. She's stripped and scrubbed and "defiance" beaten out of her, and is worked be "wild Arya", or "fierce" Arry. Weasel , "ke[eping] to the crannies and Bolton takes Harrenhal, she takes the name even [herself any more]". One of the few as Arya is her hatred for the people she wants lists them in her "prayer" before sleep, constantly broods on killing and hate. Jaqen H'ghar turns up and tells Arya that since a sort of death debt, so he kills people for "a ghost instead of a mouse". When Jaqen "Valar morghulis" - all men must die. Arya escapes Harrenhal with Hot Pie and Gendry, killing a guard on the way out. So and hate, and begins to separate from her At start of Book and Season 3, Arya is free for Riverrun, to find Robb and Catelyn, but Banners, an outlaw group ostensibly fighting of the Hound and the resurrection of Beric to take Arya to her mother, that never ends and Gendry joins the Brotherhood, leaving wants people she can trust, a family, what find it with the Brotherhood, so she runs The Hound takes her across the riverlands, kill Freys and Lannisters together, and develop hates the Hound for killing Mycah, and goes or run away, but she never does, even though she gets lots of opportunities. The Hound says he only keeps Arya around fails and she's not worth anything to him the Hound are very very similar. They've men doing terrible things, both feel betrayed and angry and "hateful". They hate Joffrey, hate cowards, they hate liars. They both - and they use symbolic disguises in that about killing, acting like they need no one, and killing makes them happy, when in truth, they are afraid, they feel pain, they homes, nowhere to go. They say they don't They have no one else. So when Arya refuses was spite for killing Mycah. But maybe, Arya friend. Anyway. With no one and no reason clinging to the last thing she has left - her In Braavos, Arya uses Jaqen's coin to join worship death. To truly become a Faceless her "hopes and dreams, [her] loves and hates Arya must become "No one". Arya works the name of Cat she spends time in the city, teach her to lie. She's later made blind, so much as a punishment as part of her training, is restored she's taken to the Hall of Faces, identities. Arya becomes "The Ugly Little an insurance man, which she does, in the books, She kills Dareon, a Night's Watchman who's one of Gregor Clegane's men, from her list. the kill is similar. So that's Arya's seasons, she's gone from a sweet kid to Her family, her friends, and her sense of She'll obviously probably be doing some obvious targets. But they're all down south, wants to go is north, to the Wall, to Jon. Arya and Jon think of each other all the time. Arya only goes to Braavos cause of Jon's story in Dance is about Arya - the Of course, Jon is stabbed pretty bad, but by Melisandre - who in the show, meets Arya maybe the Faceless Men, as worshippers of and send Arya to have him killed a second Poole, who, in the books, is used by the Boltons impersonate the person who impersonated her. allowed to kill people whose names they know, though, so Arya might only be sent to kill Jon if Snow goes by Azor Ahai or King Jonathon point - is - imagine the drama of Arya test of whether Arya truly is no one - could the last of her family that she knows of? Arya? The answer is probably no. The kindly become no one, that beneath all her names, there, and it looks like he's right, Arya for the Many-Faced God, she kills to avenge "Try as she might ... she [cannot] rid herself So will she go back to being Arya? What's gone, her parents dead, and all her brothers unicorn-island Rickon. And what's even left Arry, Lumpyhead, Lumpyface, Weasel, Nan, Little Girl", Mercy... and each one has man" says, there is an Arya beneath all she has a "hole inside her where her heart any better". Arya is extremely tough and girl. Her family and friends have been butchered at Harrenhal, her best friend is "the worst a literal death cult. She's deeply traumatised, Arya is to dissociate from her suffering. After function like a person, let alone become first place. She can't trust, she can't She can't return to a normal life as Arya either. Who or what can she be? faceless gods of the greenwood". She feels to them in Clash, she hears a response. She "When the snows fall and the white winds she is reminded that she has "The wolf blood", "calling to [her]". Arya is closely associated call her a "wolf girl" and a "wolf bitch". She sees wolves, she hears wolves, she howls to wolves and they howl back. She thinks warg, someone who enters the minds of animals, like Bran enters Summer. She wargs a couple of cats in Braavos, but mostly wargs her while she sleeps, her mind becomes one with hundreds of ... mankill[ing wolves]" around the time, more and more as the series goes to Arya and different to "no one" - she is what she wants. Arya wishes and prays is a way that could happen. a warg, like Arya, dies, they may live a second and become one with their animal. If Arya There's plenty of foreshadowing that Arya who had "The wolf blood", was "willful, after winter, "they will find [Arya's] [her] frozen fingers". And we've heard morghulis" - all men must die. George series will be bittersweet. The death of in that Arya would finally have what she's story is about a killer's quest to take of a kid trying to find a family, what Arya chasing all this time, it's why she sticks safer alone, why she stays with the Hound, why she joins the Faceless Men. There's also wants a pack, at least as much as she her both. She'd be "swift and strong, heels". Arya dying and becoming Nymeria wolf [dying], but the pack [surviving]", becoming the "night wolf" rather than beautiful bittersweet ending to a story of for the final instalment of the series was epilogue, the closing moment of the series, as a direwolf, running with her pack across So feel free to comment what you think will X for more videos on Game of Thrones and more.