Midra's sanctum. A veritable Paradise. and now refers to it as an abyss, a place mired in the word the Japanese used to describe this place They're describing this place as a world of great it was a sanctum. a private hideaway for the Midra himself has no visible horns, Yet i'd still After all, many of his fellows have horns. His are an important symbol to the hornsent and church in the sanctum, which itself bears divine as far away from Midra's Manse as can be in this to those in the sanctum, geographically isolated in contrast to the deep spirituality that argue that Midra's Manse was uniquely a countless books once adorned these bookshelves, a discussion hall where knowledge could have been great sage, a title that could only belong to a at the manse, most books aren't on their shelves. been burned seemingly deliberately. So who did been the hornsent inquisitors. As we'll get powerful force that invaded Midra's sanctum here. And they do carry live flames which enable intentionally burned in this place of learning, this remote sect of curious hornsent discovered discovered the knowledge that led to frenzy, but in Elden Ring? Well, let me try and argue that in Elden Ring is largely synonymous with Frenzy mechanics, and both games now even have frenzy of lore, though, they're a little bit different. those who acquire incomprehensible knowledge as a result. Whereas in Elden Ring, frenzy more suffering and despair, and with their eyes aflame, I still think that that suffering and despair truth about the world, namely that suffering and order on a cosmic level. Look at Maria's minor for example. It is only the kindness of gold seems to suggest that order cannot exist without a stretch to think that Midra and the hornsent could have stumbled upon such a disturbing truth has to do with the three fingers and the the manse were surreptitiously researching the odd shapes with orange cloth draped over them and and stones that can be found in the finger ruins. adjacent to the abyss itself. Shout out to Zlofsky get a closer look at these. In the end, though to speculation. Maybe I'm wrong and it had nothing these covers were never meant to be discovered by to do with the woman in this portrait who stands that more later. But first, what is frenzy? What have to do with the fingers? To answer that, we're timeline than we ever have on this channel, &quot;All that there is came from the one great. the greater will made a mistake. Torment, despair. of the mistake. And so, what was borrowed, must be flame. Until all one is one again.&quot; These words fingers who divines their words. Let's break these of Elden Ring is said to have come from the One a unified whole. It is the universe, condensed as a &quot;greater will&quot; that made a mistake. And she says the greater will made a mistake. almost as if is kind of. Perhaps it's more accurate to say that one great is a collective, then the greater will its greater will, so to speak. And I'm saying there was a moment of fracture, a veritable but the greater will remained. This moment is who says that long ago we began as Stardust, too are children of the greater will So life had but to give order to its children in the will first sent down Metyr the mother of the two from the remembrance of the Mother of fingers, and finger creepers. It says nothing about her I think that when the one great fractured, the the only thing that was created. Frenzy and a is a separate part of the one great that believes only path forward. This frenzied part of the One needle. So as such, like the greater will it And the fact that it's envoys are three fingers five fingered hand, and thus I think three fingers being that if order is run by two fingers, then missing. Of course, this is just speculation, but of a revelation in and of themselves. It sends the the three fingers and the two. Unlike the two us their truth surely That there was a mistake under the branches of order, life now divides affliction, sins, and curses. so they believe the yellow chaos flame. until all is one again. I want and the greater will, because there have been And one of them is that the greater will both is the empty space in Count Ymir's headpiece. Now, course, this is all just speculative territory on of everything might have come from a void. of the Void is one such example of this happening. we know that life can come from a void. So if Then maybe a void is also what the one great was then, that when frenzy burns something, it In the gravesite plane, we come across countless have started to turn into spirits, fitting for stones, if crafted together with a swollen grape, violently spits frenzy like butter in a hot pan. frenzied Flame melts them away regardless. It's is terrified of this place. Naturally too, the forbid the flames use and to stamp it out At some to invade and purge Midra's sanctum, though stopped the one who invented this consumable, the that it is a record of crafting techniques left eyes were burned by the flame of frenzy, but were after the purge of Midra's sanctum? What I really the manse for a while. Or did it only truly become about that. We know that frenzy must have been hornsent inquisition arrived. Why else would the I don't think it was out of control by any means. that's because of this tortured Phantom of the cruelty was even necessary. While begging for commit? It's not clear whether he simply doesn't or whether he simply doesn't think that Midra is from this that Frenzy wasn't out of control hornsent Inquisitors had been made aware of it. have been the beginning of the end for Midra's a self-fulfilling prophecy. The fear of frenzy and power, leading to the torture and torment an extreme response that exacerbates frenzy frenzy only really exists because of how awful only proves that fact. So when the Inquisition they brought pain as was their way. These inquisitors, who we discussed in a recent video. they seek, and both inquisitions likely existed to opposed to the fire of Rykards inquisitors. The arcs called barbs, which, according to the spell, The barbs on the Great Sword of Damnation, for inflicting continuous wounds to assure eternal hidden in the weapon skill of this item, which in the sight of those fixed upon this crux, the crucified as she is upon a golden arc at the end was created upon the removal of destined death, fact by inflicting eternal suffering Without Death shape of those fixed upon its crux. Perhaps it's but I'm glad this line exists, because I think it of the hornsent look like the Rune Arcs of the these golden arcs and methods of torture that echo that preceded the Golden Order and the Elden Ring? the hornsent were around long before Marika part of their culture for a time. The simplest that Marika betrayed them, because for them to have been considered a part of the hornsent's of Marika's involvement in this place at this getting jumpscared by a winter lantern. There's the realm of shadow, it means that Marika must Inquisition arrived. Even here, in this sanctum the realm. And while you could argue that these and that they have no relevancy to the lore. I aware of the lore implication of these statues. is a place where Marika would have been unwelcome. All of this is to say that torture was ingrained Inquisitors or Rykard's Inquisitors or the it seems. Remember, Marika's minor erdtree has and therefore that there is cruelty with it. And it was the institutionalized way forward for of the lore, were a race that definitely had tortured phantom we mentioned earlier Laments I brethren common in our line? And yet you offer was taking root the hornsent brought their should have been left alone, for the results of Clearly the Inquisition wasn't prepared to handle become frenzied in the abyssal woods, revealing one spell they channel is Frenzied Burst, which single person who attempted to control the flame internal struggle. This is the same incantation his own struggle with madness. The fact that this frenzy, and this is why I think the inquisitors Perhaps this firsthand witnessing of the despair touched them. Or perhaps they fell victim to the talk about more later. The forest is now truly the not the manse itself. And I say that because the frenzied variant. Despite frenzy having the inquisitors of the manse don't have I think that this was done to show that thanks to the majority of the Inquisition's there is Inquisition strength here. For example, revered spirit ash, a powerful blessing of of divine Beast warriors roaming the halls. The the hornsent. But you know that already from these aren't physical beast warriors. They're part of the Inquisition's forces and then died in is that perhaps their ashes were given to the as weapons to be wielded in their assault. We do, of summoning the spirits of their comrades. we who rings a sort of spirit calling Bell to summon this place where the catacomb spills out into the frontier for those coming in or out. According perplexed the minds of the uninitiated, and so elder inquisitor. Thus, his age helps to explain the forest, endlessly calling in his brethren thing I wonder, though, is why Inquisition's because these inquisitions were focused on torture fathom why they were performing these terrible doubt about the terrible rites that they were intentionally warded this away. So perhaps this similar sort of doubt. Whatever the case, to an The books were burned, the manse was stifled. And that have are bound outside the manse. There's not had to guess, I'd say that these ten were Midra's manse. The somewhat similar garb to Midra's, and be an indication of that. This, plus the fact that me as a warning for those in the forest to stay have now laid claim to. And speaking of execution, himself accepted the Great Sword of Damnation and others to stay away from him lest they succumb. for the inquisitors, because in reality, while and one day it would be a fruit fit to burst, all the Inquisition's victory in this place, frenzy The very earth is scarred and even the animals flowers of this place have changed to be colored has clearly used these To create the frenzy flame and I think that most of it came as a result of in this place that I think supports this idea. The weapon, a glove stitched together from the flayed It was forged of an unyielding black impulse hunted down as heretics by their own brethren. So the hornsent denizens of the sanctum, and their hornsent inquisitors. And now the heretics desire made of their flayed skin. Now, I was originally skinned these victims to create this glove. But hornsent it's possible that the flaying was just Either way, this madding hand has taken it upon So who is he? Well, he's actually wearing the item that's cast in the image of the grave bird mausoleums and to the process of burning death in that this is a man that is linked to the ancient physically very close to the darklight catacombs do employ a lot of ghost flame processes in them. and where speculation begins. For example, given catacomb who got swept up in or witnessed the that represents the heretics desire for revenge. forest. And do we think the blindfold could be fashion, so there's something going on there, envision the nothingness brought about by frenzy. none of this is fact. It's just my take on the isn't the madding hand. It's the Winter lanterns, by the Winter lantern flies. These are winged seeing these, the wise know to stay well clear. see you. Once you are seen, there is no escape. note of all is a page ripped from a diary and only once. When he thrust his staff in my face, I The aging untouchable. Lore wise, it's hard to ripped from a diary, you'd think then that this who were known for their bookkeeping. What's more, Therefore, this record was likely written before think this aging untouchable that the note writes Inquisition arrived. The author of this note even I'm only talking about one aging untouchable does the winter lantern flies, which are insects seeing these. It reads the wise know to stay well right? To leave it alone. The quote unquote wise early on. And perhaps so, too did Marika, who Out of sight and out of mind. So, in my headcanon before the Inquisition, and there was an aging to steer well clear of. Of course, eventually are six in game that you can find. But frenzy had there's a phantom in the manse who wonders what it a crime to learn painful truths, to despair? At more than anything, it's meant to be a gameplay Lantern's staff, the aging untouchable can be an eyeball that has swollen over time, marked Winter lanterns have been touched directly are the most dangerous thing in the sanctum now, have blessed them directly. They're even wearing themselves of everything. But what defines them something else. They are defined by their aging. aged ones exaltation, which reveals that their grapes. This is fitting, but the most curious part our Lord. Bless our brethren with grapes. Take come from a hornsent, since it says, our brethren. spiral, Which is a consent symbol. So the aging there were many. And whatever they were aged exist to afflict the rest of the hornsent with ripening. Ripening is obviously something that this situation where we're talking about grapes, occurs over time. And so aging and enduring this And this frenzy is to be a gift, not unlike the might glimpse the distant light. Frenzy is shared Which brings us to Midra. Finally, the old sage ripen so that he might become the Lord of frenzied torture. and the final words that he heard from frenzy Consumables tell us that the flame of its wake. No wonder Midra desperately wants to rip for in the end, the Lord of Frenzied flame shall Every sin, every curse all melted away. So reads remembrance incantation designed in praise of description ends with the line yet Midra, like and yet he did become a Lord. So this line is kind to read this as Midra was a lord of frenzied you defeated him. Or alternatively, perhaps you're weak to become a lord long ago. But over time he he endured long enough to become one. &quot;No. Come The depths of your foolishness! Enough. We have dearest Nanaya&quot; From this dialog, we learn a the madness as a curse and is worried about what away. Two is that he genuinely cares about his since Midra asks for Nanaya's forgiveness when he Nanaya told him to endure for the sake of others, wants Midra to suffer in righteous hardship for that before? &quot;If you are prepared to show, resolve then heed the words of I, Shabriri... Your can be spared. Setting you on the righteous The theory that Nanayaa told Midra to endure him. And then let's discuss the theory that she being who is chaos incarnate. Put on this earth to we learn that Shabriri is a sort of skinwalker, of others. In his case, after they die, as he as the theory goes, perhaps Shabriri also came endurance and bring about a lord in Midra's hardship. This wouldn't be the first time that even be the second. The player character is of their maiden. And so was Vyke, the Tarnished an entire Prepare to Cry episode on Vyke's associated with frenzy, so check that out after you one item description now that will succinctly the fingerprint armor states no other tarnished Vyke, but without announcement Vic traveled far of frenzy. Did he make his choice for his maiden, Since Shabriri advocates for us becoming the Lord maiden burning in the fell God's flame, I'd who would have been faced with the same potential Lord of frenzied flame who would also pretty significant trend in how Shabriri might Midra's character specifically. the name Nanaya from Mesopotamian folklore. It's a name that things that would definitely help to explain why as one last piece of evidence for the theory that at the Shabriri's woe Talisman, which was made corners of his mouth are upturned in an almost creepy that Nanaya has a similar smile to Shabriri I'm not going to lie, I love this theory. I find affecting how strongly I advocate for this theory, me. And on that note, I do want to say I first and it was through the process of agreeing and I came to my own conclusion. And my conclusion is But it's also possible that Nanaya is just her own Either way, though, in my eyes, Nanaya is still Midra to endure very intentionally. But there as a character. and I'd encourage you to come to another interpretation might be that instead of parallel Hyetta, another sort of skinwalker in the Irina's flesh in her story, Hyetta fulfills storyline. Except she's the maiden to the three of maiden to Midra. Albeit a more manipulative I guess you could argue that Nanaya isn't an be hard to do personally. That's because the genuinely wanting Midra to endure for his own sake Nanaya's as body in game, she's actually cradling albeit a feeble Lord of frenzied flame Nanaya's of frenzy to a small spinal column. Now, this it was a crafted item with frenzy being attached no such claims, and indeed, the frenzy at the one who was a past Lord of frenzied flame, since a frenzied void. Anyway, the description goes long past was born a man who failed to become the cradled gently by Nanaya. This description notes in a distant land and an age long past. Now one itself is that distant land in question, and that before Midra. Alternatively, you might interpret between entirely and that the feeble Lord's It's kind of up to you. What is clear, though, before Midra, yet all of them were too weak. And tenderly Suggests a connection between her and have some malintent here with Midra, right? cradling a prior Lord's feeble remains. And since I don't think he'd be too happy about her holding ahead. So symbolically she's having her path ahead that this spine belongs to Nanaya's child. The is specific, defined as small, and that Nanaya cradles something doesn't mean it's definitively affection and perhaps pity for the subject. What's an indication that it belongs to a feeble lord. the spine is quite large and is described as have been her adult child then, who failed to she could just be cradling their remains? And I people insist that this was Midra's child because portrait here, a pose that some believe suggests taken. For this to be true, the child would have frenzy and then fail to become a lord. that's So you'd think, surely such history would have So while I think these theories are compelling, that Nanaya did have a history with a feeble lord sinister intent in telling Midra to endure. I'm mother, and the idea of her being an advocate for the wrong way as well, because birth is kind of a flame. in the base game Hyetta is euphoric at the you believe that Nanaya is aligned with frenzy, So in the end Nanaya's character continues distant land that her torch alludes to? What age Nanaya wears spiraling clothing and hair in the or is she pretending? Did she truly bring frenzy bring the Inquisition? Did she bring about the new ripened Lord? So many questions and so much character of Nanaya will become an enduring And that is always fun. Before I move on. Look artwork there? So right now, Displate Have a deal you can get 22% off if you buy 1 or 2 Displates store full of displate art and the newest print a print that was previously Patreon exclusive. So Displate are these metal prints that use a magnet wall. The prints are excellent quality and they've if you're enjoying this video, please consider if you buy three, it's even cheaper. regardless, video. on the topic of Midra's endurance one tweet by littlechurchlore, who comments on some are great follows, By the way, church notes that which in fromsoft games commonly means that it maybe these helped in fortifying his quote the jewels are viridian amber and the Viridian very close by in the darklight catacombs. So this fortifying resource is a good little In the end with you pushing him over the edge, his frenzy. But it's not enough. And his ripening long as order remains, it seems chaos cannot like you. tarnished exposed to the injustices of frenzied flame. For unlike Midra, you are You are unleashing frenzy from within the Erdtree Though even then, this ending might not in the beauty of the world that you burned fast to torrents whistle, promises to deliver his screams echoing in the distance. He was afraid