Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today I want to show you how you can create With a dashboard, you can showcase the most and best of all, it's actually really easy to don't have to install any add-ins. All you Once you finish creating your it'll automatically update Also, once you're ready to share it out you can very easily share it so they If you want to follow along today, I've included All right, let's check this out. Here I am in Microsoft Excel, and I for the Kevin Cookie Company. questions about things like our profit, Now I figured I could create a dashboard That way I can continue As you can see, I don't have but luckily, I have data to build my dashboard. On the data sheet, here you'll see sales Now keep in mind this is internal data, but So just between you and me, keep it on the To build our dashboard, we're This table that you see here is and this works really well If you're new to pivot tables, I've included Also, even if you're not new to pivot a video that covers some of the more if you think you know pivot tables, trust I'm learning new things about them all the time. As a first step, we need to make sure that our a table, simply click anywhere in your data and Right here you have the option You can also press the shortcut key Control + T. Let's click on this. In this prompt, it automatically identified all of the different Here it also asks me if my table has headers, so I'll make sure that I check this box. Next, let's click on OK. All of my data is now included in a table, Next, I want to insert a pivot table. So once again, I'll click into my table and insert and all the way over on the left-hand When you click on that, that opens up a prompt and I'll simply select this Table 3. This is the table that I just created. I'll place my pivot table on a new OK. This now drops me into a new worksheet, sheet For my dashboard, I want to so I'm going to need three different pivot If I go down below over to all of my click on sheet 1, and then drag it over. This will create another pivot table. It's just a copy of sheet one. Here I'll press the control drag it over, and now I have and I'll use these three different sheets to The first view I want to pull together Here I'll right click on this tab, and I'll select rename and let me call this Now that I've renamed the sheet, I'm ready and once again, I want to know Over on the right-hand side, I have First, I'll select country and Here we can see all of the different countries Also, over on the right-hand side, Here I'll drag that down to columns, and cookies that we make here, and trust Over here I'll select profit, bring it of our different countries, all of the Now that I see all of my data here, I Right now, you see that it Here I'll select all of these different values. I'll click up on home up above, and here, Also, I don't need all of I know, every penny counts, but for this analysis Before I insert a chart to I want to make one more tweak to the pivot table. I want to make sure that I show all of profitable to least profitable, and I want to Here I'll zoom out just a little bit and Here I'll right click, I'll go over to sort, So here you see that India and the United States is the least profitable. Thank you to all of the Indian we've been able to achieve record profits. We can now do the same for Over here I'll right click, go down to sort, and So now the markets are sorted from the most Now that my pivot table is all done, I'm ready to insert a chart and we're To insert a chart, let's go to the top Over on the right-hand side, there's Let's click on that. This opens up the insert chart dialog, and right Next, let's click on OK. And here now you can see a pivot Now when we did this sorting here, here are sorted from the largest over on the left Also, with the stacked bar chart, here at the bottom and the smallest items are at the Overall this looks pretty good, but just so when people look at it, Let's go up to the top tabs, click on design, click on add chart elements. Right here we'll go down to chart title and I'll I'll simply describe what it is. It's profit by market and cookie type. Before I bring this chart back to my things. Here I have all of these different Here if I click on this, I can filter my product, Here I could right click on the item, all field buttons on this chart, and when I'm now ready to move this chart to my dashboard. Here I'll select the chart Next, I'll click over to my dashboard, And check that out, I now have Here I'll zoom out just a little bit so Here I can select the chart item, and it'll snap into different positions. So, this way I can organize my Here I'll position this first item right here maybe right down to this point. Next, I want to create two more and I'll do these a little bit more quickly. Down below, I'll click on the next sheet, and here each month. To track units sold each month, here and right up here, I'll select So here I could see by month To help with the formatting, here and I'll insert the comma style, and Just like we did before, I'll click on a pivot chart. For unit sales over time, I I'll select this one and then click on OK. This now inserts my chart and here I'll Here I'll remove the legend, and I want to Here I'll right click, and I'll This now looks really good, so I'll copy In my dashboard, I'll press control + V to paste and here I'll position it right near the top, That looks pretty good. Lastly, I want to create one more I'll go down to the bottom tabs and let To create a pivot table with profit by month, table that we created. Here I'll select Next, I'll select profit and And here we see our profit by month. Like I've always said, there is Next I want to set it so it appears as a currency. I'll highlight all of these values and Also, I'll remove the decimal places. Next I'll click on the tab titled Pivot Table analyze To represent data over time, Here I'll select line and then I'll click on OK. This now inserts my chart, and I don't know Those are the holidays, we I'm sure management will be I'll click on the title of the chart, I'll click over on the legend that and just like we did before, I want I think that'll make the dashboard look better. Once again, I'll right click and Next, I want to bring this chart over to my press control + C to copy, and Here within the dashboard, and here all position it under units sold at trying to make it just about the I can press the Alt key and then this Here I'll do the same down here and now everything very nicely on this page, I have a few different I'll select this one, and I'll go up Over on the right-hand side, here I have sure that I align them to the top and but if they weren't, that Next, I'll select these two Once again, I'll go to shape format so these are also in alignment with one another. So, everything looks nice and alignment, I could also specify the Here also like this chart and and over here I can see the so I could adjust these if I want different So far, we just have a static dashboard and I want dashboard. To make it dynamic, let's select one of On this ribbon, there's the option to First, let's insert a timeline. I'll select a date and then timeline slicer. Here I'll select the item, and here I'll adjust the dimensions, so Next, I want to insert some additional slicers. Once again, I'll select this pivot and over here, I'll select insert slicer. Within this dialog, I'll select I want to quickly be able to filter my Next, I'll click on OK. This now inserts two slicers, but before I want to clean them up a little bit. When you look at this list, it's pretty so I don't need this header that says country. Here I'll right click on the and I'll turn off the display I'll do the same for product. Now that here I'll resize it, so it just I'll do the same over here. Now I can I'll position it right here and I'll With this slicers over on the left-hand side, you'll notice that the Here I can select this first item, I'll click I'll set it to two and all select these other items, and Here now you can see that they With my slicers now in place, I can very Let's say for example, I just Here I could select India and you'll but my two other views didn't update. How can I make sure that all of the different pivot tables? and let's go down to report connections. Within tables this slicer controls, and currently it's I want to make sure it updates all of my all of these boxes and then click on OK. I'll And check this out! When I click on my slicers tables over on this side, so this dashboard is Let's take a look at chocolate chip cookies in the that cookie type. If I want to select multiple on India and then drag my mouse down and that'll could do the same for the product, so it's very This dashboard is working really well, but what new data comes in and we want to Well, it's very easy to take care of. Down here you'll see that we have additional data for Here let's select all the data from Once you copy all of the data, and go all the way to the bottom of the table. This is the table that we used to and here simply paste in all of the new data. Because we turned this into a table, it automatically incorporates this Next, on the bottom, let's and we want to make sure that the dashboard To do that, let's click into one of these pivot Within the ribbon here, Let's click on this and then select that your dashboard automatically takes This dashboard now is starting to look pretty and I want it to look more like let's go up to the view tab up on top, and with option to turn off the gridlines, so there you here I can turn off the headings, so now it's Also, down below, we have all all the different pivot tables and the data. Here I could select all of those different sheets, I could right click, and then I So now if you share this sheet out, people will This dashboard is now starting the color scheme doesn't match your organization. Well, that's no problem. We can also change that. Up on top with the top tabs, click on the one you can choose from all of these different Also, within themes, you can even browse a theme that you create, so you can customize Now that we've created the dashboard and you probably want to share it out with Up in the top right-hand corner, This opens up the share dialog, and here the sheet or if it's only view only. Back share it with, or you can simply All right, well, let me know down below in the a dashboard? To see more videos like this, please