This kamek player is Liam. Liam is the only is Japanese! It's Liam and 11 Japanese players Okay, I'm bagging. Um yeah so today I'm playing as ever competitive Mario Kart 8 Deluxe teammate, zz favorite on this channel. The gigachad airport anyway, um today I've decided that my strategy Deluxe, my way to level up in this game, is to for all the amazing Japanese players online, you know exactly what I'm talking about. The in a room full of 11 other Japanese players, it's so much harder to get first. But, you might connection and uh you get like hit by laggy items going to lag! [laughs] we're going to have good this is Liam, Liam probably got lag trailed or here. Okay, so I can't pass this uh female will just have to take this short cut shroomless. didn't throw it in time. I won my first race as I almost never see 200cc now that they change okay, what is actually taking so long? Liam connecting well to the country of Japan [laughs] because it's a 11 Japanese players [laughs] um on 200cc, but I have seen the world record. I okay so we're not getting it [laughs] um and the on 200, it's really different. Oh that is so did the easy method for one fif- oh! I autopilot be fine though cuz, on 200cc, if there there's and I may even be able to hit the next item just [laughs] thanks that was completely not worth get to you on 200. Yeah um, that was definitely passed him so actually that might have been worth was way worse I even missed the item. Okay, at I forgot you! Have to do this part differently you watch me on 150cc, it's me having memorized it's just me making things up, and you can see oh! Drifted the wrong way. Great! Took an anti Aaand smart steering! [laughs] that was so just gonna drift. Oh! Almost got lag trailed but is great! This is the best decision I've made now [laughs] this is a Japanese player with the I still have smart steering on. Okay well, I'll Oh yeah! I can feel the smart steering right now, the shortcut anyway, okay that's fine. Um yeah, back, uh there's a lot of shortcuts here though coins, maybe get three here? Come on! You didn't it's cuz [laughs] we have a good internet internet connection. Oh there's chaos everywhere I just passed the triple bananas. And I trailed gotten hit, I got hit anyway [Music] draft draft, don't use your star. Okay nice! Wow, it's like nice with me, until I became Japanese. No one I just lost all my coins there, I got the crazy the crazy like uh change your angle when you land I have two coins [laughs] [Music] all right let's bullet, nope that's not good enough. Wow! No one cuz I have mushrooms [Music] all right there goes that was so funny, Liam just left [laughs] I feel he might have stayed a little bit longer. Uh but the cause of your misfortune Liam. I saw you got lag, if if I find him in a very laggy room cuz Cuz like, it's not fun it's fine to lose, but your control, you know? And, I feel like, it's not definitely I've made an entire short about this, o uh in terms of the way that items interact with um I totally get it. But Liam, I know you let me know if you knew that was me [laughs] like, was me? Or did you think it was some Japanese to anyone watching, if you are Japanese like if if any Japanese people watch my videos. And uh, did was compliment Japanese people, you can't tell great at this game, don't get too sensitive let them speak for themselves. All right, this was moon view highway is kind of stupid, if you're in be more red shells I'll be fine. Oh! Okay well, I And even if I didn't have items, I can get hit on that shy guy is a little close. Oh right between panel, I would still win this. What? Huwattt?? people the benefit of the doubt, but there's no no excuse, fake 57,000 [laughs] okay I don't know it was me! I lied! [laughs] I need redemption. Japanese, that I have not gotten first place on, though you get a speed boost playing as Yoshi by so much. Oh triple bananas? That's good! That's that went for nobody. I'm like a Ness player so this is awesome I'm in first place thanks to you get so many coins out of it. And uh, second the the right side and get coins as well. Oh Yeahhh okay that's sooo satisfying. So, oh missed bomb, you want to save that all until you use in your hand and all they see is a coin, and because uh the coin protects you from the Okay really? Great. No blue shell protection I think that's mainly because of all the coins I yeah! This was like the perfect start to a race. while again. Okay no red coming at me right made I didn't even trick. I don't even know how I anyway, whatever [laughs] my lead just got bigger that's fine [laughs] playing a little sloppy right but I got uh protection that's good. Oh that is about this so much, and I'm finally working on it, but this time I didn't. So you need to be going to have a mini turbo, to block the red shell. Yep! to lose! Unless it's Yoshi's Island. I can't for, like a week, without seeing 200cc ever since like yeah, two 200 cc races in like, 10 minutes? but now I feel like people in general are up. Wow! [laughs] imagine getting one trick on can just motion gladder here. Yeah! Oh everyone's 200 cc dolphin trolls is so different [laughs] and hold it all the way until I get to the cuz I've been practicing it a lot lately, cuz people don't like to pick it. But I like to out [laughs] there serves you right for hating this game. Yeah! That's so fun. I'm going to keep him! Uh red shell didn't come for me, you have so okay. I almost wanted to super horn that blue Mushroooom oh that saves so much time! Okay, this is probably the best session or as the non North Americans would say, and that's also what we call it in Japan [laughs] cuz we're not in North America! Okay ooh okay so didn't have an item. Honestly I think I should Come on! Okay yeah see now, it's a break I could with the mushroom, okay I was- that was this was horrible decision-making. And now I'm almost considering going backwards [laughs] for dodge a shock here ooh okay I didn't get the drift then I could come back, or if I get a bullet front of me got a piranha plant. I'm actually very ninth or worse, but I'm still getting these good player room, maybe I was guaranteed these items. good path to coming back even with these speed make a mistake at the start, and you you can just not make that mistake [laughs] at the start. Oh would have gotten fourth anyway [laughs] that's pick the wave 6 tracks [laughs] I feel like of people just stopped picking the wave 6 tracks this is not my official opinion, but it's how I'm might have been the best DLC wave. When it first wave 4, because wave four had some of my all-time wave 6 is better, cuz wave 4 has a few like okay the city tracks are great! Rome and Madrid are definitely back his fire on the bridge and hit to protect my mushroom here, and this defends shells come uh close enough that my fire doesn't to get rid of this. Okay so yeah that was worth booed. Let's take the shortcut again. Oh! Super cuz I was like that's another reason to take that and now I don't have to break drift here, because shock even though I stayed small the longest. Yeah! I'm literally I'm literally further ahead mechanic [gasps] the blooper actually mattered, could be another blue shell, so we're fine and I'm make a decision to protect against me, or protect no! They're protecting against me, they used their Oh missed the orange mini turbo! Okay I'm pretty good. No no no way! Okay at least I so bad [laughs] do you see how much time I lost to the shock happens at the worst possible time and I Yes! Another wave 6 track Piranha Plant Cove. the game for me and, people online don't seem to but if you don't know why, this is why [laughs] going to try and take the big rock shortcut with I get hit right before, that and then I can't I'll do it next time [laughs] it's really tough mushroom, but here's what it's supposed to look the rock instead of around it, and it saves a lot And I'm going to red shell you right here, uh I another red shell right there. But I I don't trust is they have a good drifting angle, for throwing this is not a real thing I shouldn't have done mushroom. Oh dude! Open your eyes [laughs] I I um yeah I I need to play more focused here. You this shortcut. Oh did they just fail the shortcut? a piranha plan that should make it easier, also in fourth? I would love one right now [laughs] all my coins. All right two more two more let's wow! None of that hit me, I think they're out. cut off more off-road also that red shell didn't- so smart in this game. Jeez! Okay this is worth place. All my dreams are coming true today. We got but now we got it on 150, and I can finally go and it's really consistent with one mushroom. Okay right path way better the left path is a bit jank. you want items. Five tricks that is actually so can't shake the trick and that part's way harder, its advantage! MOTION GLIDER! Yes! What? No no that much time, I think first place probably 2 seconds [laughs] maybe it did I don't know. Okay at that, and then I time trialed this track, and an item, this is the fastest way to go here, take they're catching up to me, oh super horn! I'm reason to super horn me [Music] oh okay! That was can have first. So if first place has a super they won't back out for the blue shell, so you can like trying to preemptively back out for their cuz I want items. [sighs] you see what I mean got target shocked there, but it's fine give me a mushroom. I feel like I was just far back enough that horrible shock, so I'm just going to hold go [laughs] let's go I'm so happy about that! Oh broken [laughs] strategy. This is now, without a took was to become Japanese. Oh! What? [laughs] but it still worked out, cuz I somehow just happened. That about sums up my day [laughs] and [laughs] all of a sudden I'm so good at this here. Watch out for first place's banana, oh they and uh I could red them at the set, so it's safe red Yoshi. Yeah you better back away [laughs] okay attack items behind me, so I just want to make to use this unless you have a good reason to throw someone could throw a red shell at the set, and uh in time. Oh! Wow this is great. I get [laughs] so too? Double item box. Red shell wasn't going for okay, I spoke too soon. I was going to say can game would be so much more fun [laughs] okay so but uh if first place backs out for another blue yeah I'll just use it. I have a mushroom Ooh a bomb? Triple greens okay we got to watch spot nice! Okay ooh I didn't get to stay in the I have a breakaway. 10 coins oh that sucks. good! Wait? What?! What I don't see any- am I in second? [laughs] L! It was me who took congrats I guess, if you just lag me or something around me anyway. Oh what the bumps! [sighs] everyone takes that exact same thin path for the coins too. Anyway, let's get to the front. Okay All right get that motion glider, get away yep! You got me [laughs] I didn't know if it That was such a well-placed banana [laughs] you race I'm in ninth. This track is impossible something on this broken item set? Does everyone know what? That's fine that's fine for eight. someone could definitely have the shock because Okay, so probably no one has shock cuz I'm just gonna, no! Come on, someone, just get a good spot here [Music] [laughs] come on that's pretty rare. You know what? If nothing can it's been a while [laughs] I always bag this track for sure. Three second shortcut, well it saves run, see what happens. There's no way this works it's so important to know on Snow Land [laughs] taking the shortcut, and they're all coming back that probably didn't matter too much. I tried to ugh. Okay this is officially really really bad, I a bad idea why did I do that? Oh oooh okay! thought I was getting last. All right so I decided seriously, and what that means is, everyone stops little communism action. Okay so um, I'm in ninth I want to get coins. Uh so, let's go around not that one though. Okay nice! Um yeah so and come back. It's just like snowland, except you saves, but it's just like Snow Land. Wait! I don't this should be fine. Okay, that was not ideal but- I was going to almost say like that doesn't and there's probably another shock at some I can take the big shortcut. But uh it's a bit dead take the shortcut, because then I'm going Oh! There's the blue sh- everything is working can just brain dead take this shortcut. Oh I just mini turbo [sighs] that was not pretty it was all breakaway [laughs] this is so funny. I have two not being another blue shell I think this is fine if the shortcut is big enough, for people to then, it's anyone's game. That is actually so and the glider [laughs] I'm actually going to save all right, I'll chain this right the double oh no! That could be bad. hopefully no one hopefully no one throws here we go! That boulder almost hit me let's do yes! That was a perfect race! I think I'm going