On the 24th of April, 1990, Space Shuttle This was an exciting time for space exploration, images, showing us an early view into our After 30 years of service, Hubble has done Despite becoming the most famous telescope was almost a complete failure. Soon after it launched, scientists discovered caused it to produce extremely blurry images. This 2.5 meter wide mirror is the heart of It needs to be shaped perfectly in order to The main mirror captures the light before From there, the light is reflected onto Hubble's If the mirror's curve was perfect, light that onto the same spot. However, due to the mirror's defect, light being focused in a different place. The shape of the mirror was only off by 2000 hair), but it was enough to render Hubble The mirror in question was built 10 years What most people don't know is that an identical mirror ran into any problems. So how did this flawed mirror manage to make And why wasn't the backup mirror ever used? In 1977, NASA received the funding it needed it to cost around $300 million. They contracted the optics company Perkin-Elmer They were NASA's top choice because they polishing machines to grind the mirror into This technology was literally cutting edge After all, the mirror had to be polished down But in case they ran into any problems, NASA to make a backup mirror. They chose the company Kodak, known for making At the time, Kodak suggested that both companies for any problems. This did not happen. With NASA's budget secured for Hubble, Perkin-Elmer the mirror in 1979. They started with a blank sheet of ultra-low it down to the intended shape. This process was painstaking and took two The glass was then washed and covered in a Over the next few years, the mirror went through the intense vibrations of a rocket launch But in order to test if the mirror had been called a null corrector. This was essentially a special lens with a light hitting Hubble was being focused correctly. A laser was shined through the null corrector If everything was perfect, the lines from with no contour lines. However, as the engineers were setting up wrongly positioned and it perfectly cancelled This caused the results to show that Hubble's At the same time, Kodak was nearing the completion But since NASA had chosen to go with Perkin-Elmer, coating and put into storage. This tiny error made its way through the testing It didn't take long for the scientists to The first images received from Hubble were wasn't performing correctly. For the engineers, this was a crushing blow. After decades of work and billions of dollars, as the most embarrassing space project in To add to the misery, the backup mirror made that it had been polished to the correct shape. If Perkin-Elmer had agreed to cross examine would have been found before Hubble launched. Despite the Kodak mirror being perfect, it mirror in space wasn't really an option. However, Hubble was specifically designed Located in the back of the telescope were Each bay has a box which contains a scientific kinds of measurements. This modular design meant that instruments instruments throughout Hubble's lifetime. So NASA began working on an ingenious solution and repair Hubble's faulty mirror. Although the polishing machine had made a so NASA knew exactly how wrong the mirror They came up with a compact set of mirrors it onto Hubble's various instruments. This new instrument called COSTAR, featured instrument. One mirror was completely flat and simply curved in the exact opposite way to Hubble's This put the light back into the correct form After $50 million and 2 years of development, On the 2nd of December 1993, the Space Shuttle COSTAR on a mission to save Hubble. During a 7 hour spacewalk, astronauts carefully and replacing it with COSTAR. It took several more weeks for COSTAR to fully But when Hubble finally sent back new images, the repair mission had worked perfectly. The scientists that worked so hard to create that Hubble could now start doing what it Over the next few decades, Hubble would go beautiful images and showing us the universe The telescope was regularly serviced by the from the telescope. By this point in time, the other instruments built in, so Hubble's original savour was The kodak mirror remained in storage at Perkin-Elmer's transferred to the National Air and Space Despite never being used, this mirror was millions of dollars and countless hours of However, the incredible engineering required as humans. Over the years, Hubble's systems have become this iconic telescope. New telescopes will come along with more advanced