- My gosh, so crispy. So golden.. (energetic music) - If you like to cook at home, chances are you're using We have tested hundreds and hundreds, maybe thousands of and some of them can get pretty pricey. - We always take price into account when we're testing equipment and we often recommend a best buy option that's really comparable - So today, Lisa and I some of our favorite so you can make great food at home without breaking the bank. - First up, Hannah. (Hannah cheering) (Hannah and Lisa laughing) (energetic music) - All right, so I'm gonna kick stuff off with breakfast gear. I have in front of us right This is the Dash Clear and this beat out toasters that were literally three times the price. This model won for a couple reasons. First of all, that clear we absolutely love that. You can monitor your toast, you can catch it before it gets too dark. We also love the length of this slot. You can either do two smaller slices or you can do one longer artisan slice. It also has a really compact profile. It stays cool to the touch so you don't have to worry Let's make some toast. Specifically chose a because I really wanna show this benefit because I personally So put the slice right in there. I'm gonna make a little darker than medium is the way I like my toast. So you'll see this whole You can see what's going on. I used to have a toaster. Yes, I found it on the side of the road. Don't ask me why I took it. But, you know, a shorter toaster and I always ate this kind of bread. So I would rotate it, I would like put it up and It's like, it never worked well. It burned. It was like I had to come back and like fuss with it all the time. It wasn't a very nice start to my morning and like, you know, mornings, you want them And if you have an annoying appliance, at the beginning of your day, Toasters typically either have metal wires or quartz rods as their heating elements, and quartz rods tend to This model here has quartz rods, which is one reason Quartz rods are really responsive, they heat up and they and this results in really even toast. You're not waiting for the you're not waiting for it It's much more precise inside a toaster. And we were really psyched to at such a reasonable price. (toaster rustling) Oh, hello. So this just popped up. And actually, I do think I So I'm gonna take this opportunity to show you one of my Put it back down, and I'm just gonna hit the reheat button. This warms up cooled down toast, so you can make sure, you and your nice warm toast It can also take the toast You know, I don't know if where you think, oh, I and you hit it through another and you're like- This helps with that. All right, so my toast is all done. Look at this little lifty, I love that too. I'm gonna butter up some toast over here. And then I'm gonna take unlike in the bread machine video. I learned my lesson there. I just took the biggest bite. Just before I butter this though, like look how beautifully golden that is. But a lot of toasters struggled with this. Some of them, like even it was still too pale, and we were practically getting So like a well-calibrated and really what we sought out. I'm gonna try this. Beautiful. (toast crunching) - [Man] Great. - All right, now for more carbs. Onto waffle makers. Historians believe that were introduced to the United States at the 1964 World's Fair in New York city. Belgian waffles are taller and apparently Americans loved them because these machines are We tested a bunch of We tested all different like you'll see here that while you're cooking, and simple models where you So I have the Presto Flipside right here which is our best buy waffle maker. Our winner performed a little The Presto controls are really simple. All you can really do is enter the number of minutes More expensive models were You know, you could put the shade, you could enter things a The other slight concern we have is occasionally a little in the handle so when you flipped it over, you had to take care. But it made fantastic waffles, and this is why we named it our best buy. Let's make some waffles. Now I love to use a portion scoop to actually portion the waffles because there are four quadrants, and you get a perfectly sized waffle that fills in, hopefully, all the cracks and crevices in here. So once I close this up, put that at four minutes. We found three to four minutes was good for a nice golden brown waffle. And then I'm gonna rotate And what that does is I poured so when you flip it over, the batter flows onto the other side for a really nice, evenly, And that's it, and I just Okay, so we saw all in our testing, some were To figure out what was going we attached temperature probes and we had some pretty The machines to make good had to get up to 400 degrees. Some of them didn't and We also didn't want machines because we noticed machines that did turned out cardboardy waffles, and no one wants a cardboardy waffle. It's telling me I have 50 Some of these machines took Some of them took longer You know, if you're making you really don't want and also if it takes longer, and we're cardboardy, so three to four minutes All right, so this is all done. Let's check it out. This is pretty good. You know, the first one always Look how beautifully golden brown that is. I think I might have to try a bite though to make sure it's good. I gotta be honest, I'm not And you know what, I'm not hiding behind any Let's check this out. Why do I take the world's This is really good though actually. You might say, oh, a good Eight of the thirteen we could not recommend. So it's actually really hard to make a good, consistent, And Presto did it, and Another key component of a It's a really nice, refreshing and personal blenders are They are smaller, more compact, and they actually allow because the blending cup, where you drink your smoothie out of is right on top of the machine. So you make your smoothie, flip it over, put on the sipping lid So we do love these. We don't think they replace but if you make a lot of smoothies or hey, personal margaritas, you might love one of these machines. So here's our winner by Ninja. It won for a couple different reasons. First of all, this U-shaped jar here. Some of the other models we and then the food got far away from the blades. The food didn't get fully incorporated so you had like chunky It was no good. This U-shaped really helped The other key component was the blade. This is a six-prong blade, super sharp, tore everything up really We found the most effective were going up and down. That helped develop a really nice vortex so all of the food gets incorporated for nice, smooth smoothies. Some of the blades we They just were not effective. This is a powerful blender. It's not quiet. I'm not gonna say it's quiet by any means, but it is powerful. I'm gonna make this smoothie. It's cherry almond. It is so delicious, frozen cherries. This was developed by my BFF, Ashley Moore from &quot;Today's Special&quot; Check out her show. I had this when she was developing them and was like oh my God. I never really bought but they're so good. You don't have to pit them because they're already All right, little yogurt in here. This is a jar spat. I just want a little shout Get all the way down to the bottom of your peanut butter jar. Little bit banana here, some honey, and lastly So we put the blade on like that. Turn it to lock it in place. And then you just press down. (blender whirring) (upbeat jazz music) That was really loud, but I will say it's super powerful. You saw that, that was all this frozen fruit completely smooth so at least the noise You are getting real power with that. So let's pour it in and see. Look at that. So I also wanna show you, it You can just put it on, One problem we have with this is it doesn't always It's like a little large for some of them so something to be aware of, but it was really Just flip this open. Another really key thing about this top is it was leak-proof. You could put this bag if you're on the go and it won't spill everywhere. Some of the other models Let me try this out. It is so delicious. So I've showed you some of our favorite inexpensive Lisa's gonna show you even more of our favorite inexpensive appliances. (lively music) - I'm about to make a full meal all in my favorite inexpensive appliances. First, I'm gonna make aioli. I'm gonna do it in this Now small food processors are a great way to get in the food processor world. You can do a ton of the in a full size food We tested a ton of these. Some of the ones we looked others were up to six cups and that gets to be into the without any of the benefits And this is our winner. It's by Cuisinart, it's a So the reason you get these little guys is their chopping abilities so the blades are very important. We found that these blades They have straight edges. The serrated ones just chewed things up so you get these herbs that instead of neatly and crisply cut. They are low to the bottom Nothing gets trapped under We measured that in each of them and found that this distance of about was really ideal. The other thing that It's called chop and grind. Chop is for things that Grind is when you're doing or hard Parmesan. This also has a patented That's really important 'cause stuff doesn't get stuck as easily. You don't have to get and clean it out. The other thing that's really and was not part of some of the this top is not just a handle, it's actually kind of hollowed out and there's two little holes and you can run the machine so it's really great for And fresh mayonnaise and That being said, let's make some aioli. Now look, they give you a with a soft rubbery edge. I've got a little bit of sugar, some salt, cayenne, I've got an egg I've got a little tons of garlic for that lovely aioliness. Because this is soft, I'm gonna use chop. I'm gonna do some pulse just to start blending (blender whirring) And then, I'm going to drizzle this oil in while it's running. (upbeat jazz music) I was getting excited about being done, but then we add olive oil. The reason we don't add that earlier is that blending olive oil so we just put it at So yet more oil is coming. Here we go. (upbeat jazz music) Now it's done. (Lisa laughing) This hole is small and the This probably holds to a teaspoon of liquid. You want it to go in at Basically, this helps correct that pour. So yes, you can miss, and a couple drops aren't gonna really ruin the The blade is locked in So you without the blade falling into the bowl, which is kind of nice. Look at this gorgeous, fluffy texture, this golden color from And when you get down to the It pops off and you can just clean Now we've made this gorgeous, I'm gonna make some cod and and you can see how great We've made videos, everyone of making all kinds of fried French fries, chicken nuggets, whatever, but you can also make a real meal. This is not really frying. This is a little convection oven. It's hot, the air is circulating, it's really roasting the food so we're gonna use it that way. We're gonna make air fryer roasted cod on a lemon garlic potato galette, which does not sound like So this is the GoWISE. It's our best buy. It's not our winner. You save a ton of money, but First and foremost, the controls are a little more and the other is that the but it cooks everything beautifully, it has the drawer style, and it does the same thing where it pauses when you open it to stir or turn food and then resume where you left First thing that's kind of interesting is we're gonna be putting with fish on top, and in order to get that we do a foil sling. So you just get a piece of foil and you're gonna fold it til I'm gonna put this right And then I wanna make sure that it's not sticking up over the top so it can slide in and out very neatly. You're gonna have some melted butter, some garlic, some salt, some pepper, and you're gonna put this into a bowl. (upbeat jazz music) I'm gonna cook them first because they take a little longer to cook. Then the fish. This is the power button. This side is time. This side is temperature. I want this to go for about 16 minutes at about 400 degrees. Halfway through, I'm gonna So at eight minutes, See how it pauses, which is nice. You can already see that the potatoes are getting some nice color on them. And I'm gonna use my foil sling. So rotating them is making sure that that air is getting to all of them and browning them evenly. This doesn't really but we don't leave anything to chance. And then it will resume Okay, our potatoes are and beautiful so they will be perfect underneath this gorgeous cod. (upbeat jazz music) So this is ready to go for 12 to 15 minutes, and we're gonna rotate it It's at six minutes. I had it in there for 12. Again, we're just making sure that everything gets You can already see and it's looking beautiful. But that's a thick filet of fish so we wanna make sure it's fully cooked. It resumes. It should be six more minutes, Gorgeous. Look at that. I'm gonna check the fish temperature. Oh, that looks perfect. All right. And I'm just gonna lift this out. Move onto here. Look at those. Oh my gosh. Basket's pretty clean already. I mean, that's just gonna and a sponge and it'll be clean. Oh my gosh. (Lisa laughing) How pretty is that? Nice little dollop. So crispy, so golden, fish The roasted lemon slices are beautiful. Wow. This fish is perfect. (Lisa chuckling) That is amazing. Just a few minutes. Piece of foil for a sling to get it in and out of the air fryer. And remember, this is our so you may save some dollars, but you're not sacrificing Now we're gonna make some soup, and we're gonna do it We love these things. The immersion blender has a in the stick here and a And you just put this into a right in the pan and puree it If you only wanna do some of or all of it, this can do No muss, no fuss. This is the Braun Multiquick 5. It's our winner for a few reasons. One, it has this nice handle and it turns back a little it's got a grippy silicone sleeve here so it doesn't slide, and it's really lightweight for its power so you're not like tired Some of them are just heavy and clunky. This is very easy to manipulate. It has speeds right here, two buttons, and they really did different things, they have different power levels, unlike a lot of the where they had like a bunch It has really good speed And this little housing over it helps the food circulate so you can get a nice, smooth texture. Immerse it into the liquid 'cause if you have it you're gonna wear that This is the motor. This comes off, you and you're done. So let's puree some right in the pot. We're gonna just put it in the pot and we're gonna turn it on. (blender whirring) I like to move it around the pot. You can also leave it in the center, but then only the stuff right So I just chase it around. It is honestly kind of fun. And if you notice there's that aren't going in, you can like stop and just drop the cage right on top of it. This stops the minute and it's not hard to push. Some of them you have to really squeeze it while you're running it and it's a pain. (blender whirring) The nice thing is you You can stop when you think it looks good or you keep going until you When it's off, you pull by squeezing these two So let's serve some soup. Look at that beautiful Now you're gonna garnish with a drizzle of olive oil, and some chopped chives. And look at that, creamless It's beautiful for And it just came together in a few minutes using our favorite immersion blender. For more information on check out the links below or - We find it so utterly satisfying when something performs So if you have an item that you love, let us know in the comments 'cause we wanna hear about it. And make sure to like this video and hit that subscribe button so you never miss an episode. (bright music)