Last video, I talked about P-1, which contains P-1 Contains a fantastic boss, the level itself just jump off the side and get to the door couldn't do that? What if, instead of the assortment of enemies and hazards halt your did all that, you would end up with a little It is in my firm belief that P-2 is ultrakill great about the game, Like music, storytelling, it by 37 vigintillion. (numbers may not be and so iconic - from each individual room It is a tale of struggle, defiance, and death. level ever made. you have just overcome a major difficulty in your way is act 2. Act 2's levels are enemies and environments. Although difficult, Because you have experienced finding a prime through the greed layer, you find a book recounting unlike Minos, he was not a peaceful one. amassing he starts a war against heaven. His plan was to freedom. Then, at the bottom of the page, the suffering that would befall us next." the dark. This is ultrakill's only dark it executes it very well. But we don't care The challenge is to not pick up the torch, the way god intended. Breaking a crack in leads you to the actual best boss in gaming I love this thing man. It's a cameo from the funniest thing ever put in a game. Anyway, golden tablet is left in his coffin. The tablet of THE FELINE and THE RODENT. Within the CHAMBER who wield the ELECTRIC magic of the Druids and getting jumpscared, you learn what this 4-4. to, you notice the door on the right is slightly to get through. Grabbing the skull inside, is what the tablet was talking about. this in classic ultrakill fashion are both meme water, you hear a door open outside. Going Walking down the stairs reveals... something. remains of King Sisyphus. It's covered in of all, his head is completely gone. Before once was, and a new weapon. A saw blade launcher, note: i know that I used the sawblade in the dramatic n shit]. In this chamber, we can used on Sisyphus before he was decapitated. of Gabriel. It can again be assumed that he a clear show of force from the angels. A clear Heaven was merciless. back of your mind, you press through the remaining a piece of your mind. After noticing where left to do but to enter. you know exactly what to expect. you've of raining blood, you mentally prepare yourself ba- HOLY SHIT Room" by the community, for, uh reasons called the Weezer room doesn't mean it's and a ferryman that would love to send you setting a saw trap with that nifty thing you on their spawn. This should kill 2 of them trap going, as it will help with healing. the virtues will not shut the fuck up. And as you don't want to see what happens when This room, the very first room, will take their first run. The soundtrack is a droning on your ears. But, as the ferryman falls, Here's where shit gets real. Tenebre Rosso Sangue might be the best non room is to be a clue, will not be anything this song now playing at full force, This levels before it look like kitchen mitts. it into a difficult mountain. This will be the virtues and moving onto the bridge, another has to manage not 1, but 2 sentries, a swords mindflayer. There are a lot of blessed enemies the player to kill enemies in a certain order, you can't break the idols anymore. You must through the enemies, you proceed into the your ass. In this very small corridor, you both are enemies that have always been accompanied know how to insta kill either of these enemies, mind flayer is STILL THERE BEHIND YOU. It's an annoyance, for sure, but it's can actually be helpful for healing. Yeah. This room, this fucking room, is the most game. Mindflayers in places like cyber grind makes it even harder. Now, you can't even sentry, some swords machines, maurices, and and lasers on you too. This room is of extra what arm I currently have equipped. I could I spend looking away from the enemies has you're definitely not gonna see this, but hud I BEG. room demands 110% of your concentration. I volume when playing P-2 because of this room, a major help when you have no idea where they volume I wouldn't be able to hear it because Can't complain though. [beating the room we get the double insurrectionist fight. This them on fire and use the SRS cannon effectively into a steaming puddle. Because they bleed the screen half of the time. room is called the spaghetti tunnel. This you. it deals damage when contacted, but will This is super useful, as you can use stuff virtues and sentries to bed. Also, if you boost] we aren't friends. Remember the blessed enemies from a few rooms to as the Idoled/Blessed stalker room, because usually aren't central enemies, but this they can't die. And this includes stalkers. which is something that is always in short dealing with the first spawns, which are strays, harder wave spawns. This is probably the coolest set of 4 sentries, 3 Cerberi, 3 virtues, and These enemies are all management enemies. strikes, HM shockwaves and hook, and Andre you are on a tightrope. But instead of that around at mach 12, trying to avoid and counter manage to hit a chargeback in this environment, After this room, there's just 1 left. As tension slowly builds. You return to the familiar and doors. Human technology. As you approach "it." (or you're like me and always we march into the Panopticon. As you touch The Flesh Panopticon. A massive meat cube Prison. You can tell it's upgraded because it has 3 attacks. A white flash followed Virtue followed by HM Mortar shells that will turn and a purple flash followed by a black hole. are not the only upgrades, however. The Panopticon Instead of being a swarm of weak enemies that these are strong spotlights that completely priority. Fortunately, they can be killed With those out of the way, it's time to you've learned from flesh prison, It can blaster+shotgun+slam combo. After dealing is low. You jump off to prepare to kill the you hear this enraged warcry. "This prison, Panopticon's health drops to 0. You see Then, just as suddenly as it spawns, it dies. All I can say is, good fucking luck. This is Sisyphus. Warlord. Insurrectionist And to you. This is ultrakill at a brand new, never seen changes the game. When Minos called out an your next move. Sisyphus doesn't give you how to act. Thinking is out of the equation. but about managing the limited resources at speed. Lose too much of it and you suddenly up insane amounts of damage. You're forced style, and stamina up as high as you can, for you to make a mistake. And its fucking is similar to Minos, but it expands on what the attacks, and the feeling of facing an be better than Minos, because I'm a sucker it would be straight up false to claim that in the genre, if not in gaming as a whole. attacks. Similar to Minos, it is absolutely all of them. But in contrast to minos, he man literally teleports behind you, and you're of the extremely fast attacks goes straight dangerous attacks with no callouts. Like a ground pound where he teleports above your speed of the fight, as they will still hit that doesn't make hearing his called attacks &quot;Destroy!&quot; &quot;This will hurt", and &quot;BE GONE!&quot; that minos could not. Speaking of minos, another that all of these called attacks - every single 2. This means that you can fight him like is the best way to keep health and stamina around, you also won't lose much. I mentioned oh boy, lets fucking dance. You again conquered the toughest challenge hold him, and the level before it could not go to the exit, all you're thinking is "how fun part, you're not. difficult parts, and throw them in a level. through every room without dying a single other than sisyphean. You will fail. A lot. natural progression of the game, a player difficulty is so incredibly steep. I can only is required. You have to learn how to manage movement, and most importantly, not die once. end. Prime, and all those who are there to guard Now with P-2 behind you, you can appreciate bossfight. Starting with the motif in WAR the very different feel than the one in order. that the fight can go on. He believes that other hand, has lost hope long ago. He sees of this, Sisyphus loves it. In his own words, reflected in the motif, as it really gives do not give a single fuck". to carry 3 boulders. His first was his (presumed) next was his war against heaven, which caused boulder was you. After every reset, you heard from Sisyphus. Again, like minos, this is will never win. He can't. Every time he knows that as much as you are his boulder, task. The only difference is that you can almost seem encouraging. Sisyphus is testing just as he was tested for millenia in hell. allowed him to begin a war against heaven. and when heaven came down to hell, it was resistance. and when Sisyphus inevitably died, for the thrill of the fight, even though he in the name of the war, the sisyphean insurrection. to a task that can never be completed." but it is definitely true. and in Ultrakill, is simultaneously Incredibly level he's a part of, is simply perfect. and you had the will to withstand. It is a Many people in real life often feel like what a page out of Sisyphus's book and see the that has happened to him - endless struggle, - and all of us players - happy.