This is my homemade quantum computer. It's totally useless because of how small I made this because despite doing my whole seen one in real life before. And all the pictures I'd see were of these Quantum computers aren't at their core actually So I figured I'd try and explain them to you I had some ideas going into this, as well and lasers. So I figured, how hard could this be? In theory, a quantum computer is pretty simple. In the first part, you have these things called And in this case, I'm going to be using light There's many other choices you can make, but can do at home. Usually, for a good quantum computer, you Like, at least 20 to be respectable. For me, though I'm just going to have the just way way easier to do. But that's why this quantum computer is going pretty useless. In this first step we want to guarantee that is in a particular state. So what I mean is there are lots of different out of this laser. But we're going to put in this little filter different types except one. And so that guarantees that the light that And we know what that state is, but what's that that light state is going to change. And the way we're going to do it is by using Depending on what computation I want to do, I can also change the orientation. And I could even, you know, add in some other In a quantum computer with more than one qubit, than the ones that I can afford. For example, one called BBO. what would happen in that case is that the that comes out afterwards is in a particular So these two qubits are now entangled with But we're not going to have to worry about and also even if I could. They're super, super hard to work with, so All right, so our light starts off in a state step and gets changed in some way, and the We're going to try and figure out something We won't be able to figure out exactly what out at least some, hopefully, useful information At a high level, that's all a quantum computer But you might be wondering, how is this like Well, computers also just take inputs in the them in some way. For example, imagine a computer program that You put in two numbers, which it'll interpret those in, like, the standard algorithm for Like, first step, add the rightmost numbers. Second step, add the next two numbers, and next column, etc. Then the new set of processed bits is the In a similar way, quantum computers take some them to give you some new state. A quantum algorithm might look like, first another fancy crystal, and then whatever you looking for. But going back to our standard computer, you You could, for example, multiply numbers, electron, or really whatever you want. And in the same way, a quantum computer is processing of light, depending on exactly We'll get back to the question of what quantum video, but for now, our aim is just to show of different ways. Because yeah, that's what a quantum computer So, that's what's going on here at a high with what is a qubit exactly? Here's everything that you need to know about Light's whole thing is to harass charged particles So this is what I mean. Imagine we've got some light coming along. I've represented it like this because as the things are supposed to represent the force light. So you can see that this light is first pushing and down. So as the light goes past, the electron will light. But we live in 3D space and so that leaves terms of harassing this poor electron. So one option is that the light is oriented jiggle up and down as the light goes past. But we can orient the light anyway so it could will be jiggling forwards and backwards. But it can be any other direction as well. So, if I put the electron here, and the light we'll call that horizontally polarized light, called vertically polarized light, and you So if the light was like this, we could write All right, so if I have some light and it then this is a qubit. Now you might be wondering, what has this A bit has, like, just two possible states It can either be in the zero state or it can Whereas this thing has an infinite number So where's the, like, two ness in this? Well there actually is a two ness in this And that is that if I take two of these, and and this one is oriented vertically, and I type of light that I want. Here are two laser pointers and this one only one only gives out vertically polarized light. And my claim is that by combining these two that you want. But it just depends on how you combine them. So for example, which one is stronger, but lasers are. If you think of the horizontal state as the state, then you can see what people mean when at the same time. No matter what type of light you have, you zero part and a one part, but the light might case it's more zero or more one. But the important thing to remember is that and one. Now that's really not obvious, so I'll try Say that the light that you really want is So that's light that originally pushes in in that direction. How can I get that by just combining the two like this and this? Well, here's what would happen if I just shone time as some vertically polarized light. At first, this one is pushing in this direction, So in total, it's like this electron's getting what we wanted this light to do. So you can see that shining these two things 45 degree polarisation. That's not going to be quite right because you're going to get something that's a bit So you kind of need to tone both of them down. And these two factors just represent how much You've got to do a little bit of trigonometry but it's not a really big deal. The point is just combining horizontal and which is what you wanted. But say instead you want your qubit to be So, for example, More like this, and you can bit to the right. So to actually do this, all you've got to make the horizontal bit of light way less So in other words, like literally turn down horizontal direction. And so now the electron will be pushed very upwards. And so in total it's going to be pushed in So, in other words, this has to be a small Okay, so that works, but here's a way more What if the qubit that I want is light going Now what I want is light that is going still of pushing up, it actually pushes downwards. Is that possible? Well, it is, because if these are my two light where both of them start off at their sort But what about if I start off the horizontal instead of starting this one off so that it what if I start it so that it's pushing downwards? Now I got exactly what I wanted. This light is going to be pushing to the right. This one is going to be pushing downwards, in that direction. Because we have to flip this light sort of to represent it in the equation is to represent There's another way to think about this same later on in the video. So let's start with this horizontal and vertical But, now we're going to start with them being So now when this is pushing upwards, that Which isn't what we wanted. So how do we get the type of light that we right at the same time that it pushes downwards? Why don't we just move these two bits of light here. So now they're kind of perfectly out of sync light is pushing down when this one pushes So another way of thinking about light is vertical there is. It's also about how in in-sync or out of sync Okay, so I hope that gave you the gist of you want, so any qubit that you want, by just this state, and by adjusting A and B, which lasers, but also how in sync or out of sync So, this is your qubit. The horizontal state is kind of like the zero one, but you might be wondering, like, how information? Where's the information in this? Well, there is information because if I have and I don't tell you what that state is, then But if you find out later what that state something. And so that's the kind of way that information But you can see that it's like a lot more bit. Because to find out what a bit is, you just Whereas there are so many more options for And so in a way, a qubit really contains a It's another question whether you can get more information encoded in there. The first step in any quantum computation want them to be in. So far, I've been saying that the way to do and this vertical light in exactly the right But that's actually a really, really difficult the way that we're going to do it at all, in sync or out of sync these lasers are. Like, I'd have to start them at exactly the just Basically impossible. So the way that we're going to do it is instead These bits of plastic are called polarizing what happens when I do this. If I put it like this and then I slowly rotate it gets to its maximum darkness and then gets You may have seen these things in science when I was researching this video that I understood So essentially, this is made out of long, that are all aligned with each other. There's a whole bunch of them in here and This has a really interesting effect on light I'll show you how. Let's represent one of the polymers in the And it's going to have a bunch of electrons By the way, the reason why we're always talking a lot more free than protons are. Um, protons are heavier and they're bound that likely to move around. Whereas electrons, especially like these outer And so that's why when we're talking about through a material, it's more useful to talk Let's say I have this electron and indeed Now if the light is oriented in this direction, force up and down. And because it's pretty mobile, it [00:15:00] up and down in. But that means that as this light comes and in here jiggle quite a bit and all of that light's energy gets wasted. And so the energy of this light just gets And that's why you don't get light that is On the other hand, what would happen if the the molecules? Well, in this case, the electron wants to But it can't really, it's sort of stuck, like And so it doesn't really move at all. And that means that this energy from the light go to the electrons, they don't really do And so it's able to pass right through. And so that's why this simple bit of plastic this direction and pass through light that's But what about light that's oriented in some Well, for light coming in like this, remember, light plus a little bit of vertical light. And so we know exactly what's going to happen. The vertical part, which is this part, is The electron is going to use that to jiggle wiped away. The bit remaining will be the horizontal part can't use that and so it just stays. But you can see this A demonstrates that the So if you originally had light that was very, be cut out. Whereas if you have light that's pretty close So no matter what type of light we had coming it's all going to be horizontally polarized, Or, if I turn the filter around, now it filters guarantee that the light's going to be vertical. Alright, so that's how you make your state. You get a laser, you put a filter on it. And now you can guarantee that the light is only one type of light can go through the The next bit that we use the filter for is put this filter in front of the light, it Remember that all the light that gets through combination of horizontal and vertical light that horizontal component and just leave behind So if we look at the percentage drop in the light that got through the computation step What we're not going to be able to know from and horizontal components were aligned with Were they very in sync? Were they very out of sync? We don't know. This measurement will tell us absolutely nothing how strong those two components were. It's finally time to understand the computation So check this out. You can see that this calcite splits this to the right. But what's really interesting about how the according to its polarization. So if I go like this, It filters out just it to filter the other polarization, you can on the right. So that means that these two lines are light Here what I've done is start the light with But remember, light that's oscillating at horizontal and vertical light that are in That's exactly why it's a good idea to start both the zero and the one are there at the interesting starts to happen. If I put this calcite into the laser beam, and you can see that by putting this filter If I put this to the right angle I hate doing experiments. Oh wait, nah, it worked. Okay. This is the [00:20:00] right angle that cuts should be 90 degrees from that. Yeah, that worked. Okay, sorry, I take back what I said. This calcite will split any incoming light what those two polarizations are will depend So if I orient the calcite just right, then will be split into horizontal and vertical I went online and I looked up ways that you crystals like calcite and it was really clever I would definitely not have come up with it first understanding exactly what it is that Calcite is a birefringent material. That means that it treats the two different For example, if the calcite is oriented a pass through fairly quickly, but slow down Which is strange. I mean, why does light even slow down in a If you want to know why, well that was a whole boils down to, I have no idea, stop asking Anyway, remember that if we want this thing it needs to be able to transform the input There are two things that you can transform One is how much horizontal versus vertical But the other is just how in sync or out of Our calcite computer is actually just going two are. And it's actually kind of perfect for doing Because it slows down the vertical component. more than the horizontal component. And so once these two bits have gone through the two. That's actually why the light splits up when Because as you might remember, the slower it bends. And so the one that gets bent more is the And so then these two things split away from But that has actually gone from a feature We want this lag between the two bits of light, and vertical split away from each other too Instead we want them to still be pretty much Because that's when the two bits of light We're going to try and get around it by having So something like this will not do at all in that distance. What we need is a slice of calcite that is of lag between these two, but not too thick very much. Is that possible? Is it possible to cut something like this Apparently, uh, I saw it online for a lot Much, much, much more than I was willing to Um, but there is a cheaper alternative than This sort of stuff makes me so nervous because to mess it up. All right, here we go. Look at this marvel of engineering. It doesn't look like much, but this is precisely right thickness, such that if I place it in these two bits of light have gotten slightly is still small enough that the two beams haven't And you can see that that's true because there's And so This, here, is it. This is the quantum computer. This is really cool for me because I literally time I've actually seen this quantum computer Alright, let me just play around with this Oh, it's so exciting! That is so cool. See, if I put it at this angle, it exactly I have no idea how it's this good. This half wave plate is made for a specific Um, but even so, it's pretty much giving me That is really surprising. I didn't expect it to be this good, to be I guess that actually means that I can use I kind of didn't think I would be able to, it would do a computation. But. Noisily and badly enough that it wouldn't But now I think I can actually do a real computation even. That's cool. All right. Well, I guess that's going to be the next Bye.