Oregon's Pacific coast is home to many things. From tree-topped cliffs to striking rock formations, this scenic wonderland has something for everyone. But once upon a time, it was A place of fun and laughter, There's no evidence of it left today. But some say you can still find traces Our story begins with Jerry and Lu Parks, two childhood sweethearts Both of them had a strong and in the coming years and started up numerous small businesses. With the onset of World War II, at Willamette Iron and which constructed dozens of naval ships Shortly after the war in 1946, Jerry and Lu moved from the They purchased a seafood restaurant which was located at Cannon Things went well here at first. But it wasn't and Jerry and Lu had to They sold the restaurant soon after, they moved to Arlington, California, and then eventually back up In these thriving postwar years, and a rapidly increasing number of automobiles. This ushered in a new era and the scenic Oregon coast was no exception. One of the most popular of the central coast, stretching This was easily accessible from and was well-known for its many As early as 1950, this stretch became Near the top of this was the This is where Jerry, Lu and when they returned to Oregon They had noticed a peculiar restaurant The building had a cartoonish design. a variety of pies, pastries The owners had struggled to keep it open, and sold it to Jerry and Lu for $14,000. Jerry later admitted: &quot;I didn't think [Pixie Kitchen] was a good &quot;But the shape of the building, it's built on Despite these doubts, and the Jerry and Lu worked their They reopened the restaurant just in time Using the menu they had they completely revamped the restaurant's Popular dishes included clam shrimp, scallops, All of the seafood and supplied by local fishing Perhaps even more so than the food itself, the Pixie Kitchen became renowned Customers were given a spread of complimentary and if they were still hungry the kitchen would serve up additional The Coos Bay World wrote: &quot;You know, if you don't get you just tell the waitress and they &quot;Personally, we know people Fortunately that was never a concern. While the Pixie Kitchen had the business thrived More than anything else though, the Pixie Kitchen gained fame for Jerry and Lu went all out with cartoony signage and menus The characters were designed by Jerry's friend He had worked on many ad and had recently designed the logo for the minor His signature style was a perfect and this would carry over into its Children loved the small touches, too. Each dining table had a glass with sand, seashells and A great example of the restaurant's playful humor When guests entered, they'd be and a sign that said, &quot;You look hungry.&quot; On the way out, another mirror with a wide The Oregonian noted that: &quot;One thing we quickly learned was that Mom and while a competent waitress serves the kiddies.&quot; &quot;This restaurant, when selecting a waitress, demands &quot;This is obviously part of the big secret because we noticed the girls' sincerely Among these waitresses was who had started working in the prep kitchen It was fun. It was just a lot of fun. One thing Dad always let us do was, we could have all the soda So we did that, of course. And we Of course I liked pie and ice The kids were were just, I don't know, And we used to take the babies If the baby cried, we just asked the mom if we can, And they'd say, &quot;Sure, take it!&quot; And the waitresses were the same So were the cooks. Most of You know, if we could keep We'd find jobs for them and They were all like my, 'cause I was the young one. And they all looked out for me, because they were fun, you know? Our whole thing was to The restaurant's friendly staff Long lines out the door and customers were encouraged This steady cash flow allowed multiple times to accommodate more guests. As he later said: &quot;You make people happy While business was good, The cold and rainy coastal weather for a good portion of the year, leaving Even still, the restaurant was open year-round, and there were never any In a matter of just a few years, into one of the most popular Much of the Pixie Kitchen's success as a business promoter, but he was also He formed countless friendships And in turn, they happily referred The small community of Wecoma, was right alongside the By the spring of 1955, officials were discussing Many residents were skeptical, but Jerry This would give them access to better which the Pixie Kitchen and other Voters approved the creating a newly expanded Seeing the impact he could Jerry joined the city council and By the early 1960s, Oceanlake was Delake, Nelscott, Taft and Cutler City. Similar to the Wecoma situation, as part of a five-way merger While these discussions were going on, to Highway 101 along the coast. The route had originally been completed But by the end of World War II, standards Work was soon underway to making the road straighter, One of the most anticipated projects between the communities This slow, windy segment would be replaced with a new alignment that There is growing speculation would detour the highway Traffic congestion was notoriously so by rerouting the highway along drivers could bypass the area without needing While it may have been this was very concerning Their shops, motels and restaurants so having the highway pass The Pixie Kitchen itself was right along knew the business would be As his involvement with local matters grew, Running unopposed, he was voted It's just the kind of person he was, you know. Mainly 'cause he was that he really wanted That's probably why with some ways to We had... I don't know if coming all the way from Salem He did billboards all the way from Salem, &quot;You're on your way,&quot; &quot;Pixies are ahead.&quot; You know, and they were all animated - They weren't animated, they didn't move. I just mean they were colorful and... And at the bottom of each one, or how many minutes more. And kids... people... The parents always told me, &quot;We didn't want to eat here again, &quot;So we had to stop again,&quot; you know. because the kids would get so Even as he promoted his own business, Mayor Jerry Parks made several The city combined its police department and other This allowed these agencies to run Jerry was also a major advocate for He saw this as a way a stronger collective voice In an interview with the press, he said: &quot;I think the chances are very good, I truly do.&quot; &quot;As one city we'll have and we won't be easy to bypass by But even in the midst of his political work, The wait times for a table were only Jerry and Lu felt that kids and to keep them entertained while they waited. Jerry had attempted to solve He enlisted Mo Martindale to behind the restaurant, and long-time This featured moving wooden and other characters in a whimsical Not only did this entertain families but diners could watch it through Needless to say, this backyard for the restaurant's theming, Now in the fall of 1963, Jerry announced Using a few acres of land he had recently he would soon build a larger amusement Meanwhile, the stretch of highway between along with a new interchange While this improved travel times it also reignited discussions In reality, this project would be several But with everything Jerry and Lu over the last ten years, they In 1964, Jerry purchased 57 acres of This property was wedged right in the Now if the highway was ever he could move it to this new location By the spring of 1964, good progress had been One unresolved point of contention though None of the towns wanted so using an existing name was off the table. To resolve this issue, the North Lincoln More than 300 names were and a committee selected Miracle Beach, Miracle City, Lincoln City, A few days later, Lincoln City Voters finally approved the merger, and Lincoln City, Oregon was With this success finally realized, and Jerry Parks happily retired Now with more time to focus the 52-year-old entrepreneur looked Even if he had to move the there was enough space to build pretty And what he came up with next would be When Jerry announced his plans behind the Pixie Kitchen, the Capital It said: &quot;If the public likes the idea, Parks may to cover a big chunk of the 3 1/2 &quot;The famous Knott's Berry Farm Knott's Berry Farm was a budding amusement It had started out in the 1920s as And in the coming years, it grew To keep guests entertained while they And by the early 1960s, it also and an impressively themed mine train ride. Meanwhile, Disneyland was just a While it shared many similar it was designed from the ground up And when it opened in 1955, for how these parks could immerse While Walter Knott and Walt Disney at a similar time and place, and took inspiration There was no guidebook for how to So they made things up and helped define a whole While the Pixie kitchen was many people saw its potential to Jerry Parks later said: &quot;I know that the ocean and &quot;People ask, 'what will we do at the beach?'&quot; Well, they pick up agates, Now we want to create more By the time he retired from the mayor's office Rather than expanding the Pixie Kitchen's an amusement park on his much He soon took a trip down to California Here he studied the park's design While his property in Otis the land itself was not well-suited It was right in the middle a marshy wetland at the confluence This was susceptible to the as well as seasonal flooding of the river. Making the land suitable for development An old abandoned lumber mill was removed, and Jerry hired construction crews to The water was drained out Ponds and canals were dug out In the fall of 1966, Jerry visited Disneyland to study its He also visited a newer park Six Flags was one of the first theme parks but it offered its own unique experience Having gathered his inspiration, to the public in November of 1966. Lincoln City would soon be getting a and it would be called Trails End. Similar to the wild west theme Trails End would take inspiration of the Oregon Trail and early The Capital Journal pointed out that: &quot;At the same time he wants to get 'because of the hundreds of thousands of dollars' &quot;He admitted tying both the pixie and history As a result, the concept would be By July of 1967, the future park was To help lead the project, Jerry enlisted who by this time had been And he took me aside and said, &quot;Well, you've been married &quot;If you really expect to be it's time that you joined the And at the time I was And so I had to decide, And so I quit my job and... and we moved down to an area -Just behind it. I had been at Disneyland opening day. So I was familiar with the concept And, you know, what the heck. - And it's only my dad's money. One of the other people was his long-time friend and The two had met while working in the In the years since, Bruns had and was hired by Walt Disney in 1953. He would go on to have a long composing the scores television programs, and Around the time that Pixieland George Bruns was wrapping up for the animated feature He had also just composed &quot;Yo Ho (A Pirate's Life for Me)&quot; Pirates of the Caribbean. Jerry also sought the help who had recently come off a Walker was the park's producer including Disneyland's grand While you might not know him by name, chances are you've heard his famous Tommy Walker's experience public events would be a great Not only did the Park have two Disney but the funding had been Jerry had spent $150,000 of his own And the first phase of the park from the First National Bank of Oregon. Likewise, the Pixieland Corporation opened This was offered exclusively who excitedly bought up the entire Things were soon ready to get underway, and With shovels in the ground Pixieland was on its way As construction for Pixieland got underway, its opening was planned for two phases. Phase One was slated for the spring of 1968, and would feature only a handful Chief amongst these would be manufactured by Crown Metal Products This featured a coal-burning steam locomotive, named Little Toot. Much like Disneyland, the Pixieland train In fact, much of the track was that protected the property from flooding. A portion of this loop would over Pixieland's own RV park. The wave of tourism in the 1960s had brought the newly popularized Sites for campers and trailers were and Pixieland would offer 121 spots for This was fully featured with laundry facilities, and an The 11-foot-high train trestle and led to the station on the second This also housed a restaurant on the upper In addition to the train, Jerry added including a carousel and a After nine months of painstaking work, Pixieland opened its gates for It was just a pretty meager opening. But the... but the restaurant And the gift shop of course did, so everybody had to go through the gift to get onto the train. While Pixieland's soft this first operating season The July opening had been and the tourist season was cut short Even still, it was able a modest success considering and only fully open While the park would be the train right and the restaurant Work was immediately underway which would need to be ready Completing the buildings in the mud... I had 60 guys working for me, And in the eight months that we had 148 inches of rain. That's 12 feet, four inches. Some guys just had to quit It was... it was like a war zone. Despite the grueling work, exciting The biggest of the Phase Two attractions In the late 60s, log flumes were with the very first examples only The concept was introduced by a powerhouse Their first log flume had When Jerry had visited the he immediately contracted Arrow Another major development would be This was a carryover from the Among the attractions here shooting gallery, newspaper print shop, Nearby would be the large opera house sponsored by Blue Bell Here local performers would put on Many of these actors were college and this provided a fun way for local A few more kiddie rides were But perhaps the most elaborate new attraction Guests would sit in large fiberglass and would be taken illuminated by UV lights Animated pixies and other creatures frolicked among the waterfalls Playing throughout this ride was No surviving recordings But the song was described as something Grunykinland may have also been a similar dark ride full of Yeah I'm pregnant, nine months &quot;Would you come check out... in Grunykinland, and come on down.&quot; So I did. And this is the I don't even know what And so I get in Grunykinland and moving around and &quot;This is crazy. I shouldn't be here. Also new to the park would be a Darigold, based in Washington, made to look like a barn, right alongside Soon to be a favorite among sponsored by Fisher's This rotunda was topped and sold hot scones with jam. One of the most iconic buildings in giant hollowed-out log, sponsored This served as a place where with a view of the adjacent log flume. Another popular spot would in partnership with the family-owned With all these new additions in place, for its second season of operation, The park opened to the public on Among other things, this marked the opening of This even beat out the famous also designed by Arrow Development, which debuted to the public On June 28th, 1969, Pixieland celebrated its About 500 guests showed up for the gave a speech dedicating the Playing at the ceremony was the park's The tune was based on the Civil War-era with the lyrics being naturally The song was planned for a with the park's opening in 1969, Unfortunately, there don't seem to be any While Pixieland took inspiration it displayed an impressive The Statesman Journal said: &quot;it has amusement park and much of the flavor &quot;It is a product of the and will draw much of its patronage &quot;It is another example of which is converting the coast &quot;The Pixieland influence extends further In a way, Pixieland was for all the support they had shown And with this brand new landmark tourism would surely be As Pixieland reached the it seemed like the bold The park had welcomed 200,000 While this was lower than Jerry Parks' projection For the opening of its Jerry announced that anyone would get ten free rides at Pixieland. The response was overwhelmingly positive, with guests piling up hundreds of bags Toward the end of the summer, Jerry partnered Guests could enjoy an unlimited and the proceeds would benefit By 1971, the US economy was showing but tourism on the coast Jerry proudly stated that the Whether he was playing things up the fact was that Pixieland was not Up to this point, admission with guests only paying 5 cents To help offset the operating costs, Jerry 35 cents for children, In addition to growing financial concerns, Pixieland was starting to be cast in a Adjacent to the park was Cascade Head, a small mountain that rose This had been a popular but only a portion of it Much of the surrounding area was privately had a growing interest in bringing the entire area There was a particular concern which had been damaged by The newest of these was just a 230-acre trailer park called Tamara Quays. The property owner wanted to dredge the which would completely destroy any last As a result, the efforts of conservationists kicked As the Statesman Journal reported: &quot;Those who long for the good old days through Cascade Head Scenic Area &quot;What's there? Just about everything that &quot;But the area is feeling the pressure that might do untold damage Of course, Pixieland itself had played But as the US Forest Service moved they assured property owners that any The Forest Service started... - Confiscating land... people on-site doing evaluations, and... These guys were genius at making and their whole plan was If this wasn't concerning enough, to feel the effects of the economic Tourism was slowing, introduced a new business In addition to the overnight more permanent spots with Many people took up the offer, to change the course of the By the spring of 1973, Jerry was negotiating a buyout This would give Pixieland some but the deal fell through At this point, it was public knowledge but it had never made a profit Unfortunately, the situation An international oil sparked a historic gasoline Many people stopped making and local businesses struggled. Pixieland itself had actually operated a and like other local stations, they One of the things we had was a We we had a railroad and that was the house And I had my girls dressed up in blue shorts And everybody enjoyed buying gas. And that was fine. And then the gas thing hit, and... we could see the ships that and the whole thing was political. As these political challenges carried on, Pixieland reached the end of its last Immediately after this, crews began which were both being sold This sale would eliminate a and allow it to keep operating But this would also leave the park Meanwhile, Oregon politicians to preserve the natural habitat In December of 1974, President the Cascade Head Over 9,600 acres of land, were now under the purview They were looking at a And they were looking finally made some kind of a comment. &quot;What is that square area there?&quot; And some guy said, The head guy apparently &quot;Well we can't have a carnival And he took a pencil and put an X there, and that's where we got... taken out. This change in land management now But by this point, it was Even with rides being sold off, it was By 1975, the dream of Pixieland What had started as an ambitious goal had barely limped through With the park now closed for good, Jerry Parks stepped down as the Under its new management, to redevelop the property into something A US Forest Service report stated that: &quot;The total plan calls for removing the a 38-unit motel, a restaurant, 22 apartment units that would 35 mobile home spaces, and Given that all new development in the area It's unclear how they The Forest Service informed the company the government would condemn the Despite this warning, the company Meanwhile, business had remained As a separate business from Pixieland, that were happening just For the last couple of years, the by Jerry and Lu's friend, Harry Smith. with the restaurant in good hands, and settled into their retirement. By this point, the Pixieland Corporation and was under investigation by the state. The US Forest Service offered but the company wouldn't give it up By the end of 1978, the Pixieland The Forest Service acquired Neighboring property owners were taken out from under them as well, which in many cases had been In a way, this reflected an identity crisis The 1970s had not only seen but also a surge of new residents Protecting Oregon's natural but this often came at the No one understood this challenge His eight years of leadership encompassed and during this time, Oregon saw some of its While McCall was widely his critics accused him of stifling McCall always made it clear that he just wanted it to be done While the Cascade Head project it did leave the community of Otis Should private properties be allowed that made the area so beautiful? Was protecting a natural area worth evicting It wasn't just us. They took all They took homes. They took There was a big development up on overlooking the ocean, that all got... I don't know if they ever We were not allowed to cut a tree. I don't even think we We weren't allowed to which was on the hill as well, but We were on Cascade Head. Yeah, well, we were, but we and the rest of 'em were They just took everything. They took our home and left us in limbo for... - We were eight years in Astoria... ...to sell our house. Because nobody wanted They were afraid to buy it. So there we were with double While the US Forest Service was they chose not to bother with There were still about 40 residents so this portion of the property was left alone. However, the investment firm shut off the utilities and essentially The small community banded together to restore In August of 1982, they were successful in I got 'em all together and I said, &quot;I'll give you each a And they just jumped on that. would not want to deal I just did whatever I could to foul up the Meanwhile, right next door, the old were rotting away in the People snuck onto the property and steal merchandise The scenes of the abandoned park, at times equally sad and disturbing, The buildings were finally torn As the Oregonian reported: &quot;The Forest Service is seeking bids to which are overgrown with a &quot;A make-believe world of arcade and melodrama created Improvements were gradually made to the In 1991, the RV park was sold to the original property into the Ecologists were excited about this rare Many of these habitats in the northwest to reverse the damage to the Salmon River However, the Pixieland property itself would It wouldn't be until 2007 that substantial The first phase would focus and tearing out any remaining infrastructure. The buildings and rides were long gone, but there were still plenty of The Oregonian wrote: &quot;Eventually, workers cleared and secrets began to emerge.&quot; &quot;The moss-covered pilings &quot;The outline of a swimming pool in This work was so extensive that it would The next phases took place where the filled dirt was removed After more than 40 years the tidal marshland could finally So where exactly did the While it had originally promised to be the weather of the Northwest itself With peak visitor traffic only lasting Pixieland could never be as successful Another problem was its distance from Pixieland was 60 miles from Salem, and 110 miles from Eugene. Combined with the rising costs and people were less inclined to But there were other smaller factors, too. Some people felt that the park stagnated without the addition of Others simply preferred to spend The former site of Pixieland today which of course is completely by design. Thousands of drivers pass by completely unaware of its fascinating past. But two of Pixieland's top The Lagoon Amusement Park in Farmington, in operation since they were Little Toot is now rebranded and the log flume is known as... While the Pixie kitchen fared much better Its downfall came shortly Times were changing, that once delighted visitors was National restaurant chains had drawing more customers away from Big grocery stores were now edging out small restaurants from Likewise, labor costs and many long-time staff Unable to overcome these obstacles, the The owner Harry Smith told the press: as I do not have plans at this time &quot;It is just too big an operation &quot;It will be a shame if Pixie Kitchen is lost &quot;I sincerely hope that its doors This did actually come The restaurant was reopened in 1985 though it was closed again If you return to the site today you'll find it in the form of a Motel 6. After Jerry Parks stepped down from he and Lu retired and But within a few years, they moved back Lu passed away in December of 1989, and Jerry was laid to rest You might think that their legacy but nothing could be further from the truth. A dedicated fanbase continues to with preserved artifacts, The North Lincoln County Historical Museum has an excellent exhibit Among other things, you'll find one a scale model of the Pixie Kitchen, The Lincoln City Kiwanis Club offers placemats, menus, and a and stories from Sharon Proceeds from the sale of local causes and supporting From 2017 to 2020, the Kiwanis Club also This annual carnival brought entertainment Pixiefest is no longer being held, but a is still held periodically at Yeah, we're continuing the tradition It's a... something for our area Locals and tourists alike see the nostalgia and play some games, At the same time, where we're allowing And so it's it's a lot of fun to teach Well Pixieland was open and We had the good fortune to have have birthday parties out there, which The log flume was the big attraction, along Lots of other activities. Well and they had melodrama The kids were so excited. My favorite memory of the When I used to walk in as a little kid, I would be walking down and they'd have all these And then when you walk in, And then after you eat, and all the mirrors that were lined up made What I remember most is I did I worked for KBCH Radio at the time. And every hour, four times an hour, you would hear this... People were so irritated with that overall, so... My favorite memory of Pixie Kitchen was He's now 40 years old. I remember the tables, 'cause and he was just thrilled with that. We enjoyed the food. Everything was perfect. Town was quiet. Not like the Kite Festival today. Even with all the years the lasting impact of Jerry They found novel ways to make and created memories to And in the end, that's the best kind