The B-17 Ball Turret, also known as the mounted on the underside of It was famous for its iconic It was one of the most designed to provide defensive firepower For this film, we'll focus which was fitted into the B-17F aircraft. Similar turrets were also where the turret could be However, on the B-17, contrary to popular My name is David Webb, and this is Blue Paw Print. The A-2 turret was 44 inches There were plexiglass domes fitted over This gave the turret a completely spherical and protecting the vertical The curved front centre It housed the forward-facing main The entry hatch assembly was cast aluminum, and the rear half of the assembly, was also made of armour-plated There was a 46.5-inch hole in the fuselage of the Attached to the turret and sat on the This rotated freely as the turret turned. Then came a harness that was which also rotated with the turret. The harness provided structural At the top of the harness was a swivel In addition, the harness acted as a conduit for the All wiring from the turret ran into this housing, where it connected to the aircraft which rotated round one another. This ensured that there was no It was strictly forbidden for the gunner to be The guns protruded 36 inches from so it was vital that they be elevated and near flush with the fuselage and When the B-17 had reached an altitude of between before the aircraft went into enemy To enter in flight the gunner unlocked the hand crank on the turret ring trunnion assembly. He then released the elevation clutch control which disengaged the elevation gearing allowing the hand crank to move the turret. He would then hand crank the turret straight down and the entry hatch The hatch could then be and re-engage the elevation He would then lower himself putting his feet into the footrests The gunner lay in a fetal position, His feet in footrests were on either side of the main sighting window, in line and shielded by the two machine guns. His back would lay on the and his head rested on the After entering a turret, the gunner made sure by activating the switch on the switch box. He would then switch the gun sight on. The gunner would plug the heated He would plug his oxygen and made sure the oxygen gauge situated read 400 psi and that the oxygen Because the gunner's hands were full when next to his right heel rest operated by his right foot. There were two other switches on the switch box which were gun selectors for the left and right machine guns. Because it was very easy to accidentally brush the gun firing buttons on top of the hand grips, especially when wearing thick mittens or gloves, the gun selector switches were left to the off position until the gunner went into combat. After powering up the turret, the gunner charged the guns twice. Normally for a 50 caliber machine gun this turret the slide assemblies were near the enough physical power to pull the cocking handle from this angle. The solution to this problem was a pulley system. Two cables were attached to the slide assembly and they ran via two sets of pulleys to two handles near the gunner's feet. To charge the guns he would lean forward grasp the handles cross-armed and pull them towards him the bolts in the slide assemblies and charging the guns. The interior was so cramped that gunner could not wear body armor nor a parachute, but he did wear a parachute harness. The parachute itself would have been attached to the The A2 had a separate oxygen system for the gunner. This was necessary because if the the continual rotating turret would tangle up and rupture, as oxygen hoses could not twist over The oxygen was fed to the gunner from a The bottle and hose rotated with the turret. The oxygen system gave just over two hours of supply. It was a job of the waste gunner or upon request from the ball turret gunner. The A2 was not pressurised or insulated and internal temperatures in flight often This meant that if an ungloved hand or any other body part touched the interior surface it could freeze to it, so a gunner always wore a leather flying Under the outer layer would have The gunner moved the turret using gunsight in front of and above the gunner's head. If he wanted to turn the turret to the right he pushed the hand grips to the left and vice versa if he wanted to turn the turret to the left. Pushing them away made the turret go down. Pulling the hand grips towards him elevated the turret. The turret could be both rotated and elevated or So, for example, putting the handles towards you while pushing them to the left would elevate the turret while at the same time slewing it to the right. The movement speed reflected the force from which the gunner The harder he pushed them the faster the turret moved. This movement could operate even if only one hand grip was moved. When operating under power it could rotate 360 degrees in eight seconds and move up or down 90 degrees in three seconds. It had a maximum elevation of 85 degrees The turret ring had a Ford facing cam fitted. This projected down from the ring and was contoured to mirror the arcs of the propellers. When the turret rotated to face forwards a pin on the turret front situated above the main sighting window touched the cam and cut power to the solenoid firing circuits for the guns so that the gunner could not accidentally fire However the cam shape did not take into account open bomb bay doors. If the aircraft was engaged in combat during its bombing run it was possible for the gunner to shoot the doors. There was no provision at all for the gunner to be able to relieve their bladder while locked in the ball turret. Many gunners took to drilling a hole in one of the smaller through it with a siphon on the end just in case. But given the near impossibility of let alone removing any parts of his multi-layered clothing, it can be left to the imagination as to The gunner's seat was made of 0.6 inch thick steel and This formed the gunner's backrest. The hatch which formed the plate behind the When in combat, the gunner looked out and therefore his seat base would be The armor plate was designed to give full protection against rounds of up to 30 caliber, and would also help by deflecting flak fragments. The windows in the ball turret were all plexiglass, except for the main sighting window which Although not completely bulletproof, it In addition, the position of the guns, ammunition, and gun sight within the turret gave his body not protected by the armour plate. Because his legs sat between the guns and below the ammunition bins, they gained protection from them and the gun sight further shielded the gunner's upper torso for many hits from above. When the 8th Air Force surveyed the ball turret gunners received only 6% of Although this was only on planes that made it home to base, so there is some survivors bias in those numbers. Other statistics from the 95th Bomber Group suggested that the ball turret gunner was on par with the tail When entering combat, the two gun selector switches on the switch box would be turned on, thus The turret's two M2 .50 caliber machine It was standard practice in 1943 to make every fifth bullet a tracer round to assist the gunner with correcting his aim. But the brightness of the tracer glare through the gun's sight optics often meant the gunner couldn't see his sighting reticule So the practice was soon discontinued. The ammunition for the A2 turret was carried completely gun, sitting in the roof, forward of the K4 gun sight and the hydraulic power unit. The smaller ammunition can carried 445 rounds can carried 571 rounds for the left hand gun. Near the gunners right foot was an indicator which showed the turret facing relative to the direction of flight of the aircraft. This was incredibly useful as it was very turret, especially if it was pointing any of the airframe his turret was attached to. The gunner used his Sperry K-4 automatic This hung from the roof of the turret below the hand control unit. The optical sighting head sat at the bottom of the gun sight in the eye line of the gunner, who looked through it and then out through the turret's main sighting window. By framing his target using the reticule, the gunner's optical sight head, and then using the pedal next to his maintaining its framing of the target in in the gun sight unit, which calculated the and speed of both the firer and the to come up with a fire control solution which The gunner didn't even need to know the range The guns were fired by depressing a button situated on top of both hand grips on the hand control unit. Pressing either button would fire both guns, so one hand could be left free for The gunner exited the turret when the aircraft was returning from the mission, if it had descended below 10,000 feet and is within fighter escort range, or if he Prior to leaving the turret, if returning to base, Before the hatch would fully open, the turret If the turret had lost power, it could be Operating it in this way was very slow and only After exiting, the gunner had turret so that the guns faced This would be to prevent parachutes snagging on the turret guns if bailing out, or to stop the guns hitting the ground during a standard landing. If landing normally, the gunner would lock the turret in position, but it could be jettisoned if the aircraft was going to crash land, wheels up to minimize In order to do that, the 12 connecting nuts holding the four harness legs to the turret support assembly had to be removed. Then, the four safety retaining hooks coupling the allowing the turret to drop away. This could be done by using a wrench or simply smashing the hooks with a hammer. In all, this procedure took around 20 minutes. Ball turrets were technically complex and only three factories in the entire US had the advanced equipment needed to build them. They cost the equivalent in today's 25% of this amount was just for the shoebox sized Sperry K-4 automatic computing gun sight that every ball turret gunner used. While extremely high tech for the day, the ball turret with gunner inside went out of fashion in post war years due to the emergence of remote control guns. In the end, the introduction of high speed jet fighters, electronic warfare and missile weapons largely put an end to the era of the bomber defensive turrets. And If you want to master complex technical topics or upgrade your skills, we recommend the Brilliant interactive learning platform. Brilliant's first-principles approach helps you build understanding from the ground up. Each lesson is filled with hands-on problem-solving--proven to be 6 times more effective than watching lecture videos. All the content on Brilliant is crafted by an award-winning team from MIT, Caltech, Duke, Microsoft, Google, and more. Brilliant helps you build critical thinking skills through problem-solving, not memorizing. You can explore mathematics, data analysis, computer science, science, and advanced math. Brilliant helps you build real knowledge in minutes a day -- with fun lessons you can do anytime. Our team frequently uses Brilliant to understand complex topics, helping us create accurate and detailed videos. To try everything Brilliant has to offer for free for a full 30 days, visit the site by scanning the QR code or click on the link brilliant.org/BluePawPrint in the description. You'll also get 20% off an annual premium subscription. If you spotted any errors, please let us know in the comments. We're looking to continuously improve. Also, if you like our video,