Let's shrink an elephant to and enlarge a mouse, and make it because this is our video, First: our now tiny elephant, stumbles around Tiny elephant buddy is very cold; frozen Our giant mouse looks very uncomfortable leaving hot mouse insides everywhere. Why? Because of size. We are optimized to function precisely and would die horribly But, why exactly? Why does our mouse explode, and can we do this to our Life on this planet is based on cells. Cells do vary in size. But they're pretty similar in their dimensions A blue whale doesn't have bigger cells just a lot more of them. Cells have to do a lot of stuff to stay alive. And they need energy to be able to do so. To get this energy, animal cells convert food This happens in our mitochondria, the powerhouse of the cell. They're like little coal engines which the cell can use for almost Just like an engine, mitochondria get In human skin cells, they reach a scorching 50 degrees Celsius. And some of our cells which are radiating their heat into the cell. So, being alive generates a lot of heat. The more cells you have, the more heat If our bodies didn't we would be cooked from the inside and die. But this is a problem for bigger animals because of the way bodies change as Animals have 3 properties Their length, their outsides or skin, and their insides, like organs, bones, and hopes and dreams. The thing that's hard to wrap your their insides grow faster than their outsides. Imagine a fleshy cube. If you double the length of its sides, its surface and volume do not double. In fact, the surface is now 4 times and the volume of the cube Which is called the Square Cube Law, and has been annoying nature So why is this a problem for big animals? Because heat can only leave So if we make our mouse or 60 times longer, it has 3,600 times more surface But it has 216,000 times more volume filled with trillions that produce more heat. A lot more insides; not that much more skin. Our mouse is very dead, very fast. But big things like elephants exist. So how do they deal with the heat? For one, they evolved ways to get rid of like huge flat ears, that have a lot of surface But that's not enough. Nature's solution is actually very elegant. Elephant cells are much, much The bigger an animal is, If we classify animals, by their that to their overall mass, It's not 100% accurate, but it is a good rule of thumb. Elephants are huge meat sacks filled with trillions and trillions of little coal ovens. So, they keep the ovens just active and never at full power. Their whole metabolism is slow. Things move at a nice chill pace. Small animals need to go If you're small, you compared to not a lot of volume. You don't have a lot of cell ovens and lose the heat So very tiny mammals came up with Meet the Etruscan Shrew, A mole-like thing that's more closely With the body length of 4 centimeters, it only weighs about 1.8 grams - as much as a paperclip. It's a tiny ridiculous being. It would basically cool off immediately, so its cells run on overdrive to stay warm. Its tiny ovens are filled at maximum capacity. Its heart beats up to 1,200 times a minute, and it breathes up to 800 times a minute. This creates an extreme need for energy. So the shrew has to eat constantly. After only 4 hours without food, it starves to death. And while an African elephant consumes around 4% of its body weight Our shrew needs 200% of its body weight in food a day just to survive. Imagine having to eat more than one a minute. Fun for a while, but then not so much. So, a cubic centimetre of shrew than a cubic centimetre of elephant. If an elephant's cells suddenly become as active as a crazy amount of heat All the liquids in the elephant And then it would explode in an impressive explosion of steaming In reality, before an explosion occurred the proteins making up and stop producing heat. But a meat explosion is much more fun than melting an elephant Regardless, the scaling of the speed of Even in places we don't expect, A baby in the womb of its mother behaves Its cells have about the same speed of life, It is truly a part of a bigger whole, Until it's not anymore. The very moment a baby is born, and all its internal 36 hours after birth, the baby's cells have the same activity Babies literally transition to being an individual, in mere hours. But there's one thing where big and small things Heartbeats. Mammals tend to have a similar Typically around 1 billion. So, while the shrew and elephant they share a similar number of heartbeats Their speed of life is the opposite And, for a video in which we made elephants This is the most romantic ending