My talk title today is "The Rock of Ages I have liberty to apply that, those concepts "The Rock of Ages" is of course God. "The Ages of the Rocks" is a way of referring And what I want to talk about today is what of God from as Saint Paul puts it, "from What does the natural world reveal about the In talking about this, I'll be going a bit just making a strictly scientific case for I'm going to look at how the case for intelligent design or for the reality of God as an explanation I spend most of my time working, but in the So I'm going to put my work on intelligent Now many of you may be familiar with a group How many have heard of these folks? Okay. Christopher Hitchens, who unfortunately recently perhaps the best know with his book The God And Dawkins, in fact I think, typifies the main claim is, is that science properly understood in the extreme. If you understand, Dawkins argues, that life Darwinian process, then you must also understand been designed. He famously says that biology is the study of having been designed for a purpose. What's the key word in that quotation? Obviously... well, purpose, except it's The purpose is an illusion. It's the appearance of design, the appearance And why is it merely an appearance? Why is it an illusion? Because there's an unguided, undirected appearance without itself being guided or And so for Dawkins, since design is an illusion, He argues that the strongest reason for believing from design, the evidence from nature. And now that we know that that evidence is to an undirected process that merely mimics can safely conclude that God is... either behind of His existence, such that to believe This is the new atheism. Science properly understood undercuts belief It conflicts with the belief in God. Now, obviously the Dawkins perspective conflicts If you go to the Old Testament, you find passages "The heavens declare the glory of God, and Something about nature, says the Psalmist, beyond nature. You get the same perspective in the New Testament. Romans 1 says, "For since the creation of eternal power and divine nature have been to italicize the last part, "being understood The things we study in science, the things the reality of God and His attributes, His So obviously, this new atheistic perspective of the relationship between science and nature Science, which is the study of nature, reveals That's the biblical view, directly opposite Of course, that's not too surprising. They are writing polemical works very directly view of reality. What may be a little more surprising is to is also diametrically opposed to the perspective who are responsible for the origin of modern And here I think of people like Robert Boyle, astronomer, who said by the way that scientists the time, but he said that natural philosophers thoughts after Him; Sir Isaac Newton; Galileo. Many of the leading scientists of the period when modern science was getting going, were faith. And moreover they had... well, I have on the that's actually a paraphrase of the book This was written by John Ray, who was one And the book title is The Wisdom of God Manifested It's got that old-fashioned "f" for I guess. Okay. So this shows though the deep connection in of the relationship between the natural world was part of the way that scientists were thinking They had a watchword, in fact, that was part place. And the watchword was intelligibility. There was a deep-seated conviction among the disciplines of science that nature was intelligible namely it had been made by God. And because God was rational, and He had a such that we had rationality, we could indeed We could perceive the rationality, the order, That was the very foundation of science, very these new atheists. A couple of years ago, actually about ten before something called the U.S. Commission And they were investigating whether or not teaching of biological origins in the public Any thoughts on that? [laughter] When I heard of the hearing, my you needed a hearing to determine that. If you open up the standard textbook, you Chorus in virtually every textbook that's Nevertheless, I testified and got quite a Darwin skeptic, I favor the alternative idea And one of the commissioners began to ask a lawyerly strategy of impeachment, as if "Well, did your supervisors at Cambridge Would they have approved? And questions like that. And at first, I thought he was very much opposed, the questioning, and he said, "Now, isn't essentially the same idea that was advanced Isaac Newton?" And when I heard the name of my heroes, I That's exactly what they believed." And he said... well, I was interrupted at that point by my And she said, "Well, it's true that Newton great pains to keep his ideas about religion Notice how that was framed. Intelligent design equals religion. Now, I'm not one of these people that memorizes well, but it just so happened at this point I had in my briefcase as I'd finished it And it had a quotation from Sir Isaac Newton And I found myself saying something that sounded I said, "Well, but that's not true. In the General Scholium to the Principia," Doesn't that sound impressive? [laughter] All that means is the introduction, that. [laughter] And so I said, "In the General said the following," and I'm going to I didn't... I went back and looked at the transcript. I didn't have it quite word for word, but Here's the quote from Newton. He said... O yeah, actually I said one other thing, I arguably the greatest work of physics ever Okay. And it arguably is. It's either Newton or Einstein, you know, And this is what Newton said, he said, "Though fine tuning of the planetary system, the way maintain this beautiful stable orbit. And he said, "Though these bodies may indeed gravity, yet they could by no means have first themselves from those laws. Thus this most beautiful system of the sun, the counsel and dominion of an intelligent [applause] Now, I simply made the point in follow up work of physics ever written, or arguably design. He did not separate his support for intelligent or his argument for intelligent design from It was built into the very fabric of one of So that raises a question for us interestingly I was a very young professor at the time, and the commissioners knew very little about a huge bias against our point of view. But after I cited this passage from Newton, the faces of several of the commissioners, could be more interesting than we thought, So anyway, this little story and specifically and our understanding of the history of science How did we get from Newton to Dawkins? How did we get from the idea that nature displays can tell by examining it and looking at it, Creator and that belief in God is tantamount That's a pretty big shift. Well, as always with things like this, there And in this case it's a story of intellectual And it's largely the story of what happened And it starts actually in the field of astronomy and physics. There was a French physicist named Pierre of the 1800s. It was published in 1799. It was called The Celestial Mechanics. And after its publication, Laplace was called Now, in the book The Celestial Mechanics, last quotation said you could not do, which as the result of purely unguided natural forces, He had a theory called the nebular hypothesis cause gases to congeal in a purely natural There was no need for an intelligent and powerful Gravity could explain it all. Now of course, for Newton gravity was a manifestation But Laplace was now moving in a different Now he's called in before Napoleon, at least Historians are not really sure whether this it's a good story either way. And Laplace comes in before Napoleon, and made French science very proud. You've shown up Sir Isaac Newton and the Remember they are at war at the time, and... book. "But I have one question for you. I've read Newton too, and I find mention I find no mention of God in your work." And Laplace is said to have puffed himself that hypothesis." That's my French accent. Sorry, it wasn't very good, was it? He has no need of that hypothesis. What hypothesis? The God hypothesis, the design hypothesis. He thinks he can explain the origin of a very the origin of our solar system by reference and natural laws. Now this approach to understanding the history eventually into geology, and then finally Perhaps the most important figure in this 19th century is, of course, Charles Darwin. In a leading biology textbook, college biology it this way. He says that Darwin by coupling the undirected process of natural selection was able to make of life superfluous, unnecessary. He too, Darwin also, had no need of that hypothesis, His mechanism of natural selection could do agents could do. Natural selection could produce the appearance in any way. So when you step back, when historians have year period of the 19th century, historians new developments in science came online, in attempted to explain the origin of very significant origin of the mountains and the canyons and all the new species, and eventually even the reference to purely unguided, undirected processes. And these were all scientific theories, various And when you strung them all together, you the history of the cosmos from the beginning of man and woman. And that way of looking at the world, which of the science of the day, also became the And that philosophy has a name. It's sometimes called scientific materialism. It's the idea that science supports a materialistic Now let's talk about what I mean by a materialistic How many of you are familiar with the worldview Sire. It's a wonderful way to get into, to understand philosophical systems that vie for our allegiance But Sire has a great way into this. He talks about seven different questions that And a worldview by the way can you... you're I'll ask this rhetorically. I don't expect people to shout out. But can you define a worldview? Sire defines it operationally in a very effective He says a worldview is a set of more or less - not questions about, for example, who's the World Series, or the composition of the that, but more fundamental questions like, everything else comes? What's the nature of the external world Is it an orderly system or a chaotic system? What's the nature of a human being? Are humans free to choose or are they totally Those kinds of questions. And of those worldview questions, Sire argues question he calls the prime reality question. Technical philosophers call that the subject And that prime reality question is this, what else comes? Now, can you see that what was going on in an answer to that foundational worldview question? So when you're looking into these questions that are scientific, but they're also incorrigibly The 19th century scientific answer to the the beginning were the particles, and the chemical stuff eventually arranged itself cell evolved by undirected, unguided Darwinian of life. And eventually one of those very complex forms the idea of God. In other words the materialist worldview is... the God delusion. God is only an idea in the mind of man. What's fundamentally real, what is the thing and energy. It's the material stuff of which the physical materialistic way of thinking from eternity In fact, we shouldn't say in the beginning If we're going to be consistent scientific past were the particles. There was no beginning. Okay. Just as Christians and Jews believe that God everything else came, the materialist believes self-existent thing, from which everything Now the point is that by the end of the 19th leading intellectuals were coming around to that the materialistic worldview had the support It was all these origins theories that seemed So in a real sense, in an important sense, The new atheism is actually repackaged late best sellers. It's an old ideology, which is though I The dominant thought form on the college campus I would say the dominant thought form in the culture in the elite media, the law schools, we sometimes call it naturalistic world view And many things... many things follow from If you hold that there is no... If you hold that the fundamental reality is independent of the universe that bought it to an objective morality because there is Instead we just do what we've been programmed material forces that affect us. We don't have freedom of choice, and we oughts are that are implied in moral statements. So the worldview that you hold ends up affecting or lack thereof of life, and many, many other And this materialistic worldview is the dominant but because the universities are so central of the elite culture. And when students go off to college, guess They come from a religious home where they Well, they very quickly encounter this very And a lot of kids feel like they didn't All these smart professors are thinking one raised with. And Del Tackett, who is here with us today, can be a killing fields for faith, alarming students who lose their faith in the very They're encountering a cognitive dissonance, Well, so far I've been giving you in a way way of thinking is the dominant way of thinking. And up until recently, it has had the support By the way, I have a... the picture on the the materialistic worldview. It might help you to see it pictorially. The circle represents the physical universe. The pendulum represents the laws of nature. Everything else in the circle represents all And the key thing in the materialistic worldview that physical sphere. There's no God, no Creator, no purposeful The universe is eternal and self-existent. So that's the picture of reality that's much still with us in the culture. It came from developments in 19th century The exciting news is that the testimony of 19th century when this worldview became dominant. And so even though this worldview still is universities, the basis for the worldview That is to say, there have been a series of science that undercut this way of thinking worldview, and in fact I'm going to argue, reality of a Creator beyond space and time Now I'm going to give you a quick survey The first on occurred in the field of cosmology, of Edwin Hubble, a Belgium priest named Father the nineteen teens and twenties. Hubble is famous now, even today, because Somebody chuckled when I said that because telescope was always broken when they were How do you like that? Make a great discovery in science, get a telescope the news because it doesn't work. But anyway, Hubble came into astronomy in It was at just the time that astronomers were that were able to resolve very tiny pinpoints Prior to Hubble and the scientists who were was debate among astronomers as to whether in which our solar system resides, was the beyond it. Hubble resolved that issue, as he also resolved Because as he looked through this great doomed Wilson in southern California, he was able had been viewed through ordinary telescopes actually revealed galaxies, whole galaxies And so the picture behind us a spindle nebula, And he saw spiral nebula, and many different that today astronomers have something they And it's a picture of the night sky. And if you take a little picture of any part you'll see a little square box, a little Now the next slide is going to be that quadrant telescopic magnification, and you see that sky, there are galaxies galore. And so the first thing that Hubble determined It was grand in scope beyond our wildest imaginations, Now that was just awe inspiring. But there was also a very theoretically and he made that was closely associated with this, are moving away from us. In every direction of the night sky, the galaxies And the evidence for that came from something It was light... It's that the light coming from these distant visual aid if you look up at just the canisters in every direction - but the light coming its hue, in its electromagnetic spectrum, the galaxies were stationary in relationship How many have heard of the Doppler Effect? You know of that from if you have a train whistle, it will drop in pitch. Well, the drop in pitch corresponds to a shift Up in Seattle we have these - I don't in a church, but why not - we had these had these guys dressed up as beer cans that And when they... when they would at the end the sunset saying, "Rainier Beer," and [laughter] I'm probably the only person rather than let's go get a brewski, you [laughter] Anyway, the same thing - what was my point That was the point. If you have an object receding away, the light out and get longer wavelengths, and those the red end of the ultraviolet spectrum. If you pass that light through a prism, the a recessional velocity when it's coming But this was an amazing discovery. And in every direction of the night sky where Every galaxy was moving away from us. Now what do you infer from that. Well, I have a visual aid, and it's not It's a balloon. And this... Hubble, you know, got to thinking about this I've drawn these little spirals on the balloon. Okay, so think going forward in this forward If all the galaxies are moving away from us, outward in a kind of spherically symmetric So as you go forward in time, you get the Now what happens if you wind the clock backwards, make the characters go backwards? Okay. What if you... the technical term is back Well, if you go back a thousand years, if Okay, did you go back, and go back, and go The further you go back in time, the universe eventually you reach the beginning point of together. And Hubble realized that an expanding universe actually has a beginning, a beginning in time. Now this was a really significant discovery side of the country, there was this physicist And Einstein had come to the same conclusion then he said, "No, no, no, no, no, that And Einstein came to it on the basis of his theory of gravitation. And the equations of his theories suggested outward and decelerating in order for all But when he realized that if it was expanding said, "No, that can't be right." So the force of... So then he posited an arbitrary force that in just the right measure so that the universe existed eternally without expanding or contracting. This arbitrary force was called his cosmological He picked a very precise value so it would thought must be happening to make his gravity So he by a long process of theoretical reasoning the conclusion there must be a beginning, and then he introduced an arbitrary factor from his own theory. When I was a physics student, we used to call gives you an experiment to do, and you know do the thing with the hockey pucks on the And it's getting near the end of the period, do you do? Now, I'm not saying I ever did this, okay. But I know some people who did. You know, you take the... and you... you adjust That's called dry labbing. That's essentially what Einstein, one of essentially what he did. He fudged. He fudged, okay, because he had a preconceived that was so strong, it was such strong philosophical to try to meet with that. Then Hubble comes along and discovers that There must have been a beginning, and so he the evidence that he'd been viewing through And there's some famous newsreel footage the telescope with Hubble in the background And he comes out and meets the media and says, That's the German accent. That was a little better, didn't you think, I have an actor friend who coaches me on these It's really pathetic. Okay. In any case, Einstein gets it and later says fudge factor, was the greatest mistake of In essence, the heavens talk back, and the beginning to the universe. Now, this has just set in motion a whole series in the field of astronomy and cosmology. And alternative theories were proposed. One astronomer, a famous British astronomer He said, "Philosophically, the notion of to me. I should like to find a genuine loophole. I simply do not believe the present order The expanding universe is preposterous. It leaves me cold." [said with accent -- laughter, I'll stick to the science for now. I'm sorry. Anyway, this is in psychology a theory known [laughter] Do you notice how he started this "Philosophically," I don't like it. It's not the evidence says thus and so. It's philosophically I don't like it. What's the philosophy that makes the discovery It's this materialistic view we've been it's matter and energy from eternity past. If Hubble's results are correct, they are from eternity past. There was a beginning to the expansion. Now that issue was even further clarified Hawking. And writing in 1968 a famous scientific paper, know Stephen Hawking, the physicist with the okay - and he's at Cambridge. Roger Penrose is a colleague at Oxford. In 1968, the two collaborated and wrote a to the universe in time, but there was also They did something, and there won't be a But they solved the field equations of general They solved some of Einstein's equations And you can kind of imagine this as you go be more and more matter. You see Einstein's theory was that as matter matter causes a curvature of space. That was Einstein's theory of gravitation, concentrated matter. So if you are thinking that way, and you think gets closer and closer and closer to being more tightly and tightly and tightly. And what Hawking and Penrose showed is that infinite as you go back in time a finite amount As you get back far enough, the curvature curved, infinitely tightly curved. Now, an infinitely tightly curved space, a a little tighter, a little tighter. It keeps going tighter. Eventually an infinitely curved space corresponds Let me ask you a question, Mr. Scientific How much stuff can you put in no space? [laughter] It's funny, but it's also a I mean, it raises... the Hawking-Penrose Singularity a very formidable challenge to the whole worldview is that if there's a zero point for time, that the universe comes out of literally nothing It's like the view of the Medieval theologians nihilo, creation out of nothing physical. And that's what we're coming to in modern It's profound. I think it also creates the basis of a reformulation argument, because if you want to explain the was the argument that... it's the first Nothing that begins to exist... Everything that begins to exist has a cause. The universe began to exist; therefore, the We call that cause God. It's an ancient argument. During the Enlightenment, the philosophers the second premise that the universe began If the universe began to exist in time and the origin of the universe, to give a causal we need to invoke a cause that transcends And of the possible entities we could think to the top of the list, okay. We need a transcendent cause of great power So the cosmological argument is back on the in cosmology. Obviously, there's a connection to the biblical The first words of Genesis are after all, past, okay. So very interesting. One other thing, connection, if you're a idea that the plan of God existed from before this is referred to twice - which implies is kind of what physics and cosmology is now Time itself had a beginning. So profound stuff - now that's discovery Let me give you two other things here. These... I won't take quite as much time on these, So we have evidence of a transcendent cause But in physics there's another discovery about that transcendent cause if you will. It's the discovery of what's known as and constants of physics, as well as the initial micro, millisecond after the origin of the Let me explain. If we think about... Here's an illustration of what the physicists Let's just take the expansion rate of the It turns out if the universe were expanding we would either have what's called - if recollapse, where everything would fall back If it was going a little bit faster, the matter and we would end up with what's called the And it further turns out that the expansion tuned, to about one part in 10 to the 60th That's one part in a trillion, trillion, Okay? Now, I grant you, not much in comparison to none the less. And if you're an engineer and you're familiar of this one parameter that makes life possible a very small tolerance for error. It's got to be right on the bull's-eye, Now, I may not have made this point clear. Why is the fine tuning important? Well, because if things were even a little too slow, the universe would not be a suitable Life depends on these fine tuning perimeters. Think of it as the Goldilocks universe - not slow, not too big, not too small, forces not Everything delicately balanced to make life And there are about three dozen of these fine at the fundamental level in physics - things the gravitational force constant as the physicists of other fundamental forces. And on and on it goes. So there are lots of these parameters, and asks you... to get a handle on what's going into the universe creating machine. You're out in space traveling around with Do they still do that? I think that's old. Anyway, you're out in space, and you come Creating Machine. So you're a physicist. You want to know how it was done. You're curious. You go inside, and you find there's this each one of them is set to a very precise parameters of the universe. And so you whip out your pencil. You're a physicist, and you make some calculations, of those dials or sliders or knobs by one would be impossible in the universe. And this physicist John Polkinghorne in Great of that?" He has an understated British answer. He says, "Well, I don't say that the atheists "I just," he says, "I would say that more satisfying explanation." [laughter] Okay. Another British physicist that I had the good Sir Fred Hoyle, put it this way. He said, "A common sense interpretation has monkeyed with physics and chemistry to [laughter] I like the way the monkeys always even in physics. Okay. So that's another huge development in modern the 19th century. The very fabric of the universe, the laws, of physics are exquisitely, finely tuned to And a common sense interpretation of that cause but an intelligent cause that operated Okay. Now, the next area is the area that most fascinates of design in biology. You may have noticed I skipped over just a The slides I skipped are concerned... all cells. And if you want to know more about that, I Behe's famous book, Darwin's Black Box. But in the interest of time, I want to get that I work on. And it's the whole question of the origin If you want to give your computer a new function, Code, code, yeah, very good, code, information, Well, it turns out that the same is true in since the discovery of the structure of double the amazing discoveries that happened in the Along the spine of the DNA molecule are four technically they're nuclei tied bases. And Francis Crick, who was the co-discoverer that the... something he called the sequence And the idea of this is that these four chemicals, for building all the proteins and protein that every cell in every living organism needs The machinery of life is made of proteins. The proteins are built, Crick suggested, in the DNA molecule, that the DNA molecule is And those bases that store the information in a written language or digital characters not the chemical properties of these chemical It's their arrangement. Think of Scrabble letters on a board. If you've got a pile of them, they don't you can get the triple word score, you can Well, if the nuclei tied bases along the spine... represented... chemists actually represent are arranged properly, they provide instructions these important proteins and protein machines Closest analogy is to something that goes plant. And engineers will be familiar with this as It's a technology called CAD/CAM, computer A computer engineer, or an electrical or mechanical Maybe he's trying to design a wing for an He'll make some selections of some parameters. Those selections will be literally codified That digital information will be sent down It will be translated into a machine language that information will direct, for example, the rivets on the right place on the airplane the construction of mechanical parts. Ford uses it. All kinds of companies use this technology Guess where else it's being used? Inside the cell, even in little bacterial We've got high tech in low life. It's incredible. So this is the big discovery of late 20th the show in life in even the simplest cells, talk about in our own high-tech world has life itself. So now, what do we make of all of this? And this is... it turns out that the discovery a huge mystery. And it's not the mystery of the structure Watson and Crick solved that problem. I call this mystery, by the way, the DNA enigma. And the DNA enigma is not the structure of Watson and Crick figured that out. They elucidated the structure of DNA. It's not where the information for building We know where that information is stored. It's stored in the DNA molecule. It's not even what that information does. We know what the information does. Like the CAD/CAM plant, the information directs What's the mystery surrounding that information? It's the mystery of where it came from. It's the mystery of origins. It's the mystery of the ultimate origin And so the discovery of the information in science, another issue in science, and that's because to build life, you've got to have that life needs to survive. Just like with your computer, you want your to provide it with code. If you want to build a living cell in the the instructions for building the parts of So you want to explain the origin of life, And the quote up behind me is from a scientist Now, I first encountered this DNA enigma in I was a young scientist, and I was working to a conference where there was a scientist. It was discussion of the origin of the universe, of human consciousness, some of the big worldview And there was a scientist there who had written And at this conference, all the scientists that no one had an adequate evolutionary explanation Now this shocked me. I was under the impression that the evolutionary I'd read the textbooks after all. But the leading people in the field were openly Now as it happened, I got to know one of the introduced us. His name was Charles Thaxton. He'd written a book called The Mystery of and verse the difficulties attendant attempts living cell by undirected chemical evolutionary And the biggest difficult of them all was All attempts to account for it from purely forces, had failed. And Thaxton had begun to entertain the idea the information in the DNA at the foundation he called an intelligent cause. After all, information is the kind of thing It was an intuitive connection for him, but Now I began to get to know him better. He mentored me. And a year later I was off to grad school, my mind, and that was, could you make an argument design hypothesis or what later became known Could you make an argument, could you make hypothesis? And as I embarked on my graduate studies, Darwin. And Darwin's work was very important in said or Darwin was using a method of scientific events in the remote past. The origin of life was, after all, an event And Darwin's method suggested that scientists long time ago, we have to infer it. And what we want to infer is that possible It's a method called the inference to the multiple competing hypotheses. But that led me to another question, which when you're trying to explain an event in And one day I was reading one of the scientists and the light went on. This scientist was named Charles Lyell. He was a famous geologist. And he said that when you're trying to figure - and he was talking specifically about historical sciences - he said we should In other words, we should explain events in our present experience have the power to produce If you're in eastern Washington, and you're ash, well, you could posit that it was an or maybe a volcanic eruption. Which one of those three is best? Obviously the volcanic eruption. Why? Because of what we know from our present experience. We know that volcanoes produce layers of ash, flood to that. So using this same method of reasoning, I make a rigorous scientific argument for intelligent Darwin's own method of reasoning, because our ordinary and repeated experience, from to create information, it turns out that there's And that is intelligence. It's mind, not an underactive material process. Another scientist I was reading at the time He said, "The creation of information is Well, that's right if you think about it. Bill Gates has said that DNA is like a software ever written. How do they build software at Microsoft? Not by wind and erosion. No, some people have issues with (Word)... It takes a... Generally it takes a programmer to make a In fact, more generally whenever we find information, we always come to a mind, not a material process. Whether we're talking about a hieroglyphic imbedded in a radio signal or information back to its ultimate source, we always come an undirected material process. So the discovery that at the foundation of life going in the first place you have to at the foundation of life. It points to the need for intelligent design life itself. And now notice in reasoning that way, I'm come to a decidedly non-Darwinian conclusion, design in biology. And that's the argument I make in Signature Now, what do you get when you pull all these Well, we see that there's evidence of a seems to point to the need for a transcendent We also see that there's evidence of a designing of the universe with the fine tuning of the But we also see that there's evidence of of the universe in the history of life, suggesting in the creation, not a deistic intelligence beginning, but an intelligent who acts at And so when you pull those strands of evidence is actually a theistic design hypothesis or The reality of God explains the cosmological... cosmological and fine tuning, as well as the In other words, I hold to intelligent design, the whole ensemble of evidence that science explanation for the identity of the designer Jews and Christians and the Bible itself has intelligence, and imminence, activity within So I think it's a very exciting time to Far from the testimony of the new atheists, or delusional, I think that Saint Paul was the reality of the Creator. And it's interesting even many secular scientists this. One, Frederick Burnham, a historian of science, He says, "The idea that God created the today than in any time in the last hundred I don't think it's just a respectable I think it actually provides the best explanation from physics, chemistry, and biology, from made." And so the God hypothesis is back. And I thank you very much. [applause]