It's the episode with Joo Woojae hyung. He's explaining the details I know, of course. Of course I know. But it was so annoying I'm the real one. I'm the real deal. Really though... The red light, blue light. I know too. I know Don't Forget is supposed to I'm supposed to talk about the running scene. He beat me to it. Of course! Joo Woojae hyung He made comments that could make me jealous. Thank you so much, I'm a fan too. But I also know, I know more. Hey Jaefriends! Hello, hello. Hello. Hello. Hello... This is the final episode of Season 3. It's time to bring this season to a close. If this were the end it would be really sad, but don't worry. We will come back again. Please wait a little, Naefriends. Maybe because it's the last episode today we've received a very encouraging PPL. It's IsNtree Onion Ampoule and Gel Cream. Now, this one is the ampoule. It's the Onion Ampoule. And this product is the Gel Cream. Let's see what kind of feeling it gives. And what kind of texture it has. And the sensation of its subtle texture. Let's feel it out. It feels really moisturizing. And it's quite hydrating. It feels like it's quickly absorbed. And it seems I think it's a perfect product Let's try applying this gel cream as well. Wow, the gel color is somewhat... purple. Oh wow! Well, if that ampoule earlier had a relatively light consistency this one is truly a gel cream, so the name perfectly matches its consistency texture and it feels like It feels like a moisture-packed layer is applied. That's exactly the feeling I get. You can apply it before you go to bed. Ah, this is the number one product at Olive Young. So you don't need a mask pack. This gel alone is enough. You've seen this character a lot, right? Haven't you seen this character somewhere often? This is a character called &quot;Maltese.&quot; This product is a special edition The Maltese special edition set When you purchase the Onion Gel Cream you'll receive It's this little guy. When you purchase the Onion Ampoule, you'll receive this character keychain. Please show a lot of interest in this product! The IsNtree Maltese special edition set. You can find it at Olive Young right now. Today's dish is Japchae. Oh, there's seaweed too, seaweed soup. It's actually a traditional food of our country but it requires a lot of work and time. So, many people tend to avoid cooking it. It's a dish that But this will be confusing. Because I'll make it so simple. How many minutes does it take to cook? Cooking time? It doesn't take 15 minutes. But exclude the prep time. Honestly. You should exclude the prep time a bit. I pre-soaked the glass noodles beforehand. Soaked glass noodles. People usually boil them once but you don't have to boil them. Let's do it. Isn't the studio a bit different today? A red carpet is here. Did you win a gold medal or something? One of the founding contributors One of the founding contributors? The founding contributors of Jaefriends is me. Who else could it be but me? Someone who has been frequently mentioned A person who has been mentioned a lot! They hold some shares. They've exercised some influence. It's that, right? What could it be? Well, it's because they're a guest Also, there's a PPL today. The final guest of Season 1 was XIA. Season 2 was god hyungs. Is the final guest this time BIGBANG? If BIGBANG doesn't come out, maybe instead BTS? A guest that suits... the final episode... You can say it! Oh, really? A guest that suits the final episode... What is he talking about? Isn't it him? It sounds like he's lost a lot of confidence. I think he's lost some confidence Got it. I think he's a hoobae to BIGBANG. He can't talk because he's a hoobae to BIGBANG. Otherwise, there's no way Let's read the friend's introduction. Nickname. Hyung admirer, Ganadi. - Ganadi? What's Ganadi? Just as it's pronounced! Ganadi Just as it's pronounced. Ganadi Read it quickly. Gandhi. Is it Gandhi? Ganadi, Ganadi, puppy, gangadi, gangadi, gangadi. These days, people call it &quot;ganaji,&quot; &quot;ganaji.&quot; Puppy, saying it cutely. Big brother admirer, &quot;puppy&quot;, is that it? It's a lisp. This is really crazy. Hint. I've waited for 20 years. You've waited for me for 20 years? Reason for appearing. Because it's the show that I must be on. The friend's image is a god. That's too exaggerated. It's viral. It seems so. It's not good. That... doesn't seem right. A god? No way. He's a god. I heard a voice just now. He's a god. Can you do any impressions, like voice mimicry? I can do XIA. XIA is really difficult. Then please show us. Hello, I'm Xia Junsu. Is that the best impression you can do? Yes. His voice sounds good right now. What he just said, &quot;Yes&quot;. Have you done your military service? Of course. Then are you over thirty now? Around that age. He must have debuted around 10 to 12 years ago. 10 years! He's a singer. Who is the idol you respect the most? Kim Jaejoong. I think you asked No, no. Oh no, no, no. That's not it. Have you ever been on a broadcast with me? Probably. Probably? Was it a long time ago? Is it recent? Was it a long time ago? I think it's been about 3 years. It's been about 3 years. I'm sorry but, at that time, I hardly appeared on TV shows. Yes. So at that time, I was doing a show Ah, yes, yes. I was actively working as a host and I've appeared as a guest on various channels. - Hyunsik's Late Night Studio. - VogueShipShow. Did you only appear on those 2 shows? Yes. I only appeared on those 2 shows. But actually, that person appeared Someone with the same name also appeared. Ah... Do you know about that? Did you see it, by any chance? Yes. But how did you see it there? I guess you can see everything. There... what are you referring to...? There, you know, where everyone is required to go. Why are you like this? You have an idea of where it is, right? Yes... What do you want to do? Do you just want to come out? Or do you want to wait there a bit more? I'll come out. - Please wait a moment. - Just a second. Inside just let it wilt with the heat. Add more of the essentials in japchae. It's done. All done. Shall we call MINHYUK now? He is someone we're very grateful for. He's the most mentioned friend, We absolutely had to invite him. MINHYUK, please come out! Hello. MINHYUK. Hello. MINHYUK. You still have a bit of a soldier vibe. What should I do? Welcome. Thank you. You did well. I'm still a bit unfamiliar with broadcasting. - Really? Quickly, greet everyone. - Greet first. Here, slowly, - Walk over and just sit down like this. Let's welcome MINHYUK. Thank you. But it's so... like... I really appreciate the grand welcome. It has to be grand. What does it say? MONSTA X's MINHYUK, the most mentioned artist Thank you. MINHYUK, here. I will carry it. - Congratulations. You really worked hard. - You worked hard. So we prepared seaweed soup. Isn't it because my birthday is coming? That's the production team's intention. Ah. Should we change it to that? This one is for your discharge celebration, - This is for your discharge celebration. This one is for discharge celebration. - Try the seaweed soup first! - Congratulations. Congratulations. His manners... He waited for me, right? But isn't this a meal kit? Is it tasty? It tastes just like store-bought... I told you. If you've watched Jaefriends you know our rules, right? Yes. Banmal? Yeah, I like it. Seems like you've been waiting for this. Because everyone was doing all this I was wondering when we would start... Really? I thought it might have changed Try it, Jaejoong. That's a bit uncomfortable? Because you're friends. Yeah, Jaejoong. Eat up. I'll eat well! Yeah, thanks for preparing it for me. The MONBEBE fans were saying we should have you on the show. Because you're about to be discharged soon. Even before my discharge? Yeah, there were so many requests If it weren't for you, - Really? You heard earlier, right? XIA. Who closed season 2? god. Who's in season 3! Who is it? MINHYUK, can you see? - One... - six, seven, eight, nine... All these people are here just for you. What should I do? Feels like I should do something... We've prepared a video. To commemorate Jaefriends' most appearances. It's a special feature, please watch. They made it really well, it's high quality. MINHYUK, I'm so jealous you can use a phone too. When MINHYUK is discharged, He can't come out, it might disappear. It almost disappeared for real, right? You almost couldn't come out. I'm eating chapagetti on Jaejoong's show. That's nice. Should do that once. But after seeing that, I thought I can eat chapagetti too. How did you feel seeing yourself Actually, I felt really good, because the hardest part about being in the military is the fear of being forgotten... both publicly and by the fans, that was actually my biggest concern. For example, even if a clip comes out briefly for me, that's a big deal. Because I can't appear publicly on shows. So I was really happy but they didn't give any appearance fees. They don't pay you just because a clip is shown. It's a bit disappointing. - MINHYUK Are you dating anyone? I'm dating only... with MONBEBE. Maybe a video message... - You should do that. Hello. Hi, MONBEBE. In the military, my biggest fear was But If I say something like I was worried I might become someone But during the evening live shows so many people couldn't even come and I'm truly thankful for that. I always hoped Thank you. If it weren't for every single MONBEBE's comment, just like SUNG WOON said... Jaefriends might have ended, It's truly thanks to MONBEBE, thank you so much. Lately, speaking has been a bit difficult, but I hope my sincerity was conveyed. MONBEBE is really... their loyalty is no joke. Right, I think they truly have loyalty. The MONBEBEs were so active It felt like you were still active. Right. You got 2.2 million views. Mine? Super Shy. But when those views exploded people realized you were in the military. That happened a lot, right, right. It was around the time before I became a sergeant. - When I was closest to being a soldier. But doing this receiving the cheers and excitement directly it really refreshed me. After that, I wanted to be discharged. Riding on the wave of those views I felt like I needed to release something. I thought I should go and work hard. But at the time, there was still a lot left. - Honestly, kind of... But thank you so much to the person who filmed it. Who was it? - It was MONBEBE. In the end, it's MONBEBE. Your physique was really good back then? I think this is the first time Before I went to the military, actually... my health wasn't good, I was sick. I think there was a stage performance After coming off stage, I really felt that my body couldn't endure So mentally, performing on stage felt too overwhelming for me. So about three months Two or three months before just once or twice a week. For the sake of my health. But gradually, I started to develop So, when I enlisted, So now, well, I don't do it every day after being discharged but I do it about three or four times a week. Have you lost some weight now? Now it's really... Oh, on the right... What's this? - Wait, the chest too. Even if it's small, wow... - The back. - But my body is... Right, isn't it? It feels like someone is touching The body... There's no excess and it's so firm. - It's defined. You should do a photo shoot now! I'm not really fond of exposing myself. That's just how my personality is. Even if I become like Sunbae RAIN, - So about that kind of thing... I feel a bit shy in front of MONBEBE. I think that's how it is. Can I take a quick look? No, no. No. No, no. - Are you only wearing that? - So, no... But why did you decide I really wanted it to be a gift for those who waited, that was the biggest reason. So I thought about making it free. And I even prepared gifts, like photo cards. Of course, I even did a free send-off event! Even the send-off event. - Really... including the free send-off. I honestly thought I'd be able to do it. Because I only prepared a saxophone for one song, and the rest was just talking, But after finishing the second performance I was shivering in the car... Do you know the weight of the spotlight? When you stay under the lights for a long time it feels like your whole body hurts. - I only felt that when I was a rookie. Yeah, it's been a while, And then, as soon as I got home I removed my makeup and went to bed at 10 o'clock. That's a habit, right? That's because of the habit. I don't want to show MONBEBE but it wasn't as easy as I thought. How many people came? I think there were Did you do the same for all 2,000 people then? - Making sure both events didn't overlap. And we made sure people couldn't attend twice. Well done. So, honestly, it was quite burdensome for me too. There was no income while I was in the military but the director of the company He said it's the first time he's seen MONBEBE They came with a very joyful heart and left feeling very happy. So I think I did a really good job. I'm very satisfied. But because MINHYUK did it this way - How can the other members handle the pressure... they said, &quot;Hyung, then what should we do?&quot; - They talked about this a lot. I tend to do a lot of talking and guide the flow within the group but some of the members hardly talk or almost don't talk at all. Right. But for them, it's a big problem now. It's a big problem, what to do? Exactly. Well, what can they do? They'll just have to work hard, I guess. But is it famous Yes, they're honest about it. But after coming back there was a photo of MONBEBE It got caught in a picture. Oh, when? They got caught. If it's someone who came and who used to say, &quot;I only have MINHYUK.&quot; Don't you get jealous? It's annoying, isn't it? - I would also feel jealous. The annoying part is I'm so close to that fan and I don't like seeing that. Because for me to be jealous When I've already seen them But they did it really? Yes. That's cheating. - This is really not okay, not okay. It's not okay. Keep it in mind. Please remember. But did you pretend to be an &quot;F&quot; in the military? You're originally a &quot;T&quot;, right? Totally a &quot;T&quot;. - ENTP. Rather than pretending to be an &quot;F&quot;, I feel like &quot;F&quot; has an intellectual sexiness. Intellectual sexiness? Like the sexiness of subtlety? Oh? For example, if there's a hoobae in the military, and when they ask you about something I'd say, &quot;You can do it this way.&quot; But an &quot;F&quot; would say, &quot;Really?&quot; &quot;But didn't you say you do this when you do that?&quot; &quot;How about trying it like this?&quot; - When talking. At first, I thought. At first. When I saw them, it was like that. But they really liked it. They wanted to ask a lot of questions to an &quot;F&quot;. Because an &quot;F&quot; would talk like that. So I thought But it's not easy. Even just empathizing is an &quot;F&quot; trait. Of course. Is this &quot;F-style&quot; empathy? Yes, because I have a lot of &quot;F&quot; traits I can empathize with even these things. Ah... Oh, I'm tired. &quot;I bought some bread because I felt down.&quot; Then what would you say? But I've seen that kind of question before. But beyond saying, &quot;What kind of bread?&quot; So look. Feeling down and buying bread are separate things. No way. Huh? Why are they separate? Do you buy bread when you feel down? No, when you're down eating something delicious or it might be to recharge with sugar. - So... - Let's continue this conversation a bit. &quot;I bought some bread because I felt down.&quot; Really? What kind of bread? Gugjini bread... Gugjini bread... You ate something sweet! Gugjini bread with a lot of red bean filling. Yeah, looks like your sugar levels dropped. Should I send you some as a gift? Do you want something sweet? No, it's discontinued these days, not available... Suddenly, I feel even more down. Seems like I can't buy that bread anymore. Are you upset Do you want to eat bread I was originally down because of something else... Now you feel even more down? Thinking that I can't buy Gugjini bread made me more down because of what you said. Is this really how it is with &quot;F&quot;s? It's kind of tough. &quot;I think our tastes really don't match.&quot; &quot;MINHYUK, you and I really don't match in taste.&quot; But there are many other things we match well in. Like what? Whether it's hobbies... What kind of hobbies? Why are you being so nosy? This is something I don't like about you. But the reason we're friends might be because Why are you friends with me? Me with you? I just like you. There is no love without reason. What's your reason for loving MONBEBE? Because they love me more than anyone else. Is there a reason? Because I'm handsome? They say that. They say they like me because I'm handsome. So... they like you because you're handsome? I also have a reason for being close to you. Let's break up immediately. Breaking up? I can't endure this. Then how do you respond? &quot;I really think our tastes don't match.&quot; What part doesn't match, do you think? I don't like the way you use It seems like he's really hurt. No, I mean, hyung... But seriously, because of this being really close is more comfortable with a &quot;T&quot;... But isn't it the same for &quot;F&quot;s? Usually, &quot;F&quot;-type people... I feel like I'll get negative comments from &quot;F&quot;s. No, no. - I got a lot of negative comments from &quot;T&quot;s too. That's a relief! He said it's a relief. So, &quot;F&quot;-type people often become &quot;T&quot; But I think there's a reason for that. Why? Because working as a &quot;T&quot; is more convenient. And they want to resolve So they turn into a &quot;T&quot; when working. That's just my opinion... If you disagree, please comment. I think when &quot;F&quot;s are working they only keep about 30-40% But even while speaking coldly, They battle in their hearts. - It's tiring, really, yeah, it's quite tiring. They also want to just talk coolly like that... and just let things go, swallow it down. But many &quot;F&quot;s can't let things go... It's a shame, you know. Is there a &quot;F&quot; like me in MONSTA X? HYUNGWON is moderately &quot;F&quot; and there's another one who's a total &quot;F&quot;. When JOOHONEY had chocolate snacks poured in a bowl with milk... and he was eating it. JOOHONEY eats really slowly, you know? Then a &quot;T&quot; would say this, &quot;Hey, it'll all get soggy Isn't it soggy? It's delicious, for me. - I mean, so soft... - No, I mean soggy... No, I mean, isn't it all soggy? What I'm saying is the texture... It's not soggy. What he meant was, if it gets soggy, - That's what he was saying. &quot;I don't like people who talk like that... &quot;T&quot;s.&quot; &quot;This is crunchy.&quot; Then a &quot;T&quot; would say If it's really crunchy then a &quot;T&quot; would say &quot;It's crunchy? Got it.&quot; But by then, JOOHONEY always gets hurt From our teasing and stuff. But that side of him is so cute that - we end up teasing more. - Because his reactions are great. After you were discharged, When I was being discharged I used my leave, and we all gathered on the day. There were four of us in the military, The rest were talking about military stories and then the youngest was quiet. And JOOHONEY. He probably doesn't realize it with soldier stuff... - Uh... a drill sergeant syndrome. - So, he is... It's quite intense. I was surprised. When we meet, he brags a lot. He keeps saying how he received some kind of And also books... Do you know like an overlock stitch? Yeah, there are stiches. From the drill sergeant level, like this. - It's supposed to do it outside by themselves. He just has a ton of them. Something, something, something, a whole lot. So the youngest, not knowing asks, &quot;Does he do all that binding himself?&quot; So &quot;He spends his own money to do it,&quot; and then He said, &quot;I should definitely not do that.&quot; - What's that? You see? That? He did something He just has all of them on. Overlocked them all. I mean, it's worth bragging - Put many of them on. No, but JOOHONEY is kind. JOOHONEY might contact me now. Please stop zooming in on this. Look at that, look up there. That badge, as far as I know is given only to the aces inside. He goes around with a golden watch like that! How long has it been since he left? JOOHONEY will probably be discharged He might come out wearing his field jacket. That's right, on top. Will he put patches on the field jacket too? Should we bet on this? - But I'm really curious. There's a very important point here. So, those who haven't been - But there's a uniform you usually wear. - There's a tight one to wear inside. There's the original uniform. But the outer layer is worn when it's really cold. - I wonder if he put badges on that too? - If he does put them on... This will go viral if he puts them on. But after seeing this, he might not put them on. But why do I feel like he will? In the winter, whether he puts badges - Please keep an eye on it. Let's send JOOHONEY a video message... It's all out of love, you know. Do well. Did you host a newcomer idol MC Probably no one knows about this. This is the first time it's being mentioned here. - Was it not made public? I think our company is really big these days. I'm very satisfied with the company recently. Our company is truly big. And now the vice president is preparing a male group and also a female group. Something big is being prepared. But I went as the MC for that. After watching this I hope people recognize them I'm promoting diligently. With the mindset of being a company director. It's great, such a mindset. I actually crossed paths - Oh, really? They're really cool. - They're really tall. Their faces are so handsome. But if I spoil too much - What I can say is you can have high expectations What, is it already time to wrap up? And there's something I wanted to say What is it? Well, it's nothing else but when I watched shorts or appearances there was something that really annoyed me. It was the episode with Joo Woojae hyung. Why? He was explaining details about the Maze video. If you want to enjoy If you want to see Jaejoong's stage presence So I know, of course. Of course, I know. But it was so annoying Because I am the real deal. I am the real deal. But Woojae came here and talked about it first. It's annoying because he talked about it first. I know it's the growth story... That exact video. Starting with the red video. I loved the red in the Maze video so much. So when we were filming the DVD to capture that motif in that way. I even mentioned it in advance. - Really? That's what I do. That's the kind of person I am. But really... The red light, blue light. I know that too. I know Don't Forget is supposed to I'm supposed to talk about the running scene. There's an amazing live performance That's known as an amazing live. The amazing live of Bolero. You need to watch that. You need to listen to Wen kasete. I'm really feeling unjustly treated. Is it okay if I just keep saying Sure, go ahead. - Be my guest. Tonight, that one... Asia tour. I remember it being MIROTIC or something like that while others just received regular lighting Jaejoong received divine lighting. Only those who know, know this. - Look, look, look. Exactly, why am I the only one like that? It appears here and then again later. There's a scene Look at this, look at this. Wow... I know all these details too. But it's such a regret for me He beat me to it. Of course! Joo Woojae hyung He made comments that could make me jealous. Thank you so much, I'm a fan too. But I know too, I know more. But it felt so unfair that I couldn't say it. So I was really planning to say this. Because I really mean it. - Thank you so much. I liked you guys from elementary to middle school. The only people who told me that were Jaejoong and XIA. To me. When I was young But when I saw XIA hyung, I thought And looking at hyung, I wondered, &quot;With such visuals...&quot; &quot;Does he sing this well?&quot; Back then, O&quot;-Jung.Ban.Hap., Purple Line... When these things kept coming out. Whenever I turned on the computer, That's how I nurtured my dream By looking at these people. After that, I was moved twice. The first was during VogueShipShow. When XIA hyung appeared he said &quot;Hello&quot; like this. And XIA hyung said just one thing but I was about to cry at that moment. What did he say? &quot;Oh? Your voice is really unique, &quot;I think it's somewhat similar to mine.&quot; When he said this I felt like I was going to cry so much. But I really held it in. It felt like I was being such a bother. So I really held it back. And when you came out on the show you gave me a necklace as a gift. I still have it at home. Receiving that while it might be a small gift to someone but it meant the world to me. Even talking about it makes my throat choke up. It's something I have to cherish for life. I really wanted to share this but I thought it might be overwhelming. For sure, but I really... I really liked you all. And I still do. Originally, we had a chance to work on a song together. Yes, we did. - But I was in the military, right? It felt like the world was unfair to me. But will you do it? When do you plan to release it? Do you have any thoughts? Oh, really? Then I want to do it. - Okay. Around then... we can work on it. The timing is perfect... You've finally appeared on Jaefriends as the final guest for season 3. How was your experience on the show today? First of all, before coming I usually don't care much about makeup but I paid a lot of attention to it. Though I didn't do much I was extremely attentive within that &quot;not much.&quot; Effortless yet styled? &quot;I want to look like this I kept putting on and taking off a t-shirt swapping in and out a mature knitwear. I really put a lot of care into it. It's a show I really wanted to appear on. I had to be on. It's a show I thought I must appear on. So I was really happy to be on here. Although I came as an artist, but as a fan I hope you can be active without getting injuries. I wish you could promote healthily even if it's not for a long time. This is what I wanted to say. This is truly from a fan's heart. What I talked about today it's really from a fan's perspective. I think there are definitely people Is Jaefriends currently on the season four? - It's season three. Then just keep it up to the four. I'll change the format a bit Wow, Minfriends. What does that mean? Let's talk about it later.