There's a lot of work behind this dish. Look at the sauce. The particular thing is they use cow nose And this has been awarded as the best soup in the world. Buongiorno, guys! It's Max Ginestra. This is my very first time. I'm super mega excited because I heard this city is one of the street food capitals of the country, and I cannot wait to taste all the delicious food Andiamo! For the first location of the day, so this is a very special. They sell delicious food, rice with fish and crab, and it's super spicy. I can smell spicy from here. Let's go. Good morning! Hello, ma'am! Oh, she's Ibu Karmini. Are you Ibu Karmini? Yes. Where are you from? I'm from Italy. Italy. So far away. Ibu Karmini is famous. She's famous. This is the shop that I've been wanting to visit for a very long time. Where do you live? I live in Jakarta. Oh, yes. How long have you been selling this, ma'am? Since 1984. It's been a while Over here she's frying prawns. You don't have this is Italy. No, we don't. This is going to be the breakfast of the champions. They also sell other types of fish. It's all about fish. Surabaya is super famous for it. Okay, let's order. Do you have squid? -Sold out. Oh, finished? Okay. I'd like some crab. Crab She's opening it for me. Oh, wow! It smells spicy. Bring me to Jakarta. I want to see the National Monument. What's this? It's tuna. Oh, tuna. We use 30 Kg of chillies. Oh, yeah? Yes, 30 Kg of chillies. Is this enough? Yes. Anything else? I'd like a prawn skewer. Just one, please. Your Indonesian is good. Thank you so much, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Please excuse my place. Oh, she's so lovely. We got our food. I'm super excited. Mamma mia, look! We got their signature tuna with her secret mix of spices. Super spicy. Then we got crab, local crab, and crackers here. And the satay with prawns. Oh, I'm so excited, I'm mouthwatering. Look at the tuna! Mamma mia, let's grab a piece with my rice. I'm salivating. Buon appetito Ma'am It's so good! Excellent! It's good! So good! Meaty, so spicy but it's kind of citrusy, smoky. It's just so unique and super fresh. Oh, this is spicy by the way. So delicious! It has so much character and you can tell it's fresh. There are pieces of chili that when you swallow, they get stuck at the back of the throat and that hits you, that kills you immediately. And because of that, what did I order? This drink that I've been recommended. They said it's local. Oh, it's nice. I can't tell what is what is from what is made of. These are fried crabs. Yes, they are soft. She keeps on feeding me. Now, moving on, the crab. Oh, look at that. There's so much meat in it. Look! I think I found the eggs. These are the eggs I believe. Oh, let's get a bit of the oil. A bit of the spicy oil from the bottom. Nice. This is serious stuff. This is serious stuff. You know what makes a difference? All the spices, the oil, the chilli, the love that Ibu Karmini puts into the dishes. Absolutely incredible. This is mind-blowing, full of flavour, packed with flavour. And I just love the spices that go into it. That's the secret right here. Let's mix it with the tuna. Oh, the tuna is fantastic! I think is the highlight. That's what people love the most. It must Oh, this Luna. I want to bring it back home to Italy. I almost forgot the fried crab that Ibu Karmini just brought to us. Oh, nice! Buon appetito again! Oh, wow! There is a lot of meat in it. Basically I believe she boils it first and then deep mega fry. This is an incredible, illegal way of starting the day without a doubt here in Surabaya. This is the best breakfast that you can get. Early morning at Ibu Karmini, full of delicious seafood, super spicy. &quot;Forget about it&quot; this is the best of the best. One of my favourite breakfasts ever here in Indonesia. Thank you so much. I wish you success and a long life. Amen What an incredible feast, breakfast. Yeah. Now, our street food tour continues. For our next meal, we're going to have a very unique dish, super traditional from Surabaya. Let's go get it. Rujak. So, we can do this Oh, yeah. This very legendary place to have Rujak Cingur. I'm going to tell you about it very soon. Hello, everyone! Beautiful! These are all the ingredients that go into the Rujak. These are chopped cow noses. Yeah, this is the this is the nose. Amazing! Those are cow's noses? Yes. Oh my god, this is so unique! Oh, this is before chopping it. Okay, so they boil it and then they fry it. Here we have tofu, tempeh, this is Cingur, the cow nose. These are all the ingredients that go into the Rujak. Boom, she starts mixing and making the spices. That's palm sugar. Salt Nice Fried garlic, sugar. Oh, peanuts. That's a lot. Oh my God. Look at the colour Is that Petis? Oh, this is a fermented shrimp paste. We make our own Petis. They make their own. What's this? This is Petis from Madura. Petis Madura. That's fermented shrimp paste from Madura, the island in front of Surabaya. There is a huge community here. And they've also brought their culture, their cuisine. They're very famous for it. Nice If I try to do the same, I will lose one wrist. Look how thick! It's almost like peanut butter. She added a bit of water. And now, it's time for their signature Petis, fermented shrimp paste, the black one. Mamma mia, what a colour. It reminds me of Vegemite, Australian Vegemite. Is this Petis as well? This is from Sidoarjo. Oh, from Sidoarjo. And then they add another Petis, other fermented shrimp paste, but from Sidoarjo which is a small town not far from Surabaya. There's a lot of work behind this dish. Look at the sauce. Look how thick it is. How many chillies would you like? Five or ten? Five, please. Oh, five chillies, you can customise the level of spiciness. Indonesia made me fall in love with the chilli, Sambal and the level of spiciness. Everything to me needs to be spicy. This is for us. Look at the chilli. My goodness, look at the sauce. Wow! Thank you! Look! Look at the thick sauce, the chilli. Oh my goodness, let's go for it. Thank you so much. Beautiful! Let's go to eat. How many years you've been here for? Me? I mean the shop. Since 1938 Wow, so almost a hundred years. 90 years Amazing! Generation? I'm the fifth generation. The fifth generation? Yes, the fifth generation. Wow, congratulations! Thank you What a legendary spot! And now, stop talking and more eating. Let's go. Well, guys, I have to be honest with you, I've never been so excited to try a salad. This is very unique. Look! I've been told by literally everyone to come to Surabaya and try the famous Rujak Cingur. Rujak is actually a salad, a mix of vegetables, we have compressed rice, noodles, tofu, tempeh, and the particular thing is they use cow nose. Oh, you know what we are talking about? Cow nose. They boil it first, then they fry it and they cut it. But the hard work is actually in making the sauce. That's what actually makes this unique salad so delicious and special. So, they mix so many different ingredients. They add palm sugar, they add their secret mix of spices. Then they make their Petis, their fermented shrimp paste here in the house. They mix everything together. They make this creation. And that is why I think they've been running for, as a gentleman just told us, they are in the fifth generation, since 1938. This is crazy. But now, it's time to eat. Look at the colour. Okay, I think I got some of the veggies, see, this is a piece of the nose. Let's see if it's extra spicy. Oh, buon appetito. Nice. Okay. Very unique I love the consistency. You've got crunchiness from the veggies. You got this very unique aftertaste from the shrimp because you can really taste the shrimp paste, you can't really taste the fermentation. It's not too strong. It's a tiny bit spicy. And then you got that sponginess, almost kind of creaminess that soaks up perfectly the sauce, from the tofu. This is a very unique salad. And the nose, the nose is actually just a piece of meat. It's just crazy to me that they use cow nose. Unbelievable! This is really unique. It's got a touch of saltiness, creaminess, nuttiness, all in one. And with all the different consistencies, this has to be one of the most unique and incredible salads I've ever had. I love the texture of the nose. It's kind of crunchy, jelly-like. Some parts are a bit more meaty. What I want to say is that you absolutely need to give it a try, at least once. Don't judge it immediately after the first bite, because it can be spicy, it can be intense. So, take your time, enjoy it because you'll love it. This is absolutely incredible. And what they mastered is the art of making the spices, of the sauce on top. I don't know what they do, but it's incredible. This is their identity. That's why they're going to last forever. This is amazing. This is their legacy. It's so good! Amazing. Oh, my God. Spicy Oh, so delicious. Really, really delicious. Oh, my God. Where are you from by the way? I'm from Italy. I'm from Italy. I'm from Italy. I heard a lot about this place. You're famous. Yes, we're almost 100 years old. Oh, almost 100 years? It's like the very first Rujak in Surabaya. Fist Rujak ever Yeah. And for me as well, it was my first time trying Rujak, even for my wife. We loved it. Spicy and the sauce was special. Really, really special. Thank you so much. Thank you Guys, our next location is an institution here in Surabaya We're going to have Satay But it's a very special one. Well, let's go and find out together why they're so special. Hello, ma'am. This is where they grill Satay. We ordered some satay with beef and fat. And the characteristic is that they put Of course, he needs to sing right now. They serve satay with grilled shaved coconut on top, which is super unique. And of course, their signature peanut sauce, See, everything is cooked over charcoal. How many skewers are in one portion? 10 pieces Yes, to have here. Make it spicy, please. Thank you All right. It's time for lunch. Well, this is the first lunch. Look at these incredible Satay. Look at the peanut sauce and how thick it is. And it has a lighter colour and brighter colour. Oh my goodness, look at the chilli. Then we have some shallots, coconut, and over here we got compressed rice, Lontong and grilled shaved coconut. This is the unique characteristic of this satay. And now, yes, it's time to eat. Oh, mamma mia! Oh, these Satay look incredible, really. So, this is beef, fat, and grilled coconut on top, so unique to Surabaya. This is one of the must-try dishes here in the city. Let's dunk it very well in the peanut sauce. I believe I need to also dip it into the coconut right here. Okay Buon appetito! You know what? A bit of the chilli as well. A piece of chilli too. And buon appetito Mamma mia! Oh! Oh, wow! The coconut and the peanut sauce together combined Absolutely the ultimate combination. The meat is mega tender and then I love the fat, it completely dissolves in your mouth. It's like butter. Grilled and cooked perfectly, very well. The peanut sauce is so elegant and delicate and the chilli is not spicy. Let's try it with the Lontong, compressed rice. So good! So, together, the peanut sauce and the coconut are the perfect match. very well-balanced. You got that nice, sweet, and nutty touch from the peanut sauce. You have a nice coconutty flavour. Mamma Mia. What a dish. This is without a doubt one of the must-try here in Surabaya. Are you Ibu Asih? Yes, I am. Oh, she's the owner. I'm Max. I'm from Italy. From Italy, oh. Thank you so much. How long has this place been open? 65 years. It's been a while. It's been so long. It's legendary. Thank you Wishing you all the best and a long life. So sweet! Thank you, everyone. Oh, so sweet! Legendary spot. Come and pay a visit because I had some of the best satay I've ever had in a very long time. And now, let's continue our street food tour of Surabaya. Now, it's time for a very special moment. There is a soup really famous in Surabaya, probably the symbol of Surabaya, when is about culinary, when is about food and this soup has a very distinct colour and a distinct flavour and has been awarded, voted as the best soup in the world. And now, I'm here to find out in front of Rawon Setan, one of the best shops here in Surabaya to try Rawon that's the name of the soup to find out if the soup is really the best one in the world. Oh, we got invited inside the kitchen. Is this Rawon? Yes, Rawon. This is the famous Rawon. So this is the meat. They boil it and cook it with a bunch of spices. You can see Galangal, bay leaves. I believe there is ginger, chilli. Oh my God, look. Wow! Mamma mia, look at the meat and the spices. Is that the broth? Yes, only the broth. And that one is only for the meat. Yes, this is only the broth. This is the broth only, they separate it. And look at the colour. It's black because they cook it with Keluak nut that gives it that black colour, intense colour. Oh my goodness! And this has been awarded as I was saying before, as the best soup in the world probably at one of the best shops that makes Rawon here in Surabaya and I'm so excited. Thank you so much. Thank you. Oh, I can't wait to try it out. Let's go before the board. Oh, they serve I believe a plate on the side with a bunch of different things. There is Tempe, tofu, meat potato fritters, lungs. There's tongue. Oh, tongue as well. From beef? Yes, beef. This is a preserved salted egg. Oh, wonderful! Thank you You're welcome. Oh, nice. Oh, I'm loving the aircon. I'm loving the aircon, Surabaya is pretty hot. I feel alive again. Okay, waiting for the soup. We got our rice with Sambal and black-eyed peas. And here, this plate with everything. Tempeh, perkedel, potato fritter, preserved salted egg. Thank you Then we have tongue, this is spleen, oh my goodness, spleen, lung, and Empal, just meat. Mamma mia, look at this soup. This is why we came to Surabaya. For Rawon, the number one soup in the world. It has been awarded. I'm dying to try the broth. Oh, yes! Look at the colour. All right, let's give it a try. My very first time trying Rawon. Very, very unique. Almost like nutty, chocolatey, like a coffee-like. I can taste a bit of the ginger, the galangal. Yes, bay leaves. And it tastes like beef. If this is the broth, I can only imagine the meat. This is fantastic, man. This is fantastic. Where have I been until now? Let's grab a bit of that meat. Let's mix it up. Oh, yes, let's get some black-eyed peas and Sambal. This meat looks incredible. Buon appetito. This is crazy. This is great! It's a rollercoaster of flavours and sensations in your mouth. So, you go from chocolatey and kind of coffee-like flavour from the broth, super tender meat. This is incredible. This is unique, hard to describe. You need to try it. Mamma mia! The meat falls apart completely in your mouth. What an incredible flavour. This is a whole other universe. Now, I need to try some of this stuff. Definitely the salted egg. Tempeh and Empal (meat) Oh, a nice chunk of meat. Let's get a bit of the broth. Yes, a bit of the meat, salted egg. The meat is incredible. Chewy, firm. The salted is quite gentle and soft. Now, I need to try this. This is the tongue. Just a piece. Let's dip it into the broth. And let's go! Actually, when you soak it up in the broth, it makes it a lot more juicier and tender. This soup has just so much character. All the spices, that Keluak nut. I can tell why people love it and I can tell why it has been awarded as the world's best soup. This is just an incredible dish, unique, and hard to describe. It's one of those dishes that once in a lifetime you have to try. This is definitely the star of the day so far and I'm so glad that we managed to try it. Mamma mia! Rawon in Surabaya Perfetto! (perfect) For dinner, we came to a legendary spot to have another iconic dish of Surabaya, Nasi Babat. Let's see what is about. I want to show you what they're cooking. Are these organs? This is tripe. Oh, tripe. Is this beef tripe? Yes, beef tripe. Is this for the Nasi Babat? This is the side dish for the rice. The rice is mixed with corn. Corn and rice. So, rice cooked together with corn. So, I believe they clean the organs, they boil them first, and then they fry them. Look at this. And this place just opened and it's already packed. People love Nasi Babat I believe. There is such a huge street food culture here in Surabaya from early morning till late night. It never sleeps. That's why is one of the street food capitals of Indonesia. What is that? These are beef lungs. Oh, lungs. That's what she sells as well together with the tripe. Nice. Oh, look at the rice with corn. (Nasi Jagung) And that's what we're going to have the food with. With rice mixed with corn. Can I order? Yes. I'd like corn rice with tripe, Look at the rice mixed with corn. We got the tripe. Sambal, lungs. Do you want some knuckles? Yes, I'd like some knuckles. Is this eel? I'd like some, please. Oh, eel as well. Thank you All right, we've got our lovely place right here. Now, I need to find a place to eat. Look at this glorious plate. So, first of all, I mean, I've never seen anything like this. Like this rice mixed with the corn. Super cool. I love the colour. Then, of course, what we came here for is the tripe. So, they're cleaned, boiled, marinated in yellow spices, and then fried. We have the Paru, the lung, we have the Kikil, the cow skin, which I believe has the same cooking process, as well as the eel. Mamma mia, eel. Then we have super spicy Sambal right here and this is a prawn cracker. I need to get a bit of the Sambal with rice and tripe. Buon appetito Spicy! The rice is al dente. Number one thing that you'll notice. The chilli is spicy. I love it. The tripe has absolutely no odour whatsoever. So, it's like you're chewing into something that has a chewy texture almost like a squid. But without odour. It has a bit of a turmeric flavour to it, I believe given by the marination, by the turmeric. Moving on I was dying to try this eel. Oh, that looks super crunchy. Oh, man. I love the texture because you can taste a bit of the bones as well as well as the meat. Of course, it doesn't have any fishy odour because it has been marinated, boiled and deep-fried in the same oil as the tripe and all the other organs. So, it's technically everything mixed up together. Moving on. I really want to try the skin. Oh, the chilli is spicy. Oh, yes, another bit of chilli. Yeah. Oh! Oh, the texture. That's the most satisfying thing. Its texture is hard jelly-like and still, how lovely are the rice and the chilli. So spicy. If you love organs, this dish is definitely for you. It's so good! Oh..really? Thank you It's wonderful I wish you success So nice. Just so nice. Look, they're smiling. They're just so friendly. We've been told they cook everything at home. And then as soon as it's ready, they bring it here and they fry it, so everything is super fresh, they make it at home. So nice! Incredible experience. All right, guys, that's it for our first Surabaya street food tour video. It was incredible. We went out from early in the morning until night. We had incredible food. People are so friendly and hospitable. This is one of the Indonesian street food capitals. So happy to be here. Stay tuned because we have another video from Surabaya. Thank you so much for watching. See you next week and CIAO :)