- [Narrator] Middle Ground that brings humans with These discussions may contain viewpoints that are the result of misinformation. Remember to seek out experts, and to be critical of your own biases while forming an opinion. Please see the humanity and as always, we encourage empathy. - You're equating some in your privileged life to- - Why would you assume my life is privileged? - But why would you see my I mean, I don't say that about you. Why would you see my life as privileged? - I'm privileged. - Okay, that's fine, but why would you see - For one, you're a man. (upbeat instrumental music) - [Narrator] Step forward if The government has no right to tell people what to do with their body. (footsteps approaching) - Vaccines. - Yes. Yeah, I don't think the to tell you what you- - I'm gonna step out, sorry. - Okay. I stood here because of vaccines, but I know a lot of you guys &quot;Oh, what about abortion?&quot; Now thing is, when it comes to abortion, two bodies are involved. It's the woman, and it's the fetus. The fetus, has a heartbeat, it has DNA. It should have rights. - When? - Life begins at conception. - That's not when the - Heart beat starts at four weeks. It's not just a clump At 21 weeks, it can live Abortion ends with murder and death. - Over 90% of abortions happen - That still, I think - But they still have the The mortality rate of a fetus It's gonna die when it's aborted. - And you're very lucky you'll what it's like to have - But what if I become a father, and the woman who I got pregnant it's gonna affect me. - You would have a discussion and decide what you are gonna do and be glad that you have a choice, - Of course. with that partner. - Unfortunately, human nature. If you take away the option then they'll find it another way. - And it will be unsafe. - And would you support the mom? Would you support the - If the mom had an abortion or the mom- - No, no, no, if she gave birth. - Oh, of course. I would support her, I'd say, &quot;What you do is a good thing and-&quot; - No, no, no, support her financially for the rest of her life, or for the rest of the baby's life. - Are you talking about like, what do you mean me support - If somebody has a baby. - We do have child support, and it comes from taxpayer money. - There's foster care, there's adoption, there's mothers waiting. - Those systems are very broken, and people all the time for programs like that. - Now, I want to ask you guys, do you support vaccine mandates? - Yes. - You stepped forward shouldn't tell you what Why would you support- - My issue is, is that I should not be able to tell but I have to accept the consequences, for the choices that I make with my body. The vaccines for instance, I absolutely felt that Why? Because this was a pandemic. But if you don't want to, I don't think the government that you have to, but you then have to of your choices. Which means you cannot You can't put other people at risk. - I know you're saying they're The coronavirus has a and we're mandating these vaccines. Why are we not mandating the flu? - What's frightening to me is that, you're equating some minor inconveniences in your privileged life to- - Why would you assume my life is privileged? - But why would you say my You don't know my life. I don't say that about you, why would you say my life is privileged? - I'm privileged. - Okay, that's fine, but why would you assume - For one, you're a man. - You know, most people Most people who work in Most people who fight in war are men. - And who set that system up? - Men. - [Narrator] I'm gonna ask the - Well, I think I give a 'cause I actually do agree I think COVID was just a huge disaster, and I think it could if things were more organized. - Definitely as far as should intervene on people's bodies, I think there are a lot of instances where the government should. One to protect the society in general, especially in cases, such as a pandemic, where the disease could In other instances as I think the government should intervene. Because when you have a to opioids or crack, it and I've seen it firsthand, and it's very difficult to control without the help of government. Now on the topic of abortion, that one's very complex, and in general I always want to favor a woman's right to choose. But I think there's also a that both of you brought up, is at what point is a Let's say a child is and at that point, the baby has a heart, the baby has a brain, has legs, has arms, do you think it's okay - Nobody is doing that. And nobody is having unless it is a medical emergency and the mother. - My name is Ben. I'm a business consultant and I'm a liberal dad. When it comes to the abortion issue, I am not exactly sure where I stand. I am not pro-choice or pro-life. - My name is Dawn. I'm a regional sales manager as well as a therapist, As far as my views on abortion, to be honest, it just makes me very sad. I can't believe that we by taking people's rights away to choose what's happening to their body. - [Narrator] Not being an LGBTQ+ ally makes someone a bad person. - It's strong, it's a little strong. - It's a general way to put it. I would question someone's empathy. - That's it. of the other people around them, because I guarantee, you know someone- - Absolutely and their environment. - Right. Discussing the validity of the existence of other human beings, isn't a - It's there. with you if you are like, &quot;No Obviously they do. I would like to think - Yes. but that would be naive. - People are getting - Yes. - And gay. It's scary. I have three kids. I have three boys. - One of them is trans. I worry that. I mean, for however progressive that I have to think about, Which I mean, every parent That's part of the gig of being a parent. - And I've got an extra, (Cindy laughs) My child is in a wonderfully - Okay. a lot of support. - Okay, okay, that helps. - But as they get older, and my sphere of influence as they get older, you know? Hi, I'm Cindy. I am a stay-at-home mom, One of my children came Mine and my husband's Would you like to go by these pronouns, and would you like to pick out a name? Let's make sure that we so we know what options there are, and we'll just take We'll move forward with the - [Narrator] Can the - I can provide a unique 'cause I'm actually bisexual. So I think not being an ally, as long as you're not harming people, you're not harassing people, you're not posting on social then I don't think you're - As a Christian, I don't with God's view of the family. Doesn't mean that I will disrespect them in any way, I just think that it's a sin. - As far as your faith is concerned, what would happen if your that they were gay, bisexual, trans. - I think that if the sin it's not a problem, it can be dealt with. Especially with transitioning, it usually comes from mental anxiety, and all those things. - So you think they can be - No. - Do you support conversion therapy? - No, I don't think that into doing anything. I would not ostracize my child, but I would not support it. Just like I don't support any sin. - So I think that if you you could be transgender. We live in a, again, I said a free nation. But if you're asking for my opinion, I believe that men and women We have different chromosomes, If you are a transgender woman, You could express yourself But I don't believe that say that, &quot;Okay, you are a woman.&quot; Let's say for instance, there's a 18 year old biological man, but says that there are a woman now, they still have male genitalia. They could walk into and show off their male genitalia, I don't think that's okay. - That's not happening. - Is it really happening? - That is literally transphobia. (group chattering) - Not even a trans person, it like pretending to be- - Yes, yes creepy guys. I'm much more danger in a women's restroom from a Cis gender straight creepy guy, than I am trans person. that's what I'm trying to say. - So do you support gender neutral bathrooms, like women and men can go Do you think that could increase the chances of rape or assault? - They already exist? It's interesting that men are in the bathroom, when we're having a - But gender neutral bathrooms just stem from this idea though. - No, this idea that on the rise because of stems from transphobia. - I'm Eden, I'm 16 years old, and I'm on the conservative teen side. I think that transitioning and I think that we are born and we should stay that way. God has created us in his image and I don't think we should - [Narrator] Owning a gun - I absolutely hate hearing on the news, and just shootings This isn't like, Spider-Man's people have the right - A lot of mass shooters because they know there's who's going to fight against There's a lot of mass and that's because schools I view owning a gun as a You look at countries that the USSR, Nazi Germany. You look at China under Mao Zedong, they strip their citizens of arms so they could oppress them. And I think the reason enshrined the second amendment, is because they wanted against tyrannical government, and to protect ourselves - I think that, from if, as a woman, you get for example, with a man, having a gun and knowing how to use a gun, is the only way that will protect me. Having my tiny little pepper I think definitely if you take away guns, the bad guys will always get - I live in Los Angeles, and This is my perspective of it. I think LA has become and I feel very unsafe just not armed. Crime is on the rise in America, and I think one of the ways to stop crime is by owning a gun. - I definitely think that in place to who buys guns. You couldn't just be able to there should be regulations and who shoots a gun. - I actually debated whether because I do believe people I do. My issue is what kind I believe people should get to go hunt, but do you need a I'll tell you personally, personally myself. But I just think there need with it. - But the majority of are women in a domestic So mass shootings definitely, don't want automatic rifles, But the most dangerous gun, - I do wanna ask you a question. Do you think that women should to protect themselves? I'm not against the right to own guns. The prompt was, do you think And I don't agree with that. - In my perspective, I grew up in a gun riddled neighborhood. I myself am a gun owner now, because of the fact that I had to create some type of means of self-defense. So why did you disagree? I disagree because I I think it's not a human right, as much as almost a necessity And not everyone, there's a lot of neighborhoods but even in a safe you can be killed. I've been stuck up several and all I could think it's gonna be because to help protect me.&quot; - Do you think that we from the entire world? - Yes, if there was like a and he just suck up all the guns, I think that would be such a better place. - [Narrator] My political opinions, have hurt my relationships - During 2020, when politically intense, and my teacher, she was very politically active, and she wanted us to speak our voices, and they found out I was conservative and they said, &quot;Okay, you're what we believe.&quot; Like the whole school's very liberal, and I guess they just - Did you feel like you - No. I'll just get looks. Some people come up and or you're xenophobic.&quot; They would tell me, &quot;Oh, But I just brushed it off. I told them, &quot;Hey, I respect please respect me.&quot; - I think that that is, whether or not we have the same ideas, I think that that is still - Yeah. or feeling like maybe you don't belong, that you're still... You have your convictions. - So I can respect that you're convicted. - Yeah. - I think being liberal, we think of the right as It's interesting to hear that liberals were not having his right opinion. I think that everyone - Well, I think we're talking about issues that aren't a matter of opinion, but a matter of your morality, the value of human lives. I've had to personally block family members. - Mostly men that are married to the women in my family. Like, &quot;Hey, this conversation and hurtful, and if you carry on this way, I'm gonna have to block you.&quot; - Were they harassing you? - I feel very harassed - Were you ostracized? Or - I think on my end, it was myself. I understand people have different beliefs and I respect that, and I think it's good for That's the way we progress. But I think when people become ignorant, or offensive consistently, or any type of backup behind that, that's the point where I say, &quot;You know what? I probably because you may smile in my face, but behind my back, you - I haven't lost any and my friends don't We kind of just play video games, and talk about comics together. I think if you lose a that's kind of sad. - Unfortunately, it's - Yeah. For sure. - Hopefully you won't lose any friends, but usually as you get older, start to see those - I mean, you guys are older than us, was it like this, going - Politics has changed so much, and I think you touched on it, that now it's being associated, policy is being associated with ethics. I haven't lost any friendships or relationships because I I believe that the majority are in the middle with varying degrees. And there are those people who very, very ultraliberal, - Right, I think it's subtle. Where you have somebody that you meet with on a regular basis. You talk with them, you have a good time. If topics get brought up, and it's a, &quot;Oh, okay. They don't tell you that to your face, but it's kind of subtle. - And also I think with the people's opinions are - I never understood why anyone on social media? I think it's just annoying. - Well I have three kids. They know more about politics than I did when I was voting age. - It's annoying, yeah. - I think it's very encouraging, because they're gonna be more informed when they are a voting age. - I mean, yeah, it just There's more arguments and stuff. And more, and more relationships ending because politics is - Hi, my name is Scott. I am a liberal parent. I have many children, I have four. My oldest daughter is extremely left wing. My two middle daughters are roughly right in the middle there, and - My name is Chase. I'm 19 years old, and I'm on My dad, Scott, we talk about politics, mostly gun rights, and the We disagree, but we like - [Narrator] The feminist - Oh yes. - The reason I sat down, as we know it in social media, and the marches, is And we don't have a lot Margaret Sanger. - Yeah, and- - Susan B. Anthony. total racist. The women that headed up they were not inclusive. - And they wanted rights for white women. - That's true. has followed us, to be very disabled women, women of - I don't think that feminism in America is based off racism. The reason why there's is because there's a higher So generally there's gonna because of that. - I think that definitely in feminists wanted votes for women. That women would be allowed to work, would be allowed to go to I definitely agree with that, but I think that feminism has gone too far into saying, &quot;My body, my choice.&quot; And saying that women Saying that women are being and such things. - No. We got a long way to go, - In America, or just - Well, America for sure. The world in general is than America. - I think that women should be able to do everything that men can, but we also have to protect ourselves. So if you wanna be a stay-at-home mom, and do one of the hardest you absolutely should be able to do that. But you should also and put in things into place, if you choose to do that. Some women aren't doing that, like life insurance and things like that. I think part of feminism is being able to take care of yourself. - [Narrator] Capitalism - This system that just values production, consumerism, until you die, doesn't work for anybody, but a very, very small and it's all baloney to keep workers working, and the rich just keep getting richer. - Yeah, I think there could which is like the innovation part of it. But in general, capitalism There's a lot of industries that definitely shouldn't involved at all. The medical field. It's unjust that certain than other people, just because they're more Who are they to determine The healthcare system creates such profit, and that profit is created of the illness of others, including the prison system, where you have jails Because at that point, what you have is a hotel, and Why would there be a business, that doesn't make any sense, if you put profit ahead of people, people are going to suffer, obviously. - So you said, only the and I gotta disagree with that, because I'm the CEO of my own company. A couple months ago, I and I'm not a billionaire, but it's been relatively I can like make rent, and go I think there's people like who capitalism really benefits. - If capitalism isn't the solution, then what is the solution? - Do you wanna hear it? - Socialism? - Problem with democratic socialism, I mean, you talk about how capitalism hurts the middle class, but in reality if democratic the middle class are gonna not just the rich. You see the rich don't pay They make money off assets. The middle class, they work. And because they're working, they're gonna be paying more taxes, under a proposal like Bernie Sanders, or I don't know, AOC or Ilhan Omar. - I personally am okay I would love people who to pay their fair share of taxes. But increased taxes, for a better situation for people overall. That is exactly what I stand for. - I'm not sure that Yugoslavia before World War II did okay, but they didn't do all that great, and they were taken over quite quickly. What I'm thinking is capitalism, although is not the best solution, is one of the best solutions - Think about socialism, you think about wealth distribution. And then money becomes because the ones that have less money become envious of those And then money, it becomes a God, because you don't want anyone but yourself. And if you, for example, look they have a capitalistic market, but they have a socialist And that's why it works over there. And I personally come from - So you think that works? - I personally don't think that works. I think it takes a lot and from the middle class. - My name is Nathan, I'm 18 years old. I would like to ask the other side, if they believe America in the world. If they disagree with that, I want to know what country they believe is better than America. I do believe it's a blessing to live in a country that and freedom, and to - [Narrator] The American dream is dead. - I gotta say I disagree with and American dream for who? The native Americans we slaughtered, the enslaved people. This romantic idea that is just basically It's very well funded propaganda, and has it inspired, good acts, and good people to do good things? Of course, of course. Because ultimately, in a large sense, humanity is good. But this idea of the American dream, I think the fantasy of it is And I think that's actually exciting, because it opens up room something more inclusive to grow. - I think the phrase is kind of corny, but the idea that someone's in capitalism, I feel like that I kind with my business. So I don't think it's dead. - I do think the American The American dream now, is not the same as it was 30 years ago. Have a family, buy a but now it's very difficult to buy a home. Income has not increased I do think it's dying though, but I don't think it's completely dead. Because there's a lot of immigrants who are still trying to come to America. America does have the 14% of our population are immigrants. We have a lot of people and I think they all - Yeah, I think the and I can speak firsthand, because my family came But so does the American nightmare. The people suffering, not just here, but also around the due to exploitation, due to colonization, due to a lot of issues that are So there's a lot of blood And a lot of people don't But the situations that are forcing people to leave. Like my mother would've but unfortunately, due to poverty, which had a lot to do with directly caused by the United States. - Issues that created this migration. So is it a better opportunity here? Yes. My people come here, and to our ancestors. Would we just like to Yeah, that would be a much better option. - As an immigrant myself, I definitely think that the We long for the opportunities in America, for the job the innovations that are available, in this free market economy, - So the American dream is If you're an immigrant, or if It's gonna be different. - I don't like the idea but I am a person who's still If you work hard and you take you can make a difference in your life. I mean, you're an example I think it's awesome, what I am very, very impressed with you three. My hope for you is that and that you're always and not just listeners. - Yeah. - [Narrator] All right, great. (all clapping) - Thank you for coming today. - Appreciate it. - Be a good lawyer someday Nathan. - Thank you. (Nathan laughs)