- Hey everyone. I'm Teela with Deep English. I'm so excited for another Today, we'll be learning in English with the help of body language and tone of voice. So often we think that the words we say are the only important but that's just not true. Our body language and our tone of voice are also so important. So, we'll learn a little But before we go any further, I want to remind you to to make sure that you get right when they come out. Take a second to subscribe. Okay. So, let's talk more about why body language and tone So, think about the last time Even if you were to turn and not hear any of what you would still probably figure out what kind of relationship the main characters had with each other, and that's because of their body language, the way that human beings So, so much of what we say is non-verbal. And that's why when we're it's so important that we don't forget about the other ways that human beings communicate with each other, through body language and tone So, today, I have three about body language and tone of voice and how they're important So, the first thing I'd like When I was learning Spanish, I was living in South America. One day, I woke up and one side of my face was completely paralyzed, so I couldn't move one side of my face. This is a condition called Bell's palsy, and it was really scary. But what I found was that with other people in Spanish, it was so difficult because even though my my facial expressions what I was saying. So, it was difficult for You can imagine if I it's really nice to be here. You would think, &quot;Oh, But if I were to say hey everyone, it's really nice to be here, you might be confused. You might think to yourself, &quot;Oh well, her words are saying one thing, &quot;but her tone of voice and body language &quot;and facial expressions And so, it's really important that as we speak this other language of what we're doing with our So, the second thing I'd like to share. This is just about the So, most communication experts agree that our words make up only 10% or less of the message that the listener receives. So, that means that when that person is understanding you based only at 10% on But mostly, what they're understanding is what you are sharing and your tone of voice. So, even science says that body language and tone of voice is so So, let's move onto the third point. So, how can we master tone when we are speaking English? Well, the first thing that we can do is just simply become aware of how important our body language is. For so many people who are it's so difficult not to feel stressed out while you're speaking, because you wanna speak perfectly. You want to be able to that the other person really understands. So, you get stressed out, but then what happens You shut down, you maybe looked frightened, or you at least seemed very stress. So, the person you're communicating with might be hearing the words you're saying, but they're also understanding what you're saying with your body. And so, if you're speaking perfectly but your body is looking that's the message you're and it will be harder for people to understand what you're saying. So, it's really important Realize that fluency does and that the more relaxed you are, the more your body will come online and support you in sharing your message with the person that you're talking to. So, just relax. The second really cool is you can mirror the person So, if you're talking to and they're gesturing really wildly, and they seemed really excited, you can tune into that, and you can use those gestures yourself. So, you can, &quot;Okay, this &quot;I'm excited, too,&quot; but maybe you're feeling also a little bit stressed You can tune into the you can use this to kind as them as you communicate. So, you can simply If they're gesturing big, this is something that you can also do. But we don't wanna be ridiculous about it. If the other person is doing this and you do it at the same time, it will seem as if you're just mimicking them or copying them, and that could get a little creepy. So, we wanna make sure that we're noticing how the other person is and we're doing something similar but not exactly the same. Okay, and then the third You can ask yourself, how would I express the same sentence or the same message if I were Just kind of imagine how the way that you might be and practicing bringing that all together. Because at first, it can You're using new words and and now all of a sudden you and your tone of voice, Okay, think about like, &quot;How am I usually when I greet &quot;How is my face? &quot;How is my tone of voice?&quot; And then you can imagine yourself also doing that in English. And so, in this way, you can and you can communicate but also with your body Of course, different as far as how we greet each other or even how close we stand to each other. And so, that's something else entirely. Maybe one day I'll make the cultural norms in the US for example, or even in different parts of the US. That would be really interesting. But for now, I think it's enough just to become aware of the fact and your tone of voice in communicating your message when you're talking in English to someone. Okay, thank you guys so much for tuning in to today's lesson. As always, I had a ton of and I am really looking forward to our next lesson together. If you'd like some free English lessons or a free English course, feel free to click below and enter your email address. Thank you guys so much for joining me. Can't wait for our next lesson together