When we study the governments of Ancient Greece workings of the Greek city-state, the poleis, powers of the time, Athens and Sparta. But another kind of political entity was crucial northern Greece: the koina, or federations. In this video, we will look at how the Greek different aspects they developed. Shoutout to World of Tanks Blitz for sponsoring This is a cross-platform, free-to-play, team-based which allows the players to control over 370 Although World of Tanks Blitz uses deep mechanics it is a fun approach to the tank combat You but the game also offers the vehicles from Dynamic 7x7 battles with different modes in and the outcome depends on you and your team. You can research vehicles, change guns, set to match your playstyle! Meet Independence Day with World of Tanks the holiday! New event! Big sale for American vehicles!! Discounts up to 70 percent and a new Idle Find out more by downloading the World of Support us, Click the link below to download III tier tank Locust and camouflage for Independence Around the eighth century BC, at the start Greece experienced a rise in its population, and towns, and kickstarted the expeditions Sea, such as Illyria, Southern Italy and Cyrenaica. The cities emerged in a landscape dominated tribes. Modern historians estimate that around one and Classical periods, and with so many autonomous of procedures for maintaining relations emerged, friendship agreements, and other treaties From these embryonic arrangements between cooperation emerged in the framework of the gathering envoys from the regional centers. Agreements laid the groundworks for the leagues centuries. Before we discuss how the leagues were governed league was unique in its history, formation, to all of them, but we will attempt to give The regional or ethnic-leagues, which were or sympoliteia, "common constitution", the different regions of Greece, the most the Achaian and the Aetolian. When a polis entered a league, they would laws they were previously governed with. An important background which characterized of the same tribe, or as the Greeks called The tribes and cities found common ground religious sanctuaries, myths, aristocratic Many of the leagues had a common founding could trace their origins to, and the sanctuaries encouraged collaboration between local cities of their treasure. They also at times gave their citizens dual for the league. When they formed varied greatly between regions. Some, such as the Thessalian League and the fifth century; others emerged following the and Sparta after the Peloponnesian War. The reason for their creation was different, power, such as the Acarnanian league, which Philip of Macedon, or to secure their interests such as the Achaian League, or simply the To get a grasp on how widespread they were, were members of a koinon, but not every city that could include concerns about losing power The government of the koina mirrored the compositions The most important of the institutions was In most of the leagues, the common assembly for the Beotian League or Olynthus for the These cities effectively acquired the unofficial if the voting was direct as the inhabitants assembly. To resolve this problem, some leagues held The Arkadian League founded a new city, Megalopolis, from the various poleis to dominate the league. During the second century, some leagues adopted cities would send a number of delegates based The idea of representation was also crucial during war or peace. The executive branch of the koinon was a federal which ran the daily affairs of the league. Its members, the archons and strategoi, were and it was here the negotiations between the the koinon should take, although it is not or if they got one vote each. Some leagues, instead, opted to elect the disregarding their place of origin. The koina also had federal law courts called staffed by delegates sent by the members. To help organize the league's resources territories into subdivisions, with the most division and district. The telos was an autonomous subdivision with another small centre later integrated into The meros instead was much more common and were used to calculate taxation and economic They were also used for recruitment for the the size of which was based on the population The poleis usually restricted the right to and taxes were levied on both imports and With the rise of the koina, we find an attempt by expanding the rights of citizens of the and by easing commerce between the members, There were a few attempts at introducing a was the introduction of common weights, measures, We find numerous examples of common coinage: producing coins with the cities name on, but while in the more centralized leagues such from the same mint. This gave the leagues the advantage of choosing commerce within its border, easing tax collection Some of them also had the right to limit exports and iron. One of the most important forms of revenue at harbours and ports, which were collected were the most lucrative, and would have disproportionately ones. A proportional tax based on the population poleis loyal to the federation. We do not have hard evidence on how the funds we know that in some instances they were used With the colonization of different parts of exported the idea of the koinon to other regions, Magna Grecia. Here the Italiote League was formed, which the area. It was not uncommon for a league to have one When it could exercise its power through military, we have the hegemony of that city over the The word comes from "hegemonia", meaning history such as Sparta, Athens, and Thebes. When the league was strong enough, this could world. Another type of federation which had a stronger These were associations of poleis and tribes originated festivals and common cults, and concerns, although it did not oblige its members The most important amphiktyony was the Pylaia-Delphic, at Anthela and of Apollo at Delphi. The responsibility of the members was the of its administration, caretaking of the structures, the Pythian games held every four years. The famous oracle in Delphi had itself an from the city of Krissa during the First Sacred latter. When it managed to keep its autonomy, the and gave advice on colonization matters, but over it, and the struggle for influence would Another Amphiktyonies was the original Delian island of Delos. The sanctuary had great importance for the Sea. Following the First Persian War, Athens established religious network as a frame for it, with The importance of the league was based on the contribution of a member, which each had It would however not take long before Athens other members of the League, moving the treasury the league's resources to wage war against to join them even if they did not wish to of Melos recounted by Thucydides demonstrates. The league would be disbanded after Athens' continued to keep its importance as a sanctuary. Speaking of Athens, using its power, this to what we would call a nation-state. In 508 BC legislator Cleisthenes gave all citizenship, and this region was incorporated and territorial organization. The myth tells us that it was the hero-founder which can be translated from Greek as "dwelling Attica, but the historical records attribute as Greg Anderson calls it, to Cleisthenes. Another type of relationship we find was the The most famous of these was the Peloponnesian In its early history, the city of Sparta had the Messenia, holding them in a state of slavery. After helping to instate an oligarchic government half of the fifth century, the Spartans shifted agreements. These loose alliances would develop into a poleis in the Peloponnese, and a number of The alliances were considered perpetual and although micro alliances between the members By the Peloponnese War, the Spartans, being over its other members. The structure of command was by the time formalized: the Spartans would listen to the concern of These were voted by the Spartan assembly and which would confirm the actions by vote. In military affairs, the members would send but all operations were commanded by a commander At the start of the fourth century and following more obsessed with controlling its allies hegemony, which sparked challenges to its League by 365 BC. Another example of symmachiai was the Second 380s to contrast Spartan hegemony in Greece. In this league, we find proof of a synedrion alliance and independent from the Athenian The league would quickly disappear, as the allied with Sparta, rendering the league obsolete. Following the expansion of Philip the Second the Corinthian League to tap the resources To keep the members under control, the position rulers the right to rule the Greek city-states. After the death of Alexander the Great, the a framework for the relations between Macedon The ethnic-federations would continue to be During the third and second century, the Aetolian Greece and the Achaian League dominated most The historian Polybius was a son of a strategos in its administration, leaving information which have been crucial to understanding how In the aftermath of the first two Macedonian rivalling that of Macedon, establishing alliances Greek autonomy came to an end after the annexation in 148 BC, where the Roman Republic took over Following this annexation, the leagues lost history. Thanks to World of Tanks Blitz for sponsoring Meet Independence Day with World of Tanks New event! Big sale for American vehicles!! Discounts up to 70 percent and a new Idle Find out more by downloading the World of Support us, Click the link below to download III-tier tank Locust and camouflage for Independence We are planning to make more videos on the to our channel and have pressed the bell button. We would like to express our gratitude to who make the creation of our videos possible. Now, you can also support us by buying our This is the Kings and Generals channel, and