Let's learn to multiply. M U L T I P L Y. And the best way I think to do some examples, and then talk to figure out what they mean. In my first example By now you probably That's equal to 5. And if you need a bit of a if I had 2-- I don't this color-- cherries. And I wanted to add How many total pieces of And you'd say, oh, Or likewise, if I had our don't need this review, Never hurts to And it this is 0, If you're sitting 2 to the when we go positive And if you were to add 3 3 spaces to the right. So if I said, if I just right, where do I end up? 1, 2, 3. I end up at 5. So either way, you understand So what is 2 times 3? An easy way to think about something is it's just a over and over again. So that you means is, and You're not going to add 2 to 3. You're going to add-- and ways to think about it. You're going to add 2 Now what does that mean? Well, it means you're going Now where did the 3 go? Well, how many 2's Let's see, I have-- this 2's, I have three 2's. I'm counting the numbers here blueberries up here. I had 1, 2, 3 blueberries. I have one, two, three 2's. So this three tells me how So what's 2 times 3? Well, I took 2 and I added So 2 plus 2 is 4. 4 plus 2 is equal to 6. Now that's only one way The other way we could have could've said, instead of times, we could've added And I know it's maybe becoming more practice you do it'll So this statement up 2 times 3. It could also be rewritten So 3 plus 3. And once again, you're You know, I had 2 times 3 and see I have 2-- oh, I don't cherries, but they could be And then I had two things, I and the 3 never disappear. And I add them But here I'm saying that thing as 3 plus 3. Where did the 2 go? 2 in this case, in this how many times I'm going But what's interesting is, interpret 2 times 3, I can plus 2 or adding 2 to I can interpret it that way or 3 to itself two times. But notice, I get What's 3 plus 3? That is also equal to 6. And this is probably the first encounter something very neat. Sometimes, regardless of the take a correct path you So two people can kind of they're visualizing it problems, but they come up And so you're probably this multiplication And this is where it's useful. Sometimes it So let's say I have a-- our fruit analogy. An analogy is just when as-- well, I won't But our fruit example. Let's say I had lemons. Let me draw a bunch of lemons. I'll draw them in rows of 3. So I have 1, 2, 3-- well, I'm that'll give our answer away. I'm just drawing a Now, if I said, you tell me how And if I did that you would all of the lemons. And it wouldn't take you too 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, already gave you the answer. We know that there But there's an easier way the number of lemons. Notice: how many lemons And a row is kind of the I think you know what a row is. I don't want to So how many lemons Well, there are 3 And now let me ask you many rows are there? Well, this was one row, and this is the third row, and So an easy way to count it row and I have 4 of them. So let's say I have I hope I'm not confusing you, And then I have 4 rows. So I have 4 times 3 lemons. And that should be equal to the And just to make that gel with the addition, 4 times 3-- literally, when you times 3, I visualize this. I visualize 4 times 3. So 3 four times. 3 plus 3 plus 3. And if we did that we 6 plus 3 is 9. 9 plus 3 is 12. And we learned up here, this that this same multiplication as 3 times 4. You can switch the order and interesting actually, kind of But this could also be 4 plus 4 plus 4. You add 4 to itself 4 plus 4 is 8. 8 plus 4 is 12. And in the U.S. we always say 4 people and a lot of people in in the-- I guess, you could And they'll often call this And that in some ways is It's not intuitive the first write this multiplication multiplication problem and And when they say four 3's, what are four 3's? So this is one 3, two 3's, So what are four 3's It's 12. And you could also say, So let me write this down. Let me do it in a That is four 3's. I mean literally, If I told you to say, write up, that's what that is. And that is 4 times And this is-- let me do That is three 4's. And it could also be And they all equal 12. And now you're probably It's a cute little trick, But it took you less time than to do this problem. And well first of all, that's new to multiplication. But what you'll find is there actually many times-- and I times too much in a video on of lemons, instead of having 3 Maybe there's 100 rows. And then it would take you and that's where multiplication Although, we're not going multiply 100 times 100. Now, the one thing that I is kind of a trick. I remember my sister just to she was than me when I was in third grade, she would say And I would say, because that's like 3 plus 1. And I would say 3 plus And so I'd say, 3 times 1? That must be 4 as well. And she would say, no, silly. It's 3. And I was like, How can the 3 times some be the same number? And think about You could view this What are three 1's? That's one 1 plus another And that's equal to 3. Or you could view So what's 3 one time? It's almost silly It's just 3. That's one 3. You could write this as one 3. And that's why anything anything is that anything. So then 3 times 1 is 3. 1 times 3 is 3. And you know, I could say 100 I could say that 1 times And I think you're familiar So that's interesting. Now there's one other about multiplication. And that's when you And I'll start with the analogy 3 plus 0 you've Because I'm adding If I have 3 apples and I you still have 3 apples. But what is 3 and maybe I'm 3 a little bit too much. Let me switch. What is 4 times 0? Well this is saying, So what's 0 plus Well, that's 0. I have nothing plus nothing so I get nothing. Another way to think of it, So how do I write 4 zero times? Well, I just don't Because if I write anything, if no 4's-- let me write this. This is four 0's, but I And what is zero 4's? I'll just write a There, I wrote it. There are no 4's here. So there's just a big blank. And that's another fun thing. So anything times 0 is 0. I could write a huge number, What does that equal? That equals 0. And by the way, what's Well, it's that number again. And what's 0 times 17? Once again, that is 0. Anyway, I think I've See you in the next video.