Hey everyone, we're back with more of this series Institute, the Christian propaganda mill hellbent made mincemeat of Casey Luskin and Stephen Now unlike most of the DI's sad little roster, a biochemist who published real research. But so and dishonest he is when it comes to science that devout Catholic Behe, the DI's starting pitcher, A real scientist, but on topics like evolution, even if a little less unhinged than Tour. the claims that Behe makes, most notably that he is famous for, and demonstrate the mill science denial. Ready? Let's begin. Behe is a Senior Fellow at the Center for whose agenda was described in great detail Those who are familiar with the scripture of primary contribution to their mission has been to applies to biological systems and is probably Behe's first and most popular work is in which he makes the case against evolution Despite the book being promoted as a it obviously was not subject to peer review. It's not Behe's peers in the scientific community, else affiliated with the DI. This is how exclusively outside the scrutiny of real science, So what is irreducible complexity? Here's "By irreducibly complex I mean a single interacting parts that contribute to the basic the parts causes the system to effectively cease be produced directly (that is, by continuously work by the same mechanism) by slight, successive precursor to an irreducibly complex system that An irreducibly complex biological system, if there Darwinian evolution. Since natural selection can then if a biological system cannot be as an integrated unit, in one fell swoop, for So to put it even more simply, he is such as their absolute favorite example, and it needs all of those parts for the system so-called "Darwinian" means, because there isn't system, to having the complete, functional or incomplete version of that system would be Now, there are three ways to interpret this seemed to float between them based on the specific what he means, we'll take each one and explain Behe is proposing is that systems which meet his The first way to interpret this argument is the only applies to Darwinian mechanisms of evolution, evolution". Charles Darwin published in which he described evolution as a acting on heritable variation within populations. comparative edge in successfully reproducing and will become more common as generations pass, differences accumulate, populations and species through this mechanism, all extant organisms are "Darwinian" evolution is natural selection Remember, the relevant question when it comes this system evolve?" Therefore, if we're limiting in 1859, the concept of irreducible complexity is of evolution that we've discovered since 1859. sexual selection, recombination, gene flow construction, and epigenetics, most of which are for some background information on mechanisms of to these mechanisms as "Darwinian", since Darwin entirety of genetics. It would be silly to develop mechanisms of evolution and then write a book in general, given the reality of all these other other mechanisms exist, but incorrectly insists And gene duplication, that's fine, any unguided process. Alright, any unguided Pretty bush league error, but let's give Behe So a better interpretation of irreducible just the kinds of processes Darwin proposed, there are two remaining versions of the the first. The second possible interpretation, in terms of being an actual, testable hypothesis, criteria for irreducible complexity can arise since this form of the argument is actually been falsified. Many times. All it takes to instance of the evolution of a system that One example comes from the famous Lenski which we mentioned briefly in the Meyer debunk. been evolving in the lab since 1988. They're grown the twelve populations evolved the ability to citrate. E. coli can digest citrate, but This one group of E. coli started eating citrate and when researchers looked into how that all of which were required for the Specifically, there were mutations to the CitT and a duplication of that CitT gene into a new copy that was active under aerobic conditions, alone wasn't sufficient. The Cit+ E. coli needed meaning it meets Behe's criteria for irreducible mutations or changes to the genome, none of Now, since we got to see it evolve before our we've instantly falsified this version Ironically, one of Behe's colleagues at a professor in the Department of Agricultural co-authored a paper describing this pathway irreducible nature. I'm sure he got a slap Moving on from E. coli, there are other such complex traits evolving. There is the VPU protein for the global HIV pandemic first documented in inactivating a protein of the human immune system enough from the same protein in chimpanzees from which HIV evolved, can't counter it. This new leading to several completely new protein into humans around 1930, so this is another recent There are also the many animals that eat their way to becoming photosynthetic themselves transitioning from laying eggs to live birth, in the unicellular algae that evolved in the All of these traits are extremely complex and they've all unquestionably evolved, irreducibly complex systems can't evolve. some irreducibly complex systems could evolve, that they definitely couldn't." This is the irreducible complexity argument: Irreducible but there are some cases in which it does. an unfalsifiable claim. It turns a scientific No matter how many times creationists and then biologists figure out its evolutionary creationists will point to and say "but this So if creationists want to fall back to they are welcome to it, but it's not real science, People like Behe, and especially the will avoid and redirect by whatever means required. That's why even Behe himself pushes to pretend that evolution is impossible. Behe needs the example to be relatable for the Now it turns out, if any of these parts are it complex, it's what I call irreducibly complex. If you took away this hammer, you know the mice holding bar, any of the pieces, it doesn't work. built, for a specific purpose, doesn't work the way we designed it. So basically, humans build An argument so stupid, a child could debunk it. design eventually sound just like Kent This is made of natural components, is Or does this require a designer, whether I ever to say this had a designer? the arrangement of these parts has a purpose. And needed to produce something like this. dishonesty is behind the persistent fixation analogous to machinery. It's a way to make the the bacterial flagellum, which has some parts This is presented ad nauseam because Behe's in generating any of the new functionalities requires some knowledge of genetics, so they don't complexity. They just need to see something and the dishonest comparison to the actual Here's a bacterium. A single-cell which is like an outboard motor on a boat. and it's necessary for their survival, A flagellum has a number of parts. A drive stator, even a clutch and braking system. The revolutions per minute. And as with the mouse machine destroys its function and renders the The flagellum is irreducibly complex. Notice the constant references to other machines Well unfortunately for Behe, even the evolution He simply relies on his audience not knowing can have, and did have, alternative functions examples in evolutionary history of an existing other function, particularly following the system is not irreducibly complex. A simpler flagellum does indeed exist in certain extant so it is not irreducible. Behe can't demonstrate he just blindly asserts it. Remember that nature over time. He has no idea what past iterations twitches instead of rotating smoothly would also Behe doesn't even specify a particular bacterial types. And of course he ignores any potential which do exist. Some flagella export proteins. Some flagella are used for cell-to-cell contacts. allowing for novel function to emerge over by some bacterial species are capable of And it turns out, the two structures look similar a subset of the very same protein types found in syringe is missing proteins found in the motor, it functions perfectly as an There you go. It's reducible. Here he is complaining in a 2016 blog post for ID someone to take a bacterial species, knock out the and wait for it to evolve a flagellum or he is oblivious to the fact that this precise Here's the paper. Gene deletion produced They then introduced selective pressure for colony. Within 96 hours, both strains by a pathway involving two successive point Exaption of genes for a novel purpose is something but either way, we've shown conclusively that the This same treatment can be offered for any other to their face the clear pathway by which it either the past, it's never anything but obfuscation and that intelligent design isn't science, because acknowledge data, and in the case of anomalous Interestingly, in an attempt to appear empirical of a simulation ostensibly testing his idea. gene duplication of protein features that require and David Snoke, and it was published in the Behe and Snoke describe a simulation in which a new trait requiring two specific mutations - in new trait with irreducible complexity. They and validating not just the concept of irreducible when in reality the opposite is true. In their mutations and natural selection. No recombination, no other evolutionary changes. They also and only considered the simulation to have been In other words, they made the same errors other they invoke things like the so-called "waiting debunk. They are pretending that nature has to do when it just doesn't, and they all know Behe and Snoke found that their target sequence timeframes that are entirely realistic, and if populations. The paper literally proves them This and other revelations about Behe's work were which we also talked about in the Meyer debunk. testing the legality of evolution and creationism stretches back to the 1925 Scopes monkey trial. statement on "intelligent design" to its high as an Establishment Clause violation by parents as expert witnesses in the ensuing trial, and on His "expert testimony" in defense of ID went well as can be seen by anyone who reads the When questioned about his 2004 paper, Behe in their model was orders of magnitude smaller had the effect of vastly underestimating the rate even without the other unrealistic constraints Behe acknowledged a paper which indicated that of soil than in his model population, and that He also made a complete fool of himself in a like a flat earther, attempting to contrast He then goes on to acknowledge that in order for all, a redefinition of the concept of a scientific "sweeps in a lot more propositions", So yes, ID is a theory like astrology Furthermore, the Dover trial illustrated something ignoring existing research on a topic in order to or we've never seen Y, when in fact just refuses to acknowledge it. This tendency as lawyers for the plaintiffs produced literal systems which Behe not only claimed scientists to evolve due to their "irreducibly complex" system was irreducibly complex, he was presented and several immunology textbook chapters about know a lot about from studying the immune systems a tremendous variety in their complexity. But And that's all Behe really had. ID is like proves him wrong isn't real. Since Behe was it's no wonder the judge scathingly rebuked the as creationism with a new name. In fact, the district with an anonymous donation originally containing this definition: "Creation means that the agency of an intelligent creator with their fins and scales, birds with feathers, beaks, dated shortly after the 1987 Edwards v. Aguillard "creation science" is a religious concept and Clause if taught in public school science classes, "Intelligent design means that various forms of with their distinctive features already intact - beaks, and wings, etc." Shockingly similar, huh? telling typo "cdesign proponentsists", where the "design proponents". How much more transparently just creationism with a different name Of course Behe is aware of all this, but to the cause so that the ID movement can We have two more of Behe's books to tear apart, What can you do to help fight against The only remedy is knowledge. And I Brilliant offers extensive courses in More than simply a collection of lecture videos, solving for a more engaging way to learn. In the courses on the chemical reaction, computational to brush up on, and more. I recommend "Everyday like fractions and ratios using intuitive logic, statistics and finance, and tons of and all of these are crafted by top Don't waste another moment, join over ten million Visit Brilliant.org/ProfessorDaveExplains to get get 20% off their subscription. Happy learning! Evolution, was published in 2007. Of course and it shows. Had an evolutionary biologist the many basic errors could have been addressed, evolutionary fitness, mis-stating what is meant implying that evolution is synonymous with underlying developmental processes, and He also analogizes evolutionary in contrast to the frequently employed "arms evolution ultimately results in a destructive as bad as his biology on this point, because World such as infiltration tactics, small unit tactics, and ultimately tanks, all of which ultimately trench warfare is a surprisingly good analogy, Of course, these are small quibbles. The real a book-length "waiting time problem" argument. represent the absolute maximum rate at which is too slow to accomplish anything significant, and argues that there must therefore be some evolutionary change. Let's break our refutation First we'll look at conceptual problems stemming biology, and then we'll examine why he's Big picture first, Behe's arguments are based of evolutionary theory. For example, he seems like drug resistance or disease immunity, there is despite he himself describing the biochemical resistance found in humans. Direct experiments have shown that there are often many ways He also talks about what evolutionary processes as though they take turns as species evolve. "by themselves", in a vacuum. In reality, a recombination, and others - are all operating and throwing up your hands at their limitations is playbook. You can find writers for Answers can't create anything new, without bothering to Speaking of recombination, like the other Behe ignores recombination entirely. He seems to a trait increase, you need a correspondingly large of evolving that trait, since of course it would And also, if any step in the process is harmful, but each individual mutation is harmful, no solved by recombination, removing the requirement and persist until the next one occurs in the same each with one mutation, can cross over and going from one to two pertinent mutations Meyer debunk for a full explanation of this. landscapes in a way that is both extremely To understand how, we need to take a moment to is a representation of how different genotypes They're usually shown visually as two- as a product of genotype. More fit genotypes That "in a specific environment" part is In one time or place, a particular genotype time or place, it might have low fitness. He argues that crossing "valleys" is since any intermediate between two peaks or and selected against. In making this argument, he genotypes have fixed fitness values, regardless He clearly is not familiar enough with basic since variable fitness landscapes solve the change, genotypes that were valleys previously were peaks can become valleys. So selection will a population to cross from one peak to another. that Behe doesn't understand it, or much worse The final conceptual problem here is that he Institute colleagues, uses "Darwinism" as well that the vast majority of evolutionary or stuff that we figured out well after Darwin. Nobody's even tried to explain how a Darwinian or the flagellum, and so on. Darwin's mechanism I talked about this misleading language in Gunter Bechly, who whined about it in a series acknowledged none of the meat of my video. For so we will deal with him and his lies that he's misleading his audience by calling "Darwinian", in an attempt to reduce the entire of a single dead prophet. A mere belief system like religion, when in fact evolution is the smear campaign. But having a boogeyman is useful, They should probably listen to biologist and this misspeak on the part of creationists. Darwinists. Ken Miller isn't a Darwinist. We've moved on from Darwin, who was like modern evolutionary science to be clear. a christian, biologists aren't Darwinists. Funny These problems on their own are enough for anyone but the specific examples he picks to represent evolutionary speed limit, essentially - are focuses on - and yes, he picks only two cases chloroquine resistance in plasmodium, the parasite In my second book, the Edge of Evolution, of malaria cells to chloroquine, an anti-malarial before it evolved this resistance, there were that could have evolved or could have mutated molecular machinery. And it turns out that when the malaria were discovered, they were just two in the malarial cell. So that, I micro, Darwinian microevolution. examples of directional selection. This is when a pressure, in these cases drug exposure and living the single trait under selection will experience so to speak. Then we have "stabilizing selection", because they could make the trait worse. What Behe or selection for different traits in a single one species or population diversifies under The second problem with Behe's argument is that down one-dimensional adaptation. He actually talks but somehow doesn't realize that it applies tradeoffs to everything. Drug resistance is a but that costs energy, so in the absence of the energy cost is still there even when the germs are often gets worse the more resistant they are. So costs outweigh the benefits. Then we see, again, die, get more resistant and you're wasting energy. "this is a strong selection pressure, so it should X changes in Y years, so evolution is too slow!" expect. Once the plasmodia are resistant enough and is selected against. That makes Behe's rate of evolution in the examples he's using, parts of the pathway together, instead of Also, it's quite amusing to note that if Behe to evolve, it means that he believes in a god who our drugs in order to ensure that we continue It actually gets even worse than this, because it these examples that supposedly don't show enough evolution that happened a lot faster than he he said "there have been no significant basic and "there have been no reports of new viral infected cell due to mutations in HIV proteins", already talked about this example a bit earlier, did exactly what Behe says can't happen. involving multiple mutations in the time since early twentieth century, in order to deactivate new mutations to produce a novel function. undeniably a direct refutation of Behe's of thing that he claims would take too long the "two-binding-sites rule", which states binding sites evolving would require more and is therefore "beyond the edge of evolution". in HIV. And HIV has only existed for about a rule" does not exist, and neither does This little problem with Edge of Evolution graduate student and blogger, now Dr. Abbie Smith, since Smith is an expert in the very thing was dismissive of then-student Smith's argument, an allusion to Mean Girls, and misrepresented "gumming up the works", rather than as new In a subsequent exchange with Dr. Ian Musgrave, Girls, waffled a bit on what the argument was saying: "Yes, I'm perfectly willing to concede a new viral protein-viral protein binding site, So to review, Behe got just about everything on biochemical traits. Then he said Vpu isn't a good which is wrong because it actually evolved several point, which, for those keeping score, completely We are just about done here, but to be His third book was 2019's Darwin Devolves. sure, new traits can evolve, and sometimes do traits are actually reductive or destructive according to him, most new traits that evolve are such as drug resistance in bacteria due to large-scale evolutionary changes are impossible. well-documented examples of evolutionary change, should know this is nonsense based on examples he in Edge of Evolution, Behe describes a hemoglobin allele that causes sickle cell disease, confers "the advantages but not the drawbacks of sickle". in the E. coli of the LTEE, which has a new existing pathways, literally debunking He has a talent for referencing science that it supports him, like he does here for the LTEE. his, or 25 years after his experiment began, he that helped the bacterium grow faster or ones that either destroyed or at least This is just a lie. We talked about how the degradation. Some of the traits are due to experiment. Because the flasks are shaken as so they don't need flagella. So losing them is of this nature. Yes, it is possible for the and some such cases occurred in this experiment. as he claims, as we have explained with the beneficial, irreducible traits can evolve But this false narrative is just too perfect to describing certain legitimate phenomena in a dishonest manner that allows him to pretend that most of his current talking points sound like. Getting a newer smartphone is because it has completely new features. But They only make changes to existing ones. A It may help you save your battery, We are told that random mutation is the and that evolution is responsible for lower forms scientific results show new species are made by Again, just straight lies. There is no creationists have a sadistic obsession with force, but to do so they have to ignore new genes rapidly evolving everywhere we look. the concept of de novo genes. These are new genes becomes protein coding and preserved via near previously non-coding sections of DNA. So which is now a gene. New genes. We used to think for them, by identifying protein-coding sequences related species, we started finding them all you name it. More are being found all the time. for a species of algae in response to predation. asks you how multicellular organisms first So again, the point is that Behe and pals need to because they love to pretend that the field beyond the examples just cited, many or most major duplication of genes or even entire chromosomes, to accumulate mutations and produce totally new existing functionality from the original gene. and if these new genes guide embryonic changes to the body plan. This pageantry about is just lies disguised as something relatable, But beyond all this, perhaps the best is that Behe had to flat out lie to defend documented adaptations in polar bears, Dr. Nathan represent the findings of a paper he cited, when polar bears have to their arctic climate are Behe provided a table from that paper, showing "possibly damaging" or "probably damaging". But since Dr. Lents showed that Behe sneakily omitted unsurprisingly, tell a very different story. supplemental table S7. Whoops. Apart from the two "benign", meaning not harmful in effect. You There sure are a lot of them, huh? I This is clearly not an accident. Behe is to support his baseless claims. He chopped up think his book isn't trash. The data have to be on. Then again, can anyone really be surprised proponent of creationism who isn't one. From the scientific credentials, and everyone in between. who at one point did real work in the field he affiliated with the Discovery Institute, he intelligent design. He does this with bad science and misrepresentations, like using "Darwinism" doctoring data, and promoting the fiction that ID if he wanted to show that ID is real science He knows how peer review works and how But instead of doing that, he writes crappy that are full of bad arguments, incorrect all to further the agenda of a propaganda mill Special thanks go out to Dan Stern who helped me prepare this video. He runs a so if you enjoyed this debunk I highly recommend So that's it for Michael Behe, the fading If you previously found him persuasive, hopefully regularly brings up his doctrine, like irreducible But we still have more DI frauds to