amna: One Americans are ready to get rid of a car or a laptop or some of their clothing, where do the goods go? Most end up in countries and the global south where millions of people depend on, dismantling or selling them to make a living. Amidst lax regulations and legal loopholes environmental groups say the business is a toxic trifecta of waste that inflicts catastrophic damage to land, coastlines and a black health. We have the first of two reports from the west African nation of Ghana. Reporter: Ghana has enjoyed economic growth in recent years and nowhere is that more evident than on Accra's streets but growing incomes have spiked the demand for automobiles. Like cities anywhere traffic delays are part of daily life but here they are costly not just in time but health and safety on the environment. &gt;&gt; The cars that clog the streets of Ghana's capital have come a long way to be here but they did not come directly from a factory. Most have had long lives on the streets of America, Germany, dubai and other places before being shipped here appeared long lives unless they were in an accident. That is how this 2018 Toyota sedan wound up in a repair yard. Northern Virginia it came from. We chased -- we traced it back to a listing on an auction website where it was sold and shipped to Africa. &gt;&gt; Some of them don't even make it onto the boat. Reporter: Kenya based person has studied the global trade in used cars. Would you say that most vehicles would not be certified as safe on the roads of countries where they came from? &gt;&gt; Exporting countries export the majority of vehicles that are not roadworthy. Reporter: Not roadworthy. At the repair shop mechanics say how much the corolla is repaired is informed by the new owners budget. Just the driver's side airbag would be replaced and not the side and passenger ones. Many of the repaired vehicles hit the roads safe and more polluting often arriving minus their catalytic converter. It is a device required in developed countries since the 1970's and clean -- and keep to cleaner emissions. There is a robust global market for them because they contain platinum. We spoke with a trio of mechanics. Catalytic converters, you usually don't fix. &gt;&gt; [Inaudible] Reporter: How many people fix it? &gt;&gt; His reaction suggested most missing converters are not replaced. &gt;&gt; Financial problems. Reporter: Most people just let it go. Extending the life of cars that should really have been recycled in America or Europe. &gt;&gt; It is a very good approach. More are sent to Africa because it is cheaper than to rest cycle them. Reporter: At the other end of their useful life, the junk cars compound the prices from another toxic import, electronic waste. Every day scrap workers harvest components from cars and all matter of electronics. They were looking in particular for metals that are extracted mainly by incineration. This is the epicenter of Ghana's waste industry. Tons of used washers and dryers, refrigerators, air conditioners sit here waiting demolition by people looking for anything of value inside them. &gt;&gt; Everything here -- reporter: I came here with a consultant. He is a veteran environmental journalist who has worked for greenpeace. &gt;&gt; You are talking about Mercury, all of the toxic heavy metals are here. They are in the soil and in the smoke. Reporter: An international agreement intended to prohibit the export of electronic waste went into effect in 1992. The U.S. Did not ratify this it even in countries that did, there is a huge loophole. Items classified as repairable often labeled as charity are exempt. &gt;&gt; When you exempt these items, they are obsolete and would not work. Reporter: Critics argue these so-called donations are causing more issues than they are solving. Before we were sent away by a supervisor, we spoke with young men that work here. Some even without gloves who are sifting dirt to salvage small scraps of metal. How much do you earn here? That is about three dollars a day. This 14-year-old told us he works here after school to help pay his school fees. What is your favorite subject? &gt;&gt; Mathematics. Reporter: What would you like to be when you grow up? &gt;&gt; A doctor. Reporter: High aspiration but if his path is like so many men here, it may not taycan far, literally. -- It may not take him far, literally. Like Jefferson he came here from the country's unsettled north in search of work after his father died. &gt;&gt; I came here to support my family. Reporter: He works here six days a week to support his family. What would you like to do and your future? &gt;&gt; I want to stop this work. I want to travel to Europe and worked and save my family. I want my children to have an education. &gt;&gt; There are 20 million people in the world making their livelihoods off of waste. Reporter: Professor Kate o'neill is the author of three books about the recycling industry. &gt;&gt; They cannot be tossed off their jobs. You have to create jobs in markets, ways in which we move away from a waste economy to a repair economy. And that can be global. Reporter: Already in many developing countries she says secondhand and refurbished electronics and appliances have thriving markets but she says increasingly a lot of junk is sent here. It is hardware that by design has become difficult to dismantle and recycle making it cheaper to send overseas often disguised as a charitable donation. &gt;&gt; I remember back when I had my first computer as they came with manuals. Weigh the industry is structured right now there is planned obsolescence to make sure that we buy a new one every two years. Part of the problem is what we have cannot easily be recycled or refurbished. Reporter: More immediately exporting countries need to step up their oversight of what leaves their shores says Larry of Donna's environmental protection agency. &gt;&gt; The country needs to do more within our own jurisdiction when it comes to exports of some of these items. They don't have enough resources to be able to tell what items are junk and which are not. Reporter: An admonition we also heard on the street loudly and clearly despite a language barrier with a nearby merchant and he interrupted our interview. &gt;&gt; [Speaking another language] You cannot take my video. &gt;&gt; What he is saying is it is the white people that bring in all of the garbage, the junk. And then we burn it. And then you ask for these things to be sent to you. Reporter: Much of the waste material comes from Europe and the U.S. The copper and the aluminum extracted are usually destined for China or India. A lot is washed into the ocean. Only to be washed back onto beach is mixing with a different kind of waste. It starts in the reject pile from thrift stores from wealthy countries. We will have that story in the second part of our series. From a crawl, Ghana. Amna: This is in partnership with the under told stories partnership.