We've been paying attention to your are asking, &quot;How to teach children empathy?&quot; on that topic. Maybe a little definition important components. At least, I think. how someone else feels. -And it has to be empathy. You really can't fake it. -It kind implies something else. Now, in the lot of background about moral development, in that program Vicki, we levels of development. And it's stage 1, empathy at that point. Think about an three-month-old baby. Wakes up at 2 hollering for, &quot;Mom, bring me something to tired. wouldn't expect this infant to have the Parenting Power-Up we, made a point about stage not age. So, you might have some older kids who are exercising it or they're not that we would call stage 1 behavior. -It to understand what stage your child is who's older and capable of an empathy have empathy. But probably to expect it stage 1 behavior and reasoning. It's might be the impetus though for wanting commenting down in the comments of these kids empathy.&quot; Probably it's not because your kids. -Right. -So, let's get into some us to get there. Probably vocabulary. We've taken a moment to helps what if we were to define and and one of the biggest things for that feeling where it's happy, mad, sad, glad. teach them some of the nuances. The frustrated is a little different than modeling and talking about the feeling cartoons, TV shows, books. I love reading feelings that people might be having in frustrated or irritated or you know, disappointed? These additional words help also their understanding of what these understanding and caring how someone all you've got, you're not going to be emphatic way. If you're disappointed, none of those words really fit the vocabulary. Teach the feeling words. you sometimes have to teach the expressions that go with those words. Now, with a lot of children who are on the characteristics of children who are on intuitive to read someone's facial about, you know, when you're surprised goes into a, &quot;O&quot;. If you're a happy, you times your chin goes down. Maybe you look you're going to talk about the different the body language. And I like to do this reading a book, you go, &quot;Look at their face, pointed in that. And so, you're going to practice and talk practice making them for a smaller child harder for them to learn some of those the story books too. Because if you've has gone to the trouble of identifying characteristic facial expressions are. that for you so that you can have that example is huge. example of empathy, the easier time children. -Right. And so that can even just something on TV, &quot;Wow, that probably made I would feel if that happened to me. And the points that we made remember in part about some discipline techniques and how sometimes we'll yell or get angry with frustrated and upset, instead of just connecting with empathy. So that when of their choices for example. You can say, it?&quot; Now, you can't be sarcastic. whole empathy part. -That would kill the Show that you understand and care how you're saying Vicky. On a television show community or at the store or the school. know, to go along with that, I think one you were talking about how you're going When they're going through a hard time that you helped bring about. You know.. -You brought about. So, one of the things you're in empathy is that your goal is understand. -Good point. -And go along the think one of the best examples and is by Brene Brown. And if you look on little sketches about empathy. -Big shout in this area. connected to other people. And this is join with and get connected to our kids. trains them to take an approach to life open. And accepting and tolerant of other and part of this positive parenting a course that you're going to love. description down below. It's called the com. Come be with me and Vicki in this confident, conscious parent that you can