To continuously sustain that wonder, that sense of We have no way that a human could perceive we can make new strains of mathematics, we can make computer simulations but but even this brain can be manufactured with So, I'm saying there is an intelligence here David Eagleman: This is a place where I feel like science and mysticism have a real meeting ground Superscript: Neuroscientist David Eagleman with Sadhguru - In Conversation with the Mystic Sadhguru chants Jananam Sukhadham... Maranam Karunam... Milanam Madhuram... Smaranam Karunam... Sadhguru: Good evening, everyone. I said good evening. Participants: Good evening. David Eagleman: Tell us about that chant. Sadhguru: The chant... These are certain types of invocation. In the sense, the distinction between an invocation and a prayer is - prayer is an effort to talk to whatever Invocation is a way of inciting a certain dimension of who you are for a particular type of activity. So, this chant is mainly talking about how birth is sweet but death is compassion. Because if you cannot die, that's not a good thing. We don't want to die right now, but suppose you cannot die at all, It'll become a serious problem (Laughs). Though birth and life is very sweet, death is a great compassion Meeting and mingling is very sweet And if one transcends the process that we refer to as time, then the whole Existence is compassion for you. That's what the chant is, I mean, David Eagleman: So, I'm very interested in the Sadhguru: I thought we live on the same planet (Laughter). David Eagleman: Well, we'll see... I (Laughter)... So I go into the lab every day and I study how the brain, how it constructs our reality. And the reason we know that this is because if the brain is damaged even in small ways, your reality changes and if you take drugs or alcohol your reality can change. So, I'm interested in finding where our perspectives one of your interests is also understanding reality, how we perceive it, how it's individualized to us. So, can you tell us about that? Sadhguru: There is... there is Existence outside and there is you or me as individual human beings. We have not seen the world - we know it only the way it's When we say mind, in English language mind is just one word and supposed to encompass everything. But in the yogic terminology, we have sixteen and there are whole lot of practices and processes through which one takes charge These sixteen, for simpler understanding, The first dimension of the mind is... we are referring It is the intellect. I think modern societies, has become too overly focused on I'm not talking about your boy (Referring to David Eagleman's student who introduced the speakers) (Both Laugh). Because of... We got too engrossed in... and we have invested too much in human intellect, leaving out the other dimensions of When we say intellect, it is the logical realm Or in other words, in your intellect you It has to be four, otherwise you think it's crazy. So it's factual, it grasps the facts of life and assimilates and makes an analysis of that Or in other words, intellect is like a knife - Knife is an instrument, which is used for So, this is one way of exploring the world This is how... You know, at least in high school, maybe an earthworm or a cockroach or a frog - I don't know how far you went (Laughter). This is one way of knowing things. but you never grasp the intrinsic So, there are other dimensions of intelligence. And another aspect of the intellect is, the second dimension of the mind, we call it as ahankara, which in English language would what is the identity you have taken. What you're identified with, it is only People are identified with things that they their life is guided by those things. For example, all of us belong to some nation today. There was a time hundred years ago, but today everybody belongs to some nation and everybody belongs to some football club also (Laughter), because both have flags and emblems and works (Laughs). So, nationality is a new idea. It's just about hundred and fifty years, two hundred years that we have this strong sense of nationhood. We've shifted from our ethnic, racial and Just the moment you believe, "I belong to this nation," the emblem of that nation, the flag of that nation, the anthem of that nation brings genuine emotion. Is... There... Nobody's pretending, it's real. It's real because people are willing to die for it, it has to be real. But it's just an identity - You can move to another country So the moment you identify yourself with something, your intellect is completely, always protecting So, the identity - if we want to continue that analogy - if intellect is the knife, identity is the hand that holds the knife. How steady or unsteady this hand is will The next dimension of the mind is called as manas. So this is not just in one place, this is So, when I say a huge silo of memory, whatever memory you may have in your brain - whatever memory you may have in your brain, your body has a trillion times more memory than that. You definitely don't remember how your great, great, great, great, great, grandfather looked like, but his nose is sitting on your face right now (Laughter). It remembers how your forefathers looked a million years ago, your body still remembers, has not forgotten. Definitely it is not the capability of your brain. So, in terms of memory, the manas is phenomenal Every cell in the body carries enormous memory. Memory to a point for the origin of life on this planet and beyond, all that memory is carried in this body. So, this is manas. If there is no memory, intellect would be defunct - it's like a car without gas. Because there is memory, intellect is on. This memory flows through the hand of identity and whatever is the identity, the memory takes on that color accordingly and then it plays up in the The fourth dimension of the mind is called chitta. Chitta means it's pure intelligence, unsullied by memory. There is absolutely no memory, free of memory, it's just pure intelligence. When we say pure intelligence... All kinds of things have been said, with all due respect to everybody's beliefs and faiths and whatever, all kinds of things have been said to people that, "God is generous, god is love, god is this, god is that." Suppose you had... nobody told you anything, and you just paid attention to all the Creation around you - how a flower blossoms, how a leaf is, how an ant move - if you paid enough attention, one thing you... that you would definitely come to is is a goddamn intelligent thing (Laughter). Intelligence, intelligence, intelligence - everything is smacked with what our quite phenomenal brain cannot perceive. So, this is a dimension of intelligence within us, which is the basis of our Creation in a way. If you eat a piece of bread, over the afternoon it becomes a human being because this intelligence exists within you and me. So, if you touch this intelligence, in a very mischievous way, the yogi, or the yogis... if you touch this dimension of intelligence, You don't have to think what you want, you don't have everything that you wish to know is yours. It's just... you have to just direct your focus and it's all there, because there is a dimension of chitta. Every human being might have which makes suddenly one This is because they have touched this Now, the question is only about So, these aspects of the mind are it is right across the system. David Eagleman: I kind of think this is the is to take the intelligence all around us and across It's a way of going out and trying to understand the blueprints around us in a way that can be made conscious. And we've made lots of progress that way and we've cured lots of human suffering that way, which I totally agree with you about, as something that we can make understandable. Take it from the ineffable to the effable, and that's part of... that's part of what's... maybe the biggest part of what's made our world what it is today. Sadhguru: If I can intervene. When you say understandable, that means we can put it into the parameters of logic. What... what if there is a which does not fit into the parameters of logic? Trying to fit everything into the surface intelligence, which is the intellect, If we don't have an intellect, What is a survival instrument, we are trying to put all dimensions of life through that and it has to pass through that sieve. That will completely skew the process. David Eagleman: I would want to know that the things that are available to the intellect can't encompass the intelligence of a flower I take the point that there may be limits to our intellect but I don't know where those limits are and I don't know how to guarantee that there are borders Sadhguru: See, science has done incredible Our life is the way it is today, the comfort and convenience that all of us are enjoying is essentially because of the outcome of the There's no question about that. But at the same time, the limitation of science is - we're trying to touch a dimension which is beyond David Eagleman: Something that you and I had It's one of the things I study in my lab I think it's one of the most stubborn time seems to be a construction of the brain because So you think something lasted longer or shorter, and there are many physicists, like Einstein, time doesn't actually exist but we're trapped inside of it and so this is an interesting to sort of come up against a glass wall and say, "You know, there seems to be things past this wall and it's impossible for me to know what it Sadhguru: See, time is a very relative experience. On a particular day, if you are very, very joyful, On another day, you're depressed, They say how long a minute is - depends on Somebody says, "Just one minute, wait" (Laughter). So, the basis of time, as I perceive it... You must The only thing I know... I mean, Yes (Laughs) because from the first moment you are born, your parents, your teachers, every other adult around you - everybody is busy wanting to teach you something Everybody's trying to instruct you on something, it doesn't matter what. The only thing that they know better they know some survival tricks - the adults. They don't know anything else about life. They have not perceived any... life any better than a child. They just know a few survival tricks. They know how to make money, they know but they do not know life in any sense, because all these other things are Life is something that's throbbing within you. So, when we come to time - in the yogic way of seeing things, we just see life as a dance of time and energy. It's a certain amount of time and a certain the expression for death is very beautiful. Tch. When we... when...In normal language, when we say, "Somebody passed away," we don't say it as we're saying it in English, Actually, that's all that happened Now, to put this time and energy together if your time gets over when you're... still If your energy gets over when you're To... The art of putting this time and energy dance together well, is a successful life. So when we say time, there are many, many but as far as time is concerned, it's ticking off for I... I know there are... There's research It doesn't matter what we say, but our time is ticking we came to this talk, we went to the cinema, but as far as physical body is concerned, because it is keeping time. You may forget. sixty-five or seventy, you felt like you were but your body is keeping time. Your brain can be easily fooled (Laughter) but body is properly keeping time. Never you can fool this body - all the time keeping time. Because time is a consequence, Time is a consequence of cyclical movements in the physical reality. We know time... If... if the earth spins once, we say it's a day. If the moon goes around us, we say it's a month. Our idea of time has come essentially because of everything that's physical around us. This is the nature of physicality. Physicality is essentially cyclical. Whether it's atomic or cosmic, everything is cyclical. The moment you're identified with If you disassociate yourself with your physical nature, if you sit here and if you have a little space Because what you call as "my body" it is something that you accumulated, If a little space comes between you and your body, suddenly time is not a factor. To such an extent... We have any number of people... This may be very but I have seen yogis who have not moved from the place they were sitting for over six months, seven months, just in the same place. By any normal standards, but once they sit down, they won't move, Because once you distance yourself from your physiological process, time is not a factor. Right now, you're sitting here. It's not your If I make you sit here for three hours, But suppose you did not have a body, we're going to sit here for 3,000 years - So essentially, because of your rooting in your which you built over a period of time from the accumulations that you've gathered from this planet - that is the basis of experience of time. If you distance yourself from that, David Eagleman: What is the 'you' that Sadhguru: Is it a fact that you gathered David Eagleman: It's a fact that this body and it may be that I emerge as a consequence of that, Sadhguru: Tell me, you've been having David Eagleman: Have I been having lunch and dinner? Sadhguru: Yeah. David Eagleman: Yeah. This dynamic accumulation (Laughter) has been eating plenty, yeah (Laughter). Sadhguru: So what you (Laughs)... what you refer to as "my body" right now is Not a pleasant way to describe you, but it is (Laughter). What you call as "my mind," is an accumulation of impressions David Eagleman: Agreed. Sadhguru: So, if you have to gather this much (Gestures) of impressions and this much (Gestures) of body, something more fundamental must be there, isn't it? David Eagleman: Houston, Texas is an but we wouldn't say that there was... Houston was there and I gathered buildings (Overlapping conversation)... Sadhguru: No, no, you... you are not a piece You're not a piece of geography, are you? David Eagleman: I may be exactly that (Sadhguru Laughs), a physical... a physical being. I'll tell you why from my perspective It's because we're across the street from the world's largest medical center and every day there are thousands of people there, whose geography is changing because of Alzheimer's or stroke or tumor or traumatic brain injury and who they are changes. Sadhguru: No... David Eagleman: It doesn't seem like there's something fundamental that outlasts damage to the tissue. Sadhguru: See, you're talking about The biggest mistake we have made is we have given too much significance to human thought. Whatever you think is only happening from the David Eagleman: Agreed. Sadhguru: Yes. So the data that you and me in terms of the cosmos, it's miniscule, So from this miniscule of data that we have gathered, we are generating some thought which could be useful in making our lives, it could be useful in creating a few things, it could be useful fundamentally for our survival and but it doesn't give you access to life. Thought and emotion is psychological you can conduct it any way you want. You're talking about somebody had a tumor or Alzheimer' or an accident or something and their drama went wrong. The drama can go wrong even without Peoples' drama goes wrong without any accident or injury, or ailment - just like that, drama goes wrong on a daily basis for a lot of people. David Eagleman: We usually give that a name though, something like depression or a psychotic break or something... Sadhguru: Ohh, that's a business (Laughter). David Eagleman: Not one I'm making any money on (Laughter). Sadhguru: I'm saying there's only this much - either your faculties are taking instructions from you or they have become compulsive Either your body and mind, you can conduct That's all that's happening. Whether you call it physical ailment or mental ailment, all that's happened is just this - that your fundamental faculties of existence These two things, you have lost grip over them, so it can become this kind of ailment or but fundamentally you have lost charge. That's all that's happened. If your body and your brain took instructions from you, would you create depression, You would create highest level of David Eagleman: We certainly would if there Sadhguru: See, we can come to this like this. There is something called... Because I... I see that you keep referring "my brain." What is yours can't be you, right? David Eagleman: It's a colloquialism that we use because I need to refer to this one in here (Gestures) (Both Laugh). I need to specify which brain I'm talking about. Sadhguru: See, when I say, "my hand," Similarly, if certain parts of the brain are gone, our ability to think and feel the way we but still that person is not gone. David Eagleman: That's the question. So if I lose a little part of my finger, I'm still me, but if I lose a... a chunk of brain tissue that same size, I can be someone completely different, I can lose... Sadhguru: No, no, you're talking about personality. David Eagleman: Tch, e... even... Sadhguru: Personality is again an acquired thing. David Eagleman: Beyond personality, I can lose memory, I can lose the ability to perceive reality because of a lesion, because damage I lose the ability to understand what objects are. Sadhguru: Okay, let's come to this. See, suppose somebody became colorblind because of an injury or whatever that happened to them, unfortunately. That person still knows, He's still there. David Eagleman: It's true for the person but it's not true for... For example, a person who is born colorblind, that they could be... They don't have a So, let's take a person who's born blind entirely, So who's the "you" for them? Do they...? Sadhguru: See, even a person who is visually impaired, he still exists within himself. He's as much It's just that if all of us were blind, David Eagleman: Quite right. Sadhguru: Yes, isn't it? Only because somebody Otherwise, if none of us had eyes, you think we wouldn't have found our way around? We would have. Maybe not the same way, in a different way. David Eagleman: Oh, I totally agree because Sadhguru: There are mammals... There are mammals David Eagleman: Yeah. Well, there are so many what we call visible light is just a one... ten trillionth of the electromagnetic spectrum that's out there, we only detect a little bit. In some branches of physics, it seems there might be between ten to thirteen spatial dimensions, not just these three and yet we're trapped in these. Sadhguru: No. We... we are moving away from David Eagleman: But my point is we're already Sadhguru: Yes. David Eagleman: Okay, so let's move back to perception. Sadhguru: See, what you... what an individual life is... You cannot disagree that you're life. Are you? What kind of personalities we have acquired, what kinds of gods and demons we have acquired, is a social process that's happened to us... If you were born in a different part of the world, Depending upon what we're exposed to, these are impressions that we have taken in, phenomenal amount of impressions. Leaving that aside, let's look at one fundamental - whatever you gather, you can only claim "it's mine," Whatever you gather? David Eagleman: How do you mean? Sadhguru: Anything, anything, anything. I can say, "this is my chair." If I sit here every day and... and then I say, "this is me," David Eagleman: I think there is a possibility that the stuff that this piece of life The reason I think of this as my hand is because it's... Sadhguru: My... "my hand" is okay, no problem. David Eagleman: What do you say "me"? Sadhguru: "My hand" means it belongs to you, When it becomes "me" then it leads to a David Eagleman: Okay, I think... so you're what you identify yourself as... Sadhguru: Yes. See, you can... The nature Because human intellect and human intelligence which was there for every other creature, that they could function like an automated machine through certain instinctual process. What has happened with a human being with the process of evolution is... he is... the human being has broken and there is an intelligence But functioning consciously means which is too scary for a whole lot of people. So, the best thing is identify with something But this some sense of what you are, which you took on, what you took on, makes sense for your It doesn't explore life, it keeps you sane, it helps you to sleep well in the night but of knowing, it doesn't awaken the possibility of exploring So if this has to happen, the most important not identified with anything. When I said it's so hard because everybody is busy wanting This is all I did in my life - to remain uneducated, not to be influenced by parents, by family, by religion that's happening around you, culture that's happening around you, Just to be the way Creation intended I may not fit into the university milieu Just simply the way you were born, not tangling up your intelligence to any particular thing - either your nationality or your religion or your race or your creed or your family or any kind of identity or your gender or whatever - simply to be able to view your life just as a piece of life. If one does this, then you will see perception will explode in ways that they have not imagined possible. David Eagleman: Now, as a physical body, by the clothing of your culture, by... Sadhguru: No, this (Referring to his clothing) David Eagleman: But you don't dress as somebody Sadhguru: When I'm in the North Pole, I will I think (Laughter). David Eagleman: So, you can't help... So... so, from my perceptive, there is this issue of brain plasticity, which is to say that and I think it's exactly consistent with your description about who you are in the end is an There's also the case that we come to the which I think is consistent with of all of your ancestors leading up to this point. But because we are creatures that the... our cultures and we speak this particular language and we... we are males and we dress Now, I'm guessing you're going to say but Sadhguru: See, what is a social requirement is one thing (Laughs). I just saw you going into the women's room (Laughs). David Eagleman: And you too, by the way (Laughter). Sadhguru: Because that was the David Eagleman: Yes. Sadhguru: So, by social norm you do certain things, because in the room that we were sitting I don't know why they marked it like that. David Eagleman: I don't know (Laughter). Sadhguru: So, you went in, I went in, every other So, now what you do for the norm that exists, so that What you identify with is another thing. So, the moment you identify with anything for that matter, starting from your body to everything else, what is your body is the limited body, what you call as community is a much bigger body, what you call as humanity is a much bigger body People think it's better to be identified when there is a war or when there is some situation, people think it's better to be identified with the it takes away the fundamental Identity is required for survival process, but it is not an exploratory process, because the intention of science is to know. See, technology is a fallout. Unfortunately in this world, nobody would fund science if it did not spin technology, which is a very unfortunate thing, because human intelligence wants to know. It need not be useful, it simply wants to know. So, technology is useful and what is useful today, tomorrow you may realize is very destructive, it may take away our life. So, technology has to be judiciously looked at - but that judiciousness has gone because Everything that we do, after fifty years now we're doing the right thing," we come back and say, "Then we did the wrong thing, Every... every stage of life, we seem to know it looking back, we did not know nothing, So, technology is something that Science must happen rampantly, mysticism must happen rampantly, because this is simply exploratory, this is not about seeing how to make it useful. But today, modern science has become If you don't make it useful, If you simply say, "I want to know," How can it be turned into an enterprise - This is a wrong way to approach science, because science is a fundamental need it's the nature of human intelligence, it is not something that somebody made up, This is a fundamental need within human intelligence - wanting to know. It is the nature of a human being, if he sees whether it's a small thing or a big thing. So, to continuously sustain that wonder, that sense of wanting to know, is the basis of science and mysticism. It is only the fundamental approach is Science is trying to achieve everything through going by the physical laws. But physical is like the peel of the fruit, The peel is useful only as a protective layer to the fruit. Once the fruit is eaten, peel goes to the trashcan. See right now, the fruit is inside, so this body is very important. We have to feed it, we have to decorate it, we have to dress it up, we have to pamper it in so many ways. Tomorrow morning, if the fruit is gone, nobody is interested in this body anymore, nobody wants to transact with this anymore. Only because there is something else inside, Once this is gone, what is this (Referring to the body)? This (Referring to the body) is just a... like a fruit peel, people want to get rid of it at the earliest. At least in America, they dress it up. In India within four hours (claps) you must get rid of the because once he's dead, "leave the dead to the dead," you know somebody said a long time ago (Laughter). Once... As long as they're alive, you do because the peel is meaningless without the fruit. Right now, the fundamental flaw in this approach is, in terms of well-being for us, comfort the kind of comfort and convenience we're enjoying, this is a fruit of science or technology, rather. That's a question mark. Comfort and convenience That's a question mark, because let's say hundred years ago or 1,000 years ago, are you more joyful than them, Sadhguru: Okay. So, are you more blissed out We're in much more comfort but we are not in much more joyful states or pleasant states within ourselves. Or in essence, our well-being or the fundamental though the physical quality of our life has changed like unimaginable proportion in the last fifty years. So, we are trying to approach If you go through physical means, I think - in my perception, I am not a scientist, I think the physicists are near the glass wall, David Eagleman: That's the unknown question, right? We have no guarantee how far we'll get in science. We may run... By glass wall, I assume you mean Sadhguru: Where... where the present faculties The present faculties of five senses and a brain David Eagleman: That we hit a long time ago. Sadhguru: Is that so? David Eagleman: Quantum Physics - you can't understand it but you can write it down in equations that make predictions accurate out to fourteen decimal places. So, we think it's pretty good and We can see things much smaller and and we understand the wondrousness and the subtleness of everything around us much better than we did before. But the actual physics, a human can't understand, So, we've already hit that point. And certainly it's the case with the human brain, which is made up of almost a with thousands of trillions of connections Sadhguru: I like the way you're Like some people are talking about food David Eagleman: Yeah, well, Sadhguru: You feed on the brain (Laughter). David Eagleman: Yeah (Laughs). But the reason... is because it's a system of such unimaginable We have no way that a human could perceive You know, this is this three pound organ but we've already hit that point a we can make new strains of mathematics, we can make computer simulations but we'll never get it. I'll never get the brain. All I can do is take the... you know, the way (Laughs)... the way that you explained the sixteen You know, best I can do is take the thousands make some cartoony model that my impoverished Sadhguru: They're building a simulator, David Eagleman: Yeah. Sadhguru: Henry Markram is busy (Both Laugh) All that is fine, we are looking at the The complexity of what's happening See, looking at the physical mechanics of the brain, the neuronal function and the electric this thing whatever things happening, is fantastic because of the complexity of what it is, It is the gadget, no question, okay? This human gadget is the gadget on the planet. Of what we have seen, this is the most sophisticated gadget on the planet, there's no question about that. Keeping that aside, but even this brain can be manufactured with So, I'm saying there is an intelligence here which can create a brain. David Eagleman: I think that's the heart What I mean by that is, you know, so, but studying the genetic code and can you unpack a human being, because whatever if there's a separate you or not, what we from these four (Laughs) letters of and I mean these base pairs that make these proteins and somehow, that all gets unpacked, fueled by bread and carrots and so on. Sadhguru: You know, these kind of questions It happened almost 15,000 years ago, Adiyogi, that means the first yogi, he had seven disciples. These seven disciples are full of questions. They are... Some of them are astronomers, some of them are serious mathematicians, After some time, Adiyogi is bored with their questions because whatever they ask, it's just a product of their intellect, they're not able to ask a question beyond that. So they ask, "What is the nature of this... your cosmos? Where does it begin, where does it end, how big is it?" He's just bored, so he says, "Your... The entire cosmos, I can pack it into Then they were flabbergasted by this, then they said, "What is it made of? If you can pack such a huge cosmos, which we do... we can't even imagine where it begins and He was completely bored even to utter a word, five elements. Just these five elements, the entire If you master the five elements, If you don't master the five elements, - as you approach it it will take on a trillion new forms. As you try to study it, it can take on a because that is what it is capable of. Just five things. Five million things would be difficult. Five - I'm sure you and me can study, isn't it? At least I'm capable of five (Laughter). You're talking in millions and billions, but I'm five (Laughter). David Eagleman: Are you going to tell me Sadhguru: Hmm (Laughs)? David Eagleman: Are you going to tell me Sadhguru: You know these five elements, it's called earth, fire, water, air, space, these are five things. David Eagleman: Maybe (Laughs), I mean maybe Sadhguru: Everything is just within this Everything that you call as physical creation has and all of it is in movement - that's called air. All of it ascribes to some temperature - that is fire. And in everything, there is water, If there is no water, there's no cohesiveness in anything. And all of it is held together by what we call as akash. Here we're calling it as space. In English language it doesn't really describe what we're saying, but it's called akash. Maybe a more closer word in English language would be ether. Etheric space or whatever they're calling it as. So, these are the five things, everything is made of these five things. So, you don't have to study the trillions of things, If you understand these five things, then everything becomes accessible. So, the fundamental, the most basic process - unfortunately, the word yoga conjures completely the most fundamental aspect of yoga is called This means cleansing of the elements so that you can feel them separately in your own system. This very body (Gestures) is seventy-two percent water and twelve percent earth, six percent air, four percent fire, remaining is space. If you take charge of these things, what you need to know, everything that is life is here, because modern physicists are saying, "As you sit here, every subatomic particle is in communication with the rest of the cosmos." If it is so, you just have to become alive to it, Rather than going around the cosmos and studying, I think there is some constructional theory, something coming up in California, I don't know you must be acquainted with these things. Somebody told me... David Eagleman: I read... I blurbed (Referring to writing the description on the back cover of a book) book actually, on the back (Laughs)... Sadhguru: So, fundamentally what they are or the biggest thing, everything, the fundamental design is same, it is only the complexity and sophistication Between an amoeba and you, It is much more complex and sophisticated, So, if it so, the most fundamental materials, aspect of what we see in this Creation, then you have a key to every aspect of life. as you study, they will multiply into billions and trillions. David Eagleman: It seems it might depend So, if you want to create a drug for cancer you need to do something with those five elements Sadhguru: So, it's not about exploration, Let me ask you a question? David Eagleman: I would love to know. I've wondered that question (Laughter) and I get it - that science isn't getting me there. I mean, I know I've been in science I get much more towards that question which was my first love before I went to science. So, I take the point that science What would you say? I've wondered what the point is. Sadhguru: (Laughs) No, no, when... when we this is an unfortunate reality, which is... Right now, science has moved from an If you see an atom - how to use it. If you see a bacteria - how to use it. If you see an elephant - how to use it. Of course, the next thing is if you see a human being Everything - how to use it? This is not what life is about. You may get to know how to use every damn thing, but still life won't get any better. If you know how to keep this one (Referring to oneself), life will get better, believe me. If you just know how to sit here blissed out, life will get better. David Eagleman: I see that point. Let me ask you, I'm curious what you I think you and I come from the same perspective that we're very limited in what we can actually see and that an animal would see reality differently than you and I and you and I might see it differently also. If one of us has synesthesia and so when we hear music, we see colors, things like that, then we might have So, what would it be like if you could Sadhguru: See, languages... Language can go it can go only that far. When you speak any language, If it does not make logical sense, Yes? Because language has this... Language is deeply enslaved to the fundamental logic, which is a product of our intellect. Without it, we could not speak. So, now you're asking about something, which is not going to be logically correct. So, I'm not willing to make a fool of myself here, talking about something that's not but we will talk about it. David Eagleman: Okay (Laughter). Sadhguru: In a... In a different way. This happened, Adiyogi had a family, the first yogi. So, some disciple of his from South India carried a basket of mangoes. Have you tasted an Indian mango? David Eagleman: Yeah. Sadhguru: Indian mango? David Eagleman: I've been to India, yeah. Sadhguru: Okay. So, it's during this season This time of the year, mango is Everybody is head to toe mango, okay (Laughter)? So, mangoes drive us crazy. In southern India, we have over two hundred varieties of mangoes (Laughs). So, different days where they want to eat different types of mangoes and they want to cook mango, they want to... Everything is mango, okay? People have come up with facial creams, So, somebody carried a basket of mangoes and Tch, but by the time they came, either they threw it away or they ate it up, By the time they came there, only one mango was left. One beautiful South Indian mango, tch. I'm talking about it like you talk about brain, tch (Laughter). It... Believe me, it's sweet, not like the brain (Laughter). So, now Adiyogi has a wife and two children, two boys. Now, one mango... Mango is not like an apple, you can't cut It can only be eaten like this (Gestures), So, what to do? Both the boys came running, So, they didn't know what to do, then they said, "What?" They have to set up something - who gets the mango? They said, "Okay, let's have a Because these are Adiyogi's children, They said, "Whoever goes around the world So, the younger boy immediately set off wanting to make three rounds and he went away. The older boy, who was little obese (Laughter), he just sat there, he didn't move, Then they thought, "Maybe he's given up on the mango, the young boy wants to get it, But this boy sat there for some time, he went around his father and mother They said, "What! You didn't even run? What do you mean?" "The race is about going around the world. He is going around the world. You are my world, I've gone around, They couldn't argue with this logic, so they gave him the mango. He ate. Then the boy... the younger boy came and, you know, things happened, fireworks (Laughter)... fireworks happened, he became very furious, But what I am saying is - there is a subjective reality When I say subjective reality, I'm not talking Like you're talking about what is smell for somebody is taste for someone else, what is sweet for somebody is bitter for somebody else, what's light for one person is darkness for another creature. Here I see one creature (Laughter), right behind, staring at me. So, this perception is... These five senses are If survival is what we are seeking, But once you're looking at life as an exploration, you want to know life, not just live life, you want to know. When you want to know, five senses are no good... they are not sufficient faculties to know. Right now, this brain - I'm... I'm not trying this brain is nothing without the five senses. It is these five agencies, which are gathering information and feeding up this brain all the time, both... Every moment of your wakefulness and sleep, if somebody is wearing a strong perfume otherwise generally you may not notice. But if you walk from here to there, your olfactory cognition is taking in if you walk from here to there. It is just that you have not paid and your other faculties are overriding that. Suppose you did not have eyes, ears, nothing, you will see suddenly your nostrils you can just smell out how many people are there. If you bring your dog here, he almost He doesn't know just some human smell. He knows individually, distinct We also have that, because our neurological system is way more sophisticated than that of a dog, but there are other overriding But if you wish, you can develop that to a certain level. So, cognitive distinctions are there and cognitive confusion is there as you say... What's that word? Our smell becomes a color and David Eagleman: Synesthesia. Sadhguru: Okay, whatever (Laughter). No, it's anesthesia, synesthesia, something is lost, something is mixed up, like a drink. A man who... who is just out of the bar may feel that way, Everything may become colorful or not colorful So, these things are happening or enhance these things with a little bit of This is an essentially a chemical soup. What kind of a soup is the question. So, our whole effort in the yogic system is how to keep it very equanimous and exuberant at the same time. The problem with most people is, if they become equanimous... become... they become deathlike. If they become exuberant, they keep flipping all the time. To be equanimous and exuberant means your You are vibrantly alive but if this one thing happens, suddenly your There are other dimensions of perception, which will not come into one's experience For example, two hundred years ago, I heard ninety-seven percent of Unites States population was illiterate. Today probably almost hundred percent It's the infrastructure of school rooms and human infrastructure of teachers and many other things and books and whatever. If this infrastructure was not built, even today So similarly, for turning inward there is no infrastructure. Few individuals may be doing it somewhere, but there is no large scale infrastructure in the society as to look at life just as life, not as to how it is useful. Life need not be useful - It is a phenomena to be experienced. We have come here to experience life, not to use life. Isn't it so? Hello? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: We have come here to experience life, This is not a work donkey (Laughter). David Eagleman: I'm trying to understand so where we clearly have overlap in the way wanting to understand everything around us but there is this sense in which we're not limited by our intellect because I have the opportunity to ride on and those that have come before me. It's a collective intellect that's now encoded on and I have an opportunity to take experiences from across the world, places that I've never been, ideas that I would have never thought of and so on and feed all that in. So, it's a much richer diet, first of all. Sadhguru: A much richer data. David Eagleman: It's a diet of data... Sadhguru: Okay. David Eagleman: I mean, it's what shapes Sadhguru: No. It's... It is just that today than maybe hundred years ago, all right? But still - we've already looked at this - David Eagleman: I agree, compared to but it's moving in the right direction. The un-slakeable thirst for knowledge that humans have means that there is this ratcheting up each generation. So it's not that I'm l... It is of course the case that I'm limited in my thoughts to the impressions that I've had, but I have a much bigger fire hose of impressions now that can build on the scaffolding of the generations before me, the things they've already figured out so that I can start at the next level in which... Sadhguru: You start at the next level for what? David Eagleman: That's a good question. in the way that science cares about knowing. just the way that scientist asks questions. Richard Feynman, the physicist, said, Sometimes, something useful comes out of it So, it's a way of knowing and it's a way of... it's a collaborative way of knowing where we link arms across space and across generations as well, to try to get somewhere. Sadhguru: I'm in no way trying to disagree with that or But I'm saying if knowing is the purpose... - how much time and energy somebody may be questionable from person to person, but everybody wants to know But knowing everything by intellect, we will know the surface of everything but never Because the only piece of... the only doorway You don't know the world any other way than the way this one (Referring to oneself) David Eagleman: Agreed. Sadhguru: There is no other way. You don't know how that (Gestures) is, you only know the way it is happening I don't know how you are really, I only know the way your picture is right now projecting in my brain or my system and how I'm perceiving it. As you know, you have drilled holes into people's brains and impaired something, something (Laughs) and put electric current and whatever you've done... I'm not saying you as a person, You definitely know by interfering with a certain The world has not changed but perception has changed, So, that dimension of life is only useful for survival. When I say survival, everything that To survive better, to enhance our survival to a better status, or in an enhanced way of survival process. But once you've come as a human being, it doesn't matter how well you survive, It's never going to be good enough, because It doesn't matter how big our homes get, how better we dress, how better we eat - still we will feel it's not enough, because David Eagleman: So, here's the part I'm this issue about seeking knowledge. Let's say either in science or in mysticism, we depend on our senses for that, yes? Or you're saying that there's... Sadhguru: I'm saying they're not dependable. David Eagleman: Agreed. Sadhguru: They're not dependable. David Eagleman: But isn't it all we have Sadhguru: Yes. See... see, for example, suppose If something edible came, we definitely We wouldn't try our ears first, then nostrils and then - no. We just know how to eat, no question about that. So, I'm saying everything concerned This is millions of years of memory, which is there within us, we know how to survive. But we wouldn't know how to read, we wouldn't which have become a part of our life. Do you remember when you were two or three years of age, when how complicated it was (Laughter)! It was so complicated, just to get it right, you had to write hundred times to get it. Today with eyes closed, you can do it. Because of a certain striving, isn't it? Similarly, anything beyond survival, if we have As I said, striving for inward perception is something, unfortunately, because we are on the thrill of technology. It's a fantastic thing but you will see as time progresses, as technology becomes better and better, human beings will become more and more frustrated. If you have not noticed this, just look out and see, In your generation or my generation, you would have never seen, we never knew what is damn boredom is. When you were eight or ten, but today you see ten year old kids are just bored with it (Gestures) because they've seen the damn cosmos through their phone screen (Laughter), they know it all (Both Laugh). So, I'm saying all this access may Comfort and convenience will come but well-being will not happen, the purpose of enhancing human experience on this planet will not happen. It will only entertain us intellectually big time, but I'm saying it's limited. David Eagleman: Maybe the thing that in exactly analogy with the idea of building would have been thirty years ago, that it would be But now you have 500,000 followers Sadhguru: I was... (Laughs) As I was... I was in a very large gathering of people and somebody asked me, "Sadhguru, what about all the gurus, ancient gurus who were there, what about them?" I said, "Nothing, nothing, I'm the greatest guru" (Laughter). Because when Krishna was there, he could speak to... He is a gentle... very gentle human being, probably he could speak to fifty people at a time. When Gautama came, he stood up and Vivekananda came, he had a big voice, Look at here, right now, I'm speaking to 50,000 people and if I want, I can speak to the whole world sitting here, so I'm the greatest guru ever (Laughter) because technology has definitely facilitated that - no question. But at the same time, technology You can... As you can deliver well-being, It doesn't have a mind of its own, it is a certain capability and all machines from a bicycle to a spacecraft or a computer or whatever - essentially, only what we can do, enhancement of that. Because we can speak, now a microphone has come, Because we can see, a telescope has come, Only what we can do, we are enhancing it We have not created one machine or gadget to do something that we ourselves David Eagleman: I agree with that. Sadhguru: So, I'm saying you're only David Eagleman: For now, yes. But as you know... Sadhguru: No, it can... See, right now, with a phone, I can talk to somebody in India. It may... Technology may come - I can smell the food that they're cooking in India. If I'm missing home, they can turn on the phone and I can smell the food I'm not saying it's beyond that, it's very much possible David Eagleman: So you're very interested in My interest is in outer engineering and as you know, I've built a vest in my laboratory with vibratory motors on it and we're experimenting now with feeding in new kinds of data streams into the brain, because the brain appears to be flexible enough to take in any kind of new data streams and have a sensation of it. So, if I feed in weather patterns from the or if I feed in real time stock market data, you can, in theory, develop a sense of the Now, we're just at the foot of the mountain on this but it may be that there are a whole and that would be a proof of principle of developing something that goes... that goes beyond, that makes a new kind of sense, essentially, and eventually, we'll probably build new kinds of sensors Sadhguru: But still, they will only enhance your present capabilities, not something new, not entirely new. David Eagleman: I don't know, if I could actually have an individual experience of weather patterns two hundred miles wide, as in I'm walking around, I'm tapped into that, I think that's a new human experience, that's not something I've had before. Sadhguru: I'll tell you, this is something when I was living on a farm. So, there is a man, a middle-aged man in the village Ninety-five percent gone, just if you So, because he cannot hear, he cannot say anything, So, everybody thinks he is a fool and, you know, So, I took him as my man Friday and I said, So, he was with me. What I found was - one morning, he gets up and gets the plough and the... you know, those are the days, not tractor days, we still plough with the animals. So, he gets the animals and the plough ready. He said to, "I'm getting ready to plough." He said, "It's going to rain today." I said, "Nonsense, where is it going to rain?" He said, "No, it's going to rain." He simply sits there like this (Gestures) he can't hear, he simply sits there like this (Gestures) If there's no work, he just sits in one place, And you won't believe, it'll rain. The day he says it'll rain, it will rain. Then I sit up, "Okay, I'm doing all this yoga, So, I sat there day after day, day after day, turning like this (Gestures), trying feel this, trying to everything. I applied myself for eighteen months and today, in tropical climate, with my eyes closed, I will say, "Today, it's going to rain," It's just a keener observation of everything, that's all. You just... Because he could not hear, he just knows when it'll rain, and always bang on. David Eagleman: Maybe he had one of my vests on (Laughter). Sadhguru: Possible, but he was not sparkling like you. (Laughter) David Eagleman: I'm curious on a completely different topic. When you look at other faith traditions, when you look at the the rabbis, sages and imams and people all over the world of different traditions, what do you see in common? Sadhguru: The common is they all believe because I think the... the main reason why every they have not realized the immensity of Only if you see "I do not know", the possibility of knowing arises, longing to know arises, seeking to know arises. Then, knowing becomes a possibility and a reality. Everything that you do not know, if you just believe, you've destroyed the possibility of knowing altogether. But belief is a... is something that builds confidence into a human being, makes him... far more sure-footed than others. But confidence without clarity is very disastrous, both for the individual and the See, suppose, let's say my vision is not clear - I want to walk through you but... You know what a disaster I will be for you, all right? If I understand my vision is not clear and I don't have this foolish idea of confidence, then I will walk gently, I'll seek somebody's help, I'll have some humility otherwise I will see how to clear But if you have no clarity and you have confidence - it's a dangerous... it's a... it's TNT. It's bound to explode on humanity somewhere. It keeps happening here, there. We are just looking at eruptions, small eruptions, But at the same time, as human intellect is sparkling like never before, for the first time in the history of humanity, more human beings are thinking for themselves than ever before. All these thousands of years, one village or one town with a few thousand people others would just take instructions from him. Now, almost everybody is able to think. How clearly, how much clarity or confusion is a different thing As this evolves, I believe in the next fifty to hundred years, as more and more human beings start thinking for themselves, then you will see believing in something because essentially believing something means - essentially, believing something means you are not We all have to come to this much - "What I know, I know, what I do not know, I do not know." This is a fantastic way to be. An "I do not know" person cannot fight with anybody, that's the biggest thing. "I know" - always, there is a fight. So, all these religious processes which are... started as an individual experience for somebody, that person shared his experience Maybe a dozen or maybe a hundred and over a period of time it gets organized So, it has a huge responsibility of handling psychological well-being of the human beings in the sense... See, human beings are psychologically always confused and they don't know where to be, what is their well-being and for every small thing, there is confusion, you know? It's something that I realized I refused to... I'm sorry I'm speaking in a university. I refused to sit in the classrooms So, I sat in the garden outside, under a tree. Once I planted myself there, everybody knew under the tree, where all kinds of debates and discussions we started and people started coming to me You know, students having their own problems, their education problems, boyfriend-girlfriend problems, parental problems. As I sat there and heard through everybody's everything, in these three years that I was there, I must have It became like a problem point - I realized I was the only freako who Everybody had a problem, which made them normal. I... I did not know what's a problem. It's not that everything was perfect but it's I just saw situations are there, some works for me, If you really look at it, the problem with humanity is just this - from being a monkey or a chimpanzee to a human being, it's actually a small change, you know? From a chimpanzee to a human being, That's not much, isn't it (Laughter)? We could forget sometime who we are (Laughter), but what a phenomenal change in the intelligence So the problem is just this - we have a... intellect, Whichever way we touch it, it cuts us. All the suffering, human suffering on the planet, From outside, how much suffering Nothing much. It's all generated... It's all self-help. This is because this evolutionary process As Charles Darwin went about describing, a goat became a giraffe, it took many million years. A pig became an elephant - many, many million years, but from monkey to man, to a point where people think there is a So quickly that we have still not We're struggling as to how to manage this intelligence and this intelligence is the basis of people's suffering. If you remove half the brain, most of them will be peaceful (Laughter). Yes or no (Laughter/Applause)? David Eagleman: Yeah, yeah (Laughs). Sadhguru: Hey you're the expert, you must tell me. You know, in a... in mental asylums, when people are completely out of control, remove part of the brain, they become peaceful. So right now, just to be peaceful and happy is such a huge challenge for most human beings, simply because they're not able to conduct the... the sparkle of their own intelligence. If they were little dumber, they would be peaceful (Laughter). Yes. So, the problem is not of... The problem is of plenty, the problem is not of paucity. which we are not able to handle, There is an intelligence here Unless you create a stable enough platform, will not work for us, it'll work against us, simply because it's a sharp knife. Why we do not give a knife to a child's hand because child's hand is not steady enough. So, this process of perception and understanding questions being asked by the intellect. Intellect in bits and pieces, because all the information that comes to the intellect is coming through sense organs and sense organs perceive everything Without context, they cannot perceive anything. For example, if I touch this glass, it feels cool to me. It is not that I know what is happening with this glass. It is just that my body temperature is in a certain way, If I lower my body temperature and So, sense organs are giving a perspective only in comparison, which is useful for survival. What this means is, suppose you're six feet tall, you stand like a tall man, you walk like a tall man, You went to another society where suddenly, you stand like a short man, walk like a short man, feel like a short man, you are a short man (Laughter). So, I'm saying this perspective of... is only useful for survival process. Now that science - science in its essence - How to use it is not the question. How to know this is just an intrigue that... from nowhere we just pop up and full-scale drama For this, we have simplistic answers - "Okay, you will go to heaven. Okay, you will go to hell. The people that you don't like will go to hell. Of course, you and me will go to heaven" (Laughter). So, these things are there. This is... We are Solace is what you're seeking - Belief is a good thing because today, modern psychiatrists are here trying to solve these problems that human beings are having with their intelligence, which are... turned against themselves. Essentially, all human suffering is their own intelligence So, psychiatrists are trying to handle but and they need lot of furniture and all this (Laughter). But religions and faiths have managed people because they've given solace But solace is one thing, solution and If you're talking about seeking to know, If solace is what you're seeking - yes, instead of going to weekly psychiatrists' sessions, if you simply believe something, everything will just settle down within you. It's a fantastic tool that way. David Eagleman: This is a place where I feel like science and mysticism have a real meeting ground is at this three words of "I don't know" and sometimes science gets a bad reputation about this and people say things like, But scientists never use the word proof or truth or, Instead, you know, this capacity to hold on to multiple and say, "I don't know what is the right answer" It's an important part of the fabric of everything we do in science is this understanding that Mother Nature is way bigger than we are and that we, in our lifetimes, might not get anything but Sadhguru: The... The process, the methodology If you come for million lifetimes, still you will not know because the phenomena of creation is such, as you're studying it, it'll multiply into a million more. That is the nature of creation, I think this is what is happening to science. What they thought is one thing, they looked into it, they found a million and they thought, "Okay, we got a million." They looked into that million, it became a billion. Endlessly, it's going on because So, looking at the physical phenomena I'm just saying the seeking is fantastic but the methodology will only throw out useful technologies. But how many technologies do you need Okay, your iPhone S6 is good enough, What are you going to do with it? Even the damn S6... most people are not using... Yes or no (Laughter)? Hmm? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: Most people are not using three percent of that phone's capability (David Eagleman Laughs). David Eagleman: Look, I think our whether we are always going to confront Sadhguru: No, I don't... I don't say they're problems. David Eagleman: Questions... Sadhguru: There'll be more things to study, that's all. David Eagleman: Yes, but in terms... sometimes once you understand the structure you could measure the neutron to finer Because that's not the fundamental problem anymore and we're still at such a young age that we don't know whether science will keep bifurcating into or whether it'll just become weighing things and it doesn't matter because now we kind of get the core of it. We might not know that for a hundred I don't know for certain that Sadhguru: No. David Eagleman: It may be that we can put Sadhguru: No, what I'm saying is you're David Eagleman: I agree with that. Sadhguru: Sense organ is the I'm saying sense organs are not reliable instruments. You ask the owl (Laughter). David Eagleman: I... I just... I think that surmount our sense organs. It's trying to figure out this... Sadhguru: No, how would they surmount? David Eagleman: By understanding laws of nature but they seem to be correct like quantum mechanics, figuring out why force equals mass times acceleration. Why is that true? Nobody knows but that's the way that people pursue trying to understand... It's a way of reaching into the cosmos and figuring out that there are laws that go beyond my sense organs. I have no way to... to smell or touch F equals M-A (Referring to Newton's laws of motion) and yet it seems to hold and that's the the little peripheral devices that we come to the table with and try to understand what's past that. It is true that we have to translate things or we might hear if we're a blind person but in theory that's something that's Sadhguru: See, we distribute this... We... Just for convenience, I'll make it into four, okay (Laughs)? We look at creation as four different dimensions - sthula, which means the gross physical creation, sookshma, which means subtle, that means you cannot perceive them through sense organs but if you hone your attention to a certain level, then you can perceive that. So this is called as vishesh gyan, which means an extraordinary perception, or it's called vigyan. Today in India, in local languages, the word for science is vigyan, okay? That means it's vishesh gyan. So, we are perceiving things that but still, they are in the realm of physicality and all physicality is perceivable through If you may not be able to perceive, some other creature on the planet is able to perceive. I think... David Eagleman: Yeah, many different creatures Sadhguru: Yes, but they're able to perceive. So, what is called as sthula is gross reality, What is considered as sookshma, still physicality, but so subtle that your eyes and ears but if you're willing to pay attention, you can perceive. Then, next is called as shoonya, which literally translates as emptiness in English but emptiness is not the word. It is... It is physicality without form, there is no form. All physical has a defined form but shoonya means physicality has reached a place where there is no form to it, it's just physical or The next is called as shi-va, which means that which is not. That means that which is not physical at all. So, existence is seen as these four components there's a whole methodology. Why I'm saying this is, if only scientists who have pursued if they pay little attention to the most if they turn inward rather than constantly if they spend equal amount of time turning inward, David Eagleman: For many scientists, the reason they turn outward is as a way of... of understanding what... what this is all made out of, which would include... which would include understanding Let me ask you this - when you say, I hear that and understand it in a particular way but I'm... I want to know what you mean by a piece of life? Sadhguru: Because what you drink is life, all this we're gathering and which has acquired a certain level of information, and its own tendencies and its own character It's like if you blow soap bubbles, When they burst, the most essential ingredient of the bubble was the air. Where is it? It's all there (Gestures). So, this (Gestures) Similarly, this (Gestures) is all life, here (Referring to oneself), I'm a piece of life. And I... This is... Life has given me this privilege that I can hold this piece of life within myself and experience it as if I am by myself, everything. This is a fantastic privilege but David Eagleman: And do you see that as being illusory - the idea that you're a piece of life and I'm a piece of life, given that we share atoms and when I'm breathing out and you're breathing in and so on, we're exchanging atoms - do you? David Eagleman: Do you... Do you see that or is that... are we all the same life? Sadhguru: See, the thing is right now, you know all these apps have come and different kinds of softwares have come. So, this is easy to understand today because people And they're alive in their own way because a certain amount of information has been calibrated in a certain way to do certain things and it's almost alive. I think most people have a better relationship with their WhatsApp than with their family (Laughter), okay? Yes (Laughs), people are so engaged with it because it has a character of its own and it's even predicting what's the next word you will type (Laughter), which your family cannot do, your friends cannot do, probably (Both Laugh). So, this (Referring to oneself) is just like that. It has accumulated a certain amount of information. This vast life that's available, This is my bubble (Gestures), that's your bubble (Gestures). What is the content of the bubble? It's the same stuff. But what is the surface of the bubble? My surface is entirely different from yours and it has its own characteristic, it has So this is an unconscious software that every one of us are building with phenomenal amount of information that we are acquiring as we sit here. The five senses are gathering a The amount of information that one if you spend a million years, you can't process it, that much information we are gathering. This is what traditionally we refer to as karma. Tch, it's all twisted out in America, I'm seeing (Laughter) - the word karma - everybody is Now, people are named karma, I heard So, we will... Suppose, we see right now, It's quite good I think in the evening. At least the air conditioning is good, everything is nice, you're fine. Nobody is troubling you here but you're sitting here miserably. Tch, then we say, "Ayyo, it's his karma." What it means is - the word karma So, we say, "Who you are right now is The way you have structured yourself, the kind of womb that you were born in is also an unconscious choice because you created a certain type of tendencies, that's where you moved, in search of that kind of tendencies, what... what facilitates that. So, this software is building up so only thing that I want to say now is - whatever you can do unconsciously, if you are willing, if you are willing, you can do the same thing consciously. If you can build so much software unconsciously, I can show you millions of people who restructure themselves in a matter of few weeks. I can show you a few people where the very shape of their face will change in twenty-four hours' time, simply because they start a certain process. Entirely, their whole personality is altered within a matter because distancing yourself from your genetic memory, there's an entire process. Most Indians have forgotten, Whenever somebody dies or there are processes how to distance yourself from your genetic memory because this is very important. If you want to be a unique fresh bubble (Laughs) of your own, then you must distance yourself from genetic memory. Otherwise you will see at eighteen, you're a great rebel, you don't want to be like your parents and this and that, you see when you are forty-five, suddenly you start walking like your father, talking like your mother (Laughter), stuff is happening to you. You don't know because don't underestimate these people (Laughter). They won't give up so easily. Your grandfather may be dead and gone but the guy wants to live through you. So, the thing is to distance yourself from genetic memory so that you don't become a cyclical pattern of That means you have to Anything that you can do consciously, you can also do... Anything that you can do unconsciously, if the necessary striving is there. David Eagleman: What does it take for people Sadhguru: It depends how far they want to go. If you... If somebody comes and asks... If I want to know the entire - not the new physics - what has happened till now, If a fresh student comes and asks, is there a time you can say? No, you can say, If he does undergrad and he thinks then you start telling him, "This is not it. If he does that, you will say, "Then you have to do your PhD." After your PhD, you're declared David Eagleman: That's right, that's the path of Sadhguru: So, the most... the most basic thing the most fundamental thing is, first of all, to know that there is another dimension of faculty that there is something beyond, not as something that is said in some scripture or by some guru or some teacher or whatever, but by yourself to know beyond this body, beyond this mind, there is something within you. This experience, if this has to happen, I would say if you are willing to dedicate just thirty hours of absolutely focused time - if you give me - in thirty hours' time, we can bring you to a place, you know something beyond your physicality. What that thing is you don't have to but something beyond your physical nature will become alive within you and you know there is something beyond physical nature. If that is enough inspiration for you to continue your pursuit, then how long it will take - the entire pursuit? You cannot say, each individual needs his own (Laughs). They're saying enough David Eagleman: Okay (Laughter). I have a Sadhguru: Oh. David Eagleman: And Trent, is there a pattern to the Q and A in terms of people getting a microphone or should they just shout? Trent: _____ (Inaudible) David Eagleman: Okay, I see there are microphone runners and people raise their hand, okay. Sadhguru: I thought they're announcing dinner time (Laughter). Questioner: Good evening, Sadhguru. So, I've heard from you in past that for this path of seeking, one does need a guru, one needs someone to show the light. So... So how does one select a guru? How does one know who's the right person David Eagleman: I've got an app for that Sadhguru: See, if I give you a torch light in your hand, it still does not mean you're going to find your way home, okay? A torch light just shows. How you see it, whether you walk the right path, with how you handle this, all this is entirely left to you, but it lights up. The torch light lights up so that you don't step into a drain or you don't step into ditch, it lights up the place. But with the torch light, many people have walked to their death, yes? Yes or no? People have. With head lamps on, they've gone and crashed, right? So, this is just lighting up the place. What you do is always left to you. So, which is the best light? So, who is the best light? It is... You should who is the best light on the planet! I told you give me thirty hours, if it works very well for you, if it enhances your life, then let's try sixty hours. If it works really fantastic, let's try little more. Let's go in installments. I don't want anybody to be hanging on to me that's not the way to go for it. Experiment with it, if it works, let's put If it works further, let's put more energy and not today coming here and making a decision - This is not marriage, okay (Laughter)? Questioner: Can I... Right here (Referring to his location). First, I would ask David for a question now. I don't want to discount science from mysticism or mysticism from science. But what I want to... Through this discussion, as you say you've observed, Have you ever studied someone who has observed themselves from outside like suspending yourself from And to Sadhguru - what would be the best technique to achieve that level of human intelligence that you suspend yourself... out of yourself and observe yourself? David Eagleman: So, it depends exactly what There is what's called an "out of body illusion" It's a little complicated to explain the set up but it has to do with wearing some video goggles and putting a camera behind you you're seeing your own body there and you know somebody scratches your back and you can see your back getting scratched but you're seeing your own body at a distance and this allows people to sometimes have a very clear experience where their body is there but they feel like So, there's a neuroscience group in Europe that was able to induce this illusion and they... that gave them the opportunity to stick them while they were having this out of body experience Brain imaging is limited in the sense that there're particular sets of Christmas lights that light up when you're having that kind of experience but unfortunately, that's where science gets because we can describe the neural but we don't know yet why they're identical to that subjective experience. So, the answer to your question is it has been measured but the answer is not satisfying. Sadhguru: I must tell you my experience of this. I don't subject to these indignities anymore. Many years ago, it happened that somebody wanted to... I was in some institute in India and it was a little bit of an obligation, I said, "Okay." They wanted to study my... you know, measure my gamma waves in my brain. I did not know I had gamma waves in my brain (Laughter). They said, "No, you have. We want to study, They said, "You teach meditation to everybody" (Laughter). I said, "Yes, I teach them because they You teach them methods of sitting still. If you want I'll sit still." But their problem is their scientific study, they want the name of the meditation, the method and what happens to the gamma waves, something. That's how the process is. Then I sat still, they put some After some time, maybe fifteen-twenty minutes, they... with some metallic object they started hitting my knee. I thought, "Okay, part of their experiment" Then they... my ankles... You know that... David Eagleman: Yeah (Laughs). Sadhguru: They're hitting that place. I thought, "Okay it's their experiment, damn experiment is painful" (Laughter) but it became very persistent and extremely painful. Then, I slowly opened my eyes, I opened my eyes and they were all I said, "Did I do something wrong?" They said, "According to our instruments, you are dead" (Laughter). I said, "That's a great diagnosis" (Laughter) and then they said, "You're either dead or you're brain dead." I said, "No, no, that's too insulting. I'll take the first diagnosis. I'm dead, I'm okay (Laughter). If you give me a certificate that I am dead, I can live that (Laughter). If you give me a certificate I'm brain dead, that's not a good thing" (Laughs). So I don't know what this thing was about all instruments created by us are definitely lesser instruments than this one (Referring to oneself). It can't be more than that. Though a telephone can speak that far (Gestures) but they are lesser instruments in terms of sophistication. In terms of a particular action, A bicycle can go... run faster than I can run, a motorcycle can go much faster, where... there is an aircraft which can fly - yes, all that is there. But in terms of sophistication, there cannot be anything more sophisticated than who we are because we cannot create something more sophisticated than ourselves. Whatever we create will be a byproduct of who we are. So, in that context, using instruments to measure... You know it's a... It's very simple. There're many, many techniques like this in yoga like, Sadhguru: He was talking to me about how you could trick the mind that a smell can become a sound, a sound can become something else. There are whole lot of... Without all these gadgets, there are many and the magicians of the world have mastered these things, you know? Simply like this (Gestures), they pick things out of your pocket without Because there is a certain way that you can use the faculty to go behind that and do certain things. That apart, in terms of fundamental sophistication, there is nothing more sophisticated than this gadget (Referring to oneself). This is the gadget (Referring to oneself) and this is the only form of experience When I say this is the only form of experience you have - right now can you see me, all of you? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: Just use your hands and point out You know I'm a mystic from South India (Laughter), tch. Now, this light is falling upon me, reflecting, Where do you see me now? Within yourself. Where do you hear me now? Within yourself. Where have you seen the whole world? Within yourself. Everything that ever happened to you, Right now, someone next to you, if they touch your hand, you think you're feeling their hand - no! You're only experiencing the sensations in your hand. You do one thing - you make somebody touch you like this After that, no hand, that person is not here Either you can do it with external stimuli or you can internally manufacture anything that you want. What you call as mental problems they're creating many things without external stimuli. All the time, it's happening. It's happening to everybody in so many different ways. When it goes out of control, we call it an ailment, otherwise almost every human being is... various experiences they're creating without any external stimuli. If you go through your dream, a dream is as true as a reality when you're going through it, isn't it? I was... You know, we started a school a few years ago and this eight year old boy, I just walked into the school, this eight year old boy comes and asks, "Sadhguru, is life real or is it a dream" (Laughter)? I looked at him (Laughs) - this is a eight year old, you have to come with the I said, "Life is a dream, but dream is true." "Go, Sadhguru! You're always like this only" (Laughter)! But that's a fact. Life is a dream, the way it's happening but the dream is true in your experience. But this dream, you can make it whichever you want, You're okay for a joke? David Eagleman: In the sense what (Both laugh)? Sadhguru: On a certain day, a lady went to sleep. In her sleep, she had a dream. In her dream, she saw a hunk of a man Then, he started coming closer and closer and closer. He came so close, she could even feel his breath Then she asked, "Whatwill you do to me?" The man said, "Well lady, it's your dream" (Laughter)! Thank you. If you want to say something, please (Laughter). So, it's your dream - you can make whatever out of it and we can make this into a fantastic dream for ourselves and for everybody on this planet. Science and technology has done wonderful things but I want the scientists to meditate (Laughter). Thank you very much (Applause). David Eagleman: Thank you. Thank you. Sadhguru: Thank you (Laughs). David Eagleman: Thanks. Sadhguru: Thank you.