This is the first of 100 wells Wow! Water! Water! - Oh. You just witnessed a small village unlimited clean drinking One down, 99 more wells in Africa You're going to love this video. Combined, these 100 wells are going to give around half a million people And after building some more wells we flew south And let's just say How's it going? I was not expecting this. Thank you for the welcome. !Jimmy! !Jimmy! Not sure how to react. I appreciate it, everybody. This village threw and Nolan got really into it. Nolan's the most awkward person And that's a lot coming from me. And after being shown Here comes our guest. How's it going? Are you having a good day? It's nice meeting you all. Have a good day. One of the teachers showed me currently get their water, that's extremely unsafe to drink. This is where your students Yes. This is crazy. Yeah. You know, students complaining of because this is the water So we tried to treat. But you see, look at it, you know. But at the end of the day, You have to get some water anyway. This situation These children's and sometimes cut short for But at least for this village, we're going to I don't think this John's going to fit. I have a big head. Let's see if we can find some water. It's raining. It's beautiful. After the water it's fed into enormous barrels And once they're built all of the neighboring villages will not only have clean but a pressurized water means no more doing laundry And pull! On a scale of one to Nolan's mom, Nolan's mom times two. Oh, God. I'll push you off of this. All right, here We built 20 more wells in Kenya, Bro has another well in there. Don't worry, I have more water Just so you know how we built these We use this giant drill to dig past the polluted sources, and into an enormous After that, so that people all around Africa can access water from spigots Let's see how it taste. Like water. It took me about a minute to fill How much water can this provide 3600 gallons a day. Not only will this well cover but literally and village around We say thank you for the water. No problem. This thing can basically You would think that having an effect of this magnitude would require the resources But that's not true. Solving this problem is possible all be putting effort in to fix. What's the secret of success? To be honest, and do it for a long period So I'm going to bring it - Isn't that cool? If you look up, it's recording. All right. All right. Yeah, you can see yourself. We were also able to install a In this village And while we were finishing these wells, we were also able to update one of their schools - How are they liking it? - They like them. And we also updated the classrooms furniture, installed shelves donated a soccer ball - Thank you, Mr Beast. and even put modern whiteboards in all of the classrooms. Do you guys like the projector? - Yes! We were using a chalk that made a lot of dust, We truly appreciate it. No problem. But then when we flew out to the site of the 45th well, had it even harder. Every time they need to get water, they need to take a treacherous, And that mile long hike also happens I wake up very early about 4:00 We are not safe fetching water here. That place is very slippery. Chances of getting in So while we worked on their well, how they currently source water. You guys would have to make - Two times. So a typical student would carry - Yeah. If 200 students did this every day, It could be very hard. Oh, oh boy. Dang, this is very steep. We're just walking down Every day! It was actually surprising And these people go through just to get to this spigot. That water is still unsafe to drink. This is where you guys Yes. And filled with water, these jugs can weigh up to 40 pounds, to be carrying up this mountain. The ladies can carry two of those. Oh, I totally can as well then. And as soon as the jugs were filled, it Hurry up. He's not even sweating or anything. No, I got it. And now, instead of spending hours their new well is only ten feet So they can just fill it up here now. I'm too tired. And so where we built our 46th well, We found out that this village is divided in half It may not look like much now, the water comes up this high And why this bridge is such a the hospital So they're crossing this bridge Despite how dangerous this bridge This river, when it is swollen, it can sweep away people, In the recent past, trying to cross this river. This loss of life is insane The moment we heard about this, So while we started work that would let them reach there, miles from Kenya We've been in Africa and we still have a lot more wells - You kind of smell. I showered this morning. If you let me finish, Can I count on you two - Yes. First on the agenda that was in dire Upon entering, we learned how big of an impact How many kids do you guys In a month... about 50. - So 600 births a year? But unfortunately, have to walk over a mile and then carry these heavy buckets However, the good news is of a new modern well for them. All that needed to be done now All right, Nolan, are you ready? I'm ready. Over. Let me get a dramatic zoom in. Nolan, I pressed the button. Is it working? It's flowing. Do you want to go check it out? - Yes. I love how people are immediately This is easily Nolan here is a professional dancer. He will join. How do I always end up dancing? What is he doing? Oh, gosh. I won't make you watch this anymore. Besides a lot of the students So we decided to give all of them I know it looks like a lot of kids, Full disclosure, Jimmy only knows how to give away Never learned how to ride one. Well, Let's break in all the new bicycles. Three, two, one, go. Everyone's passing me. Be careful, I don't know I don't want to hit anyone. You want to ride it? All right, go for it little man. And after giving away the bikes, building wells Well number 69! This solar powered well is specially designed by providing more than enough water and livestock, even during the dry Each panel is 200 watts. Then it's attached to a pump. That pump can pump 5,000 liters every hour. Basically, it's unlimited amount of That's incredible. And after we left Zimbabwe, to communities all across Africa. So we built more wells in Uganda, And if you want to see more of there's a whole video about that Spending time in these villages. Really, it made me reflect wells, how it brings water to farms how it provides clean conditions how it helps the children healthy lives and build the future We await a new dawn of clean drinking water. Water is life. And with some help from the locals, that this community Lives have been saved. Families will come together. The worries will be gone. The hundred wells we built in this but not enough. Which is why, before you go, I want to urge you all or click the link in description We're literally not profiting a dime 100% of the money building more wells like you saw I know it's weird to do all this stuff, And if no one else is, As you can tell, it really does change the lives of the communities And finally, well,100. Oh, my God. I'm so sorry.