- Hey everybody, what's up? It's Chase. Welcome to another episode here on CreativeLive. You all know this show. This is where I sit down with and I do everything I can with the goal of helping whether that's in career My guest today you will when I say the first thing she wrote &quot;Eat, Pray, Love&quot; Then, she was named one of the Most 100 Influential by Time Magazine. We're here today to talk about creativity, to talk about building and and her new book called &quot;City of Girls.&quot; My guest is the inimitable, Welcome to the show. (upbeat music) (applause) - [Offcamera Audience - Hi. - That was a very dramatic introduction. - Ta-da! - It was like, (makes jazzy intro sounds) Let's put on a show! Thank you for having me in. - Thank you so much, - Thank you. - A novel. - A novel, yeah. Yeah, that's my roots. - I know it, no. - Yeah, it's funny 'cause when people come up to me and they say, &quot;I loved your first book so much.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;I don't think you loved my &quot;tiny, obscure collection &quot;that I published in 1995. (laughs) &quot;I think you're thinking like my third book. You're thinking of (mumbles). But I did get my start in fiction and this is my fourth work of fiction. I love it, it's so fun for me. It's my home. - Did you feel like you went back to it or was it just always, and is it fair to say your about creativity last time for just... Was that the deviation - I guess it's just I don't know, I just follow that tells me what the And I don't overthink it too What is the story that I wanna tell? What is the best form in which to tell it? And this is a novel which is a story I've wanted It's set in New York City in the 1940's in the theater world. But, it's really a book about girls behaving really and not being ruined by it, which is not an easy book to find in the annals of Western history. Because normally, - the sensual girls are ruined. as an antidote to all? - Okay, interesting. It's like a palate cleanser It's like, &quot;Guess what?&quot; 'Cause I feel like all those books are... I love all those books, &quot;Anna Karenina&quot; and all the Henry James books and Emma Bovary and Hedda Gabler. And there's this whole history of books about ruined women, ending in disgrace because they dared to have sensual desire. And I'm like, &quot;So unfair.&quot; It's like, one orgasm and then you're under the wheels So I wanted to write a book celebrating how you can do very stupid and reckless sensual things and and turn into a really interesting, seasoned older woman, which is what this book's about. - Can we make logical Or is it just about sexuality? What's your point here? Is it just the sexuality part? - It's... How do you become yourself? That's also what the book is about. - [Chase] Yeah. a young girl moving to New York in 1940, when she's 19. - [Chase] After failing out of college? - After dropping out of college. I moved to New York in 1986 when I was 19, not to drop out of college. But, I know the feeling of being young, hungry, yearning, craving. And wanting to know, where are my people? Where is my tribe and where am I gonna go to become this thing that I wanna be, and I don't even know what it is yet? But I'm drawn, somehow, to this metropolis or that metropolis or this So, it's a coming-of-age book as well. - There's a line in there and I might get one or two words wrong, but it was remarkable to me. &quot;You can only move to New York &quot;as a young woman once.&quot; - Yeah. You just get to move to New York for the first time in your life once in your life. (laughs) And, it's a big deal. It's a big, big deal. - So, what parts of the book are memoir-driven? - And, is it just weaving Or, is it specifically fiction? - It's fiction because it's a novel but if you want to know who I am, read it. That's what I would say Because there's an adage and that if you wanna write an honest memoir, write a novel. And the reason is, you're not protecting yourself from anything. So you get to actually tell, if not the actual letter the feeling. This book was about to be in my twenties. It doesn't matter that it's in the 1940's and they're both showgirls in the New York City theater world. It's, I know what that And that's something that I wanted to revisit and recreate. - Why that as the backdrop? Was that because it was a time where all of these things were more taboo? Or, why did you choose? And the theaters and the Actually, I probably about the book 'cause But, she moves to New York and she gets rubbed up in the theater world because of her Aunt Peg. Is it theater and creativity because that connotes a specific something that you wanted about the character? Give me your thoughts. - You know, you're on it. You got it. I mean, first of all, it's And that to me, just feels like the most impossibly glamorous moment of my city's history. I love the New York that I moved to, but there's always a shadow of a New York that used to be there that I've always been fascinated with. So, New York during the war is a really moment for me, it's also a really interesting moment for women in New York. Particularly, because they were working. The men were all gone. And so, all these social that were were really limiting to women, were gone. When the men left, so did the mores. So there used to be rules like, a respectable girl cannot after a certain time of evening, if she's not on the arm Well, there weren't any then. So all of a sudden, these women were free. And they had jobs and they were earning good money. And there was just this moment of freedom and opening, The '50s came, the men came back. And the women - were sent back home, to wear big dresses and pearls and wait for their husbands to come home. But, there was this period during the war. And there's a line in the &quot;One thing that I learned &quot;was that when women are &quot;a woman doesn't have to be &quot;She can just be.&quot; And I feel like New York when there were a lot of women who could just be. And that's an aspirational What would it be like to be a woman who could just be? - Just be. - Just be. Not have to be a thing, just be. - And does that come out of, going back to the comment earlier about this being an antidote, is implicit in that... That in this book, you can just be. Is that also antidotal to the world that we're in today? Where, we have to be, you know, you can list of what we're supposed to be. And we're supposed to and wear and talk and walk? - How many free people do you know? Like, truly free? - [Chase] Very few. - Yeah, me neither. - And how many relaxed people do you know? - Also, very few. - How many relaxed women have you ever met in your entire life? - Handful. - Yeah. (laughs) Right? That's what I'm into. What would it be? And this is the question that I'm living into my own life as well. I think the most revolutionary thing that a woman could be, is relaxed. So, my book is largely I think, if you're gonna meet one, ever, she's likely to be older. Considerably older, where where they're like, - (laughs) - &quot;I just can't anymore. &quot;You know, like I used to, eh, I can't.&quot; You know, there's a certain And I feel like I'm on the brink of it, but I'm not quite there yet. But my greatest aspiration, My really greatest aspiration, which is to be love in My other aspiration is to be the most relaxed person - [Chase] Wow. show women what it might look - Is that a response to an earlier and different time in your life? - Well, I've been a anxious person my whole life. But I also see that everyone is. And this is also a moment anxiety is nearly universal. - It's just peak. Everywhere in the world, I mean, it's a product of westernization. And it's a product of, like 15, 20 years ago, it wasn't like that. I'm there now, Balinese I was like, &quot;We have exported this. &quot;It's a fucking virus.&quot; Stress is this virus that has somehow colonized the world and And there's really, really good empirical reason for it. I mean, we are in the Welcome to the catastrophe of a dying planet. - And the dumpster fire that is politics. All of that is true. And if you walk around in this world as every in a woman's body, 'Cause you're always sort And yet, there's some stubborn &quot;Yeah, but what if I just didn't &quot;drink your anxiety lemonade? &quot;And what if I found my own &quot;where I was okay always, no matter what? &quot;Wouldn't that be somethin'?&quot; (laughs) - [Elizabeth] Wouldn't that actually really be somethin'? - How's that going? - It's going better than - We're meeting today for the first time. You greeted me with a huge hug, we've been friends for a long time. Is that part of the universe that you're trying to lean into? - I mean, that's kinda just - what I'm... - I'm like, basically - (laughs) I've been described as And we share the same birthday. We just figured that out. we're super - That's right. We just wish everyone would be in a pile together on the floor. So, that's my nature. - Why is everyone not hugging all the time? - But, that's my nature. But to feel comfortable and relaxed, it takes a lot of really radical, it's an interesting pathway. It takes foundational, You have to kind of be telling Which is weird, because you But what it does in the end, is it gives you a lot more time and space to not be doing the hustle. That's a line I'm guided by, is that grace can take you places where hustling can't. And at the center of grace, is just this integrity This isn't working for me, this thing, this situation, say no. But saying it just like, &quot;It's okay.&quot; It's like, &quot;Yeah, you can I spend most of my day saying no. That's a large part of me, learning how to be relaxed. Just say, &quot;Nope.&quot; - When you're talking truth, is that truth to yourself? Is that truth to other, but to what degree did Is it what you realized, that you were a better self when you to yourself first? And then manifest itself outwardly? Or was it, you had to start being really honest with people about and that gave you the to get internal? - Well, you should definitely try to have a completely honest relationship with at least one person in your life. And probably best if It's a good place to start. I can't speak anybody else's truth. I was guided by this, really schooled in this, in my relationship with my partner Rayya, who died a year and a half ago. Before we were together as a couple, we were best friends and she had been a heroin addict and a speedball junkie on the Lower East Side, in Rikers Island and years living on the streets and prisons. She'd just had this really And she ended up, and staying clean for 19 years. And her path to that was, which is the cure for addiction. Not cure, but treatment. And she embodied it in And she had an adage. And she was the person in the world I was always most relaxed around because she only every told the truth. She always knew where you were. We never had to guess. And everyone in the room was safe, 'cause Rayya was always telling the truth. Whatever bullshit else was going on, there was one center of very dense gravitational truth-telling But the line that she lived by, and she passed it to me. And now, I live by it because I can't not, is she used to say, &quot;The truth has legs. &quot;It's the only thing that's gonna be left &quot;standing in the room Everything else will blow up, everything else will disintegrate, everything else will dissolve into drama. The truth is where you're going to end up, inevitably. So since it's where we're going to end up, why don't we just start with it? - And then save time? Let's just Yeah. I've repeated that with where I'm like, &quot;Well, why Create a judgment-free And it saves your life, because it saves so much pain and agony and drama. If there's pain to be And that's been transformative to me, and actually has made me I think when I was &quot;I can't tell the truth &quot;It's not a safe place for the truth &quot;or for my truth.&quot; And now, I've realized, you make the world a safe place for you That's how your world becomes safe, is through your own honesty. - When did you start that process? - Around the time I turned 30. Because, the first major the first truth that I and didn't know how to tell and thought that birds would drop dead out of the sky and rivers would run was that I didn't want and I didn't want to have a baby. And I had got married very young at 24 and had promised my I would settle down and and have a baby and buy a house. And instead, I lost my mind. (laughs) - [Chase] And 30 came and that wasn't... - I lost my mind because I couldn't, what ended up happening and what will end up happening when is that your body will break down. My physical body actually broke. My mental health broke down and my physical health broke down. I couldn't sleep, I couldn't This is what not-truth does to you. I mean, you get to a &quot;Die, or tell the truth.&quot; And I finally did. And instead of making me And he survived it. And if I had fuckin' said it would have been a much I cost him two years of his life while I couldn't say those words. So, that was my biggest lesson in, you're not doing anybody any favors by holding this in. If there's something that that if, an intimate they would change their whole life, they should know. You're not doing them any favors by not telling them that. The sooner you tell them that, the sooner that they have again to figure out what And that's been a game-changer. - That's a power pellet that I just got from you right there. (laughs) - [Elizabeth] (laughs) - I'm just like, &quot;Uh-oh.&quot; (laughs) - It's intense. - I think a lot of times, and manipulate, especially because we're people-pleasers. But when I actually what you should actually is a people-manipulator. And that's what a people-pleaser does, is they manipulate people - Ah-ha. - They're not pleasing other people. They're keeping themselves And you're not doing the by doing that, they should And they should know - What role does this play in creativity? &quot;Big Magic,&quot; your previous book, was a lot about fear. Opens talking about I think you basically say you're afraid of everything. - As a young person. of everything. was it your mom that eventually, I think you say, kicked you - She never indulged my fear - (laughs) - She was like, &quot;How did I get this kid?&quot; This terrified bundle of Truth-telling and creativity, that's an interesting question. I haven't thought about that. I think I was always a creative person. It was often an escape for me. It was a place to go and run to and hide. I liked my imagined worlds - In school, in playtime? at home, I grew up on a farm. There was a lot of work to be done. I grew up with really There was a lot of intense from an early age. And so, escaping into a dream world was way preferable to In this very cold farmhouse and a lot of jobs and a lot of expectation that you should be able to do everything already. So for me, I think my early But I think, as you're saying, I'm just kind of spit balling as you're people ask me all the time why &quot;Eat, Pray, Love&quot; was so successful. And I always say, &quot;I don't know.&quot; But it could be that learning how to tell the truth. It's a story like that, is what happens in the first pages of &quot;Eat, Pray, Love.&quot; That, here's this woman for the 90th consecutive night unable to say the words, &quot;I don't want to be married anymore.&quot; Who, finally says those words. And that is the beginning So I think maybe that can be liberating for a lot of people, not just for the person doing it. - And does it, for you, unlock a new world of possibilities, a new world of creativity? What do you feel like it unlocked? - It unlocked two years of (laughs) - So you got that to look forward to, all this truth-telling, folks. The way is hard. Joseph Campbell says, &quot;You have to give up &quot;the life that you planned, &quot;to have the one that's waiting for you.&quot; But when you give up the and you don't know what's waiting for you, - That's scary. - There's an interim where there's no ground under your feet. And, I also love that the great, great spiritual writer, Stephen who's translate the and the Tao Te Ching and who's And he says, &quot;The way, the great way &quot;involves this. &quot;First, the rug gets &quot;And then the floor gets pulled out &quot;from under the rug. &quot;And then the ground gets pulled out &quot;from under the floor. &quot;And now, you're getting somewhere.&quot; &quot;Now, you're getting somewhere. &quot;You're getting somewhere &quot;that there is no ground.&quot; There is no ground. And that is the beginning, but it's awful to feel that when you And you thought you had something fixed and then there's like You're like a Warner Brothers cartoon character running over a cliff. And all a sudden... - (makes hurried, stepping sounds) - There's that thing that happens! - Yeah, and your friend have talked about how we live in a culture that bandies around this &quot;Jump in the net, we'll catch you!&quot; But, all of us know that we've jumped and broken 10 bones, you know? - Yeah. - Or, not even bounced. - Left an imprint in the cement, you know? And we all know that there are... I'm not sure we come to this I'm not sure that it's meant So, I think we do a disservice when we try to inspire people by saying, &quot;Yeah, just do it, man! &quot;Just go for it!&quot; As if there's no and no difficulty in that. And so, I'm always really careful to say &quot;Yeah,&quot; it's gonna suck. - &quot;Jump,&quot; and it sucked And then, I slowly, with a lot of help, found my way. And that's how it works. - What's the relationship between... I was struck by something you just said and it made me think of vulnerability. Because there's the floor Is truth-telling a path to vulnerability, which is a path to something else? Or, what's the relationship between... Because, do you have to be vulnerable to tell the truth? - Yeah! I mean, especially if that you are afraid is and you're an empath. I mean, that's the most devastating. Those are the most devastating truths I've ever had to tell. And I am an empath, so I'm sitting with you in the pain I just brought to you because of the truth That is the Seventh Circle of Hell for me. - [Chase] (laughs) - And the only reason that I do it, is because life, in all of its grace, has been kind enough to teach that all the other ways This is the Seventh Circle of Hell, but all the other things that aren't this are the Eight Circle of Hell. It's the domain of oblivion in which no one is safe. And so, there's a tremendous in believing that the real is the right way, even if it doesn't look And to stop arguing with reality, and to figure out how are we gonna now live in accordance with reality, you know? This is the reality. So now, what are we gonna do? Rather than, let's pretend (laughs) Let me take whatever drugs I have to take to pretend that this isn't the reality. You go do whatever you have to do to hide, to pretend that this isn't the reality. And then, let's just see where that leads. One thing I've discovered about myself is that's a grace, and it's horrible as it's happening, my being, my actual being, in a situation where I'm I will break down, mentally, emotionally, And I will be back on that bathroom floor. (sirens fade) beaten down to the point where And I'm like, &quot;Fuck, do I have &quot;to tell the truth again?&quot; (laughs) - And now, you're just like, &quot;I'm short circling that, &quot;I'm not gonna...&quot; this already, I mean, that's the thing. You think you did it once and you're done. But life, again, in all her grace, is like, &quot;Now, I'm gonna give you &quot;another chance.&quot; - Here's a gift. Now's another chance for and to know that the only way out, is through honesty, do it again. Do it again, do it again. And it's getting easier, honestly. Because I trust it now, I trust it. - You mentioned, stepping into some of this truth-telling, at the age of 30, what role did Rayya play in... Is this another, you did that we just described between 30 and 46? And, your experience with the partner that you loved dying from cancer? Do you feel like you finally learned the truth? is that... So, she's the most important She was the great love of my life and also my great teacher And the reason that I gravitated to her, and it took years for that to develop. for a long time? for a long time, we were And then we became dear friends, and then and then, for about four I didn't even know what to call her. I just called her my person. Even though I was married, and very loyal and this was my person. My person, to me, meant, who do I call? Who's my first phone Who's my first phone Who's my first phone call Who knows everything about me? Who is the one person completely safe around? And, it was Rayya. And the panic, the existential that I experienced at her diagnosis, knowing that that person... I mean, I can still feel in my body what it felt like for all those years, when Rayya would walk into a room. And my whole body would relax because I would be like, &quot;Rayya's here, it's all gonna be okay. &quot;She's got it.&quot; 'Cause she was so tough and strong, also. And so loving. In every room that she ever walked into, the strongest person in the room. And so I just wanted to be around her so I could feel that safety. And what I realized, I got this panic the I had this urgent, craving &quot;I have to download you. &quot;I have to download you &quot;how to do life without you. &quot;And, I need to learn quickly.&quot; I thought I had time to but I was like, &quot;I gotta Because no one else can... - Yeah! - I basically became shoot, smoke, inhale, eat, imbibe her. And what ended up happening, is that as she got sicker, and as her own terror and fear grew, and she couldn't take care I had to become her to take care of her. And what I've realized, my beloved friend, Martha Beck, said after Rayya died, &quot;What I've seen happen to &quot;is now, she's braided into you. &quot;And you have an essential And that is the download. But it didn't come the way I thought it was gonna come. It didn't come from her It came from me having to step up. That's what I said at her 'Cause she that role in There were probably 10 she was the most important that they couldn't live without. - [Chase] Wow. - And I said, &quot;Well, &quot;is that we have to &quot;step up and we all have to be that, now.&quot; And I find that I can truly say that I am. - Yes. You're, what's looked from the outside, as just this amazing, the sharing-of-the-process was so powerful from where I was sitting. Do you feel like that was Was that like this process weaving this strand of DNA through, for her last weeks and months? I don't know. Is that part of your assignment? - Yeah. (laughs) I think it's always been Okay, maybe I think because I'm not sure. I don't know how the universe works. I'm not sure I know what my assignment is. But I will say this. I will say that the distance in time and space between the moment when that helps and saves me, and how much time I can allow before I desperately in case somebody that day needs it, that's a very short time span for me. And I feel that I have to. And I don't feel that I have to necessarily out of responsibility to them. Because again, I don't I just know that, it starts It actually feels like pain. I remember my guru in India used to say, &quot;Any talent that you &quot;becomes pain.&quot; But I also think any wisdom that you do not share, becomes pain. Why in the world would I not share it? I know so intimately I know so intimately, what it's like to not If I've been given one why in the world would I be like, &quot;You want this?&quot; (laughs) - I got somethin' for ya, take it! - I've been so helped generous enough to learn in public. You know, I think learning in public is such a generous thing for people to do. Because, we look to it and we're like, &quot;Bernay learns in public, &quot;Glennon learns in public, &quot;Cheryl Strayed learned in public.&quot; My friend, Rob Bell, Martha Beck, they're all brave enough so that we can maybe get something. - There's a strong creative thread in a lot of the people And I'm still trying to connect, maybe poorly, but to connect creativity to that. Is that a mechanism for teaching? Is your ability to write, not just a novel or a non-fiction book, but a Instagram post, is Is art your vehicle for teaching? Or, what role does - Yeah, I mean, I guess it is. I didn't plan it to be. - [Chase] No problem, - (laughs) - No, I didn't plan it to be. I did it because I wanted to do it. And I still do it 'cause I wanna do it. And I still feel, I still truly do not of responsibility to my And that's why I'm so relaxed with them and why I love them. If I felt responsible to them, I think it would be really heavy on me and, weirdly, on them. But I feel like, I don't feel responsibility to you guys. I love you. I love you. But, I don't feel the to you so that means I get to do whatever I want, creatively. And that you, my readers, get to decide whether you wanna come with me. Which is why 12 million for &quot;Eat, Pray, Love.&quot; - [Chase] That's bonkers. my novel, &quot;The Signature 19th century botanical a couple hundred thousand But, it's elective, you know what I mean? They don't have to. And I don't have to write, You know, everyone's free. - [Chase] That was part of your TED Talk, right? - When you really realize piece of work that you've But, stepping into whatever's next for you has to be authentically you, right? - It's gotta be. - I can't do that again. I don't know how I did it the first time. But the teaching came kind where I felt like people... I think, if you're called to be a teacher, you'll know because people That's what happened! (laughs) definition of a teacher, right? - People will gravitate and be like, &quot;Hey, what do you think about this?&quot; And at first, I was really I was like, &quot;No, I'm just &quot;I can't!&quot; (makes silly, unsure noises) But I feel like, after a certain time, if people keep asking you something, it's really disingenuous &quot;I don't know.&quot; (makes Did you like that sound? - (laughs) Yeah, that was a good one! - [Elizabeth] I think it's We gotta check. take a swing at the question, you know? And say, &quot;I'll take a swing at it.&quot; And if people ask me questions that are just beyond my pay grade, - I'll send them elsewhere. If people ask me about, how to work in the corporate world. I'll be like, &quot;Go talk to Bernay, &quot;I've never had a job.&quot; (laughs) I was a bartender, I have no idea. If they ask me about &quot;Glennon's right over here.&quot; So, I feel like we all to each other as well. Like, &quot;This is probably a - I wanna go back to that fear part that you opened &quot;Big Magic&quot; with. The connection between creativity and fear for you. Do you feel like that's common? Why did you write &quot;Big Magic?&quot; - I wrote &quot;Big Magic,&quot; actually, because people kept asking me Especially, after I gave that TED Talk. And that is the one book that I could say that I honestly wrote, precisely as a self-help book. Because it's the one &quot;I actually know about this.&quot; I'm completely comfortable talking to you and giving you advice about creativity. I've been doing this my whole life. And I have a relationship with it that's a lot less tormented than most of the relationships that I see people having with creativity. So, let me be an expert Let me put on an expert &quot;Yeah, I'm a middle-aged woman. &quot;I've been doin' this a long time. &quot;Let me tell you some But the fear piece is, I think, intensely sensitive people and everything at a heightened level. I experience everything, and passion and lust I drop something on my it at a high level. It's all an opera around me. (laughs) So the fear is just part of that. But, my saving grace in the whole world and in myself, is that I'm 1% more curious than I am afraid. Thank God when they doled they gave me a dose of All it has to be, is this It doesn't have to be a lot bigger, it just has to be enough bigger that it's worth it to take the risk. 'Cause you're more interested And that's why, I think, that my working definition of creative living, not creativity in general, do watercolors or take a macrame class. If you wanna live what I my definition of a where your decisions are routinely based more strongly on your every single day, in all your realms of your life. And then, your life itself And, it doesn't matter or weave or influence, it's just that you will create a life that for you. Which is, - the person who you want to keep the most entertained. That's beautiful, beautiful. - You said that you were very comfortable giving advice on creativity? - So, knowing who's on We're in their ears right now, they're watching this Without retracing all 'cause that's a 260-page book or whatever, what is the advice that 'Cause there's a lot of folks out there who are stuck or blocked. Or, they go from zero to one trying to figure it out from the beginning. Or, they identify as trying to go from one to 10. - Mercy, I think is the fundamental word that is coming to me as a If you want to have a healthy if you want to have a healthy if you wanna have a healthy mercy has to be at the foundation. Mercy for self, mercy for others, mercy for the inevitable disappointment that you're gonna feel and it's not what you wanted it to be. My beloved friend, Ann has this great way of describing this. She says her favorite part is when she's in the dreaming state of it. And she gets to be alone And it follows her for years, and she's thinking about it. And it's growing in her head. And it's with her when It's with her when she's It's with her when she's She's just constantly And in her imagination, the she describes it as a Like a butterfly made out of gems, that it catches the light so beautifully, it's so exquisite, it's so perfect. This is gonna be the one, right? This is gonna be the I'm gonna actually achieve that platonic ideal of the thing. And it's gonna be so beautiful. And then, she says, the worst is day one of making it. - 'Cause what you have to do is - So true. tourmaline butterfly out of the sky, put it on the desk, take a mallet, and smash it into a thousand because it can never exist. And then you make the approximation of your which is made out of used chewing gum and baseball cards and twigs and a tin can and a hinge. And you're like, &quot;Here's It's like - (laughs) And you're like, &quot;I made &quot;I did it, I did it!&quot; And I think the merciful artist, the merciful creator, the merciful human, is the one who can say, &quot;You know, &quot;no one's ever made one - Good job, self! - And maybe there's a reason. But, the boring thing would be if we all made tourmaline butterflies. The interesting thing is, truly, no one's ever made And the mercy and the is what gets you... I always say, on day one, really excited about their project. Everyone on day two, looks and hates themself. The only people who get to day three are the people who have mercy. So beyond anything else. And that is going to be the same whether you are a master or a beginner. Everyone's day three is that's where the rubber meets the road. You're gonna keep going and or you're gonna stop. And my suggestion is that you and be very, very gracious (laughs) - Is that an aspect of bravery or is that curiosity or is it vulnerability? - Self-compassion? It's compassion, yeah. I mean, it's really the foundation of compassion which says, the imperfect is the perfect, you know? - [Chase] Say more of that. - Well, in a way it's like It's the end of the argument The reality is, you probably can't make the thing in the way that you dream it. The end of the argument is, &quot;So what?&quot; Make it anyway. I'm gonna hatch my weird (laughter) - That's pretty good. Tin can, hinges, bubble gum, Did you have duct tape in there, maybe? - I don't know why I I think that putting yourself rather than in a constant war against it, is actually what compassion is. And that's also how you find compassion for the other, Instead of me needing you to constantly be an entirely different I can put myself in with the reality of what you are. I can put myself in with the reality of what I am. I wanna be 10 different But, this is what we're workin' with. (laughs) You know? This is what we got! This is what we got. Flap, flap. Piece falls off. (makes silly sounds) This is what we got, you know? - How do you do what you do right now? You're just like, truth zingers. Is it just repetition? Of the first time it's hard, the second time it's 10% less hard? The third time, it's... Or 1% less hard? - I don't know if anybody realizes what percentage of my life I spend taking care of my mental health. That's my full-time job. And writing is a hobby every once in a while, I write a book. The rest of my life, an enormous percentage of my day is spent managing this neighborhood, warring neighborhood. (laughs) This dysfunctional family that I carry inside of my mind. And everything that I've learned that has any taste of wisdom and grace, is from the front lines of this, you know? And I mean it, today. That's what I was doing was managing my mental health today. - There are practices in order to keep myself happy and loved and connected. And I do them. I have to save my life every single day. - [Chase] Wow. very few days off from - I have to ask. what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about what you have to do. I'm talking about what I do. - On the way here, yeah. - Yeah. (laughs) - I have to ask, what are the things? And I understand that you're talking about it. - Because, look, if it helps? - Yeah. Well, there's a lot of people who will take your guidance. relationship that I have in my life is a dialog that I launched 20 years ago between me and Love, capital L, Love. That I have continued over the last 20 years. And it came in the I was in that deep, God-sized hole, of just wanting somebody to comfort me. Wanting somebody to save me. Wanting somebody to make me feel safe and make me feel like it was okay. And I have beautiful people in my life but no one, and I know this for a fact, because I have looked for it. No one can handle that in me. (laughs) Nobody. Because sometimes, people have to sleep. They have to get a sandwich and they have to go to work. And I'm like, &quot;Wait! (laughs) &quot;Where are you going?&quot; Nobody. You have no idea how needy I am. And I do. And this was a period of And so, what I did was, sit down in the middle of the night in my slough of despair, and take out a notebook. And this was this great What are the words that I've always wanted to hear somebody say? Can I say it to myself? And, I started writing those words to me. I am right here. I have got you. I will always have you. You are precious unto me. I don't care if you stay depressed for the I still love you. I don't care if you never fix this. I don't care if you never get better. I don't care if never create another, I don't care if you live I am yours, you are mine. I have got you. You are my boo. I was with you when you were born, I will be with you until after you die. I will never leave you. You are mine, belonging imprint. Belonging love. Love, ownership, forever. You can't tire me out. You can't tire me out, we can do this all night. You will get tired before I do. I love you so much. This is what I've always wanted to hear another human being say. And, it's a little much to ask. (laughs) - Yeah, I'm like... - And so, I've learned to bring it. And when I figured out what that voice is, it's love. It's universal human love. And that is the most important relationship in my entire life. And I write a letter to myself from that every single day of my life. - Is that the number one vehicle, is writing yourself that Love letter, capital L, love? - Yeah. And lots of times, it's And the dialogue will go like, me be like, hysterical, I don't know what to do. It's all falling apart. I've failed again. I've lost again. I'm unlovable, I'm I'm back at zero. Help, help, help, help, help. And Love's like, always Always begins with, &quot;I'm right here. &quot;I'm right here, I'm right here. &quot;I'm right here, I'm with you. &quot;I'm not going anywhere, I've got you.&quot; And then, I will say, &quot;What should I do?&quot; And Love will say, &quot;I don't know, &quot;that's not my department. &quot;I just love you.&quot; And then, I will say, &quot;Tell And Love will say, &quot;I have no &quot;but I will be with you And then, I say, &quot;If you &quot;and you can't tell me &quot;what the fuck use are you?&quot; And Love says, &quot;I am company &quot;and I always will be. &quot;And that is my use, And then, I can begin to breathe. - [Chase] Wow. And I don't know whether is God talking to me, Rayya talking through me, angels on my shoulder, my heightened imagination that creates and it's own trauma, the thing it needs. I don't care, it works. You're like, &quot;It doesn't matter, &quot;I'll take it.&quot; And I've learned that by that way, I can also be, not with anyone, but I can be in the at this point. 'Cause I can just be like, &quot;I don't care &quot;if you ever sort this out. &quot;You're a wreck, but I'm right here.&quot; And they're like, &quot;What do I do?&quot; I'm like, &quot;I don't know but &quot;I'll just be love in the room with you.&quot; And if they're like &quot;It doesn't help,&quot; - I'm like, &quot;Well, okay but I'm here. &quot;I'll just sit here.&quot; The thing that I've learned about Love, capital L, Love, about is that Love, real Love, doesn't need anything in the room to It doesn't need anything It never says, &quot;Here's &quot;Here's how you have to change. &quot;Here's how you have to grow.&quot; Doesn't need it, doesn't need it. - Way, way more powerful. - Yeah, it's like, &quot;You &quot;and I'm just right here, I got you.&quot; And that is how I have survived my life. - Is the manifestation always writing or are there any other tools that you use? - Writing is the thing, you know. I think it's the most direct for me. It slows the mind down. Most of us, all of us, at just the speed of No, I guess nothing's faster than that. Thoughts move really, So, writing slows it. So, I can bring my panic &quot;I have this very And then, Love will say, &quot;It's okay, it's gonna be all right. &quot;It's gonna be all right even if it's not. &quot;Even if it's not, it's - So you mentioned being on a plane, were you writing to yourself on a plane? - [Elizabeth] Yeah! I mean, I'm not kidding when I say I do this every day. - No, I like these foundational practices. It's a really common thread in greatness and creativity and I think it's a complete myth. This sort of horrified dive into that in a unhealthy way. That healthy way of trying to manage it that you're talking about. It's gonna create the work. in being a tormented artist I often am one. But when I am, I will do anything I can to help myself get out Or, to reach to somebody who can help me. I will relentlessly... This is one of the things that Love says to me all the time, &quot;you get whatever you need. &quot;Whatever care you need, we &quot;We will make sure you get it, &quot;starting tomorrow.&quot; (laughs) - I read a thing that you scrapped an entire novel. - (laughs) - Well, it wasn't a But, I did, yeah. Yeah. But a lot of people have that. Why would you do that? - It was the book that came And it was just tortured because Because I was like, &quot;I'm the author &quot;of 'Eat, Pray, Love' now.&quot; I just had no natural voice in it. And it was just strangled. Every sentence felt really strangled. And it wasn't an easy thing. I wept and wept when I And I also realized, trying to save. And it was a very painful truth-telling moment &quot;Guess what I have for you? &quot;Nothing. - &quot;And you can't see what I've done. &quot;And I can't tell you when &quot;And I don't know what, if ever.&quot; And then, I spent the next year gardening. Without a plan. And just like faith, I'm just I'm just gonna plant things. I don't know. And it wasn't like, &quot;I'm gonna do this &quot;and then I'll have a great idea.&quot; It was like, &quot;I'm just Like, &quot;This is fun. &quot;Water, plant, watch it grow. &quot;This is very funamental. &quot;It's a lot easier than writing a book.&quot; - [Chase] Wow. Getting your hands in the dirt, you know? And then, by the end of inspiration started to I didn't know I would. - You have to believe it. - How do you know the work to do when you don't know what work to do? - Something else. (laughs) - [Chase] Yeah, just like, anything else? If it's over there, you run the other way. And I would suggest doing - [Chase] Yeah, I have that sense of building, too. And most of us, at this moment of history, we're so disconnected from our bodies and from the world. And we really do think of our bodies as a broomstick that we carry a jar with our brain in it around on, you know? And so, I would say to embody work. Whether it's exercise or to make something. - [Chase] Physicality. - I love that story, there's this author, Clive James, this British author. And I tell this story in &quot;Big Magic.&quot; He had an enormous failure where he literally bankrupted his family to produce a play, that ill-advisedly was a play that mocked every single literary person in London living at that time, So, he lost all his money And, it was terrible. - And he didn't see this coming? - No, - 'cause he was like that cool guy who, everything he touched turned to gold. And he thought it'd be really funny. - [Chase] (makes defeated sound) - And, it was actually just rancid. And he fell into a severe and couldn't even get off the couch. And then one day, his little daughter came in and said, &quot;Daddy, And they went and bought but he didn't have any money. So, he had to buy this junky bicycle. She was embarrassed to ride it around. And so, he said he'd fix it up for her. So, he fixed it up and he ended up getting all the rust off it and painting it midnight blue. And then he got this other and he painted thousands like it was Merlin's cloak. And she rode off on it and the next day, another little girl in the neighborhood came up and said, &quot;Can &quot;the same that you did Then, there was a line of kids asking him to paint their bicycles. And he did that for weeks. And then he was like, &quot;You know what? &quot;I figured out what I'm &quot;I'm supposed to paint And, he just relaxed. And then the next day, he (laughs) So the answer is, go paint bicycles. Just do something else, walk away. Walk away from the and do something mindless and satisfying. - Can I confess something to you? - Yeah! - When we leave here, I'm also, I'm stuck, creatively, right now. I'm working on a couple I'm gonna go power wash my friend's driveway. - It's the best! - It's literally, it's a medicine. that sounds great! - And you see progress. - And it's hypnotic progress. - It's so embarrassing for me. going around the neighborhood, and power washing everybody's Why stop with your friend? Just do that for the summer. I guarantee you, something - (laughs) - Be that guy! - Oh, my God. - That's so embarrassing to confess, but it's so true. out of the drama and into the present. And that's when the ideas start to kick in. pressure washer from my dad. I had to go get special gas before our conversation, - so that I could go do this. - I'm so jealous. I've called friends at &quot;Can I come and clean our your closets &quot;or organize your kitchen? &quot;I'm having trouble writing.&quot; So, yeah, something else. Perfect, you got it. It's all gonna be all right. - Awesome. Thank you very, very much - for sitting down with us. Congrats on the new book. It's so inspirational to read. It's so timely. It's such a powerful piece of work. - [Elizabeth] Thank you. - Thank you very much. on the show! - I'm looking forward, I I wanted to sit with you first. - [Elizabeth] Okay, I'm glad - Yeah, I was worried, So, for those folks at home, go check out &quot;City Girls&quot;. Thank you so much for Really, really appreciate it. - You're welcome, I loved it. - Awesome. - See you again, probably, (dramatic techno music)