THOMAS PEACOCK: saying that if you can't I think the question is part of a bigger the world is going to sustain 40 years. We want electric We want solar cells But all this requires resources. Land-based resources or more challenging to access. In parts of the ocean, there than in land-based reserves. The question is can we do than we do on land? The specific purpose of was to create a plume from the deep the mining's going to take that plume. The goal is to understand if from a surface and in what concentration We can use that information will impact the ocean biology. There are three can take place in the ocean-- seafloor massive sulfides, There's cobalt crusts, which And there's which are these strewn across the deep ocean. Out of the three possible really the nodules are the one attention. So that's the technology that in the coming five to 10 years. The basic picture of a more specifically a will involve a surface From that, will be deployed will be down and 4,000 be tethered to the Mining of nodules will produce One is a sediment plume removing the top 10 to 15 We call that a collective plume. It will drive around and they'll be pumped to the surface vessel. And the second type of which is unwanted sediment to the surface vessel. This unwanted, unneeded and so The question is as a plume in the mid-water in the deep ocean. It's a tough thing to At the start, it was The first two three tries, so that builds up the tension. MATTHEW ALFORD: We have probably about 10 into the really pumping a tremendous water into the sea. And there's where the vast scale of the sea. It's amazing how like a needle in a haystack. [APPLAUSE] [INAUDIBLE] THOMAS PEACOCK: MIT with the ISA, which is the That's the agency set to govern the resources CHRIS BROWN: In the 1970s the international community came This culminated in the on the Law of the Sea. This was largely driven by the a need to ensure that the shared fairly and equitably. PRESIDENT: I therefore declared [APPLAUSE] CHRIS BROWN: This law of that the seabed and the of the deep ocean beyond belong to all of mankind. The main areas of focus or our is in the On the floor of sit these metallic nodules. So that's where there and has been for many decades. Back in the '70s, involved at the Law of The work has now come full The plume researches is also helping with and developing plume models. REPRESENTATIVE: We have that we'll be using to CHRIS BROWN: It's very important to the needs of the how we'll make the most impact. [INTERPOSING VOICES] MATTHEW ALFORD: How I've been coming to and I know that making are always harder than you a habit of doing things This was surprising in a not days. I think it all-- I think it just caught us to do what we set out to do. So the key question to make a plume does it spread before eventually And so that ability of the impact of seafloor mining THOMAS PEACOCK: We've All stop. VOICE (ON RADIO): All stop. THOMAS PEACOCK: Yeah. Ooh. [INAUDIBLE] And we'd landed-- we We actually saw the We put dirt in the And that I thought then Well, after many days managed to hit our plume. Hopefully it's a home run. Don't count your It's pretty good. So we're going to go Hopefully there's another plume And we went out, and we put And it was gone. We'd lost it. Bummer. Gone. It was gone. I think you find yourself in a there's two ways I can go here. You can let it defeat you, or Whether mining the deep for the planet as a whole that's a really big question MATTHEW ALFORD: of activity harvesting there are environmental impacts. We always have to what the relative A lot of time that We do the thing, and we figure With deep seabed mining, to actually do a bit and that's an exciting just in its infancy. PRESENTER: Good Welcome to Cambridge. Thank you everyone to be here for this entitled Solving Risks. CINDY VAN DOVER: So occur in very deep water, 4,000, Different kinds of animals The biomass of the animals but the diversity is very high. RESEARCHER 1: That is the RESEARCHER 2: Yeah, This is very cool. CINDY VAN DOVER: It's we know about the ocean. This diversity of might find unusual some information about the of animals, maybe even some that we've never seen before. The idea of seabed mining is that there'll be a that picks up the There'll be a plume. That plume is going to get other and on the seabed. So it could have clogging structures, gelatinous There could be burial of There may be some metals that so there's concerns One of the exciting things is that we don't know a chance to find out. RESEARCHER 2: I am sure And I am sure this is the first has ever been seen alive. CHRIS BROWN: Nodules have to their makeup. They actually contain four nickel, cobalt, and manganese. And if you're mining has four different gives you a certain amount of in terms of how your operation actually is. RICHARD ROTH: All four are crucial to our society, for battery electric vehicles. But everyone's concerned is nickels that would go and they're particularly When we talk about land-based anywhere I want. I have to mine where and where the cobalt know about it largely belt of the southern Congo. The Democratic Republic of Congo economically in terms And then, of course, there that some political disruption with getting the will leave the dependent on the and could disrupt larger [INTERPOSING VOICES] THOMAS PEACOCK: On had actual CCZ There's a lot of pressure on. We only had one shot at that. And, yeah, when we put that, and we didn't see the plume-- It drifted. It could be someone here. RESEARCHER 1: Yeah. THOMAS PEACOCK: It was tough. Do you have any thoughts apart You could sense that I'm trying to stick to the plan. We had 45 minutes. It's just-- I don't to make much difference I guess we're seeing there-- there in the bottom. We knew that we We had a plan. We knew what direction the So I think we still that there was a 25% chance, RESEARCHER 2: Do you want to THOMAS PEACOCK: And then-- RESEARCHER 1: Oh, whoa, We got something. RESEARCHER 3: We got something. RESEARCHER 1: Oh, yeah. There it is. [INTERPOSING VOICES] THOMAS PEACOCK: So what do we want to do? Do we want to keep on I'm not sure who the happiest when we actually hit it. RESEARCHER 1: I think RESEARCHER 3: Oh, We got more. We got a big signal. THOMAS PEACOCK: OK, good. We're coming-- Yes, yeah. There it is. This makes sense. It was nearby, we went and we found it there. It just kind of like, we know how This is how we do it. [INTERPOSING VOICES] You could see the joy and [INAUDIBLE] RESEARCHER 1: Whatever [LAUGHTER] The experiment that really, Deep sea mining has There's the technology going to go down to the deep There's the For sure, there's going The deep ocean seabed Biology there will be impacted. It's quite easy to in a very, very bad light. But people have to also impact of mining in land. If we're not going to then the impact is If we're going to have we have to find these and we have to do it in the most On the basis of what we can be made. We can get ourselves we can say is this something