Uh, wow, are we actually wrapping just doing this video for 2023, and talk about the best TVs you can buy Welcome back, everyone! I'm Caleb Denison, I also said at this time last year: As I've been reviewing TVs this year, premium performance trickling down to lower out, though, is the fact that TVs overall as we wrap up 2024 and move into 2025, sales coming up, and soon after that, So, whether you're seeing this video right have here for you are the smartest TV buys. Sure, and those will be very exciting, I'm sure. saying for all of 2024: the smartest move you With 2023 TVs running out of stock at this these are going to be the best TVs to buy. last year as well--a quick reminder that this other really great TVs out there, and I'll to whittle down all the choices somehow. So, are the TVs that I recommend to my friends and Let's start with QLED TVs, and then if you're not familiar with the difference that too. Link down in the description, and we'll But here's a real basic breakdown between with LED backlights and quantum dots that QLED TVs are better than non-QLED LCD TVs for a ton of HDR content out there now--coming from seeing some HDR content coming through cable Anyway, simply put, QLED TVs OLED TVs are a different kind of technology, no LED backlight required. Because of which is the basis for amazing contrast. And They also have really wide viewing angles, which and it looks just about as good as it Now, it used to be that OLED TVs but now they punch right up there in terms for most folks in most usage situations. Still, OLED TVs tend to be more expensive than And while a lot has been done to prevent if you watch the same channel for 6 If you're a &quot;TV on all day&quot; kind of person, With that out of the way, let's I'm going to start with what I think is the Hisense U7N. This TV marks that point of and you will get a little bit more, but the U7N I think most folks looking at the U7N side by side might see a difference but would have a tough would have a tough time seeing themselves That's why I tend to recommend this TV so the U7N that Hisense loaned me call &quot;dirty screen effect.&quot; I have a Now, this isn't something everyone is sensitive all have some degree of it--it's kind of a way to mention this because it's my stance that if try not to get discouraged--exchange it! This in my opinion. Chances are, the Now, my friends, we move on to OLED TVs. my personal favorite. They aren't the right but if watching movies and TV is an important then an OLED TV is going to make I want to start off our best OLED TV list with the They aren't the absolute best of the best, but and the Samsung S90D are the two OLED TVs I think still expensive relative to QLED TVs, the LG C4 for prices well under the ultra-premium Now, the LG C4 OLED uses what is called a W-OLED the brightness, while the Samsung S90D OLED I have a separate video explaining the if you want to check that out. I think color also think fans of QD-OLED TV technology will the S95D, because it doesn't use a so it tends to have slightly more luster to you are getting tremendous picture quality for attractive designs. Neither of them have so I would recommend a good soundbar system so you there's kind of a disconnect between the I should also mention that the LG C4 sizes. You can start as small up to 83 inches. The Samsung S90D is only so depending on your screen size needs, that And now, we get to what I think are the absolute them out real quick and then we'll dive slightly all of these are just exceptional TVs. the Samsung S95D QD-OLED, the Sony A95L OLED, and Panasonic Z95A OLED. Yes, it is so awesome to So, the LG G4 Gallery Series OLED. I guess perceptually speaking, the brightest OLED TV that 77, 83, and 97-inch screen sizes, and all but called MLA, or micro-lens array technology. of the light that the OLED pixels produce of it scatter inside the panel. The LG G4 is feature available on the market. It supports, I thing it doesn't have that some of the other which is kind of a drag--not because I think it but because it seems like a blemish not to I should also mention that LG's and that helps the LG G4 stand including a couple of others on this list. it's hard to come up with a reason not to Next on this list is the Samsung S95D this TV has caused something of an uproar, which out there are going to love that the S95D has the I've ever seen on a TV. If you're going to and watch it during the day, this is the best TV its color brightness and color saturation are Sony, and Panasonic options a little that this TV stands out as a uniquely ideal Next is a TV that made our list but it remains one of the best TVs that ranked it as the best TV that you can buy two is kind of legendary. It offers the best to this point. But the A95L now has competition before I recorded this video, and that would Now, the Panasonic Z95A uses an MLA OLED LG G4 I just talked about. The difference is the onboard audio system, and the fact that at the time I'm recording this video, I but my review will be out very soon, so I'm including the Panasonic Z95A because other access to this TV and its predecessors, rave about list. The only question is whether it dethrones There you go, folks, the definitive list of the TV I left out that should have been included? would you please slap this video with a help others? I do appreciate it. Subscribe if see you on the next one, and until then, here Wow, guys, are we actually wrapping up