Private Space Industry The idea of affordable space travel for the for many people - but exciting ideas attract of journalistic rigour, which can often make If you've been following the space industry that it's rife with broken promises and It's easy to get pessimistic about the space followed by cancellations and disappointments But don't make the mistake of assuming that industry. Every week, thousands of men and women working are discovering new knowledge, methods and of access to space. Companies like SpaceX and Blue Origin are refurbish rockets at an unprecedented rate effect on the space industry as a whole, lowering the growth of infrastructure and economic But right now, this transformation is in its be learning about what the space industry You'll explore the history behind private sector today, and the ways that space transportation For an industry that deals with strapping and launching them at several times the speed been pretty slow for the last few decades. However, technological advances, as well as sector in the last decade means that we might in space travel, fuelled by lower costs and Space travel has always involved coordination the large-scale organizational capabilities expertise of several smaller design bureaus Since the world's spacefaring nations began 90s, private companies have been able to launch and profitably - After all, there is always into space. But crewed spaceflight (that is, launching of government organizations. That might all be about to change. NASA has poured literally billions of dollars allocating funds to private companies to accelerate Since the retirement of the Space Shuttle, spacecraft to transport astronauts to the While the Soyuz is a solid, reliable craft, to launch American astronauts from American SpaceX, Boeing, Sierra Nevada, and Blue Origin but the bulk of funding has been put into and SpaceX's Dragon 2 capsule. Both of these spacecraft are designed to carry periods of time in space and are reuseable. Their more traditional capsule-based designs fly than the expensive and unwieldy Space (Shuttle: $90-56 million per passenger ($450m pp ($160m gross)) These spacecraft are purpose-built was envisioned with multiple roles in mind, deployment. The Shuttle was often described as a "space "Space Minivans" - built for transport If there are no more delays (which, if industry these crafts will be taking their first flights But what's the point of having these revolutionary, place for them to go? While getting a person into orbit is costly, costlier. The International Space Station itself cost research, development and launch costs. Part of the reason why no humans have been all the major space agencies agencies have for Low Earth Orbit. Russia, for example, has been building Space 1970s, starting with Salyut 1 in 1971, then laying the technological foundations for the with NASA, the ESA, Canada and Japan. The research and experimentation done in Low has been essential for understanding how human of time, and how best to mitigate its effects. But, It's clear that space agencies around in the shallow end. The last few years have seen renewed interest Lagrange points, the outer planets and, of NASA's successor to the Space Shuttle, the to take astronauts far further than LEO. But this doesn't mean that Low Earth Orbit is the region of space that is closest to to build space stations - assembly, resupply, to this altitude. On top of that, LEO is the perfect staging of large, multi-part spaceships. "Once you get to Earth Orbit, you're halfway -Robert A. Heinlein By privatising the "grunt work" of getting costs in the meantime), space agencies will funding on more ambitious missions, while capability, crew transfer and cargo resupply. At the same time, investment into inflatables habitats significantly - launching these habitats the volume they take up on top of a rocket, at a time. With the advent of the reuseable rocket, these a fraction of the cost they are today, which, in the 1980s and 90s, has the potential to and private organizations that would not have Just like how there are an infinite number satellite in orbit today, there are countless space station. In an earlier video, I likened the future the rapid growth of the computer industry That is not to say that I think most people the next two or three decades. Rather, I think that many people will have company that operates at least partially in Take this with a big grain of salt, because but the most likely scenario in my mind is will create a rich ecosystem of companies to keeping the sector functioning: things drydocks, propellant stations, station-to-station And I haven't even mentioned the possibilities manufacturing in space - rather than expensively more economical to harvest an entire mountain Specialised materials that would be tricky can be manufactured in microgravity in space. The ultra-sterile environment also allows Some products made in space will very likely on Earth. This is all obviously pretty vague and speculative, to me. I haven't covered all the bases (I haven't Mars plans). If this ends up happening, it will happen quicker than anyone would imagine. Even today, of these technologies are actively There is enormous potential for a diverse it'll be as commonplace as computers, or sit back, read up, and just enjoy watching