There is a litter of small puppies in the roadside bushes. It seems like they were just born, only about three days old. The stray dog mother gave birth to them here, but for some unknown reason, she abandoned them. Every life has the right to survive, we can't bear to let the puppies starve to death like this, so we decided to rescue them. There are a total of three puppies, we arranged them in order based on their size. We first gave them some water to drink when we arrived home, they don't know how to drink water yet and got themselves wet. Then we bought bottles and milk powder, this is their first time having milk, all three puppies were very hungry. They enjoyed the milk. He has the largest physique, so he is the leader. The leader sleeps once he's full. Haha, he fell asleep in my hands. It's now one o'clock in the morning, My wife got up after hearing the hungry cries of the puppies. But I didn't understand why I was poking their bottoms. Shouldn't we feed them when they're hungry? I kept poking their bottoms. Later, I realized that I was stimulating the puppies to defecate. The puppies are so small, their eyes haven't even opened yet. Taking care of the puppies is like taking care of human babies, it requires a lot of patience and is very tiring. In order to make it easier for my wife, our whole family is learning how to take care of the puppies. We feed them milk every two to three hours. We stimulate the puppies to defecate with cotton swabs. We promptly replace the pee pads when they get dirty. We have memorized the basic knowledge of taking care of the puppies. The motherless puppies are really pitiful. Although they are well taken care of by us, they still huddle together, searching for their mother's nipples. It has been a week since we rescued them, they are thriving and healthy. All thanks to my wife, she is kind, patient, and very professional. Today, we separated them and let them sunbathe. Because when they're together, they suck each other's genitals. This puppy is very lively, after eating, he crawls around everywhere, I wonder if we're feeding him too much. Look at his round belly. Today is the eighth day since we rescued them, My wife took them to work to facilitate their care. They are soundly asleep on the way back from work. Today is the ninth day since we rescued them, They still haven't opened their eyes, but they keep spinning in circles, Ever since we adopted them, the first thing I do every morning is to check on the puppies. Their adorable appearance brightens up my day. This is irreplaceable guardianship, no matter the storms or seasons. My wife got up again at night to take care of the puppies, Her alarm clock woke her up, She is helping the puppies urinate, She is truly a great woman. She is a competent dog mom. Today is already the twelfth day, the puppies are becoming more mischievous. Their adorable appearance is very likable, the young owner always hugs them when coming home from school, let's grow up happily together like this! Today is the fourteenth day since the puppies arrived home, The third one has opened his eyes, so cute. But the eyeballs are still a bit hazy, it will take a few more days to see clearly. Today is the sixteenth day, All three puppies have opened their eyes, but they still can't see anything. Feeding the eldest one some water, I found something growing on his body, I don't know if it's a skin disease. Looks like we need to take them to the vet. The twentieth day of rescuing the puppies, They have seen the doctor, and they are all healthy. The growth on their bodies has disappeared. They woke me up during the night sleep. He was actually wandering in the living room. Turns out he was awakened by the need to urinate. This is the third one nursing, drinking milk with great relish, his nursing behavior is so adorable. Now they only need to be fed twice at night. During the day, they need to eat three times. Haha, their two little paws are still scratching. Their little paws can be quite painful when they scratch people. It seems that from now on, I'll have to feed them wearing gloves. They almost finished eating, but surprisingly, they didn't loosen their bottle nipples. If he keeps eating, he'll overeat, so he can't have any more. He's already full, so he shouldn't eat anymore. On the twenty-first day since finding the puppies, The first thing in the morning is to feed them milk. The twenty-second day, The puppies made a mistake again and peed on the floor. But the owner didn't get angry and still adores them. All three puppies want the owner to hold them. This puppy is the sister, The little one can walk now, She runs out to play on her own. Such a clever little dog, After hearing the owner's voice, She runs inside to be held. The puppy's actions touched the wife. Such a small puppy crawling in such a big house, She can find the owner just by following the sound. The puppy's actions have brought healing.