This is the biggest solar plant in California. The Solar Star Plant is over 8 of 579 megawatts, powering around but about 6,500 miles away, in this remote dwarf it ... and just about every other Like many deserts, China's Kubuqi desert enjoys days of scorching sunshine every year. This makes about anything else, but it makes it perfect what China is doing. This is the Kubuqi Renewables and when fully operational, it will supply Kubuqi is impressive, but it's just around 225 bases being built across China's sister projects are well on track to have a 60% of which will be solar and the other put it into perspective, that's more clean energy in any nation outside China. A system that large itself. 455 GW is equal to the combined green Australia and Indonesia, plus the These bases are all due to come online China could dwarf the world's current but that raises the question, how has the world's current biggest polluter I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by Remember this? We're back in the desert. are great for renewable energy generation. deserts have a lot of sun. Likewise warm, flat expanses of desert make for reliable That all makes sense, but I've been a little of the Kubuqi desert just now. These are from which are all also in China. It just so happens and it's one of the largest countries in the of room to work with, and as we mentioned earlier, the nation has leveraged the cheap real estate land that it's actively turning into these down the price of solar and wind power. China cheap solar and wind energy, but there's Back in the 90's, China saw a financial demand for solar panels. Thanks to nearby raw China was able to produce a ton of affordable world didn't like the government subsidies and In response, many countries imposed tariffs on China was able to pivot and grow its own domestic demand for solar panels and turbines. demand for renewables grew right alongside it. So how did China build their renewable energy lots of manufacturing power, and lots of But _how_ China is these bases isn't as interesting as _why_ China is This is a big reason why China is going so one of the biggest cities in one of the most a crippling blackout. And this wasn't the only shortage due in part to the ongoing pandemic. which meant that the shortage forced parts hydroelectric plants were struggling to that was bad for both Chinese citizens Then there's this. Here, again, is Beijing covered in a thick, toxic cloud. Industry isn't and easiest way to get power is the Dark Side industrial sector wasn't power-hungry enough, electricity too. Most of which, again, pollution like this. Not the kind of imagery While we're on the subject of fossil fuels, of oil. They burned through over 13 million around 4 million. Including strategic reserves, barrels of oil per day in 2023, which comes with weren't reliant on others for their energy needs. So why is China adding 455 GW of renewable protecting the health of their and international prestige to name a few. of benefits to going green. And if it's can other countries do it too? Are there does such a massive jump in green energy But before talking about how this may impact the can impact you directly ... and that's protecting I've mentioned this before, but I signed up for a I did I saw a major increase in the number of I've never heard of. That happened because that sometimes they sell your info to some pretty shady that leak your data to scammers. I'm sure you've We have the right to request that data brokers and effort. I signed up for Icogni, gave them the sat back and relaxed. You'll see updates on your requests too and which ones have complied. It stay on top of this for me for quite a while now to take back some of the control around who has try. The first 100 people to use code UNDECIDED at to Incogni and to all of you for supporting the The installation of bases like like those from the Centre for Research on Energy Chinese emissions and fossil fuel use will extended period of structural decline." This but the growth of other greentech industries vehicles. China is now hitting their 2030 schedule. This gives me hope that they'll be able If one of the largest consumers of fossil fuels More immediately, all these plants coming online but its neighboring countries ... and maybe more. and the technology continues to improve, there surplus clean energy from China. Countries major coal sources are acutely aware of China's ways to generate energy and income as coal desert with China and their side of the Gobi solar and wind energy. There's an opportunity but the energy generation expertise flipping the script ... but these opportunities Since 2013, China has been making economic and the global south) with its Belt &amp; Road Initiative of neo-Silk Road.' Basically, China builds up favorable access to their natural resources. Under infrastructure of these countries too. Though I Proponents and the World Bank have noted that BRI of 4%. It can also boost the world's economy and development that, in many cases, wouldn't normally form of neocolonialism, and have cited instances environment, involved displacing native peoples, not a geopolitics channel, so I'm not gonna get China is a global power on the ascent, and I'm technology on their neighbors or allies simply out be some serious economic and political strings infrastructure and access to green technology? me to decide. I guess you could say I'm living All of this assumes that what China is which is certainly not always going to be the problems. Check this out. Notice an issue? How those far less populated regions in the on the east coast. It's difficult to get all B without losing a lot in the process. China is high voltage power lines. However, for the renewable energy than they can use, which is generation in the world doesn't mean much Still, there's lessons to learn here. My home Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), which directs $500 unsurprisingly, reducing inflation. Over toward clean energy with another nearly $50 no one can really match China's manufacturing US. Our western and northern regions are home wind energy. We have our own installations glad the IRA seems to have learned from China's and create our own fully fledged clean energy to manufacturing solar panels, wind turbines, and accelerate our adoption ... and give us No bones about it, this is an amazing step stuff in the greentech space, the Kubuqi clean pitch of an exciting startup. It's real, bigger. It has a bunch of sibling bases all basically doubling the world's renewable Well, it's not an unalloyed good or success. and they're still building coal plants to renewable bases. After a post COVID rebound showing that China may have hit peak carbon. building and permitting more coal plants in 2023 step back. As we've seen in places like Germany, phase out coal by 2030 have been scrapped in China already accounts for half the world's their government constructing even more there's a fight brewing in China and fossil fuels stakeholders. It's a familiar I can only hope that renewables will But what do you think about the rapid build Jump into the comments and let me know. And Still TBD where we'll be discussing some of who get ad free versions of every video. delivering you these videos every week. If on early videos, check out the link in the