This is the kind of Jian Shi kenshi that I will continue to pursue throughout my whole life. And this is the heart of katana that I want to be able to teach in the future I've made quite a lot of videos about iaido, the katana martial art. I've explained that in iaido we could use real katana to train, so unlike other sword martial arts like kendo, we hardly actually fight with anyone but mainly train alone through "kata," which are prescribed sword exercises presuming various situations of battle. ...However, haven't you ever wondered, How can swinging a sword on your own be any good for you? This is actually a very difficult question to answer, because each of the 100 or more iaido ryuha styles So today, as an iaido trainee that has been I will talk about three personal reasons how iaido has changed MY life. I'll be counting down my three reasons, and at the very end I will be talking about my ultimate message, so please stay with me till the last chapter! I hope this video will be a chance for those of you to get to know about a trainee's values, If you are already training in iaido, please share with me what your beliefs and purposes are I would most definitely love to learn from you. 1. Exercise Wow Shogo, it was nice watching your video, good bye! Wait wait, I know this first reason might sound a little boring, "Exercise is important to maintain a healthy body" is something we all know about, There is one thing about iaido as a form of exercise that I especially like. It is that "you can continue training as you get older." Because iaido is mainly trained by yourself and trained indoors, you can decide the pace and speed you train your kata, so it is also suitable for keeping the amount of exercise It is quite common to find people who used to or mothers who wanted to get some exercise beginning iaido and are still continuing to train in their 70s and 80s. As long as you keep yourself healthy with other things like food and sleep, iaido is a "path" that you can pursue throughout your whole life. It will not only be a great form of exercise, but can also be the purpose of your life until the very last days. 2. Keeps me grateful and humble Now this second reason might sound a little more special, thank you for waiting. lol In iaido, the katana is regarded as something almost sacred, and it is treated with the utmost care. This comes from the ancient culture of the katana and also regarded as the soul of warriors (symbol of their authority) This is why although the 100 and more styles of iaido are all very different, we all share the customs of bowing before and after to the katana Ok Shogo, so I understand the customs, but how does this have anything to do with "humbleness?" To be honest, even if you are a iaido trainee, you could do the bowings and obey the rules just as a format, and not actually have any feelings of respect as you do it. However I personally connect the idea of traditional Shintoism with my katana. Shintoism is the indigenous belief of Japan; a polytheism religion that believes everything around us are gods "Everything" literally means everything from oceans, Although Shintosim has sometimes been distorted throughout history and was used as a tool to control the people or lead facism, I personally believe that the teachings of Shintoism It taught the Japanese people to be grateful for everything they had and always remember humbleness because they are surrounded by gods. Even today, Japanese people go to shrines to pray, but scientifically speaking there's nothing at the shrines but only the buildings and items that we "believe" where the gods are residing. What I personally think what is important but that the shrines provide a place where everyone For me, the katana plays this role. Everytime I bow to my katana and handle it with the utmost care, I always try to remember about the things that I am grateful for, and feel once again that I am alive thanks to the wonderful environment. You wouldn't usually have a chance to bow But for me, the katana is my shrine, and it's always a great chance to bring back my humble self. 3. Keeps me calm Breathing in and out through your nose and stomach, focusing on every small movement of your body, as you imagine and fighting against a virtual enemy... Iaido is a form of meditation for me It might sound like a contradiction that in iaido, swordsmen are taught that "the real battle which means that proper communication must be done Although we train how to use our katana, the ultimate goal is to be physically and mentally strong enough to NOT use it. This is why every situation of the kata that we train in iaido starts as a move after your opponent starts to attack you When I'm drawing or swinging my sword with too much force, my iaido master would often scold me saying... "Shogo, what if your opponent Would you be able to stop drawing your katana, Focus on every moment, So in my daily life, whenever I encounter a situation and feel like I want to say something back, Keep the katana in the sheath. To make long stories short, from my point of view a true Jian Shi kenshi swordsman isn't about how fast you can swing a katana, how many mats you can cut at once, or how cool you make yourself look. It's about how kind and humble you are to others, it's about how thankful you are to the people and things in your daily life, and it's about never choosing violence as an option Your level as a swordsman can not be judged inside the dojo (training area); it is revealed by what kind of person you are OUTSIDE the dojo. Don't use your katana as a way to fill your desire for approval. Don't swing your katana to nurture your arrogance. And don't think that true strength is about Train hard with your katana to fight with your own inner demons, swing your katana to cut your weak self, and always remember that the katana today must evolve from a weapon it once was This is the kind of Jian Shi kenshi and this is the heart of katana that I want to be able to teach in the future. However once again, I want to make it very clear and I have no intention of denying others' ideas Lastly, today's conclusion. I introduced the three personal reasons how iaido changed my life. 1. Exercise Because iaido is mainly training fixed sword movements you can decide the pace and speed you train by yourself. This makes it easier for one to continue iaido even after you've grown older, and it can become a purpose of your life until the last days. 2. Keeps me grateful and humble The katana is my "shrine" and by bowing to it I always try to remember about the things that I am grateful for, and feel once again that I am alive 3. Keeps me calm Iaido is a form of meditation that trains me So that's it for today! Thank you very much for watching! Please hit the LIKE button to help me boost this video to more people. My goal is to achieve 1,000,000 subscribers by January 2023, In this channel, you can take a closer look at Japanese traditional culture, tips on traveling to Kyoto, and social problems in Japan. So learners and lovers of Japanese language and culture, If you'd like to learn more about what I talked about today, please check out my sub-channel &quot;Shogo's Podcast&quot; I would like to talk about one very important thing Thanks again, and I'll see you again soon. arigatougozaimashita.