(ambient music) Major, how far are we - [Major Leon] Probably from the border. - Different than the southern, - Yeah, no, it's- - There's definitely- - [Peter] Green and cold. - There's definitely a huge contrast. It's not that cold, it's 64, it's nice. It's gonna snow next week. It's definitely going to the southwest. I mean, there's still the good people that wanna but up here the population is And so I think a lot of these people are worried about the idea the target of this stuff. - And so what's great about is that customs and border - Yeah. - Police departments. I've gotten in with one after a lot of trying. They're not gonna speak on camera. - They're at-will. Everybody has to get approval to speak. - [Peter] Not sheriffs. - [Major Leon] That's the difference. The sheriff was elected by the people. He answers to the people. - So you think in Clinton County here, a lot of people don't - I think they're well-versed They don't understand the totality of it. - Yeah. - I think a lot of people don't. I think a lot of people in the state don't really understand. If you pose it whether a lot of people here don't - Right. - When you talk about the crime issue, a lot of people here really - Right. - You could ask people, like, how are things in Clinton County? They'll say it's great. - Totality is the best because the border story, which I've been on the - Yep. - There are a lot of moving It's turned totally political, and each side takes its set - Absolutely. - And there's a lot to it, right? - Homer Simpson said it They could be used to prove anything. (Peter chuckles) - [Peter] Oh, are we looking at Canada? - [Major Leon] Canada is right there. If you look out in the you'll see a floating sign near the big one with a crane. - [Peter] Yeah. - [Major Leon] That sign says - [Peter] So that boat going north is going into Canada right now. - Yep. And when you come south, if you look down to your right, you'll see that's the dock - [Peter] And does that - I gotta be honest. I believe any system that You know, if there's That's that constant cat and mouse between those that are breaking the law and those that are trying So does the system work? Yeah, the system works because we're friendly with Canada, right? We love working with them. We have commerce with them. So it's not a adversarial border. It's not the DMZ where we're sitting here lockstep against a waring nation. I mean, these are our friends. And so the system works and the U.S. people going back and forth. Does it mean it's not being exploited? No, it doesn't mean that. Of course, it can be exploited. So right here, this is all New York. And this house right here that's Canada. - [Peter] Oh wow. - [Major Leon] And they put 'cause people were and just running across the border. Let me stop right here. - Oh, this is fascinating. So here we are, we're looking - [Major Leon] That is the border. - [Peter] And so this house was fed up with the cars going - Well, I don't know if that was fed up with it, - [Peter] So that right there is? - That's the fix. - [Peter] Can I step on it? - [Major Leon] You can, I'll go with you. I mean, we may cause an but, all right. - [Peter] So since this is and it's, like, farmer's field to road. - Yeah. - [Peter] That's not an easy job. - It's not an easy job. And the Border Patrol is They don't have enough It's tough. - [Peter] Yeah, and so of the Canadian border being an issue because it's not like Canadians - Exactly, that's what we - [Peter] Right. - We get along with - Right, so the economic advantage, while there could be some for people, but we're somewhat in Like you can live a good life in Canada. - Yep. - Where south of the border you're coming up from - Yeah. - It's different, but from what I understand - Yeah. - [Peter] And a lot of Mexicans that are getting tourist visas into Canada and then coming down, right? - And then they easily just travel down. They get dropped off within and then they just gotta go for it. - And the reason I'm up here is because the numbers have spiked. - Yes. - This summer. This summer and last summer - They're pretty much just for this sector. That's a lot of people for a place with no A place where the Border Patrol basically doesn't have a lot of people on. They're relying a ton on technology and support from, you know, - [Peter] But you literally - They do. - [Peter] And run across. - Yes, they do. - [Peter] Like just hang out in the corn. - Yeah. - [Peter] Look both ways, - Yeah, now there's a lot of people that are giving themselves up. Those people that wanna come here, they wanna get processed. They wanna get a court They absolutely will give themselves up. So those people are. You'll get a 911 call. We're dealing with that right now. &quot;Hey, I'm tired, come get me.&quot; And so, you know, the had close to 1,200 911 &quot;Oh, I'm in the woods, come get me.&quot; And those people want to get They wanna get processed. The problem is there's people that don't. And that's the concern for us. There's groups of people through the fields. The people that are carrying things. The people that are back and forth, they don't wanna get caught. And if you're coming into the country and you don't wanna get caught, why? - Right, okay, so yeah, I should How the system works now. If you walk over the border, You got a tourism visa to You come down, you go over. You want Customs and Border - Yes, yes. - Because you claim asylum - Yep. - And then the courts are so backed up that case is not gonna You're technically legal - A lot of them get released. - They get released into the U.S. - Yep. - And we're gonna go into sort Because they're not hanging out here. They're going to New York City. - Yeah, yeah, absolutely. - [Peter] Okay. - [Major Leon] Yep. - [Peter] Oh, that's the marker. - [Major Leon] That is the marker. - [Peter] Oh, we probably got - [Major Leon] Probably. - Okay, that's hospital for That's the marker, Canada, America. That's how you know, that's it. - [Major Leon] Do not enter. - And so this wasn't a problem years ago. - No. - Because the policies were set up where you couldn't just fly into Canada, walk over and get asylum. Is that what it is? - Yeah, exactly. There's no issue with the Canadian people. So this was perfectly okay. We don't go into their cornfield. They don't come across. There's a port right there. There's a port right over there, and you just come through the right way. It was never an issue. Now people are exploiting coming from whatever country they want to infiltrate the U.S. and their way of doing it. And they take advantage of - Okay, what nationalities are you seeing? We have Indian and Mexican, right? The big ones. - It's Senegalese and Indians And the Mexicans have actually kinda dropped off a little bit, but, again, this only accounts - Okay, Senegalese, that's what? 20 grand to the cartel these days. - Yeah, I think so. - To pull that off. - When I was in the southern border, that was the going rate from to make that work, 20 grand. So no one's getting in - No, and here's the thing there's some people fleeing in their home country. We know that, right? - Yeah. - We absolutely know that. We understand that. And again, it's America. We're supposed to accept those We get that. There's a right way and a wrong way, but there's some people that I wonder really what The clothing they wear, It just, some of it doesn't make sense. It doesn't seem to be And that's the part that makes us struggle as a community and a country is you've got the means to get from where you're going to Montreal and then they get down here or the cartels, or whoever's doing it. Are you really fleeing something? And so that's the question to some people. It's just wondering how it is you have the means to do that, but you're still in such distress that you have to come - [Radio Speaker] Yes sir (indistinct) We're gonna have some We're just gonna continue - Border Patrol wants to be I think most Americans want They just need the resources to do that. It's a lot of land to cover. So, I mean, it can't just We don't have enough every five feet holding hands to make sure nobody comes but a combination of the technology, and the personnel and the patrols, yeah, I think they can do a different job as long as their administration lets them. - Right, and I do wanna 'cause I did some research last night on the northern border. Northern border, 163,000 Last year, 2023, 189,000 apprehensions. 2022, 109,000 apprehensions. 2021, 27,000 apprehensions. So it's really just ticked up, huh? - Yeah, absolutely, yeah. There's no other way around it. The numbers speak for themselves and you can spin it any way you want. - This is Customs Border. This is CBP's website numbers on this. Southern border right now this year, 1,926,000 apprehensions. And so that's where there's or visual contact, right? But it's the got aways that - Yeah, so that's the - That does not include where there's been a group come through and they fled and then people did not chase them. This is not the amount of where they have intelligence, or they have technology that states that there's people there and then they don't find them. Those people we can't account for. That's the biggest concern is, yeah, we had a huge but the ever-present fear is those that we don't know who they are. There is evil people that are lurking. There's people that have and the citizens of the U.S. and they're gonna find the easiest way in. And right now this may be it. So we talk about this where we're embellishing stories and trying to make it look Hmm, I don't know. I think that's maybe something that people that don't want to admit that because you can't vet You don't know if they're families. You don't know if they're gang members. You don't know if they're foreign agents. You don't know who they That should make you a little nervous. That should make you wonder Why are they trying so when these other people That should really make okay, we should probably talk about that. It's not creating the boogeyman. It's talking about the reality. (ambient music) (music continues) For the longest time, they would come up this way and it got so bad to where the Canadians actually had to build a processing center on the other side right here. - [Peter] Okay, so is - No, they took down all their buildings because they changed their laws. And I'm not entirely sure how they did, but they changed their laws you're going to be arrested - [Peter] So when was this active here? - This would've been closed down last, probably, I think, a year (vehicle doors close) - Here we go. So they'd come down the - [Major Leon] They would - [Peter] They're going - This was, yes. And that's where they set this up. They had a whole encampment here. - [Peter] So there is - This was huge a couple years ago, yeah. - [Peter] Going from the U.S. to Canada. - Yep, and the difference they can actually stop They have a law against that. Whereas the Americans, we to stop people from trying - [Peter] Okay. - So the Canadians, their border officials were quite upset with that because there would be law And people would illegally go to enter and they're like, &quot;Can't you stop them?&quot; Like, no, we don't have - [Peter] So sort of they're frustrated with not stopping them coming into the U.S. - Yep, yep. - Okay, that's interesting. So the Canadians put the kibosh on this. - Yep. - [Peter] I mean it's still - It is and I mean there's - You just gotta run, there it is. Okay, so I mean, technically Let's just do a hypothetical. I'm going down that What would you do as law enforcement? - Well, one, I would tell in the first place 'cause that would create a Because each country has its You would technically be They can come arrest you for that. Coming back through, then you would be coming Then Border Patrol would Now you're a U.S. citizen, right? Which poses a special issue can't be stopped from So I would have to call to figure that out 'cause I but please, for the love of God, don't go across the You're gonna just bust my chops. - [Peter] And then what if I did it on a Native American then that would add more complexity. - If you made it back off that. - Yeah. - That would be, then There's a reservation, the Saint Regis Mohawk Tribal Reservation where half of it is on the And they can actually go back and forth. And that's a huge hub for because they don't have the So people take advantage of that. - [Peter] Okay, so that still continues? - [Peter] Yeah. - [Peter] Okay, and you were is this a Glock? - No, this is a Sig 320. - [Peter] Okay, but you - Any pistol pretty much will will fetch thousands and thousands - [Peter] You said it would - Yeah, roughly. - [Peter] And that would - Yeah, yeah. - [Peter] So literally you and make a ton of money. - Put it in a backpack, which has happened and you smuggle it - [Peter] It's hard to get guns in Canada? - Yes. Police officers in Canada also Whereas, here in the States, we have laws, I can carry my gun anywhere in the U.S. - Right, so everyone that obviously, it's a criminal element to it and people are doing illegal and shouldn't have 'em. - Yes, yeah. - [Peter] Sir, the but what's going on in your - Nothing much goes on right through here. Once in a while they come but most of the time it's up this way, maybe half a mile to a mile. Just after you get past where the fields are open And then when you go this way and you go just past the they come through in that area there. - [Peter] Is there much Many coming over or not so much? - Not that I've seen any lately, but a couple weeks ago they had 'em. we had a couple sitting waiting for the Border Patrol to come and they sat there for, - How does the community You guys talk about it, or you just sort of stay to - We talk about it if we you know, somebody's We pretty much keep in - [Peter] Does it mess with - It hasn't so far. - Okay. - So you know, you never know, but gotta kind of watch but otherwise. - [Peter] Did you used to - We've only been here five years. In the beginning we 'cause you see more - [Peter] Okay, so when the doors were open and now you lock 'em. - They were pretty much open then, even though we knew they And, of course, at that time and sending them back. Now they just pick 'em up after they, I guess, they sign 'em in down at the - [Peter] Okay, at the time - Yeah, I think so, yeah. They'd send them back when we first moved. - [Peter] Interesting. - But they don't do that now. - [Peter] Thank you. (airplane humming) - Oh, they're probably out there now. - [Radio Speaker] (indistinct) - [Peter] So this is one of the main veins as in they come over there and where we're going where a lot of the transport brings them down to New York City. - [Major Leon] One of the places. The main Mountain Mart is in Plattsburgh. That used to be the bus station. That used to be a huge location, but any of the stores they congregate. They congregate at Stewart's in Champlain and the people see it. There's been stories of people grabbing goods and then It's just something they gotta deal with. - [Peter] You work here? - Yep. - [Peter] What's it like these days? - It's actually, like, a little - [Peter] Earlier as in when? - About a month ago. - [Peter] A month ago it was busy? - Oh yeah. We'd pull in at four in the morning and they'd be sitting on the back lawn, a whole bunch of 'em. - [Peter] And then what, - Yeah, that and waiting to find a ride. - [Peter] Okay. So the rides were coming up here and then bringing 'em where? - We never called for rides. The only people we call - [Peter] So how do you feel about it? - Ha, I don't wanna say 'cause - Okay, it's such a triggering - Yeah, I don't feel safe. - Don't feel safe. I think most Americans are like, we're all for immigration, but just an orderly, safer way to do it than having to show up at and have to wonder. - Especially 'cause you - You lock your doors now? - Oh yeah. - At your house? - Yep, vehicles, everything, 'cause we get some that go in our woods and try to put up tents. - I used to work the early but not lately. - [Peter] So it's stopped though. - Yeah, it's actually- - [Store Clerk] It's calmed down. - Yeah, calmed down quite a bit. - [Peter] That's great news. - Yeah. - So do you know why it's calmed down? - Because of those guys - [Peter] They're doing their jobs. - Oh yeah, they're cracking down. - [Peter] So you guys really - Oh yeah, 'cause the instant we call, they're instantly here. - [Peter] They're here. - [Peter] Sweet. - That's what you want. - Yep. - We get sheriffs, we get border, we get customs all the time in the store. They're always coming in we're pretty protected here, I think so. - [Peter] What about you guys? You should be scared or no? - No, I worked at the when they needed help down there. So I dealt with most of the - [Peter] Okay, so what's your experience? - I hated them. - [Peter] Why? - They were mean and with the bathroom. Otherwise like you would put out of order, you had to clean it and they didn't care. They'd go in there, like, when you're the you can't clean the bathroom and try to run the I didn't like being there - [Peter] What's the feeling - They're worried about with the border. All these people just 'Cause you shouldn't have to to work in the morning, we shouldn't have to 'Cause I would have to call a guy that would work with us in the morning. He'd meet me here just so because one day we were and there was three people and the girl was trying to lure him out. So I already unlocked the and he hurried up and told me to lock it. He was like, I don't want you 'cause he was trying to deal with what they were going on outside. So I started calling him every morning and we meet here together - [Peter] All right. - [Major Leon] Thank you ladies. - [Peter] Ladies, take care. - [Store Clerk] You too. - Oh, they're sweet. You know what they said, traffic has been down - I'll tell you my So traffic has gone down It's the type of traffic. So more Indians, less Mexicans, but my personal opinion is this. We're going through the and the thought process is with some that if Trump becomes elected, he's gonna shut the borders down and he's gonna kick those So now would not be the time to come in because you're just They can go through the backlog, but I think it's highly unlikely. I believe our election has a huge impact on what's going on with the numbers. - Okay, what about the theory that, well, now you can still pull it off and if Trump gets into office, the policies become much firmer and it's harder to get over. What about that theory? - Well, it may be harder to get over, but are you gonna risk just for a month or two and then potentially get It could also be the the visa program. It could be a lot of things. - And, also, the cartels the path of least resistance. So on the southern border some others are quiet and then - Yeah, well, I mean, for them it's become more of a business and maybe they are new opportunity, but it's They're just gonna The only reason it's so lucrative of the border roads in If you go out west, you may not find them to - [Peter] Yeah, and you - Yeah. - [Radio Speaker] (indistinct) - So that's the State Police - [Peter] About what? - It looks like somebody kicked in a door, but it's probably a domestic type thing. - [Peter] Is that what domestic stuff? - Not so much most, but There's definitely a lot Any area you're gonna find pockets of economically depressed groups, you're gonna find people You're gonna find people that You're gonna have people that And all those situations bring about further complications with the law, property crimes, domestics. I mean, robberies, I - [Peter] So it's really - Yeah, I think that's a huge part of it. You can be rich and be into but what you're willing probably not the same as that want the drugs, because the people that are don't have the finances, So they're willing to break the law and do other things in order to get that. And that is what compounds - So what are you seeing in from your perspective now Like, what are you dealing with? Like, a lot of people don't - It's funny, when I came on 2005, I got hired. And I was once told by of the next county where I used to work, that I would never draw my weapon. And I still remember those words. And part of me wishes he was right because that's not the case. The world's changed. We see people carrying guns. We see people that are willing to do some pretty brutal things. I don't wanna say that the to where you can't walk on the street. I'm not trying to paint that picture, but there's enough bad to where people have no idea, right? - [Peter] Even up here we're pretty rural. So we're talking Plattsburgh, right? - [Major Leon] Yeah, Plattsburgh. - [Peter] Which is what, - The city of Plattsburgh is about 20. Clinton County as a whole is about 82, 84. If you subscribe to the It's the idea that these lesser crimes that we're allowing to bail reform, law changes. We're allowing these kids to do things that we didn't let them do. And that emboldens them and they go out and they do these other crimes And it just grows and grows. The same idea with the broken somebody can come along and and if you don't address that window, then everybody thinks it's okay to break the next window And in the end the house because you're not addressing We've had some sort of the last four or five years to where overnight law - [Peter] Right. - And we're now the problem. It wasn't so much that It's the fact that we were And don't get me wrong, every that are just complete morons and they go out and do stupid things. And we have, and we've witnessed it. And we don't appreciate that either. And we hold them accountable as well, but law enforcement as a has been vilified. - Yeah. And so the world has there's more crime because there's less There's less ability And people are more emboldened because here in New York you get appearance ticket after appearance ticket. It takes a while before you before a judge will actually versus before you could arraign somebody that you knew was a danger, that doesn't happen so much anymore. - Right. - So there's more crime, to break the law and there's So, therefore, these people - Right. What's Raise the Age? - Raise the Age was changing For years you used to tell people that if you were 16 you're And there's some signs behind people of younger age, to make the processing decisions. So, therefore, they Raise through two different years of movement. So now an 18-year-old is not An 18-year-old is treated like a child, and, therefore, they're not responsible for the same level of offenses. And it's just been a movement. It's complex on what you can and what for, and, I mean, the Cops have gone through it, and you literally need what you can do with each person. And it never really was like that. And that in itself is This particular road, when I first transferred a woman ended up getting into and ended up shooting him in the back with a small caliber weapon. Apparently you shouldn't - [Peter] Do those things weigh on you? Like, you go down this road again, and it brings you back to that, or? - I mean, that's everywhere. Yeah, so I've lived a pretty rough career. I remember taking a shovel There was a fatal accident to help remove this poor Yeah, you don't forget those things. I remember picking up body parts. I remember, you know, I'm a firm believer every scene you go to, you but, yeah, you remember that. And do you keep doing it? Yeah, you keep doing it, You can't ignore it. There's been this conversation and firefighters and will go through so much trauma it's akin to being in a war zone beyond a rotation for a tour of duty. I've seen a lot. And again, I live in Mayberry, you know, so if me in Mayberry where I was told I was never gonna draw my gun, I can only assume, you know, the people that are working have certainly more than what I do. Right here is one of the areas where migrants like to come down through. - [Peter] Okay, so that tree - [Major Leon] Just north - [Peter] Just north of the tree line. So this is one of the big roads. - [Major Leon] It is. - [Peter] Is it a daytime or it doesn't matter? - It really used to be just nighttime. Now there's a group that giving themselves up. So what we're running into that are coming down and as soon as they get across the border they're calling 911 saying, - Yeah, and so that's And, unfortunately, most of our media hasn't unpacked the entirety. And I can't do it in one video but that's the big sticking point, right? Most people from my Now is that a real asylum case or not is the question, right? So in certain jurisdictions on the southern border, the the vast majority are economic migrants. They're coming for the opportunity. - Yep. - Which, hey, if the green light's on, I'm gonna do it, too, if Courts are backed up for years. So they get in, they're quasi-legal, but in some instances, and actually many, they can't work. They don't have papers to work. So that's when you have or I'm going to Massachusetts soon, where there are hotels paid for by the taxpayer, everything, shelter. And that's where a lot And it's a frustration for everyone because why does the local We have enough problems with We're incentivizing more to come. - Absolutely. - And a lot of these people There's bad apples, of course. I don't agree with the whole, like, it's some army that's I've seen most of these they just wanna work in an opportunity. There we go. The squirrel's making a run And so that's where the I don't think either side of the media will really unpack that clearly. It's easy to say everyone is coming from the worst conditions ever and but that's not honest. It's not what's happening. - No. - Right, and as we talked about earlier, you're coming from West Africa, you need 20 grand, at least And at the time I was from Honduras and up, it was six grand. Nobody just gets in. - No. - You're paying off, Then the darkness of it that paid six grand doesn't The cartel said, okay, you through Western Union, or whatever. And then the family's sort of hostage back in the home country until he pays up. So he is almost like living - Yeah. - In the U.S. where you have to be under the table. You might have to take So the whole point- - Making a fraction of what somebody else who was doing that job would actually make if it was above the table. - And then it puts of American society because And also the migrants where the poorer people live. And so the rent prices go up 'cause you have more It doesn't affect the rich people. - Nope. - So these are just, like, some basics that don't really get explained. - And everything compounds. - And everything compounds. And we're at this, like, this if they're dealing with it firsthand, they're really fed up. - Yeah, yeah. - Understandably so. - And I mean, if you look at just, I mean, anybody who's reporting on it, look at the issues of all into the country, and they're going to these locations where you're talking about, one of the things they're not is the crime that comes in the same areas. I mean, New York City is They have homicides, they have fights, they have all these different and they can happen they're happening very much And people have to ask the question, well, why is that happening? And the same thing I brought up with you about the drug trade here. If people don't have the means to get what they need or want, they're going to find a way to do that. And oftentimes that's through crime. If we're letting them but we're not giving while being here, while they wait, they're going to do things Whether it's stealing from the store, whether it's robbing somebody else, whether it's finding other ways. I mean, selling food, the open air markets that are happening, granted not here locally, but in the bigger metropolitan areas, it's gonna keep causing these problems. It's gonna keep creating that are going to affect that live in the area, like you said. And the people that have to go through it. - And they're told by the cartels that here's all this - Yep. - And a lot of times they can't. And so it's illegal work. It could be prostitution. - Yep. - I mean, what goes on I don't know if it's happening here, but, you know, they flood the zone, the cartel floods the zone one area. Our Customs Border Protection gets on it. Quarter mile down that's when The sex trafficking, all the dark stuff. - It's the same stuff happens here. I mean, if you get a pickup load where Border Patrol moves in you're inevitably tying up resources. There's nothing you can do about it. Those resources are tied up. And then you're going to get - And then for your maybe there's an emergency, and you guys are more tied you shouldn't have to be dealing with. - It's just vast, vastness. That's all you can think about I mean, just look as far You have to think about that and the magnitude of how do you police it? I mean, there's ways to do it Technology is a huge friend, but that's pretty daunting. And imagine trying to do in an age when nobody wants and everybody's trying to hire and you just don't get people. So you gotta fight those battles too. - [Peter] Is that the case here? - I think it's the case anywhere. I mean, I think there's very that are not struggling - So they just don't wanna get into it because over the last few years they've been put under You know, it's a lot of pressure. I mean, I can't imagine the heaviness of society. Say you have a family, you gotta leave and deal And then you might not for doing the hard yards. - It's not even the It's the fair shake, right? There's no fair shake anymore. In law enforcement you And we've removed the idea You have to be perfect. And don't get me wrong. There have been some by people in uniform, right? Complete scumbags, we know that, but in law enforcement now they feel like we're out to get them. And there's this us them mentality, meaning society as a whole. - Who's they though? - The society. - I don't think most people feel that way. - They may not, but that's what's being represented. And now we're enacting- - Right, that's the image we're seeing. - We're enacting laws and all these things against law enforcement. And we're doing it under the We're doing it under the guise of we're trying to build relationships. And I don't know if that's the case, but how many people do and deal with the worst People that are carrying guns, people that are the breaking law, but you have to be perfect and you get a split second The same decision that and other people weeks to determine whether you were right or The same people that tell us We have media people that this or that, we put 'em through law enforcement training and they failed just as much if not more. And yet they're so quick to judge. Would you really want that? Knowing that the truth doesn't come out because the truth no longer matters. It's who's fastest. Who gets it out quick. Who's the first? And then the truth will but the truth will be a And do you really want to get into that? No, that's why nobody wants to be a cop. - So we're gonna attract - I don't think we're but we're certainly dropping our standards to fill the ranks. - Say you have to fill 10 positions and you have 500 applicants, you can take the best of those 500. If you have 10 positions - You are definitely hiring people now that you wouldn't have hired 10 years ago. - That's my point. - And here's the thing. We talked about law enforcement and all these other things. You know what we're doing now? We're doing the same job plus more, but we're doing it with less which is exactly what they said - Which is gonna burn them out. - Yes. - And if I've been dealing with, I had a BS day all day long, - You're gonna make a - And then say, you know, you have a fight with whatever it might be. You're coming into work with stress. You're dealing with the dregs of society. The last part of the day I don't know how you do it. - I mean, you try to do it the right way. - Of course. - Luckily, we work with a lot of people that are doing the job and we're doing it out here 'cause we're trying to You've been in my office, you saw Superman everywhere. The whole point is because and that's what I want is I - It's purpose and meaning. That's what you get in your work. - Yeah. - So most people are, a lot of people don't - Some people think I'm mentally ill because of the dedication and to the job, but at the same point, I've I've lived a life where I I've been in jail before - [Peter] You've been in jail? - Absolutely 100%. - [Peter] For what? - I broke into a bunch of summer camps. And the point is, is that accountability, which we cannot give to the is the only thing that saved and being accountable because with a single mother who had to go do what she I was left to do what I wanted. And in the end I messed up and it wasn't but the court and then the jail where this is not the life I want. You know, people are like, Yeah, I've been to jail. I was in high school. It's sealed, but I talk about it openly. You know why? Because it might help somebody else, but that no longer exists. We can't do that to So those people aren't gonna get the accountability that I got and I don't think they're gonna - [Peter] And then you do your job here and you're gonna be called or you don't like immigrants. - Which is not the case. - [Peter] Right. - But, of course, because - Right. - You know, it's... - So your guys hands are- - No matter what you do, you're damned if you do, - Your hands are really tied. - Yeah. - And you can't speak up. - I'm only here because my boss Right? - Are you glad he said that? - Listen, at this point, I What's the worst that's People are gonna look at me and say, ah, he's got a point, or they're gonna say he's an asshole. It's one of the two. - It's luxury beliefs you don't need law enforcement in life 'cause I've been to countries and it sucks. And so society, maybe not but most cities would fall It would be absolute mad max chaos. And that's the reality. And a lot of people, since they live in I'm not saying these people, but if society falls, you're looking at the corn fields, it doesn't really affect you as much. - No, and the funny part even the people that are they still, despite maybe they still respect law which is interesting, it's true. - On the furthest extremes - I think so, I think, on both. - Okay. - I think so. - Most people want it. They're just in society right now a lot of people are quiet in so many ways. - It's making things more difficult because, like, in our small I'd say it's probably 5% open So we're down 5% for staffing. The New York State Police, right? They get paid well, they are Any agency in the country is The Border Patrol trouble with staffing. You're asking people to that other people don't really wanna do in conditions that they Knowing that one wrong move can immediately put you in a position where you could lose everything. - [Peter] Looks like a new crossing, huh? - [Major Leon] Yeah, they've - [Peter] So up here at this sector you have a lot of small crossings, huh? - [Major Leon] Yeah. - [Peter] There's a lot of this going on. - [Major Leon] Yep. There's so many different roads that intersect so many towns on each side. - [Peter] Right. - That to make it one point, you're talking about going 40 miles just to get to a border crossing when all the roads are right here. So it's a matter of convenience for the American and Canadian - [Peter] So much activity or not really? - [Major Leon] No, no, no, this is where it should be, right? This is where it should be, but it's not. - [Peter] Do you think a lot of people are working over the border? - I don't think that's I'm sure there's some, but I don't think it's a kind of like on the south. There's a huge population The New York State has several jails in the area, but as New York State continues they keep closing prisons. And as they close prisons, these people that live in They have a choice of if they wanna keep their employment, but it just creates a - So prisons are closing. That means what? You're arresting less. There are less criminals. What's going on? - You know, that's the problem I have with the use of numbers. The use of numbers, oh, crime is down. Nah, I don't know if crime is down. What I do know is we've made crime lesser, so, therefore, there's more work that goes into a lower level crime and law enforcement may not be spending their time doing that, or district attorneys may So, therefore, those numbers, sure, they're indicative of less arrests because there's more lower level arrests so I'm not the smart guy. There's other people a but I'm just out here giving- - What's it take for me to - Oh, I think a lot. I mean, you can be- - Okay, what if I, you know, I attack somebody? - Yeah, no, you're gonna get a ticket. - A ticket? - What do you mean? - I'm gonna bring you to my office. I'm gonna say you're under arrest. Here's your ticket, go to court. And then you're gonna go home. - I'm not going to jail? - No, you would have to - I punched someone in the face. - No, that's a harassment. That in itself is a ticket on scene. - Was there a time when it - So punching somebody in the that's a violation level of offense. Now if you cause injury, then you're getting into We used to be able to bring and arraign you, and that's all changed. There's a huge list of where you can no longer bring You just have to give - Okay, so I go to the mini mart, I punch someone in the face. I give 'em a bloody nose. - Yep. - You're giving me a little - Yeah, probably, yeah. - So there's no consequences. So if I'm designed like that, - Of course, and that's the whole point that I was trying to bring about is the consequences are You used to be afraid of getting arrested because you could potentially and go to jail. Now, it doesn't matter because you're not going you're not going to jail, The ticket in itself is not scary. - How much is it for something like that? - Oh, I mean, you could still potentially, if you had a huge record, you could potentially face but it's not likely, so and it really depends on the judge, depends on the jurisdiction. So if you break the law and you thought you and go to a judge, but where's the consequence in that? The consequence may come So, therefore, there's a higher likelihood that you may rack up several arrests prior to any consequences - Do people know that? I guess they don't 'cause I didn't really know how it worked either. - Yeah, I mean, in New York State, people are a little shocked People are like, &quot;Why Oh, they are. &quot;Well, he punched somebody Oh no, he actually punched somebody. He got what we're required to do. We're required to give and he's gonna go to That's just the way it is. - [Peter] What was this down here? - [Major Leon] This used - [Peter] When did this close down? - [Major Leon] Oh, years ago. Occasionally, we'll get information that there will be some 'til they get picked up. - [Peter] So you have a Yeah, let's stop there. That's post-apocalyptic. - [Major Leon] Yep. - All right, guys, I also wanna tell you there's a lot of stuff that during these shoots And so I have another platform outside of the YouTube channel. I'll leave the link down below. It's called the Inner Circle Group. That's where I do a question Deeper thought processes because usually it's about and learning from them, but, you know, I'll after this shoot going to and thinking through what I've learned. And I share it on this other channel, so. We'd love to see you there. Link down below. Let's check this out. All right, so some break-in action. (glass crunching) And here are the clothes. So they just come right over, right? - Yeah. So some of this could easily The odd part is the different shoes that are in good condition. Homeless people wouldn't leave them. They would keep those, but these have obviously been so it's very probable. - [Peter] I'm surprised the city doesn't have this blocked off. Like anyone can just be in here, right? - [Major Leon] Privately owned. And they've gone after them (glass crunching) The border is just north So if you start working you come down, there's So basically you don't even need GPS, you just focus on the lights. We caught cars over at flashing their headlights Hey, I'm here, come on out. Across the street, you'll see Border Patrol watching us. - [Peter] Right now? - [Major Leon] Yeah. - [Peter] That's all new, huh? - [Major Leon] Fairly new. - [Peter] Do you mind Just put it out there. So they just ditched their clothes? - [Major Leon] Yeah. - [Peter] Or the excess, what is that? - It's hard to tell, but those are three If you come out, though, and you didn't just run whoever's picking you up may have other clothes for you to put on. You dump 'em real quick - [Peter] So just cat and mouse? - [Major Leon] Yeah, it really is. - [Peter] How you doing? - Not bad, how about yourself? - [Peter] Good. I'm making a video on the border region. Have you seen many people coming - I see them a lot because We live across from the Roxham Road, so I see them come across by the families, but you know the man to talk to? Right in there, his name is Phil. He lives right on the Roxham Road. - [Peter] Okay. - So he'd be the one to talk to. He sees more of it. - [Peter] Thank you Danielle. - [Danielle] You're very welcome. - [Peter] All right, so Phil, that don't live at the northern border. Uptick in crossings, or or what's going on? - It's pretty chill. It's slowing down. - [Peter] Okay. - Still see a few people here - [Peter] Okay, so when was it really bad? - Last year. - [Peter] It was worse last year. - Oh yeah, before they - [Peter] They shut it down? - Up on my road. - [Peter] And the Canadians - Yeah, but you still can - [Peter] Oh, it's easy, yeah. Okay, and then what's the trajectory? Most come in here and or what's the state? - Yeah, they go to, like, to - So they'll have people - Yeah. - Yeah, and if they don't have anybody, then they're looking for a taxi and we got a couple taxis - [Peter] No way, they'll - No, from, like, Plattsburgh - [Peter] Okay. How much is a taxi to New York City? - All depends on the taxi - [Peter] Okay, okay. Thank you, Phil. - [Phil] All right, you have a good one. - Yeah, you too, take care. - [Phil] You too. - All right, there we go. Another little piece That was interesting. Phil said that taxis will come up here. - Yep, even New York City taxis. - All right, so. - I don't know if you noticed, did you see any taxi - He said they have a - Do they? Interesting. - Yeah. - So Phil calls for 'em? - I think so. - Yeah, we like Phil. - You want Phil to do that? - Listen, somebody's gonna how we get New York City taxis up here to pick these guys up if it's and there's a lot of - Right. Well, he said there are - There are, there are, yep. - But it's just an opportunity, right? - So depending on who is he talking about those from the Border Patrol station over here? Or is he talking about those that just snuck across the border that have not yet been processed? - I didn't hit 'em on that and I don't know if he'd - Yeah, so I'm assuming because the Border Patrol station is, well, it's that building right there, right by the big sign that we can't see, that's the building right there. So they literally go to and then they get a ride. - [Peter] So this is downtown Plattsburgh? - [Major Leon] Yep. - [Peter] Looks pretty - It's not that bad. And that's the problem is and you don't delve into what's going on in any of the areas you generally live, it's actually pretty peaceful. If you run in circles with then you're going to where it's not gonna be as pretty. - So, scale of one to 10, - For America or for us? - Give us both. - For us in the area, I would dare say it's probably a four or five. - Okay. - You know, because it is a There's resources that are being used that maybe could go elsewhere. - Okay, for the country? - It's definitely pretty high. It's gonna be at least Again, it's my opinion, any place. You wouldn't just let random if you didn't know who they were. You wouldn't let people if you didn't know who they were, but you're gonna let them and basically disappear, and you have no idea who they So you always have to keep and I think that's the - All right, quite interesting, guys. I've never gone to the northern border and touched on this story. I've done a fair amount on We'd love you to see those videos too. Did some videos with sheriffs Really fascinating. And, also, Customs Border You can go onto their website. I'll put a screen in here so you can see what I'm talking about, but the link down below, You can see apprehensions on the southern border, what nationalities are It's quite detailed and easy Check that out. Thanks for coming along on that journey. Until the next one. (funky music)