You've got a job offer and now you have a If you decide not to, and your buddy who got the same offer negotiates and gets a By the end of 30 years, your buddy will be [MUSIC] Think about that. [MUSIC] My husband is a trained chef. Do you know that chef's don't have recipes They know the structure of the sauce, and the ingredients that they have, they can And that's what I want for you. I'm not going to give you a recipe for a Rather, what I want to do is give you the a negotiation, so that you can be I want to propose a new way of thinking negotiation, and what you're trying to And, then what I want to do is give you steps to help you be more effective in Folks typically see negotiation as an process, and are uncomfortable because other folks will think of them as too demanding, too greedy, not nice, or What I wanna do today is get you to change the frame of how you think about Moving it from an adversarial process to And, problem solving is collaborative. I wanna solve our problem in a way that's you, but also gives me more of what it is [MUSIC] When we negotiate most of us view the goal This is wrong. The goal of a negotiation is not to get a The goal of a negotiation is to get a good We need to be able to separate what a good So, that means we need at least 3 pieces The first thing we need to know is, what What happens to us if this negotiation What are we left with? What's the status quo, or what And, the research is very clear. He or she with a better alternative does Secondly, we need to know what our What's the point at wich we are indifferent between saying yes, and And when you negotiate, it's critical that understand where that reservation price that point at which you are indifferent, And the third point, which is really one that people often overlook, is that we have to think about our alternative, reservation price, we also need to think What is an optimistic assessment of what [MUSIC] So how do you get more of what you want? Let me suggest that four steps will help The first step is to assess the situation. Is this a situation where I can have To change that outcome in a way that makes And, I need to weigh the potential from negotiating with the potential costs And, will the benefits outweigh the costs? The second step is, I need to prepare. And, they're really two aspects of this Number one, I need to understand what my What I'm really trying to achieve in this And, the second part is I need to understand the interests and preferences Many of us may understand what our understand at a deep level what the preferences and interests are of our Third, now comes the ask. Engage with your counterpart. Look at these disputed, social situations You have information that your And, this is what you bring to the table. If they knew all your information, if they knew your perspective, they don't Because you have unique information, and have unique information, that's where the Fourth, you need to package. Now what do I mean by that? Most of us when we negotiate, negotiate This is a really bad strategy, because you negotiate issue by issue, every issue You either win or lose. When you're packaging issues you now have So, think about proposing solutions. Alternative solutions to your counter And, to help you out, because your counter want to negotiate issue by issue, think If I give you this, then I get that. What you're doing is you're yoking various To get more of what you want there are Assess, prepare, ask, package. To give you an example, my dean recently would have to be going from five courses a Because he had received information from to be consistent in the amount of contact I was not happy about that email. So, my response was, I think I need to Let's negotiate. But, before I started a negotiation, I What was in his interest? His interest was probably, to make sure What was my interest? Not to move from five classes to six And it turns out I teach two different MBA electives, and then some specialty There are lots of folks who teach MBA There are very few folks who teach So, I thought I should focus on the So, then I went for the ask. I set up a meeting, and part of that to verify the information that I had And, it did turn out to be true. He was interested in making the provost so then came the proposal that packaged He said he wanted consistency between So, what he did is he changed the credit I suggested, why not change the contact Because it turns out that in my courses, in my specialty courses, we always went So, while they were three hours, it was we would go for 3 and a half to 4 hours. So, let's make 'em 4 hour courses. And, keep me at 5 rather than move me to He said to me, I never even thought of It wasn't that weird. Because he didn't have the information I had, that my classes routinely ran over. And, so when I gave him that information, him as well off as he was, and made me a By the way, I was the only faculty member And, why did I get an exception, because For two reasons. One, I decided to negotiate. And, number two, I provided him with a [MUSIC] So, what are the unique opportunities and challenges that women face when they Let's start off with an example that's away from what most of us think about as In 2006, the U.S. Tennis Open's Grand Slam And, for the first time, they were able to And, so they allowed the players to Now it turns out, that over the course of about one third of the challenged calls But, interestingly, if you divided up the it turns out the men challenged 73 calls, Now, we can come up with all sorts of stories about why men's tennis is Men's tennis is faster. Maybe the judges make more mistakes. Maybe the judges are paying more attention Maybe. But, three times difference in the number Women are simply uncomfortable with Expectations drive behavior. If we expect to do poorly, we will behave This was demonstrated in a piece of When women were told that people who are significantly worse in their negotiation When they were told that people like them well, they did significantly better than Expectations drive behavior. If you change your expectations, you will As women, we need to be very cognizant of Why am I asking? How am I asking? And, for whom am I asking? Let's first talk about why you are asking. It turns out that women are much more negotiations when they pair their Women need to demonstrate their concern So, how are my skills help you, the organization, my employer, my team, to do So, let me give you an example. A colleague of mine had gotten a wonderful So, she came to me and said, can you help I really don't wanna move. I said, no problem. [LAUGH] We can do this. So, I said, make an appointment with the Be very clear. Dean, we have a problem. I love Stanford, but I just received this I need some help. Can you help me figure out how to stay She wasn't making a demand. She wasn't giving an ultimatum. She was saying, can you help me? Communal problem solving. How are you asking? Male evaluators penalize female issue distributive negotiation when I ask In ways that they do not penalize her male Female evaluators penalize both males and Why the women were penalized? Was because they were perceived as being Now note I said a single issue. They were negotiating issue by issue. So, how can I help you with this pool of my job more effectively to make you better Communal packaging. Next, for whom are you asking? It turns out, that if we distill the research and negotiation, we have two big Number One. You're better off negotiating for yourself Number Two. If you're negotiating for me, I am much Women outperform men in representational negotiations between fourteen and This is huge. So, I use this all the time. When I negotiate, I don't negotiate for I negotiate for my husband, my four dogs, That's a lot of mouths to feed, and it [MUSIC] &gt;&gt; A client came to me asking for one of top consultants who was busy working on So, I wanted to staff it with a different But, the consultant that the client wanted So, she came up with the idea, what if we work underneath her, and give her the to work on both projects with that It worked for the client, it made the consultant really happy, and it really &gt;&gt; Before coming to business school, for preparing to beat a price, or aim for a Now I realize that preparation, for a It's about identifying the issues that are But also, the issues that are important to the other parties that I'm interacting And, I think that allows us to be much more creative and actually solve the &gt;&gt; One of the most important things you your compensation negotiation, is do your Sometime people will go to web sites and field and title in order to find out what But, I find that those websites aren't all that accurate, and they often compile an It's safe to assume that if you perform and you're asking for a raise, you're One of the other things that you can do is or an association, either online or ask those members what their salary range You can do so anonymously if that feels &gt;&gt; I worked for a Fortune 50 company. I got the promotion of my dreams. Best day of my life. Went out to dinner with a mentor that Learned that I was getting paid substantially less than my six male He said, you have gotta go back in there Had a lot of fear that I might lose that Showed up the next morning and I The concern of my boss was, I was younger and had far less experience than all of my Yet, I pointed out to him that his would make the same goals as my six counter parts for equally as large We discussed it and he agreed, and at the of the day, I got the raise that i really &gt;&gt; When you're considering negotiating, How much are you willing to pay to avoid And, if you decide that you're going to you need to be strategic in how you ask. And, finally, negotiation is an Every bad deal you have gotten, you've So, you need to have the capacity to say no, the other side comes back and says, How about this? Is it good for you? But, you'll never know that unless you're &gt;&gt; Recently I had a client enter a negotiation where the terms really didn't me, and so I told them, it's just not economically rational for me to take And, it kept it objective, and not and allowed me to walk away from the deal &gt;&gt; When I got my first job, I didn't even I had no idea how to set a goal. I had no idea how to make the ask. Now it's a little bit different. I understand how to set an aspirational the point where I understand how it benefits all the different parties that &gt;&gt; But, you really do have to understand feel in order to understand what it is Because, if you don't know what you want, &gt;&gt; Earlier in my career, I realized that of projects I was going to get to work on, the people I was going to get to work with would be invaluable experience for me to So, when I received a promotion, I took not to just negotiate my cash In this way, I was able to ensure that I industry and also get to work with team who I knew would invest in my own &gt;&gt; When I was hiring people it struck me And, women were not negotiating. And, when they did negotiate, women would what they wanted, but they wouldn't be They didn't explain to me that they did a They didn't tie it to the results and that I was hiring them for and why, based on their experience, they were a perfect they were going to meet those goals for And therefore, they wanted a package that They needed to come in prepared, and just &gt;&gt; I've been on both sides of the First, running compensation for a large as I place people in jobs and where I've women be most successful is, when they ask in terms of how it reaches the So, go ask. Just always keep in mind how does it help &gt;&gt; What I've noticed before is candidates that sometimes the negotiation process can can get so focused on what they're looking it, that the candidate's enthusiasm and Therefore, remember when you enter this want your future employer and your boss to that you're not only excited about the you're hungry to get in there and start &gt;&gt; Let's start with baby steps. Don't start off with an negotiation where Rather, start a negotiation where the relationship is possibly not even Where there's less risk to you to Now, let me give you an example. Think about going to a department store. And, I don't know about you, but I am a I love shoes. Unfortunately, with my job, I spend a lot But, sometimes when I go to shoe sales, You can't wear 'em you can't even walk 'em but when you put 'em on you're like, I So, I go to this department store. It's the sale. They have a sale like once every six I'm there when the store opens, and I find boring pairs of black pumps that I'm gonna And, then there's a shoe that, from the And I found them, and they were in my It was great. I was so excited. But, then I looked at the price and was And, they hadn't discounted them very much And, I said to the guy, I said I'm going These are beautiful. I want them, but they're too expensive. Can you help me? And he said, no problem ma'am. Here's what you do. Buy all four pairs, but don't wear these And, then bring them back, in a week, you discount them 50% and then you can come And I said, it's an hour and a half each It's not gonna happen. Have you got any other options? And, he said, let me go talk to my But, when he came back he said, we'll take And I said, that works. Thank you. Now, here's your assignment. Go to your favorite department store. Find something you want, and then Figure out how to solve the problem. Here's what I want. It's too expensive for me, and ask for Initiate the negotiation. Not all of you will be successful every but you will be surprised at how often you &gt;&gt; When I first learned about this it helped me understand why women There is a social risk. Women are judged differently. And, with Maggie's work, it gives us tools negotiate successfully and in a way that &gt;&gt; Malcolm Gladwell suggests you need hours of practice to become expert in Negotiation is the same way. You need to practice, but you need to You need to see social situations as an so that you and your counterparts can get [MUSIC]