My name is Hannah. I live in Madison, I am 32 years old, and I was diagnosed I have a yellow lab we have a house, of time on house Looking back, I really dug through all of my visit summaries and and I don't know It's all connected, some dull sometimes but it was so, like, it wasn't and like, was so dull again, that all started Probably I kind of like that about my body the doctor and then around like 2021, 2022, I had a lot more I started to, get a lot of which I never had Usually, who had it was like they always, like, Sometimes really bad But it wasn't a UTI tested for it. So I just started notice like things and I kept going They kept telling me I'm young, healthy, even family we're like, no, No one took me and then of 2022. I started peeing, a lot of blood. And that was really I was like, with my urine. And again, kind of like, no, that's a normal It's fine. but it like, they it went away so again, nothing there. or taken I noticed a lot Like, my arms like I just seemed so, I don't know, I think I gained like, 5 pounds or something, but I kind of up to like, hey, maybe I'm not working out it should be fine, but I just kind of knew something so that was August So then it was December, the beginning of December, again, like, down there, pelvic like spotting, like, feel like I'm at a appointment on a Friday, pressure checked, 105, which they're like, And all my past Like nothing about like high I was always in the normal So they were like, Like family. Like it can run It's very genetic. There's a thing white coat syndrome nervous that your blood could just be up. And I'm like, it's 8:00 I'm tired. Like, I'm fine. I feel calm, well, just And they tested Hi again. So, then they just So then I like testing my blood pressure it was that Sunday hey, before the work just going to go to urgent care and see if they can because I don't want to have to, like, do all taking off and everything. I just kind of because my blood is still high as I'm taking it from home. So I'm waiting in, urgent care comes and gets me, and they're like, we're just gonna but we're going the waiting room my blood pressure And he's like, Like, are you okay? And I'm like, I think I am like, And he's like, And he's like, we are not putting you back in fact, the doctor And he's like, not at you, that they just told you, hey, go ahead and have Like, he's like, this is not Like blood doctor came in, asked I kind of pointed right lower And he's like, okay, I think this is we don't do that So I'm going to have and they'll likely They did a CT, of my chest and we're We're thinking maybe ovarian cyst and maybe And they came back, doctor is like, hey, there was a mass, looks like. It's That's really big. this could be. I can't remember what he said, but something about, a calcium buildup He's like, it Yeah. Like, we don't know what it is, but, It could be cancer. We kind of waited more, and as, like, it was like, okay, we really think that it's spread. There's And actually the mass was was on my So that's why I was having all the UTI symptoms, because it was my kidney to drain from draining So I was creating a lot of stress And like, infection. so they're like, to go to surgery I didn't get in until, of December, two weeks panicking, like, Like, what is this? What's happening And I met he said, you know, that it's appendix you know, I think it's called lamb, low grade and like, can be But it's like and everything. I really didn't It wasn't until the end of December got a diagnosis. So it was like I was working and I just remember seeing like test and I opened it up and I was alongside but that fiance it read something and I don't even want to, like, because But like basically four appendix but mucus and sad segment But I took so I don't know what the word So I googled it 7% to 13% five year or so survival And, just like my world shattered and just crying, I didn't know I finally was able my surgeon again. he brought in a medical oncologist and I was like, for this appointment okay, I'm finally going to have, and like And like a lot of my questions are going to be Well, did not answer any of my questions, and it just made me way more confused Like, we could do about right away. But if we do that, you're going to create all this scar tissue, really hard surgery that requires to like so there's if we do that first, then, like, you won't be able to do surgery later that scar tissue. So then, we decided to get which at first not an opinion. But after that I was more just because let's get rid of it Like, let's go. And like my local hospital is like But not up there. and so we consulted the appendix cancer specialist which I learned is appendix cancer, 1 in 1,000,000 that you get so, we got a second opinion, and he's just like, This is what This is what works. You're young, you're healthy, to get through this. And he explained segmental features meant 50% of it So it's not a full and segmental. It's like so that was like promising So right with that call, I'm He's our guy. Like, Mayo Clinic He did agree that that so chemo rounds of chemo So it was to do some just to kind of and like reduce it and then So I did five rounds it was for Fox, colon cancer. Because appendix cancer is so rare, like a drug regimen, to, appendix cancer. And my second they added a drug symptoms I had from chemo was a little sensitive, kind of tingling, are falling asleep. Also cramping It's kind of like when you ride a bike for like a long period of time something for a long period of time, just kind a hoarseness in it was winter So also it was like I could almost like, like, breathing like anything cold And I just remember being, like, I stayed working during all of it because I like, normal, like, I had my surgery. I had, time off because you have to how to, like, digest your intestines. It was a 12 hour they open you up cage all the way down to, like, one big incision, and actually take out like, comb through all of them and just make sure there's, like, they had to, like, take off the disease and put it back on and I didn't know what all they were but I woke up, tell me my ovaries We don't kids prior, so, that was like a big I knew but that was kind of because now I have to start to not go into early They did where they, like, remove It's called, like, have me up to me or something they said that I could wake up colostomy bag. And I was really paranoid and obviously for, like, superficial reasons. And, I just didn't And, like, also dealing with my NEF tube that had to stay in constantly So I just one more thing with my chemo They send you home with, like, It's like a that attaches and it runs So I had that with this little, And then also I just had all I did wake up with and that was super I had that and then I had to keep my nerve tube in my ear there for six weeks So I stayed about a week, came home, had two months off just pretty much I had to take, and so my husband a spreadsheet for all my meds I was just a lot, so I was just trying to develop, my appetite I and I remember eating and OJ was like it was like, worth celebrating finish a yogurt I just, like, cannot get any food down and like, even just, like, walking in my neighborhood like it was So I was just really and, you know, I started pushing myself to walk in the hospital And my sister and husband kind of cheered me on to walk down and then walk back to my bed every like four hours get me up and movement actually, like really helps in the recovery So whenever you can do that, They did and something molecular profiling. So the molecular profiling tumor on your DNA. And it notes if there's any like mutations certain and things like mutations. So identifying one called and that, my medical oncologist said maybe you look for the future if you needed and then the genetic testing like showed hereditary or not, They said like, not that you did it just like fluke, like, replicating and there's no way like, know at what point developing this. But they said it's about like, a ten year slowly but they have I to really like, show But that kind of like, aligns when I started to go to the doctor, looking at all They did do a minimal residual it's a newer just it and then it, reviews your blood for any circulating So that kind of measurement Like, he visibly was able everything he saw. So I was deemed But, just like a looking at my blood, like, And then, it was negative. So that meant I didn't have Again, that's not perfect. I know a lot of have a and they do have So, I think they're still trying to work out but it's just a good data they also redid retested and that So it's under the 5000, so after surgery hey, I'm cancer Like I'm good. Like, finally and they're like, nope, you only did of chemo. out of the 12. And so we really want you to finish So after I healed I had to start chemo and I was and did not feel great about that you know, I'm I'm cancer free. Like, chemo and it like, is just horrible so I wasn't very But everybody's what's aggressive, If there's anything left over, Like once that, So I finally it was like that in October of 2023 Oh, we had a really June 29th of 2024. so that was great. Just before though, I had a scan and April small so they said, growing at under one so we're not going to biopsy it, but we really think we think that it's that was left behind That girl. so I did five rounds and that only took to early June, where they just, I was under like a CT scan, and they just use, and it took takes about So I had like and another, so it's very easy. Radiation treatment Five rounds I didn't really have and then they just a follow up. a couple weeks ago, And, they saw that are growing So now, I think I'm having, like, another I think with this, like, you feel like maybe going to end, it really puts into perspective, and, like, have I had And, well, people am I just going like, a lost memory? and through it just, like, empowered me to, make the like, show love, like, be vulnerable. so I think, like those deep and, You know, me and my husband where we just cried, you know, But like, there is those, you know, flower attacks. So really thoughtful it may be that your drive and like you're empowered, keep fighting, keep moving forward and just having like the support group of like group also isolating hearing 1,000,000 and they don't know to find others that had the same diagnosis as you was that you could have that you can have because the I hear back from your doctor half the time, it's just like a nerve to Even if you reach directly So to have those that can, like, and tell you like who to contact or like their experience and made me not feel like 1 in on this island. It was like, okay, we're like a group Going through I would just say, do your research or so you really need Like if you have any friends or family field, If you can find for your specific like symptoms your diagnosis, That's huge. and just get second opinions and really like all the different worlds till I get treatment with something nobody's like, you work and you're really and charge. Like, probably weak going through this, you have the power the control as much Like you can't cure cancer, like, enough, And if you don't do any of that, could change,