Backpacking holidays Part 7 I'm visiting Flores and the town of San Miguel I'm on the island of Flores surrounded by the waters of Lake Peten Itza As you know from the previous episode, Rafal is in hospital, so today I'm going to explore the area myself. An adventurous day awaits us in one of the most picturesque places in Guatemala. If you like the series about traveling around Central America, remember to leave a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel if you haven't done so yet . We are now in the center of the island. In the very center there is a small park and a pub. This is the view from behind the pub. And the church. This small building also turns out to be historic . This is a plaque. Nice, pleasant little streets. It's a pity that this promenade is flooded. All in all, it would be nice to walk around the island. And if you want to take a walk here, you have to go along the main street behind the buildings and only then go out to the flooded places. The island of Flores itself is not very big. You can walk around it, I think even in 20 minutes around it. It took me a total of an hour and a half, but that's because I'm wandering around the streets , up, down and along the waterfront. I think an hour and a half is the maximum. You don't need more to visit this island. Today I also bought a trip to Tikal. The cost of such a trip is 100 quetzales (approx. $13). This is the cost of the trip back and forth to Tikal. On site, you pay an additional 150 quetzales (approx. $20) to enter the archaeological park. I also paid 30 quetzales (approx. $4) to enter with a guide who would show me around the park, because I was going alone, without Rafal. Here you can see the marina sign. The marina is here, you can rent a boat to sail to the other side or for recreational swimming. I'll try to find out how much it costs soon. So to sail from the island to the peninsula it costs 10 quetzales (approx. $1.50) and to return it is also 10 quetzales, so not that much. However, the trips themselves are much more expensive. For example, to sail to the ZOO , which is much further along the peninsula, it costs up to 250 quetzales (approx. $32), there are also beaches, a few interesting places on the peninsula, and a museum. So maybe it's worth it. I sail to the other side of the peninsula to San Miguel. The town of San Miguel was called Tayazal in Mayan times. When the Mayan civilization began to fall apart, Tayazal was one of the last bastions in which the Maya preserved their traditions and culture. Currently, it is an important area for archaeologists who carry out excavations here. The artifacts and ruins found provide valuable information about what life was like here in the past. Well, I'm already on the second page. The time of such transport is only about 4 minutes. The cost is 10 quetzales. It is more of a taxi than a tourist attraction, hence the price. It's definitely emptier here, there are probably fewer people here . Bananowce. This is what the island of Flores looks like from the other side. On the shore of the lake there is a horse monument that commemorates a certain local legend. But I'll tell you about her later. Apparently there is a cenote somewhere here. I checked it on Google maps. Getting to it is quite strange. And here it is. I have arrived. It is said that the spirit of a horse that once belonged to a Mayan warrior lives in the Tayazal cenote. It disappeared in the water and since then, sometimes strange noises of hooves can be heard nearby. Locals believe that his spirit still haunts the cenote. There's a lizard over there. So pretty. Green. It's almost invisible in these leaves. There are a lot of animals running around here, because every now and then I hear rustling in the bushes. It's nice here, I like it. But it's a terrible place. I think I'd better get out of here. I don't feel very safe here . Nice atmosphere. I like it here much more than on the island of Flores . There are very few people here. I reached the Museo Regional Mundo Maya (Regional Museum of the Maya World). I have no idea where to enter this museum, there are no tourists here at all. It's strange in this part of the peninsula. We'll see, maybe we'll be able to enter the museum if it's not closed. A moment later. I managed to enter the museum. Interestingly, it is completely free. You just need to enter your name and where you came from. Apparently it is sponsored from the state budget. It wasn't easy to get here. It was a bit of a walk from the marina. But all in all, it's worth it, especially since admission is free. It's strange because I'm the only visitor. They turned on the lights especially for me, told me which direction to go and that was it. And I'm exploring . All the monuments are within easy reach. They're not even behind the display cases. I go up to the first floor. Let's see what's there. This is what it looks like from above. I've never been to a museum alone before, especially since it's not a small one. I feel strange here. They sent a guy after me to clean the display cases and turn on the light for me. You have to be careful in this room - the tiles are terribly cracked. When I stepped on such a tile, I could be heard throughout the entire museum. So I'm going downstairs. Let's see what's downstairs and it's probably the entire museum. There are probably some other artifacts here, probably not Mayan ones. The museum is supposedly of the Mayan world . Apparently, maybe a more modern exhibition. ABOUT! There is a pyramid, I don't have to go to Tikal anymore. The entrance to the museum is behind me, but I'm just leaving . Overall, it was quite a nice visit. The museum itself and the exhibits displayed here certainly have great historical value. There are a lot of exhibits from the times of the Mayan Culture. The advantage of this visit is that I could walk around alone and there were no other visitors. It was a bit strange but interesting experience. I also liked that you didn't have to pay anything, which was a big surprise for me. Even though it's quite a long walk from this port/marina , it's worth taking a walk and visiting this place, provided you are in Flores. And now I'm back on the island of Flores . Quite a successful trip. Today I'm going to eat there. We'll see if it's any good. This is what my dinner looks like today. It's some kind of broth, chicken, rice with potatoes , beer and a tortilla. I'm hungry after a whole day of sightseeing. I'd love to eat something. I hope it will be good. It's not broth, it's some kind of spicy soup with vegetables. Quite good. The chicken is also good, maybe a little too dry, but I like it much better than what we recently ate in Antigua. Next episode coming soon.