Hey Laura, hey Welcome. Thank you. It's very exciting to have you in the shop. You want to build a specific thing What is it you want to yes, so after the tape dispenser that we built last time I thought this time we should build an over engineered bottle opener okay, so there's this trick that you can open one bottle with another bottle and then if you whoop Hold on and then if you kick the lower bottle it should pop the other the other one up yeah and it makes this great sound and the cap shoots up like right into the air and I thought it would be nice to have a fixture for a party where you can have your bottle and then Recreate that movement and have this explosion does that make sense? That totally makes sense that totally makes sense Um, is this a ... are we going for efficiency or novelty novelty? Novelty. Okay, great That changes our engineering significantly So when you said you wanted to pop a bottle cap off I first thought of a hammer and I broke out this hammer But when I look at these bottles what I notice is that they're at different heights and they all have different lips. That's true I actually think I'm not sure what I think in Germany. They're all the same. They're all like this Yeah, but I could be wrong. Oh, so if we're going to do that, we kind of want to make it able to accommodate any bottle, yeah So, well, the bottle cap is always the same size bottle cap, yes. Oh that's the consistent thing So first first, I think we need some sort of Yeah, exactly. We need a registration for the back of the bottle. Yes, right Yeah, so what that could be would be like from the top. So from the top it would be like that, right? Mm-hmm and oh, yeah, and then from the side, I think it would be Like that right with that with a hole cut out there so it's a very you know, it's like oh it holds it Okay, so it holds it under the yeah holds it under the bottle cap. Yeah, like cradles it right there So it's a really positive lock and that way, you know ya know I was trying to think about a way that a hammer could literally go folk and top it off But when I look at these lips, I think that's a recipe for broken glass flying everywhere. Probably. Yes, however What if we had ... what if the bottle? Okay, um wait a second, wait a second, wait right here oh You see what I'm thinking yeah what I'm toying around with the idea of is wait What I'm toying around with is something that sits here, mm-hmm, right so that we make a thing that is exactly the right shape So maybe it's like a thing that comes in so you bring the bottle into the device and it sits there Yeah, and then there's this part that comes in and goes. Mm-hmm and the hammer hits it Yeah that yeah, that is a good idea. I think but the trick with that is Whatever the hammer hits Has to be on a linear track Mm-hmm, right? See here, I mean I have some leaf I have some linear actuators You know so you could Literally bring this, you know, you put a this can handle a lot of here feel how how solid that is. Yeah, it's wow. I Mean it's got the the holes in it so we could bring it up like this, you know Make a little lip for it to grab the bottle cap Mmm maybe You know So what if what if it had what if this had a lip on it and a little spring so that shoots up, right? So it it brings it right in it's almost like a pinball machine like the kick of from a pinball machine. She yes. Yes Yes, wait, we don't need that. We don't need this. What we need is something that holds the bottle down here. Yeah, right Yes, and then this just could this is spring-loaded. Yeah, right So we bring this in and you bring it in so it goes like this and now it's set and then the hammer goes And knocks it off. So it's a two two part. It's a two-stage operation. That's it. You've got it. This is a spring yeah, get in point like this and it's you know, we have a Making a thing that holds the bottle is not that's not that difficult now I can I can use a little piece of like neoprene Rubber. Mm-hmm, you know like a cup holder. So it just like holds it nicely. Mhm That's great and let me I have a lot of linear actuators because They're really useful Is this a bigger one? This one might be better because it's bigger Mm-hmm So it's gonna be a little more robust. This is so nice. I know aren't these great you can get these on eBay Yeah. Oh, no, I see how it works. Yeah, a little reciprocating ball bear. Oh Isn't that nice? Yeah, that looks like a like a caterpillar or something Yeah that moves and you have to be careful because if you take it all the way off the balls all fall out. Mm-hmm that's why you have that that's That's really bad when they don't fall out. That's why they yeah. Yeah Great so it's this longer even no and you can chop that down careful. Don't let it get them up. Mm-hmm Okay, so uh, I think I think There's three parts to this. There's a bottle holder. Mm-hmm There's this part and then there's the hammer. Yeah pop. Mm-hmm. I Think that we got to do the bottle holder on this part first, yes, that's it That's nice cuz we can literally pivot it right off of it a little clevis that we make out of aluminum I have a really specific idea of how to make the Little horn knock off the bottle cap good I could make that and that and the thing the hammer hits if you want to start on how to hold on to the bottle Yes, and I don't know if you prefer to work in wood or steel But I have a welder and I have a ton of plywood. Let's see what we find. Okay, take a look and then I need calipers to start with so we're calipers from I have for you. Oh, you'll love this This is awesome. I recently bought this this calipers are both English and metric So the red is metric and the two dials move at the same time Wow, isn't that crazy? So That's metric and that's good English. Cool. Thank you. Go great, so we can roughly estimate the Diameter range. Yeah, I guess I guess It's gonna go I mean it has to be How you know, but maybe it doesn't maybe it doesn't need Maybe it doesn't need a Super hard hold that's what I'm trying to think like how maybe it's a hole with just like with three with like three almost rubber fins mm-hmm, but because I figure if this if this is if this sits there and the hammer hits it that's gonna go off and it's Not gonna tip me the weight will hold it. Yeah, I think so, too Yeah, um anyway if all sorts of different densities of foam I have lots of different neoprene rubbers, yeah I have come over here and take a look I've got Rubber stuff here right thicker and I have some thinner stuff here I have Some aluminum honeycomb I've got Delrin tons of plywood. That's all sorts of foam Yeah Yeah, we I'm sure I'll find something okay and then What this thing sits on top like what its base is You know anything here you want to utilize okay, however, you want that to look Great. I have some junk. I have some bigger chunks of it. Ash here. Oh nice Uh, I have some nicer hardwoods that I've been collecting and down here, too. There's some Nicer pieces of wood if you want to work with some great Great yeah, yeah actually take this out. You might really like this. Oh Is that like some kind of mahogany or I can't remember I know it's a nice chunk. Yeah, that might be perfect actually Cool so I will just make this nice and I'm gonna start on the Nerney that hits the bottle cap. Great. Okay, cool. See This is all making me really thirsty We're gonna put a lot of strain on this device by hitting it with a hammer So I'm giving it a little bit of a rubber bumper so it doesn't over strain as it were. There we go 23 Perfect. I Love that tool It's totally clear that's meant for a beer bottle. Yeah, isn't it? Oh, did you use my stop? Yes awesome Did you make that yourself? I did I did. I took the original stop and I milled the channel out of it and made this a little camlock It's very handy. Yeah, very handy Sweet, so I like the woodblock fit because I think this will look really nice at the end right great We can have a little sign on it. Well, we're gonna have some structure sticking out from here So yeah, if you oh, I also made a little bumper here at the top. Oh So when it hits so obviously when it comes in, we'll set it like that. Uh-huh And then when the hammer hits it, we don't want it to go So Sorry about some do go that's fine. So maybe it's even that we want to set it up about like there, you know. Mm-hmm So maybe you want to think about a clevis that holds that yeah. Yeah - great, I We could have some angle I think once this comes in and sets I don't know if we're really gonna need something that holds the bottle here, but I think so I don't think I think you're right, especially with this one cuz the fit is so nice Yeah, but then we I mean we end up trying it with these because this comes in and is adjustable We're gonna end up with it. Yeah. Yeah, it's good Two three four Five Okay, so Right, okay Yes, three Seven that should be 0.783 center-to-center One, let's see if that works One two Oh, yeah, I get that wrong Have you seen one of these an optical center punch? No, I only just found out about them. So You put this Light in Here look look there. Oh Jeez this is so precise. Isn't that nice and then once you got it to where you want it? You pull that out put that in and give it a little And now you've got a nice perfect set. Isn't that awesome? It's genius. I know Changing my life and I decided I should be more precise I Think I will Wait a little bit until I see what you are working on because I wanted to have this made out of wood but now this is obviously too long, but this will fit in here with this roof from both sides so you can Tighten it. Yeah all the way through. Yeah Yeah, and then for the placement, I will wait until yours is done so we know exactly where it should so this should fit yeah, actually, so I think if you put this kind of maybe you know, but 15 millimetres in from the end, okay About half an inch, uh-huh that that's like totally because what I'm gonna oh, oh, oh, yeah, right. I Almost screwed up Right, so if this guy sits like this, it's literally oh Maybe I do that Oh, right, but you've got this no, but I can like I can change this was this was quick, right So, yeah, I think what I was thinking of what I was gonna do with this was to weld To weld something out to I was I got my directions all wrong so I was thinking this but I was wrong so I weld this to this and I do it like Like this gets cut Yeah You know like that. Mm-hm and then that's the part that Slides and meets the bottle. Yep, right. So it's just a nice little that doesn't yeah That attaches to that so I'm gonna give a rough cut to this and then weld these two things together good All right. Okay cool. Cool and but I think you could I think right about there as a pivot is totally reasonable and Like I'll make this a little too long and we can shorten it quite okay I'm sorry. I didn't make that easier to see on camera. I just had a thing I needed to do that's great That's gonna be hot Good Look at you you beautiful thing. Yes, perfect This is gonna be really fun Right. How's that one going? I think it's going. Well. Yeah dowel it in or screw it? I have got a wood screws, too Perfect. I thought I'd cover it with this piece of brass to make it look nice. Yeah, yeah I have thicker pieces of brass too if you want over here and then Yeah, whatever you need. Yeah lots I mean, this is more just basically just for aesthetics to hide this and also it will look nice do you have like these old brass screws - I - Wood screws is box number 20 there. All right, perfect. Okay, so then there's all right I'm aware that you should not machine when an Mills chucked into Chuck's I know but a milling Delrin it's fine So cool, all right There 10:32 10 1024 1032 so that one Okay, so that goes there this one goes here Sure, oh It's not gonna mount right there it's gonna mount off to the side. Okay, that's right, so it's not gonna be centered All right, that's good. Ah Man, it was such a nice traction fit and then her files and files and files It's not anymore. Yeah, but it will be fine always like that. Yeah. All right, Laura Here's where we're at Okay, so and this is this is to be adjusted yeah that distance but so this comes in Oh my god, and the hammer hits that yes And maybe the hammer hits that just I mean we can shape this to meet the face of the hammer exactly Yeah, but suffice to say nice Yeah, let's see that goes in there and that comes in yeah see that yeah, I think that's actually not okay, I have to well what we can write this up at the L K and then Right, I got to put a spring in here. Mm-hmm. That's an easy thing to do. Oh My god, hey, we're making good progress. Yeah, all right okay, so but I think I have to because this is - The angle is wrong. Right? Well, I can adjust the angle I can um, it's actually It's actually not bad try different what there will be at the same. Yeah, go ahead Yeah, that should be fine cool and it's perfect good cool So the general thing is gonna be about their back, but about the second hole, okay? I Put two little steel pins in there also to hold it. Oh Yeah, that's better than a washer. It looks nice guy. And you know, it's it's just enough to hold it there Good oh you're gonna love this. Oh Nice Perfect Yeah Good that's good and could use a little oil, you know? Yeah. I don't want to do its thing but so we may want to Have the adjustment screw or maybe just a little like a stick that sticks up with a little thing that just holds there. Mm-hmm Ya know that just like keeps the any bottle any bottles gonna still have cylindric syndrich cola Let's enjoy bullets in Cylindrical it's gonna be syndrome. I was gonna say syndra qaulity Ii make a little slot and have a tinier piece that goes in there and then we have a screw that just yeah where I don't even know if you need a screw just mean it could just be That it's like it sits like that. And so then this comes in okay, yeah Yeah. Okay, good. Hold on Can I try a test? Yes, please. All right. So if this is gonna come in like this, right? Yeah. Oh Hold on. Here we go. Yeah Almost yeah So and the what is finished and the wood is half, right we come can finish your wood with colorful one What's gonna need a hell of a head it's gonna be a yeah, I Mean I will cover it all now, so it's even yeah That looks like it's really it looks like it's really centered there. Yeah Yes, yeah I think so too right Yeah, shall we? Jonathan I think we should yes commit commit we're gonna commit Yeah, this used to be the right range. Yep. Go for it. Okay, that's Good oh, you know what we can do here we can make life a little easier I Think it's mostly the clam. But um, maybe I just draw the position then drill the position then put it on the drill, press. Yeah And then yeah ready yeah, whoo So our first test we actually broke a bottle and that's Not really good for drinking so Now we realized that we can't just have the hammer smack this into the bottle. It needs to be going up So we need to secure once we get the the bottle opener in place It needs to be able to be locked in that position. That's what I'm working on next and we are Starting to attach this we still have yet to build the hammer mechanism That's nice frigid This guy sits in here like this, yeah, and you'd adjust it and tighten it down. Yeah. Oh This okay this a lot of things right, right What I'll do is I'll make the slot the top inch of this mm-hmm and Then do you want to make a block of wood but that block of woods got to be a certain height, right? I will wait with the block until you're finished with this and then we can see exactly what it needs I should be finished with this in a couple of minutes cool Do we have a name for this a name for it? Huh? it's Right on It's done enough otherwise we can turn it up like JA I can go. Yeah, I think let's go higher. Mm-hmm. Let's go to about there and here oh Yeah Yeah, and that mark looks that looks exactly right like where it is you want to mark it yes Is that right? Yep here I'll get this corner here Nice got a Delrin bushing in there. Oh, yeah. Oh My god I think that's it. All right. So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna Bend this. Mm-hmm We could also cut a slot so it sits inside the wood snugly and can't go anywhere this is true Yeah, I could machinist Just on that you have to yeah, let me let me slice that off Yeah, and then we'll see working get that's a great idea Laura Yes, I have band saws at every station sue me Kind of cool this It's trying to make me laugh Actually, but who's us You know what I don't I think this is better than that Mm-hmm, because it has to travel farther to get to that arc. Yeah that arc. Oh And we can still angle it here. Right and we don't even need to if it's hitting Center. Oh, that's true, right It's kind of popping straight up So I mean what we can do is we can clamp we could try clamping them in and just give it a shot Okay, once once this is in yes, this is security. Oh, look at that. That's awesome So I need a small 632 This this speed feels very much like working in commercials, yes. Yep. This is exactly what it's like I Have some bullseye shellac, but that's it. I don't have any good wood oil look shag. It's good. Okay, it dries fast So that's okay. Good, okay Cool so we can put this bad boy in here Oh, I'm so excited! Maybe the I didn't always a deep enough the whole. Mmm. Good. Good good Okay, so... I get the bottle in here. You set this right to their Clampett tell me you want to try you tell each other give it a test fuller. I'm gonna use a Similar weighted hammer I hold on to this. You ready? Yeah do it Okay, we need to drink oh yeah have a separate worship them Mm-hmm face better, doesn't it? It does taste like effort. Okay, so That was like it was literally 15 minutes ago we knew we needed this. Yeah. That was well done. That was great. Okay So now good. Let's see here. It's this is the next stage. Oh, right, and it's win another bottle Put this in here right here and right so it's a different bottle and it's got a different persuasion So we bring it in a little closer I'll clamp it in There it is It's not pushing the bottle cuz it's locked. Yeah, so now the hammer The hammer needs to go right? Okay. So yeah, go ahead Okay, now how they could be more then we cut that hole out on your Jake ah Okay, I didn't change anything hey this should be the same that's just right Good so, that's the first one Okay, so it's very adjustable, it's a nice amount of adjustment. Okay, so let's get a bottle in place This one seems pretty classic Farha Blocked okay, so then We might need to hammer this hammer this yeah hmm Oh, oops, I was like wait a minute But we also might need to cut some off So you mean from this do that from the wall? Huh? Oh, no, it looks like actually that's fine. Isn't it? Yeah, you want me to grab a chisel and get some of the wood or you think we can hammer it? I think we should hammer it in I think a tight fit is exactly right But let's make a mark know where we're hammering it in. So we'll mark the ceiling mark the wood Yeah, so I think that is actually exactly where it should go Okay like that. Mm-hmm Okay, so now what we want to do is we want to screw that in so we need a a Wood. Screw. Yeah. All right. Yeah Technically, we only really need one of these All right now it's time for a real test fire now we also may need In order to transfer the that that was nice in order to transfer the energy We may need to actually put this on a board that you can hold that. Yeah, but but but Yeah, we can do this So good. It looks so good All right Let's do it. Okay the maiden voyage The tough bottle opener popping in three two one go All the sound that you know is out of a sign it isn't better than I imagined it to be and it looks so nice Oh counted it Okay, here we go three two one It's perfect I love that you can see like what we started with, you know with like superfine and that's like We get a name for yourself, oh, yeah dad jokes there they are. You're welcome everybody Oh, oh It doesn't support itself well do you want to cut a piece of plywood to put underneath it? Yeah Laura That this so that was for real about six hours. Yeah, I that is a very very good use of six hours That is a beautiful machine. I'm really glad you came here to make you oh, man I'm so thankful that I could do this and I like I mean it looks Awesome, right, right. Yeah. No, it's purpose-built for something absurd. Yeah. I never not enjoyable to look at I'm blown away This is so nice. Shall we shall we fire it up one last time? This is the end You You