And I don't have the numbers right in front of me, megaton megatons worth of weapons on one Maybe I'm a little off. Maybe. But, like, it's And I like to bring this up Bomba like, oh my God, so ridiculous, so many megatons, so pointless, and like, And the US flirted with making its own because I don't know, there's And even the Edward Teller stuff, Oh my god, But like, we still built things like this. We just broke it into a lot of different And Dan Ellsberg, the late Dan Ellsberg, which I think is right. It's We just didn't do it in one machine. We did it in a system. And it would still be And I think that's a Welcome back to Decouple and welcome back I'm happy to be here. It's good to talk again. So we are recording our episode two here. as we were mentioning it was it was high time after 240, So we, we had a, we have to talk about the bomb, you know, again, I'm and I was very impressed despite you having some real areas but we covered, really the the origins, the origin story of the Manhattan Project, to the development of, atomic energy But just, you know, you know, that two year program which resulted and we probably got up to, and we definitely got up a decision, on Japan and a little bit about US So, you know, very characteristically, you know, just breeze and bring it up to the present, but I guess some highlights were you know, in which nuclear weapons were Korea and Cuba and Cuban missile crisis. the scaling up of of nuclear weapons, but also numbers and just kind of and I'm super interested the nuclear football, whether there are sort of best practices that are kind of shared between, I have no idea, yeah, let's be the focuses. And, I'm sure we'll have many tangents but again, great to have you back. Really enjoyed that first episode. Yeah, I'm happy to be here. And this is Beautiful, beautiful. And, you know, I, again, you're professor of science author of Restricted Data in the United States. And you have a forthcoming book on Truman, features Korea prominently. I'm guessing I was. Maybe we should in terms of, again, touching on a few of I want to make one more plug for my. I just started a thing Dot net. It's a new online thing about, how So it'll be really fun. So doomsday machines, plural dot net. Okay. And that's live right now. That's it's it's there right now. There's a page that says, it's coming It'll be live in July. So whenever this goes up, Okay. Okay. Beautiful. Beautiful. All right. So yeah, let's let's talk about, Yeah. Let's do it. Yeah. I mean, Korea is to me it's. Well, so in my book, which covers this whole administration, Nagasaki. Korea is not sort of even the end of it. It's it's because maybe there's two climaxes, maybe they use the bomb But it's a fascinating thing, the US could have used nuclear weapons in a variety of ways in the war. and a lot of people expected this is exactly the kind of situation And it presents this interesting question Why didn't we, and the usual the sort of glib answer had nuclear weapons, the Soviet Union It was not a mutually assured Even if they had a few more, the realistic ability to project The United States had hundreds Like it's not, e We talk about stockpiles. It's not balanced in any way like the US. The arms nuclear arms of being like equal capability So there's this whole period but we have like and we'll jump we had like 20 to 1 advantage in nuclear It's not even close. And whether that matters or not is, But for 1950 and 1951, that isn't the reason. It's not that the fear was, Soviet retaliation, that nobody voices when talking about this as a reason They have a lot of reasons that they end up But that isn't one of them. And this is occurring, of, the North having invaded the South. and then I guess this joint task force, and kind of into the north and China and then and then the kind of stalemate afterwards is that kind of the conversation and this is general So what's interesting is, like the actual It's not like It's periods that there could be this increased Right. So it's actually It's the portions in which the U.S. is not doing that. Well. That's when people start saying, use to offset this thing. and MacArthur is part of this. It's interesting because MacArthur it's complicated because there's And then there's the And these are not exactly the same thing, So, like MacArthur so, for example, in late 1950, Truman gives this press conference are nuclear weapons on the table? And he sort of it's an offhand comment. He says, everything's on the table. Of course, the bombs on the table. There's nothing that's not on the table. And this gets taken U.S is considering using nukes in Korea. It's a thing which it wasn't. And we can get to this. But Truman I don't think had any intention And ultimately that's why they're not use He he just wasn't interested in doing it, was going to be a good idea. and that's, you know, Okay, well, how do we get there? Nukes are great on Japan, To me, that's the conundrum of Truman right, right. But, this press conference and it even gets attention from MacArthur the dispatches on this. And so one of his people says, oh, let's imagine How would you want to use them? And MacArthur, like, instantly rattles off He would hit like he's got. Like, I forget, it's like 15 ready to go. And they're mostly in China, They're like airfields and military bases He's like, yeah, I'd hit And then it comes back, I'm just this was a whole confusion thing. But I thought it was interesting We can we know he did you know, But we also have, like, two, who wrote all this down, I wish everybody had an assistant. historically, after the war, MacArthur had he was, you know, just for people and outs of this, Truman And it's a big political hairy deal publicly. And Truman is not at this time. And, and MacArthur is this gets sort And MacArthur is also this kind of. Bellicose bully of a personality. He's a real pain in the neck. And so, he goes on this essential campaign And he has lots of people who want to back him up on this I think in the long run, people was not a good guy but like at the time, And so he tells people stuff, like decades later, about what And it's just insanity. It's like, oh, I would have like created And then they would use, radioactive warfare, then I'd bring in the Taiwanese forces, And then we would just have taken over everything, because they won't even mess with us. And you're just like, And I'm not sure it's hard for me to tell he would have advocated what he advocates when he's doing Monday And, you know, I don't know, but but but but yeah, he's bellicose and he's And that is I think, part of it's not the exact reason why MacArthur gets fired, That's him basically contradicting And you just don't do that. And, you know, And he does it again. And so that's it. But that's part of it is like the idea One that touches on one of the, last time, which is the tension between, the military and, I mean, the US military is is, I mean, since, but, you know, after World War Two I guess, and World War One, they mobilized position. But, yeah, I mean, a massive military you know, how end up on the civilian side as it's, it seems like that happened but I guess, you know, potentially that could have been used well, yeah, Truman is not as well known for and again, to write interested in this book about him I mean, people assume. Oh, yeah, he used the bombs in Hiroshima There's a whole story Not exactly true story He always defended it this very got us pro-nuclear as you get And one of them is the civilian control. It's Truman who insists on not just I mean, he very consciously intervenes at really crucial juncture to say, I don't trust the military And the military at this moment, a lot of reason for trust. But it's not even just like someone like MacArthur the idea that these generals For, in Truman's mind, thought about, how they should be thought, And they are trying through to overturn civilian control And, Truman won't have it. And he's having his whole top the Joint Chiefs of Staff, well, yeah, but you should give us some nukes. Like, how can we effectively do anything with regard to nukes And so they're building nukes They get started a little slower on that. But I think people realized they had All of them are in civilian hands, Truman won't let them have them at all. And in fact, we can get into this. He ends up giving them access to exactly Exactly I spent a lot of time looking into this. Why nine? That's all they get total under Truman. And that's not until, the spring of 1951. And interestingly, until like year Even Eisenhower And then by the end of the Eisenhower they have 90% of the nuclear stockpile And so we can talk about That's its own separate thing. But under Truman, and they certainly don't have permission And the question keeps coming up, Even the question of should the president Like, why should a president be in charge? And Truman He's very and not just for subtle reasons. He tells them to their face that he thinks about this, that, and that. And there's no way as he would put it, Right? Right. interesting. I mean, and the military industrial a through line as you looks in retrospect, is World War two. Huge buildup. World War two ends. Truman wants to demobilize. He wants to spend a lot less on defense. He does not want some giant standing army. He's not interested in that. And so they start to demobilize which has all these economic consequences The generals hate this. They want this big standing army. And Truman A lot of the generals attack the atomic bomb in this period, interestingly, and the use of it in Japan, because they think that if the bomb people will think, well, if we just have the atomic bomb, Right? So this is why you get Eisenhower Lee, saying that which of course is a different context This is a pro military, that one that the as they start to get more of them it's only sort of after the Soviet this sort of battle to stop demobilizing And then the Korean War happens and we And so it's this interesting. I really love this period. This might be called because it's really not clear It's not unambiguously clear Cold War thing. It becomes that, and maybe it feels a little inevitable It could be. But like at the time, there's all this Well, maybe this is a stepping off point, that scaling up maybe start with kind of, either with the sort of scale or just the sheer numbers that are, that are being added if they're hitting at kind of 20 Well, it's it's really interesting. So in so you have the Manhattan Project, It's like creating a new industry It's not overnight. But that's still like a lot chunk of American industrial production. It's like 1% or something of American and like that's that's a big chunk And it's all about getting the bomb ready So they're cutting corners, right? They're not doing things They don't know what the right answer They are not thinking about the future They're just trying to get it done And so they're cutting corners including things like waste storage. They store the waste really poorly somebody will take care of that later. But even things like the reactor designs, they don't really know how to run This is the first time they're doing this. And it turns out there's that they So it turns out when you run those reactors for a while, And dangerous thing. So they, like, turn the reactors trying to figure out what the answer didn't anticipate because they never did These are just scale And of course, you have issues with that. At the same time, at the end of the war, people go home like the labor force was this wartime labor force of people This is both the regular laborers but also like the scientists like. Yeah, they had a really interesting time Great time. Right. Interesting job. Now they want to go back to their jobs, They didn't sign up So like Los Alamos empties out, who really enjoy in this period, there's also not a lot of certainty about going to be, who's going to run it, Is it going to be about making weapons? Are we going to ban These are like actually open questions, does not pass legislation It doesn't go into effect of 47. Until then, it's basically But being run on sort of a contingency direction, They have a lot of problems that they're trying They are not actively producing They are still producing fissile material. And some of it they're making it a little cause, They don't have all the facilities They certainly don't have anything So by 1947, so now, two years practically after the end, becomes in charge of all this and they go how many weapons do we have ready to use And they answer zero zero. They have zero weapons at all. They have like the fissile material ready to go, But they are not. They also, I'm not making any, any gun type weapons. So they have a bunch of uranium haven't really done anything with it. So what happens is over this period, Commission is trying to do is first, like the first weapons from World War two are, are handmade Right? Every little part is a guy That's not how you do production and all that. So they end up looking into, okay, We need like full time people build the different parts of this. And we need to make sure and we need to make sure And so they spend several years the production on firm footing. And it's not until, around like 1948 that they are able to produce the maximum weapons per year was originally designed to produce, So the production level goes down and doesn't come back up again the Manhattan Project and a half weapons per month, I mean, they have again, like 13 cores They're not doing that. Right. So they start getting it up They then start And so the way they just do they make another Hanford, These are these other factories Paducah. and I forget all the name, all of them, bunch of these little factories and they get literal bomb where like, these are assembly They are still using by 1949, this essentially the same weapon technology as they were using in World So it's like upgraded versions handle, They've done some testing in 48 they already had ideas from World you could do the core to get more You could make the core have a little air and it compresses it better. There's all these little tricks So they make these like cores so that by then they can like double or use half the fuel but they're still like the size They're clunky. They, they're, they're they're not that Later. What changes in the early 50s is, one, all of these new production things They start getting more and more. They I think they build So like they build a bunch, they just duplicate fissile They get full time like big factories like they start like really treating it essentially a car where every little part And then, they also start having all this So that's when you start going down and also, the H-bomb, And so by the 50s, you now have all sorts of possibilities By the early 60s, they can make such a wide range of weapons So by the early 60s, you have weapons carry the man, portable nuclear weapons And, you know, that is that is, you know, about as big And a plane could carry two of them. and they are starting on like things missiles and, you know, delivery They have little weapons that are air Right. thousands of weapons per year. So like they've ramped up production. So you're doing dozens of completed So but all of that It took 15 years both human and material, in place, that you could get to that stage. Yeah. It was interesting. In prepping for this, I was, watching some videos about broken arrows, the Sputnik program it really sped up. You know, how quickly get your bombers in the air have a first strike or response Wiped out. And so they were talking about used to used to be stored And then they were put together. And, that led to a few famous incidents. I don't know if you want to kind of jump I found the Broken Arrow thing it's really dropped on Canadian and U.S. soil. It's really interesting. But it also gets back to this bigger So the Atomic Energy Act of 1946 says that the president is the only person who can authorize the transfer And again, Truman wouldn't do it. And so what do you do in that situation? And what they come up with is the system where there's that then you can insert the plutonium or uranium into And so some of those I mentioned One of the modifications is to make it You don't have to do this and so this is an interesting case for me. I hate these little gestures. Okay, I gesture too much, so irritating. one of the. I find it really interesting because it's a, like, technical solution Right? So, like, the political requirement is you have to keep these functions separate. The technical requirement is we need So they actually physically enforce military separation that goes away with what are called So a sealed pit weapon is These are weapons where, like, You can't remove it. It's like sometimes glued to stuff, right? Like and what you get out of doing that is and you can have the weapon be, much more efficient use of material. without, and in different shapes that would be not possible And that's one of the factors for why they start transferring under Eisenhower is that the weapon design no longer, accommodates this. You could ask, could they have made I mean, within certain limitations, right. There's always an engineering trade off. But I always think like, eliminated one distinction. to get to your accident things. There are a bunch of accidents and there's a several like ones that the there's a huge number and their severity depends on what's going on inside of them. And they can be anything from the plane which happened, or to, like, at a factory and dropped it like, The plane ones are the ones because those are usually happening military base. and the whole idea, you know, from yes, these weapons could be dangerous But don't worry, And the accidents seem to indicate Right. they're often. That's a product of just the sheer number And how many are kind of permanently I guess as as Bomber Command, to launch a strike on Russia. Is that. I mean, I'm But, yeah, some of it's that. So definitely if you having these constant patrols where and of course planes have an error rate and accident rate, human mechanical failure, whatever. And if you and for some of these planes, defined rate, like every so many flight hours, You can figure this out how many planes are in the air How many flight hours? And you work backwards and you say, okay, you'll get one major accident a year. is that a worthwhile trade off? I don't know, but, like, And the and the sorts of the accidents can come from anywhere. There's this whole idea out there. I'm sure you've heard theory, sociologist Charles Perot, is that in any like, you will have the chances of things going wrong, and usually your system But if you have too many things go wrong at the same time, then you get this accident but is actually normal in the sense Yeah, there would be an intersection every so many hours. If you have a system of sufficient size and has all sorts of human and technical factors going into it, which is just like a lot of things on it, This is not I want to say, it's not a slick, safe But of course we've been having some issues today with supply, But like these are also military planes which have a different And earlier generations. I was reading about I sometimes go down a little rabbit hole on some of these So there's one in in which is one of the earliest It was actually like the 13th major accident, but like it wasn't Where this bomber is flying around, I think it's a 1950. And, they get this, they have a bomb inside of Light comes on in the cabin that says the electronic bomb And so that's not good. So they send back the navigator They have a way of putting in if that for some reason that release It'll like secure the bomb. And he's trying to do this And he's like reaching around And there's different accounts But in the process of trying to insert which falls to the bottom of the bomb bay The guy is hanging on in there and finally, the the the people They close the bomb bay doors. The poor guy is okay, in North South Carolina on their Ma's and detonates detonates near a family's home. There's. You know, you can't cover that up. Obviously, it's kind of a big deal. Now, this bomb does not have a nuclear This is before. Remember? I said Truman only gives them This is 1950. It, like, literally could not have They don't have nuclear cores. the military doesn't. So there's no possibility in the sense of a nuclear chain reaction There's a little radioactivity which is made out of uranium, but it does have, like, you know, And those are what detonate and leave So on the one hand, like, That's a weird set of circumstances. And also literally no chance explosion as a result. But it's also indicative of like, And also once you start putting those a lot more carefully about what they call like abnormal conditions, What are you Are there ways to make it And it sounds like, I mean, there's been I'm thinking of, I think, Titan ICBM. I think it was like a three megaton bomb, People in the 80s. Yeah, yeah. Dropped the ratchet had. And anyway, the whole kind of propellant of this ICBM and there's like, 3 or 4 mechanisms that have to go off to actually get the, And that that never happened. It was did we get close? So I did a couple the you know, I it's imagining US nuclear explosion would have had some pretty serious impacts So the closest that I have looked at is the Goldsboro accident, And this is in 61. and this is one of those planes that's on It's doing, taking part in them. it was one called cover. All later But this was and it had some mishap in the air And, it was refueling And so they were going to return And as it was trying to go back, they sort of The people in it got out of the plane. and as it was sort of going back towards the base, This, this plane. And as it broke up, that were I think they were. Yeah, three megatons or something like that, I haven't looked it up right now. and these two h-bombs, they're sealed pit. They are fully complete bombs. But they also have all these little safety By this point, they're not all the safety systems there's been there's this tension between the military The safety is was mostly done So these are the people. So Los Alamos, Sandia is the people who package So it's the electronics, how you fit it into it. What shape is the best shape It's all of that, And the final packaging stuff. and there's this tension that was going on anything that might prevent a bomb Right. Whereas the scientists were like, that we make sure the bomb never goes off And these can be in tension. And at that point, there was perhaps being able to go off than on the bomb. You know what it really than So these two bombs are thrown And interestingly, histories in terms as a complete postmortem And they're very interested So one of the bombs, the one from ever detonating accidentally like, switches in them that determine whether they'll fire or not. so there's two let me just back up one. So there's, there's kind of two different ways in and I think people sometimes They know about the first way. And it makes them misread this. The first way is like the Mars bluff one where the bomb doesn't do anything It's got explosives in it. Could that make a nuclear weapon yield There were some weapons that might have because they were not designed around They had like too much fissile material. But in general, and you're not going to get that Just like randomly having its explosives But again, There's ways in which you can design it one point safe, just inherently but most of them are set up You know, I think it's like 1 a nuclear chain reaction Okay. The other way is the scariest way, thinks it should detonate That's not like an accident. That's like the bomb is like, Let's fire all this perfectly And there's ways that can be triggered. Either we'll talk about the Goldsboro one, if they got, hit with lightning, they could have triggered their were, like, shorts between the firing and you only needed and it would turn on the motor and charges up the batteries There were bombs if you like, heated them too much, it would turn on the electrical system there's bombs where, the Sandia people found that, like, if the electronics if the bomb was on fire the electronics could melt, could go through and create a short turn on the electrical system. So that's to me, that's the category It's way scarier than the first category. I'm willing to say, like, sure, you could engineer away is a different kind of engineering, So like later bomb systems have which are like systems that will fail under certain circumstances So like if the bomb catches on fire, and the bomb can't work without that. And now you're safe from everything else, Anyway, so one of the systems in place from even engaging that are meant And so you would have to be, like, deliberately pulled out They'd pull a thing and that would allow the thing to begin And in both of the bombs that fly the sheer force of them flying out Yeah. So in one of them, and it So it's and the way it's firing I don't have the whole checklist but there's a whole bunch of things For example, it needs to run out a timer. So this is to make sure before it does anything else. It needs to start charging up batteries. And there's two separate It has. There's the battery that starts up And then there's the battery that like charges the condensers it needs to know its altitude in the air. So it's taking like altitude measurements about where it ought to be before it There's this whole chain of events the final of which if it goes through now, that first bomb goes through almost the entire chain of events, And the one thing that, fortunately was there, there's a And so this is an electromechanical switch There's a little button in there and it's normally in safe mode. And if you give it a very low voltage or something And when it's in ARM mode, go through it and do things like charge tritium into the core, and then eventually so that if the weapon contacts the ground, other switch is open, will then send the signal and set the bomb off, And fortunately, And so it stops. And so that bomb It has a parachute open up and it lands and it tries to send the firing signal And so it doesn't detonate. Good times. So that's bomb one, bomb two, it's parachute never deploys. So it also goes But it doesn't have as much time going so much faster And it doesn't. The firing sequence doesn't start than the other one, a little later start a bunch of other things And it impacts hard And so it goes through There's no explosives. It's higher. I mean, it's high. Explosives don't go off, which is good. you can make insensitive high explosives. I don't think it had those, but, like, they they weren't And it breaks up deep into the ground So it's like those are these two different Now, when the Sandia people get there, they inspect these and they're very happy succeeds, but they're also not happy that they had that were meant to make it really unlikely And so this is they sort of conclude That's all that kept this from going off. And they would note and it's not me noting That particular model of switch and easy to trigger through like ambient Again, it's very low voltage switch and in some cases And so you could imagine a world very unlucky and it happened to do that But what of the other one? Because it didn't actually go through the whole sequence, But interestingly, when they dug it up, they never got part of the weapon. By the way, there's part of the 60, 80ft But the secondary but they got part of it And when they initially pulled it out, And they said, oh my God, right. Like, what if this one had been that one? But they took it apart at Sandia the impact of the ground had broken and it was just visually said, It was neither armed nor safe. It was like just broken inside. So it wasn't actually armed, So that's a pretty. Yeah. Yeah, they were pretty. There's actually one of the reports It's been only declassified where one of the guys looking at it he's like, at this moment we wondered And you're like, wow, It was armed. And then it turns out it wasn't armed, So like the post mortem on this was this is not adequate. So they were already with the small and had already instigated a change one more essentially. Check in there in a way so that this wouldn't be Wouldn't have been there quite as large. and they basically took all the ones we're until they get applied in later bombs. By like the 70s, so that the electrical system is And again, if something weird happened, and it's not at the right altitude, you know, trigger the sequence, So even as late as like the 90s, that had basically like a C or a D rating in terms of safety, All the ones now are like extremely designed around the safety. The explosives are insensitive. They have locks so that you have to put And there's a lot of little tricks So I'm not that worried about that today. I just want to emphasize, while uncomfortable. Yeah yeah yeah. Okay. Well we've been pretty granular here. I'm a little bit conscious of time. It's still fascinating. Yeah, I'm super curious. Like, you know, like the stockpile. I'm not I'm sure when ten, 20, 30,000 Like, what was Why did it sort of snap back from that? And also in terms of just sheer size, sir but you know, why stop there? Like, I guess, our contemporary reality of kind of the number of bombs and So the period from about 1950 to 1961, the exponential stockpile, because it's And then around 61 it They still build a lot. I mean, the stockpile still very large into the stockpile, but they're also taking weapons And so the number goes down even though and I, I've been very interested in like what are And then also what are the conditions that And part of it was things concerns like every weapon you have that could go missing, that costs money, that needs a purpose And at some point, how many do you need of that number? I would point out, like at its max, like 50 to 60% of those So they're small. They're they're meant for battlefield torpedoes, that kind of thing, So that's one of the explanations tactical weapons, and then we start because it turns out that, with very small weapons by the 60s, people are starting to fear Right? Some guy accidentally or for you know, there's a reason Doctor Like it's representing actual fears that some general or lower I've heard of like the wargaming that, in general, like a tactical, use of weapons to a strategic nuclear exchange if it's the US and Russia. Is that Yeah. I mean, when you do the wargaming now, whether that's reflective because you're it's impossible you know, you don't actually have anything whereas there would be really people's We don't actually know And so like I'm saying, yes, but, more recent war games where people have said so there was war that we know a little bit about. Fred Kaplan writes about this in his book, where, the old guard, Cold Warriors, And then the sort of new post-Cold War wait, wait, wait, Why don't we try a conventional reply? So, like it's interesting that we don't We I don't want to find out, but, the thing also about the bigger the big stockpile before the 60s, the overall process was not, super centralized. It was also very classified There wasn't So if Truman is this, swings really far under Eisenhower And this is one of the the, the the work plans are not even synchronize The Navy and the Army and the Air Force in the 60s. They start centralizing it. This is the Kennedy administration. some of the end of the Eisenhower the single integrated operated plan. Part of the effect of that is you Nobody's actually looking at the big picture growth and you start And so it's that puts a damper on just endless And speaking Yeah. I mean, how big are the biggest bombs now at that size. So there's this enthusiasm in the 50s especially after first making the H-bomb. and we've, But the US, in the 50s, there were people in the Air Force And this was a serious consideration. and basically, the president shut Eisenhower was not interested, And the applications weren't that obvious. to him, you can also make more bombs You know, we did The difference between 23 megatons as people think it is, So like 223 megaton bombs, is is essentially more flexible and the same amount of damage Are these basically doomsday devices In terms of like the strategic use? No. They're just really big. The but they aren't like world killing. They do look at the possibility but what, what I think So in the 50s, in the mid 50s, the scientists occasionally float So this is thousand megatons. and Edward Teller, he actually pitches a ten gigaton bomb, which is, they call the sundial. And, he pitches this actually right which is probably not like, your best you're like, they're already like, That was bigger than it should have been. And then, like, hey, even bigger and, like, interestingly, they bring this up even just the idea of a one gigaton bomb Air Force just has no use for this. They believe in fighting a winnable and doomsday So, like, why would you do this? And to put it into context, ten gigatons, pretty much the size of the entire U.S nuclear arsenal in the 60s, But like that's a lot for one bomb. And it's not clear Also, it's not not that deliverable. I said the damage doesn't scale linearly And so like this is and volume. So like this is a barge or something. This is not a missile. What happens put a priority the easier your missile. It's. And also as, especially as missile they start doing things like moving individually And if you do that, volume and weight because you want to fit And any weight increases And, you know, it's, And then accuracy. so you start having this drive towards and what you end up with with if you have really accurate missiles and you want a bomb that sort of fits into, maybe like a large trash explosive power if you have high accuracy, You could have a couple and you'll destroy anything And so the sweet spot ends up So most of the weapons today The US has maybe one bomb. That's megaton range. The Chinese so they compensate with some evil. They might have a few megatons, But generally when you get to a certain your your delivery vehicles meme or what determine And so it's better to have a lot of 100 to have a few gigantic as our bomb, That's not a good delivery. Like you see the plane coming up Right? That's the biggest target That's going to be really hard Whereas a submarine launch there's no really very reliable way So what about like, the collective, power of onboard? you know, a ballistic submarine and again, this is just a wild platform. and I don't I mean, I don't get too much into, like, you hear of a lot of countries A lot of them gave up for a variety It's it's really expensive But yeah, I mean, I'm interested in the, and just the destructive potential on a Yeah. And I'll just emphasize on delivery, how much money the US spent we spent way more money on delivery It's way harder full of submarine that are accurate and all this kind That's way more expensive than just once churning out more uranium those are not the expensive parts. I mean, they are expensive, but the delivery rocket development way more expensive you know, so it depends on what era of submarine and weapon and warhead and also, how many. So our, our missiles but we don't necessarily there's treaties that dictate to allocate to just in total. and so we don't always So a lot of our subs for a while per missile instead of like the full 12 but, like I did the math, for one, once where it's like, And I don't have the numbers but I came up with something worth of weapons on one Ohio class Yeah, maybe I'm a little off. Maybe. But, like, it's And I like to bring this up Bomba like, oh my God, so ridiculous, And like, yeah, sure it is in many ways. And the US flirted with making its own because I don't know, there's something But we and even the Edward Teller stuff, Oh my god, But like, we still built things like this. We just broke it into a lot of different And Dan Ellsberg, the late Dan Ellsberg, which I think is right. It's We just didn't do it in one machine. We did it in a system. And it would still be, And I think that's a valid way I mean, and it's interesting to think like more reasonable than the other. Right? Right. Okay. Well, because, I'm sure it evolved a lot over time. And again, I'm just curious this is obviously so secretive, like, but like, have best practices diffuse I mean, we don't really know. That's that's the problem it's it's been a source of concern over the years, as we have and command and control issues. Right. And we're not the most transparent but we are way more transparent We you can read up, and like they we've we've released Sandia is a great little documentary. You can look it up on YouTube It's like a three part on command and control and safety It's pretty good. it's not the whole story, it's pretty good. other countries are not transparent on this for the reasons. One is they don't like to admit to I mean, you can see why that But also there's a fear a nation sets up its not just its safety issues, its nuclear launch procedures, They're all in command. Control is all of these things It's everything involved a nuclear weapon to be used, from not happening if you know too much about that, If we know that all their weapons this signal goes from this person. Then we jam that signal and maybe they can't retaliate. And there's ways to work around that, Like, let's have a lot of redundancy. That's not necessarily a safe thing We don't know. Pakistani command and control. Right? We don't know. I mean, probably the CIA has some ideas, but like, we don't know One of my favorite jokes but like if you think a North Korean imagine a North Korean early warning systems in the 70s were literally giving, at least one false alarm a week. Like, that's that's right. Like, that's a little terrifying. Some false alarms are scarier than others, how good you think the North Korean early How many false alarms Right. what would you like yeah. we of, over the years, what's happened is that I think if you're going to make as it currently exists, is So it's not like we they sat down with one master system It's more like over the years, these systems have had different to deal with different issues with a submarine Well, really long range radio, radio You need like huge So we built systems, physical ones, the president's like, emergency war plane can stream So that's like a mile low. Yeah. Which I thought was pretty crazy. So like, but that system and then thrown into this mess of technical human hybrid systems, of course, that date So some of it is relatively up to date And there's advantages I saw one of the top people, give a talk once, and he one of the things 10,000 miles of copper cable. Like, that's not a hackable situation. On the other hand, we're still using floppy Like, maybe that's not ideal. Like, and there's only one guy they're they're they're from the 70s How many computer systems do They're from the 70s. 80s. On the other hand, new systems we know have like an infinite number And oh my God, And, you know, there's all sorts of like, some of these are the same high risk infrastructure type situation. So, you know, to get more into your camp, power plant will have systems that are it'll a lot of nuclear power plant. I don't need to tell you this, a lot of it's from the 70s, has been updated top of them, some of which are air gapped So you can check your email On the other hand, you don't really want And so there's there's like I visited the Vermont. I can't remember the name of it. There's a plant up there. But they showed us and they showed us like, yeah, and that machine is not on the internet. And then, of course, your computer like, yeah, I bet I could figure out a way And like we did, you know, You put them on USBs somebody is going to need to transfer So hit that vector really hard And like, yeah. You know, never use a USB key but like we that's was by, like, bridging that air gap. And anyway, the point is that, like, the it's easy to come up with something But of course, there's really lots of ways to compromise them with modern stuff which gets you back So anyway, like right now and is started. A program is spending to modernize the command And I'm not sure anybody knows 100% even supposed to look like at this point. Like, is it one new system to rule them that are all, you know, kind of separate you could use to approach the fear is that this has not been really modernized that much, for a while. And, you know, you're having that's a lot of potential, you know, a lot of potential consequences very old computer systems. So it's probably like, again, beyond the But, in terms of like, in order the nuclear football, What is If they were going to order a, you know, massive, you know, Yeah. Or any nuclear attack. I mean, it's the same kind of thing. Yeah. So, what we know about this some of this stuff is essentially declassified or written in some way that we feel somewhat confident. That's real. Like like doctrine manuals and things and things like that, And then some of it is Maybe it's part of the story, Sometimes people have said Maybe they don't know. It's also possible don't know the full story, always so there's big uncertainty bars here, Having looked at it a bit, if you're president wants to the nuclear usage. The one caveat here, and this comes up some later ones, and we don't know There may be situations has happened ahead of time. So Eisenhower for example, you can use nuclear weapons in principle where like you can't get in touch the war has started, or something enemy planes with your nuclear Like, that's not as big of a risk, right. but in principle, Everybody agrees on this. No question. That's the. They're the only person who can instigate from there, There are different accounts about how that order ought to propagate And what strikes me as most likely redundant ways to do it that's so rigid but you can't contact that guy the value of the football, by the way, when the president is not near If the Pentagon, if the president is near the Pentagon mobile command center plane, You don't need something like the football that the football is for authenticating It is the president. And it also the the bag, as much information as you could need Right? What nukes do we have? Where are they? What can they hit? You know, so the president can say, See, they already have worked out it's the sort of mobile president authorization, if the president is in DC, he He goes to the Pentagon, The pathway, depending on the sources some say the order should go It's very clear it doesn't have to go The secretary does not need They cannot veto it. They can't even park the order because they are absolutely not required Whatever. they're it's it's it's it's The other people it is meant to go through the one that is listed in various doctrine is the chairman which is not necessarily just a person, the other is this is the branch that's in charge of and then from those people, to through I was just black boxes as like computers and satellites and wires You said like 10,000 miles of copper wire. There's there's like like across Yeah. I don't know exactly how many miles, So it's like, it's like a network of like telephone Is that certain accurate, buried nuke Yeah, yeah. That's insane. Well, there that's how you have to do. Because otherwise, and also have saboteurs Like then you've disabled it. So this a system is built around hostile nuclear attack, And any sabotage, that's built into the assumption And it's also white in principle. I have heard from somebody He's deceased now, that like, could call up the guy in the silo Right. Like it? There's a lot of intermediary steps, but But eventually these orders go through to if it's a missile or a bomb. Now, the bombs and the missiles, but they have, like, unlock codes where his boss needs so that the missile is armed There's other little things The details are sometimes known on and are is interesting to me political question is And the answer is in some sense, no, Right? No. In the sense that needs to the president It doesn't work that way. It shouldn't work that way. the there is no red button on the desk On the other hand, this whole system is and reliably translate The people at the very top the chairman, probably not the secretary defense, but just disobeying an order and suffering Like that would be a crisis. It's clear they don't have a plan for what That's certainly not part of the doctrine, anybody after them doing that literally what they do is drill for for doing the order, the checklists so that if the order comes They don't question it. They're also, when you get miss training, which we know because some of this they train you essentially and to assume that, like, the global situation. You don't have the knowledge Leave that to the people at the top. Just do what you're told and trust Right. And if you ask too many questions about That's pretty clear. so like, like with the designed to go You need a certain Myers-Briggs and probably very carefully. Selected. It's fun. It is carefully selected. It's funny because on the one hand, Like they could automate this whole thing It's not you don't need AI, it's just turn on switches, right? Like you can automate turning switches, They've always said, We want a little human judgment. And in fact, at like the lowest It's two humans. It's always two people. two men rule. Now it's the two person rule, the no lone zone. I love the rhyming that they call it, It depends on the system, how it works. But you need multiple people And in theory, If you ask the soldiers, oh, I figured out a way you could do it. But like in principle, one person at that level is not supposed but yeah, anyway, but they also don't want the human factor. They want a human who's responsive, but not a human who is unpredictable So it's complicated. So speaking to that human factors like, to mind of like, a close call I forget it was a senior officer the Cuban Missile Crisis, right? Yeah, that's certainly arguable Yeah. maybe everybody should, but, like, is that where we were, we were close and you know, the dominoes Well, that's one where we definitely can say, like, if that human had not been on that submarine that day, they probably would have used And we don't know but that would have been That would have been something, Who knows? But like, yeah, an archipelago I mean, he was it's but he was not a normal fixture He happened to be there. He wasn't like he was the captain. He was this like, high there that day. A third guy who normally there are other. The other two, to be clear, they Yeah, they're ready to launch. They were like the captain Maybe they I don't know, and as you said, this isn't like an Ohio class death boat This is a, like, a tactical weapon. Essentially, they would have used it So they thought they were being attacked The American destroyers They were basically dropping like, to try and tell them Right? We've cornered you, We win. And they thought And in the situation That must mean We are authorized to blow them and the tool we have to do which again, not But what would the response have been that the Soviets were starting Would they have understood this was just What would that have done? Well, there have been a retaliation Would that have pushed for like bombing Cuba or invading Cuba, There were people pushing for that. That was very close to happening. And if that had happened, You could see a whole chain of things. so that's the that's the one that we know where it's where somebody is saying, and somebody says, you're not going to use The other kinds of human close calls more either with, early warning systems that gave incorrect information that where they basically And either people figured out or they in the case of a Russian guy, Senator Petrov, because they feared that it was false and that if they passed it upward, so we have a few of those cases on the US We have, cases where certainly presidents have had advisors suggest things Right. But but the Cuban Missile Crisis, things highly and basically shot it down. so we have places where it's pretty clear We also have cases was more dangerous One of these that the people at the charge where like the forces in the field were much more trigger happy Dan Ellsberg, I mentioned earlier, which is a lot of it is about him and his work as a, analyst for the Rand He's the Pentagon Papers leaker. But this was before he did the Pentagon He was in charge of analyzing command And he didn't really leak anything on that saying, here's what I told the Kennedy what was actually going on. He actually went to places where we had nukes, and talk to the people like, wow, they're doing the most That's really terrifying. that in the event of a crisis, and that could make And the people at the base and they had no locks on the weapons at that time, And so it's a really fascinating book. and, he goes through a lot of stuff. And one of the things he says which I find fairly compelling, the standard reason why it ended is, the two fellows looked at I I think is Acheson, who said that. And that's we've known that But like, When he does, All of a sudden, he accepts terms. It's clear who don't want to accept those terms. And Khrushchev really suddenly and is willing to like, today, take the L like back down Why does he do that at that moment? And, Dan's argument, which I don't think is totally I don't know what all the Cuban missiles scholars think about this. but basically, the U.S. had delivered this sort of secret if you shoot down another one of our We're going to escalate hard. So stop shooting, trying to shoot down our U-2 planes Just knock it off. We're just letting you know, huge red line And in Cuba, the people who are trying to shoot down the Cubans not really happy? Yeah. And they're not good at it. But they're getting better. They're getting experience. They're trying every day at shooting, trying to shoot down planes. And Khrushchev realizes He doesn't have control He can't tell Castro exactly what to do. And if this goes on, down one of those planes, and the Soviets The U.S. is not going to believe that the Soviets and then they're going to escalate it, and it's not going to be in Khrushchev's So Dan is arguing that, like the end of the crisis is the fact that the people, the guy in Havana, and is going to accidentally And that that that is too much of a risk And I think that's an interesting example, It's not a technical thing. It's even not a deterrence thing. It's a like a oh, man, how much control do we have over the people And, and how about a disconnect And at that time you're saying the US you know, getting to this question of our close here of, you know, you know, mad, mutually assured a pretty good reason and again, part of the reason of these systems resist the impulses, for whatever reason, But maybe just let's, let's explore that, very interesting conversation. So the one thing I always point out, So there's a broader ideas, deterrence, which we don't forget all the details. There's also a thing called complaints. Anyway, deterrence is basically me don't do this thing against me Right? don't nuke me or I'm going to nuke you. Mutually assured if we're both mutually vulnerable, And so it was only a moment in the 60s, Even the US doesn't really like it because So, like, if you really embrace mutually missile defense because that If you believe in mutually assured want to enhance the vulnerability and say, and thus will never be if you go first, you might be able to knock out or the command and control system, And maybe you avoid getting nuked at all you want to make sure nobody we generally have never done that. We've always wanted in the United States. We keep open the possibility say, well, we won't likely go first. We actually never say we've never done a We've never said We always say, probably not, Don't think you can get anything. Don't use bioweapons against us and say, Well, you don't get to go first. No, we'll nuke you like we we've keeps things deterrence. there are other ways I think the biggest mistake that it needs So my favorite example of might have a dozen nuclear weapons on top of missiles of unknown reliability Unknown doesn't mean zero. It's enough that we, the United States, has many more weapons Reliability and accuracy There's no parity there, right? They don't have the ability to hurt us but we are pretty effectively We don't want to invade North Korea us is not worth whatever we would get from Right? What do we get if we destroy North Korea We get a broken North Korea Like South Korea now has to like We have to figure out, like, We have to deal with the international and like, okay, we've reduced one threat, but we probably create Right? Like, like it's not worth it. Even if we got that, Right. Like that's not a good trade, right? Like, if I was North Korea, I'd aim Not because I dislike these places. I have, like family who live near there, And or even if they don't try to hit us, Korea or Tokyo. Like they can hit stuff And so like, And the example I like to also use is there's a lot of YouTube Know, I don't know if you're familiar and of course, yeah, like a a bear could eat a house Like there's no competition. But the bear evaluation is. I don't know what this little thing is. It is full of claws. It doesn't look delicious. It's trying to scratch my eyes out. I need my eyes. This is not worth it. I'm going home. I guess I'm out of here, right? And like, that's the that's that's So I always like to bring this up because if you think of it as being matched or matching tit for tat you need all of these systems and all of If you think that it's about just raising we could argue about what the Russians And that's a complicated question. And people will say they don't value life I don't know, But if you only need a smaller number, this is what they call Like what's the minimum amount For years, the Chinese thought and the British think it's about 100 and the French think it's about 100 These are this, like smaller, It seems like China They've been expanding, we've been threatening their minimum I don't know this. There's probably a lot of factors going on because these things always have But like we've been investing in missile defense, We've been investing in very fast, And 100 missiles might not be able to blunt their deterrent. And we might they might worry that we're going to feel like So, okay, one way to do that is to make a bunch of hypersonic warheads on to them, Now we're still deterring you. And so, you know, I feel like And I get annoyed seem to be not only pushing us, like North Korea and China towards but anyway, Why haven't we use nukes? I don't know, I mean, I don't think it's the whole story for the early nuclear period and that theory had not completely taken did not believe in nuclear deterrence It believed in first strikes. The dispatch portion of retaliation, like that's that's not deterrence. but, I think it's one of the things. So so why didn't Truman use nuclear weapons Like there were rational arguments My favorite is they probably would not And that would devalue this bomb. Right? Imagine you use this nuke and the Chinese don't pack up, What have you done to this thing that you still are the only nation It's better to keep it as a threat. And also, what if you normalize using it? We are way more vulnerable This is one of the arguments against You probably wouldn't win. And if you normalize level nuclear weapons, We're centralized. We put everything on one big base. The guerrillas don't do that. Right. Like, so like there's like, We benefit from the what they call but why didn't we use it in Korea? Because Harry Truman didn't Like if if you had put different people I think if Eisenhower they probably would have used like he was not opposed to that so I think it's interesting Again, the personal factor is why I think It's, you know, as historians, and the markets and those sort because we're not doing great man But there are sometimes people And I'm not saying he's a great man some of this came down to like, That guy on that day. And one of the things about nuclear weapons, questions are so centralized, you're of people feel about them on any given day the forces that will determine not global forces that will determine It's Vladimir Putin. Like how much what's going on inside that head? I don't know, and I don't know. I'm not saying But like that's unusual even in a state like that, to have it nuclear weapons do that in a way Okay. So I think this will be the concluding, you mentioned you're working on, You have the map, and it has to do with, by way of, kind of closing out nuclear winter is is something in terms of thinking about that's that's what I sort of mischaracterizing Oh, yeah. how kind of valid is that? Is that as a as a term I mean, I think obviously that would be different smaller arsenals like North Korea, Israel But in terms of the Russians and Americans or Chinese and Americans lobbing what does that look like in And does your does your web based tool Or even that? The other one that has been studied for So that's a fair amount of nuking to, you know, 100 on each side more or less. What is the impact of that? the answer is it's hard to know. I, you know, the these are very so the work on whether nuclear just to make sure everybody's It's, it's it's caused by burning. So it's not the mushroom cloud. It's not radioactivity. It's how much stuff do you start on fire send up particulate matter And if you burn enough fires all at once, sort of a layer that is reflecting So it's kind of like some of these the other thing it's kind of like and those can put up the Tambora eruption in 1815, that crops failed in Europe It was the year without a summer way This affected Europe. And they they basically the sun didn't And, interestingly, just to plug this is where the first post apocalyptic, is imagining what the world would be like And they and it's Anyway, it's very interesting moment has this rippling effect on culture, on the ecosystem. and so the idea with nuclear winter period of time that it would have And so globally, until, Essentially, they call scavenge, like raining out and this idea was first by a team who and, it was immediately controversial, got big political implications win a nuclear war above a certain size, and not only do you not win a nuclear war, but noncombatants definitely don't win it. So you could imagine a nuclear war America is not hit by it, And maybe, you know, Asia, Europe and North America but that would still be bad. Like for people in South America, but you could imagine them being less you know, the countries that are Everybody is killed essentially. And potentially you get extinction level the difficulty is that these equations and models So you're not only have to know what is the nuclear burning going the nuclear targeting, not all targeting Cities are different Right. you need to know how hot that burning is are going to inject how much material you have to know how those are going of the upper atmosphere, how much sunlight reflectivity there will be, And you're doing this on a global scale. So interestingly, some of this nuclear that made it better to some easier to simulate climate change because of the And there were people in the 80s I ran this with my own numbers, Or you see a tiny effect, but none effect. And there have been people there's there's like a guy at Los Alamos no, no. If you use the right input variables and physical processes, There have been other work by academics who have said, we've refined our model, or we've done some experimentation And we've narrowed down big effects, maybe not but we still see effects if not, we're not necessarily extinction, like hundreds of millions Because if you fail a crop at this right then you know this could happen I'm not a climate scientist at all I don't weigh in on this. I out of over my head. But for me, what's interesting is that whatever And so and So there's a lot of I don't want to say subjectivity, to find the answer that matches up So like the military and Los Alamos tends and people then the find that And that doesn't mean that either of them are wrong, It's hard for me and does not pretend to be in this area, the political categories because they are a Given that, what should the response And this is a nice general question, because you can't know we should not factor that Or should you assume that and it could be real, And what I find interesting to your political categories The same people who, when you're talking you have to assume the worst every time If you don't assume the Russians every minute of the day and then they can nuke us all, I don't see any evidence of that. But like, that's They assume the worst case But when it comes to something they suddenly say like, hey, if there's no I think that's an interesting how the politics of uncertainty to me But I would say for any of your listeners, oh, I heard they disprove nuclear winter, But also it's not true that they proved it There are active researchers doing not in the research side, I'm building some software to help them like who do research on this? And, I don't think they're, nobody's a a bad scientist, but they are still, And the same can be true of the Los Alamos I don't think But I do think that they have, the in the face of this thing where it's not clear what the right to be able to test it, really, like, how do we deal with this And what should the response be? I think that's the interesting at least it's low stakes. So, you know. Yeah. Right. It doesn't matter. Yeah. The fun. All right. So trolley problem. I want you to, because I'm It's going to go live soon. Is that what it's called? Doomsday machines. Plural machines. Plural. Okay, so just tell us a little bit more So Doomsday Machines is, I'm calling it an exploration of the And fiction, though you could argue but so part of it is going to be. So the backstory is, I've been working on a video game which I have never made a video game I've been programing a long time, but and thinking about game design and worldbuilding and fiction, And it's a video game that is set in, 1983 It's basically Oregon Trail in that place. And, that's setting. And I'm trying to make it like I'm trying to actually look into, what that would really look like And so as I've been working on that, historical documents that are like U.S. government models for what the which range in what they even look at like micro questions like, Right? Like, that's a fascinating. And for a game where you have to use a car I want a realistic gasoline availability and the fallout It's got like realistic fallout So it's pulling together a lot of stuff but also this kind of world But in the process, I'm also looking for So I've been reading than usual and watching more movies And I had this thought of like, man, This is fun and also can be a dev blog for the game, you know, build up a little bit of So basically what this is, is part of self-conscious fiction. So one of the first posts which I've thought a lot about Cormac that I thought and things I thought other people Like what Cormac McCarthy thought the book was about And that's interesting. and also it was like chosen by Oprah What is going on with that? How should we think about this What does this tell us? So it's kind of like historical bent to it One part of it is going over like interesting stuff from there, that I think other people would find some way in recovering from it. Part of it is about the game So it's some of it's like why I decided we needed to have faces and how we set up a system to do faces, in this weird that we've been building with a bunch and that's fun But it's also about fiction and, like, Like, I hate games where I just can't get into it. Even if it's a dumb little animated thing. It's also going to have stuff on, like how we built up the radiation model the food available remodel stuff The research might not be obvious to I think it might be fun. And then some of it's just, I'm going to be interviewing people, who I've known over the years, who work on It might be nuclear winter people. It might be, anthropologists It might be, I have friends who do all sorts of weird historical So I'm going to interview these people. So that's basically what it's going to be. Plus some miscellaneous fun things So I, I think it'll be fun. it's it's it's, if any of those things sounded you should go there it's going to be fun it's not the same old stuff. It's a weird little mixture of stuff, I think it's gonna be really fun, I'm one of those people that, has a hard And when I'm watching a show and I see it completely falls off for me. So I think I'll be a super fan here you're doing a lot of rigorous analysis Okay, we went 45 minutes over. Happy to do so. thanks so much for being so generous And as always, like, so much nuance here. again, I did a bunch of prep for this So thanks again Yeah, I'll be ready for part three. Super fun.