In 1941, Hitler's empire covered Europe to the east. Berlin rode a wave of euphoria while the German Army I've always argued was one of the most remarkable that the world has ever seen. What could stand in the way How could Hitler's lightning war Perhaps only by the mania In June 1941, Hitler tore up the non-aggression pact invading by surprise and attempting to stun Some of his most important came to him before he invaded Russia, and they said, &quot;We do not have the resources,&quot; but Hitler listened and said thank you, Led by a deluded belief that racial superiority and willpower Hitler took on a vast land and people The Hitler-Stalin conflict is something you cannot really find There, Hitler's soldiers writhed amidst the snowdrifts of Moscow, and the dust clouds of Kursk. Everything was freezing. The guns, the clothing, It is absolutely brutal, Humans seize up. The tools of war seize up. They were attacking They were attacking out of cellars. It was a savage battle It's wrong to talk about World War II in which rational military considerations These people only take power and then, out of that chaos, That looks like an achievement at first. They build a monolithic state, and then, of course, This vast invasion would bring stretching resources, manpower, This is Hitler: On June 22nd, 1941, with the aim The German Army had launched To the north, the city of Leningrad was laid under a siege In the south, Ukraine, was swiftly conquered. In the center, but the separation of forces and the brutal Russian winter had halted the German's advance Now, in the summer of 1942, the German Army was about to launch codenamed Case Blue. We can see a lot of stuff now with clarity that the people that at the end of 1941, still believed They were taking longer but they were convinced The Germans The Russians were determined The failure to capture Moscow to the fact that maybe they had bitten off What they could not understand was that, in Kyiv, they captured How could the Red Army go on existing? This is what they could not understand. There was always this feeling, just one more push, In the minds of the, you could say, this is the precedent of 1918 because Russia and two-thirds of the German Army War The Germans had to fight this war and they still managed to defeat Russia. Imagine how difficult it can be when you're now in a position to commit and at this time, with a very large One of the most extraordinary phenomena was that you had Russia which had suffered Yet, in the face of invasion, it brought out, in the Russian people, a commitment to endure anything. They endured everything which Joseph Stalin When you think about what Stalin in the preceding 15 years, that by 1942 It was only in 1942 However, Stalin knew all this, and he never believed the Russian people He was conscious of the famines, the purges, However, for every Russian I've ever met it mobilized a love for the motherland, that very few people and that Stalin himself did not believe The River Don is a mute witness to some Here, Russian soldiers against the despised Nazi. They marched past the graves but there is pride in these tears. Pride for a Russian Army that ripped This same Russian Army, only in the communiques The head of the Army in Nazi Germany who was a classic but a rather weak man who found it impossible Although he knew that things in December 1941, &quot;This is ridiculous. In the end, Brauchitsch had a heart attack and then decided, &quot;The generals are so useless, which is what he did after that. Hitler then decided to resume the advance and generate He managed to do this fairly successfully. Again, as you had in 1941, vast areas of Russia Again, Once again, in the West, they think it's the same story, &quot;This can't go on, The Russians themselves and the Germans but then Hitler made one of his many The Germans said, &quot;You've got to go Hitler insisted because he wanted Hitler's mind was fixed on oil. He knew that Germany and so he made to send his armies He was also maintaining Then he made on top of all these others. When he sees the river he sees this city It was a city because he messed up and nearly lost the Civil War The idea that the Germans capturing it as something to stop because if the city named after you falls, Then the Volga could be crossed, and the Russian Army, of course, absolutely desperate, The generals again, &quot;Mein Fuhrer, this is madness.&quot; &quot;You cannot yet again Hitler again, in the surge of triumphalism in the summer of 1942, &quot;The generals were all wrong These Ivan's are collapsing everywhere. We're again He sends one Army and he sends the Sixth Army to Stalingrad. French force's arms and ammunition Red Army reinforcements and on roads across the steps. They had been sent and they took up positions Hitler's obsession had now driven him to take on the city The consequences of which would turn in the eyes of the world. In the summer of 1942, the German armed forces in an offensive known as Case Blue. The two-pronged attack The capture of the oil fields was codenamed Operation Edelweiss, and the capture of Stalingrad In August 1942, the triumphalism especially in the Fuhrer's headquarters, at the same time as the previous year When they hear the news have reached the outskirts of Stalingrad, they think, well, we've got Stalingrad. Stalingrad came close to falling. For about a week in August 1942, just to the west of Stalingrad, and there, basically, was defeated. However, a large part of it that the Germans were preparing, and managed to essentially There, you could say, more than anything else, they end up fighting The Russians In fact, 1941 probably would have gone more they had made a point because many of the German's advantages would have been negated Stalingrad, again, Hitler wanted desperately so he threw everything at it. Aerial bombardments devastating the city, armored columns moving in on it, and beating the Soviet forces back until the Germans However, it degenerated then at very close quarters. It became almost a war of attrition block by block, house by house, through this devastated, By the time the Germans got there, They just underestimated They're over a thousand miles and lines ran out, They'd scorched the earth, which they could take It became a desperate battle in which the Russians just proved The Soviet Army's gave them the chance just as they'd done the previous winter This was the moment when Stalin learned of trusting his generals. This is when he got Zhukov and Vasilevsky to plan the great counterattack They came up with a very ambitious plan, which was to encircle the largest army in Stalingrad and the surrounds to it by deep penetration Now, this was also absolutely heretical because Marshal Tukhachevsky, had even been even executed Here they were, and they had the courage of the complete encirclement. Halfway around the world, the Russians started their offensive. Two Russian armies, drove forward to encircle the Germans. Four days later, cutting off all the German armies With the success of Operation Uranus, the German Sixth Army Operation Winter Storm with the aim of rescuing but it failed. The largest of all Germany's armies They were exhausted. The Sixth Army was exhausted. They were in despair They felt abandoned and yet they'd been forbidden They felt they were just there rocket fire and aircraft. The morale must have been One has to remember there was the bombing of Stalingrad, but by converting they were creating the perfect It was a savage battle which actually terrified They feared having They were afraid As a result, one shot would set off One of the most shocking things was the way that the Soviet snipers were ordered to shoot down who had been bribed by the German infantry They were so desperate for water, so dehydrated. The pitilessness of the battle by the fact that they'd shoot down On February 5th, 1943, 24 German generals, both German and Romanian, Paulus and the Sixth Army It was clear to Hitler, Goebbels, Goring, and they began to prepare for the news of a defeat. Hitler wanted this to now become as he saw it for the interests He promoted Paulus This was a clear, strong hint Paulus was not that kind of general. He was a rational staff planner. At that point, he rebelled. He said, &quot;No, I'm not going to.&quot; &quot;I'm not going to kill myself.&quot; 'I'm going to surrender.&quot; He then negotiated a surrender, Table, the signature, and all the rest of it, Subsequently, Paulus then started working and becoming part of a movement of German soldiers and others It was a pretty comprehensive The other extraordinary thing was given a nice villa to stay in, and he was allowed to order new clothes which were sent. His family in Germany were built. The most extraordinary situation, Stalin seemed to be personally grateful The smoke of siege and battle These films were made under fire just before the winter snows These are the Russian street fighters It caught the imagination the fact that this city At that time, we have to remember the American and British armies Yes, they were fighting but this was only a handful of divisions. Even when they got to Italy compared with what was going on It suited not only Soviet propaganda to seize on this great epic German prisoners of war on frostbitten feet. I'll never forget the way... There was a Russian colonel pointing to the ruins around saying, It was that moment, Basically the war Stalingrad was You have Pablo Neruda in Chile Homenaje a Stalingrado, It was that moment when also the French Resistance People knew that the war was going to end. The German Army would still be dangerous However, it was the moment that the war would end in Berlin. Hitler's obsessive nature in targeting Stalingrad, a city of little strategic importance he had doomed his plans once and for all. In February 1943, the surrender was the first outright defeat in his attempt Hitler had congratulated Too soon had they made lithograph stones boasting that the city too soon had they struck this metal In every war, there are always moments, whether it's the American Civil War the British always made although it was very small potatoes Still, at that time, it was this symbol. Most people found too big to get their minds around. This idea of fighting, going along thousands of miles These are all very vague ideas but people all over the world could understand this idea that Hitler had busted himself and which so many men either to capture or to defend, and which finally our side, the Allies, the Grand Alliance had prevailed. On a further blow is that it's forced to retreat It encounters increasingly and eventually and the generals get Hitler's agreement that it can't be done They withdraw As the Axis powers retreated the Soviet Union reclaimed and they soon attempted of cutting off the entire army group but were unable to break through. However, they were still When the Russians started recapturing it not only gave them a sense it also gave them a sense because of what they had done or everything that had been achieved from factories and hydroelectric stations was sheer vandalism. It was absolute barbarity. They became convinced and the Germans were the barbarians. In a way, it added to morale. As the Red Army found, They may have been beaten at Stalingrad, but they could fight back On a number of occasions, particularly at Kharkiv, and they received not just a bloody nose, The war wasn't over by a long way, but by the time they got into 1943, the spring rains and so forth were passed, and it was obvious for a big summer clash. It was obvious where that clash would be. There could only be one place, The Battle of Kursk The Kursk salient was a Soviet bulge that stretched over 100 miles and it seemed vulnerable Hitler wants to decide, How can we stop the Soviet advance, He decides it's in the area of Kursk. There, the Red Army lines and so you can cut that off, He then meticulously plans Operation Citadel. Unfortunately... He's unable to keep this secret. The Soviet general, Zhukov, then learns of these plans Defense in depth, one line after another, tanks and military equipment. Eventually, this becomes 4 million troops are involved. Thousands and thousands of tanks, and there are a lot more in reserve The battle was a slugging match with huge defenses with hundreds of thousands of civilians The Russian forces They were losing five to one but that was still enough Even the most experienced generals were awed by what they witnessed at Kursk, of these armored masses and the scale of destruction The Russians were taking because the Germans and they used them better. Nikita Khrushchev Khrushchev, until the day he died the stink of bodies At the end of every day's fighting, he was seeing all these flaming wrecks It was a spectacle even the most experienced soldiers Despite the enormous losses, the Soviet Union from the Battle of Kursk thanks to yet more Kursk essentially kills dead the idea that German setbacks on Russia are just down to things like winter or autumn mud or suchlike. The Germans are in their element, the weather is sunny, they have air superiority the ground is firm, and they have concentrated just to crush a bulge, which is about the size and they can't do it. Not only can they not do it, the Russians unleash to the north and the south of Kursk, and goes to show The Russians were prepared If you keep in mind that essentially giving the Germans the chance brought the Russians doing the same thing in 1943 is pretty impressive. The only frame of reference is that, &quot;My God, it's summertime,&quot; &quot;everything is in bloom.&quot; There are the German panzers. What could possibly go wrong because it was a new disaster in 1941 Will it be that different in 1943? Not this time. The Germans are allowed the first move, It was the last time that the Germans cherished that they might be able to turn the tide, but they were still convinced They were massing so much force and half the tank output was all being pushed On the scale of this battle, is that at the same time the Americans and the British In Sicily, At the same time, in Kursk you've got 400 divisions on the two sides, German and Russian. In all, about half a million people died. After the Battle of Kursk, Soviet forces recaptured by the end of 1943. Then, in January of the following year, which had lasted almost three years and left the city devastated was finally ended. The Soviet forces were now moving as Germany was in full-scale retreat. History's greatest offensive rolls on from Leningrad in the north More Russian cities and before its avenging fury, enemy sappers hastily wreck railroads, Hitler calls this That's double talk Then, the ruthless devastation goes on. The Nazi elite were so committed to Hitler that they could not accept except for final victory. The elite of the Army, on the other hand, that, in fact, they were heading toward defeat. Hitler knew perfectly well in one form or another. Worst of all, his greatest fear in an iron cage and to be tormented. He knew perfectly well there was no question What is fascinating that they'd cancel Operation Foxley, which was the plan to assassinate Hitler because they realized that, they would win the war more rapidly. Stalin, meanwhile, because he realized or felt, that if Hitler was replaced might make a deal and allow them to go on fighting Even though he was wrong it was fascinating decided to cancel plans Despite the cancellation of plans by his enemies Hitler was still the target There is a significant turning point when army officers backed by a certain number attempted a coup d'etat. There was an attempt to plant a bomb in Hitler's headquarters. It fails. Stauffenberg can't arm the bomb fully. Hitler's standing in a place where he's shielded partly The bomb goes off, but Hitler survives and broadcasts telling the German people The military coup d'etat fizzles out because not enough generals That, then, is, in a way, the final act From now on the generals with absolute, not just contempt, By the end of 1944, Soviet forces would soon be regaining and reaching the borders In the second half of 1944, the Western Allies having landed in France on D-Day. The Soviet forces on the Eastern Front and soon traversing the border in 1939 and where Operation Barbarossa Every German officer who had anything knew what his people had done in Russia. Therefore, he knew what the Russians would do to them I've met many German veterans He said, &quot;We knew what they'd do Once the Germans had committed they were trapped by these crimes. They had to fight on because there could no longer but the Western Allies that Stalin might make a negotiated peace. In truth, the Germans never thought because they knew that Hitler I've asked many veterans, &quot;Surely, you guys &quot;Surely, it'd have been better They said, &quot;Well,&quot; &quot;maybe we could have made terms &quot;but with the Russians, never.&quot; By early 1945, Germany had lost since the beginning of World War II, and its own borders All-out smash on Germany, American forces sweeping across the Rhine, and breathtaking operations The very day after the Americans managed Stalin knew that he had This is where he summoned both Marshal Zhukov to prepare for the attack on Berlin. Stalin knew perfectly well He was terrified because the Americans on the other side, and they could get to Berlin more quickly if they'd wanted to. Partly because all of the SS troops were facing the Soviet side while the troops on the Western Front as rapidly as possible because they wanted to be a prisoner rather than of the Russians. In Berlin, the great story at the time or the great joke at the time and pessimists were learning Russian. Not surprisingly, there was a willingness The jaws of a giant vise On the Western Front, it was the Allies. On the Eastern Front, the Russians. Already battered by air, The conquest of Berlin of February 1945. The Allies have agreed to how they would partition Germany These issues have all been sorted out. Essentially, if the Russians get to Berlin this doesn't get them anything. It's a purely prestige victory. Somebody could say, not so keen to waste his soldier's lives a tight siege around Berlin and would have cut off power, gas and water, and would have left it at that. If they essentially want to stay there by all means, let them. Essentially, just to give you an idea, if you include the preliminary battles the Red Army, these last days of the war, this is slightly more than a fortnight, they lost more soldiers in this operation than the Americans did An operation that got them nothing Some people afterward the Anglo-American Supreme Commander because he left the Russians His answer after the war was, &quot;We'd already agreed &quot;Why was it worth the idea &quot;for something I don't think anyone anticipated with the possible exception that the final line was going to be as important as it was. One thing we have to recognize is that at the time for as many as possible to see that happy day. I don't believe there was one family who'd have said it was worth to get to Berlin before the Russians. It was the Russians who were so ruthless that they were prepared Amost every man in &quot;If they wanted that badly, and they did indeed do the dying. As the Soviets in their attempt Adolf Hitler was hiding On the 30th April, he committed suicide, His own obsession had brought about his downfall, and his defeat in World War II had been assured by the forces The Hitler-Stalin conflict who managed to achieve control This is a terrible coincidence. Hitler, by his rhetoric, raised himself from a mere gofer to become the chairman of the party and the exterminator so that two great nations of two figures and are prepared to risk to achieve a fanciful aim. It's wrong to talk as if it was a conventional war in which rational military considerations You have to measure success in war by the aims of the war. Hitler's war aims This is a war of racial extermination, a war driven The Holocaust was a war aim. It wasn't some kind of sideshow. All of these things destructive, murderous vision of politics There's nothing much rational about them. Nobody saw it then with the clarity but the lines that were drawn of the World War II defined the shape of Europe that Churchill did understand before he delivered that an Iron Curtain that all those people that they liberated were not being liberated, they were merely exchanging for the tyranny of Stalin. That's now clear to us. We can see that, I think that the paradox we may think that we were fighting but we ended up and half of Europe Did good triumph or did evil triumph? All we know is that, but when it comes to assessing the clash like the Nazis and the Communists, Andrei Sakharov came up He said, &quot;Stalin killed more people, That is absolutely true and all of what Hitler was planning it would have even dwarfed What we're talking about now Today, we feel that somehow One has to remember how little control during that period. We're in a post-military society, Very few people had that control, and yet, at the same time, many of them whether to support the resistance, or whatever it might have been It's things that we have never That, I think, does need to learn about it, even though it may seem, but actually,