America's energy grid is at a Renewables now provide about electricity, with wind and about 14%. But there's a challenge. Wind and solar depend on the critical. Enter thermal technology that stores excess production is high and Intermittent wind and solar cheapest forms of energy that all kinds of energy storage that, to drive electricity grid. Heat batteries are a storing energy at a small A thermal battery is a device heat in a variety of bricks, keeping it hot for needed to be released as various temperatures going technology and materials, factories. This simple from renewable sources like When wind and solar using materials like clay and resources like lithium or avoid the supply chain technologies. What a thermal battery does is clean, inexpensive electrons them as heat, and then an industrial customer on But thermal battery companies their systems to replace of industries, which require infrastructure upgrades. CNBC talked to some of the in thermal batteries to all in on this technology. Thermal batteries could be the heavy industry. There are many, many around the world, racing to storage technology that's to fully displace fossil fuel And the reason this is a race down to the fact that the which is lithium ion One report that examined long projects around the world for a fully installed lithium per kilowatt hour, compared thermal energy systems. Heat batteries are a critical which otherwise is on track all our greenhouse gas Intermittent electricity is If we can have very low cost energy the way industry uses We can lower the cost of to baby food, and we can cut Total world CO2 emissions Here in California's Central area startup Rondo Energy has thermal battery. It stores Calgren Renewable Fuels high temperature heat 24/7. A Rondo Heat Battery is a box electrical connection where of the time, when the wind delivers steam all the time, industrial facility that's Thermal storage isn't new. It's been used for years, but a whole new way. This is a 200 year old Rondo found a way to take to build the world's lowest Wind and solar are now the making thermal storage of attractive option. The fact that you can hold the you could charge up a battery when the wind is plentiful, days, weeks, or even more you're ready to get it back flexibility to be able to energy for a long period of at relying on this form of the needs on the grid. Thermal batteries offer a low decarbonize, and unlike store electricity, these for industries like steel, Lithium isn't exactly rare, and processed before going We use unrefined raw clay that we store energy by 2000 Fahrenheit, and a pound than a pound of lithium ion cost. Founded in 2020 with backing currently produces 2.4GW annually, and plans to scale That's enough to cut 12 equivalent to taking 4 Its batteries are made at a Thailand, which is undergoing Once complete, it will ion plants to become the output. Since June 2023, commercial developments. This includes eight projects, and four key partnerships. Together, these represent of heat battery development These projects span five cement, fuel, chemicals and The products produced range ready to drink cocktails to cement, recycled plastics and We really have an enormous industrials to work with us, cases as the only platform need at the scale and the address it. One of those deals is Eastman specialty materials company, recycling plant in Texas. It was really an opportunity emissions and do that in a safe, reliable operation of Clothing giant H&amp;M is also The retailer plans to use its its clothing factories. Rondo isn't alone. Almost 30 companies are storage solutions. One of them is Antora Energy, California. Founded in 2018, blocks to capture and store The company is also working electricity with Antora has raised $150 design and scale production. What we've done at Antora is store energy in a thermal techniques that have been basically just take an solid block of carbon and But the way that we've way that we're manufacturing US factory, all of that is accelerate the deployment of Fourth Power in Boston is Its systems use superheated thermophotovoltaic cells to power. A recent $19 million build a ten megawatt hour technology. We take energy from The actual energy is stored convert the heat back to kind of solar cell that we cell, an extremely high very similar to an For thermal batteries to several challenges must be The biggest challenges today that this new kind of energy But that's starting to change Thermal batteries are gaining utilities and developers Meanwhile, in the US, the energy projects. In the United States today, a has been on electric vehicles But this is the next giant In addition to those things, fast this can grow is how educated that this is now The nature of thermal energy them more difficult to One of the challenges will actually attracting the actually do these deployments cost actually come down. Integration with existing Eastman chemical is working methanolysis process, whereby recycled into new materials. We are integrating this technology that already we'll be leveraging a green energy credits from the And it's the integration of single cohesive system facility is the more Despite these challenges, advantage over many energy positioning them as a key industrial energy.