This video is This is the road that or at least it used to. A while back, the was resurfacing this road and a berm at the end of it so it The fewer the connections And when you do get into Gary, it feels like a whole different world. It's emptier, quieter, with It's like a city forgotten, despite being in one of the in the United States. It was once a thriving steel city, and its former glory days are apparent in the stunning, if This steep decline in to label Gary the &quot;most miserable city in the United States&quot; in 2019. They based their ranking on statistics like unemployment and poverty rates. Business Insider is only of publications dissing the city. Time Magazine called Gary, Indiana, the very model of urban decay. As early as the 1950s, it crime, and open immorality. This immorality was shrouded from the steel mills. In 1994, Gary was dubbed as it had the highest of any city in the country. Today, it doesn't even crack the top 10 most dangerous places in Indiana, let alone the United States. It feels hollowed out as from 178,000 in 1960 to just 69,000 today. Now, Gary's story is a lot in the United States, but Now, one question I have, is there a turnaround So let's talk about Gary's after the bike bell. This video is actually because my wife is from Northwest and my father-in-law was actually born and raised here in Gary. I used to drive to college who lived here? And it turns and now in spending a here in Gary in Northwest Indiana. So I've always been and I'm so excited to be So let's get into the history. If you drive through you can't miss Gary Works. It was the largest steel mill and is still the largest in North America. Pittsburgh may be known as the Steel City, but no city's fortunes have been tied closer to steel than Gary. In fact, US Steel founded Gary and the name comes from Albert Gary, the founding chairman of US Steel. It's location at the is no accident. US Steel owned iron mines and this area could receive shipments via great lakes freighter or railroad. The Standard Oil Refinery proved a model for US Steel, as it succeeded in the The city was founded in 1906 and the mills produced US Steel understood that for its workers as it was for regular daily commuting They needed to build a company town, and Gary would eventually grow to be the largest company Many past company towns came Company founders would to ensure its residents were moral, upstanding, diligent workers. This often meant that the the workers lived in and Great for the company, not One famous example is home of the company that It was by all accounts and George Pullman hoped for urban planning. But when the factory had to cut hours due to lower demand for the rail cars, they didn't cut rents or Workers rose up and the is one of the defining events The Illinois Supreme Court had to divest its ownership and the city was annexed into Chicago. This all happened in 1894, only 12 years before Gary was founded. US Steel wanted to avoid that outcome. Thus, Gary was planned as would own their own homes their own completely The lack of paternalistic but it led to a rather bland urban design. Fifth Avenue and Broadway were with Broadway leading and US Steel. The rest of the city was with 40 houses per block, that were quite wide at 80 to 100 feet. There was one big problem with the plan to have employees own their own houses - most employees don't make or buy a newly built one. Many workers ended up in that could house up to 20 workers. US Steel got into home more workers, but even their was out of reach of the Land promoters and speculators and tenement housing to fill the gap. The fledgling city that required amenities so they were absolutely Gary may have avoided the but created their own The situation was made worse The mills spread across the so there's no recreation there. The only recreation, it seemed, could be found in the local taverns. By the 1910s, there was one Tavern for every 88 Gary residents. Even at this early stage it had a reputation for an industrial colossus, but also a den of sin filled spending what little they From this inauspicious start, Gary grew with the fortunes The population doubled and a peak of 178,000 in 1960. With population growth Much of the early growth had been from Eastern European immigrants, often discriminated who had been in the country Those Eastern European immigrants forged tight-knit communities that characterized Gary's early history. Gary was also a destination as a part of the Great Migration, a demographic shift that saw resettling industrial cities of the north. As the new minority in town, Black workers faced discrimination. And by the 1940s and 1950s, to move out of Gary to nearby suburbs, an example of the white flight phenomenon. This exodus became a flood after 1967. This was a mayoral election Martin Katz had the endorsement of the Democratic Machine But Black residents a moderate who campaigned and cleaning up corruption. Hatcher won, becoming with the first Black mayors Many white residents took not willing to live in a made up the majority and having Gary's population declined the first time in its history. Meanwhile, Gary became the center of the Black political landscape, hosting the 1972 Black Black residents of Gary of their city and happy of political control. It's unfortunate then that this change in political landscape US Steel began to lay off its workers. In 1967, 65% of Gary workers That's an insanely high During this era, 30,000 But Gary's steel mills to de-industrialization. This is when one region's often because it becomes cheaper to import the same goods This phenomenon striked the but perhaps not as hard as Gary. US Steel cut thousands of Production at the mills actually picked up in the 80s and 90s, and they were producing but automation had rendered By the 1990s, only about 6,000 people worked in the steel mills. What happens when a sees massive job losses while also succumbing to Well, Gary's population plummeted. By 1990, only 116,000 The population free-fall The recently released 2020 census shows Gary is home to only 69,000 people. It's lost over 100,000 Today, only about 3,000 Cities aren't designed to lose population, especially not this fast. As cities grow, they add power lines, schools, Tax dollars pay for those services. When most people leave, the and costs money to maintain and operate. Without tax revenues, these services can fall into disrepair. That's what's happening in Gary. 70,000 people who can't pay As a result, the city is using to demolish buildings, most notably its empty public schools. It's cheaper to demolish them Today, Gary only has one It used to have a half a dozen. Many of Gary's churches are There aren't enough people Is it possible to pull Well, on paper, Gary has some It's still close to the city a commuter rail that will take Gary is also unique because his boundaries overlap with a national It has a minor league who can still draw a crowd on game days. Miller Beach, a wealthier still has some life left in it. And housing unsurprisingly The city has been trying as an option for a third Chicago airport. O'Hare and Midway are and there is significant local opposition to expanding O'Hare. The state of Illinois wants but Gary's airport to handle significant passenger volumes. If that happens, it will give Gary another economic engine besides steel. Schools and infrastructure Gary has closed so many of that families may not want The biggest barrier, however, In the 1990s, Gary was rife It's doing better today, but associate Gary with that reputation. If you drive through Gary and and empty streets, you It had once been thriving, and It faces problems greater and it has since it was But there is beauty here too, and I hope that the days of If Gary does make a comeback, it will truly be a fascinating story. The kind of story you might short articles posted in Morning Brew, a free daily newsletter every day of the week. Morning Brew keeps you up and current events you need to know about business, finance, and tech, in only five minutes in a witty, and relevant than traditional news. It cuts through the clutter and gives you what you need every morning. For example, when I was I got to read about an update on the broken international supply chain, a Chinese real estate development group on the verge of collapse and the wrapping of the I really appreciate that I can from two different parts of Since you watch this getting smarter about So go ahead and start your by subscribing completely in the description. It's one of the best ways for free, and you can to stay There aren't many Thanks as always for watching, and I'll see you on the next one.