This is the Carlsbad Desalination Plant produces roughly ten percent of the area's 23,000 cubic meters per day. Unlike most treatment the Carlsbad plant pulls its Desalination, or the removal of salt from has always seemed right on the horizon. there are more than 18,000 desalination those plants provide less than a though they consume a quarter of all I live like 100 miles away from the nearest batch of seawater right here in the studio. There and I've got some garage demonstrations to dubious chemistry set or the cheapest pressure the energy use and other complications for end of the video. Dumping that salt into a but reversing the process is a lot more and this is Practical Engineering. In today's Earth is a watery place. Zoom out and the seem fair that the word "drought" the scarcity of water is one of the most by people around the world. The oceans are a seemingly trivial caveat, which is that the understandable to wonder why that little How much salt is in seawater anyway? You've of "per mille"? Just add another circle below this symbol means parts per thousand, which is salinity of the ocean actually varies a little but in general, every liter of seawater salt. In other words, 35 parts per for this bucket, I need about this much I didn't get it dead on, but this is close but I could dissolve about 10 times solution becomes saturated and won't hold any seawater isn't that far from freshwater. (in order to be okay to drink and such), it in medicine is 9 parts per thousand because That means it won't dehydrate or overhydrate of sugar) even that concentration of salt Most places don't put legal limits on but the World Health Organization suggests usually unacceptable to consumers. It doesn't permille) is generally the upper limit dissolved solids combined, not just salt). remove (or in industry jargon, reject) more That's the reason why there are really only two them are particularly sophisticated, so I'm going to try some do-it-yourself The oldest and most straightforward way to and this is my very basic setup to do just that. probably shaking your heads right now, but this I have a flask of my homemade seawater sitting like to be a gas, at least not under the on the other hand, can be convinced into conventional hotplate. And that's what the system. And I'm tracking exactly how Once the water is converted to steam, it All I have to do is condense the vaporized moves ice water through the condenser doesn't slip out of the beaker and In my receiving flask on the right, I salt free. Testing it out with the meter, just a few parts per million. But it milliliters of water, and right about Water usage in the US varies quite a bit, 1,100 liters) per day per household. To produce I would have to scale it up nearly 500 6,000 kilowatt-hours in a day (assuming At the average residential US electricity That's an expensive shower. Could this No, obviously it can. My garage demo has very about as basic as distillation gets. There's lost are much more efficient at separating liquids, waste heat. In fact they are often co-located reason. And there's a lot of technology just in including reuse of the heat released during more efficiently, and using pumps to lower the mechanical means. But the thermal efficiency Take a look at the flask that held the seawater the salt deposits building up, even after These scale deposits reduce the efficiency through them very easily, which means they alternative is a flash evaporator that sends to force it to evaporate at temperatures lower scale. Flash evaporators are the workhorses and especially in the middle east, plants fresh water for decades now, but they're The other primary type of desalination the phenomenon called osmosis, where a solution reverse the osmotic process, moving a solution usually a lot of pressure. Let me show you what seawater membranes that don't cost an arm and a used in boats and ships to make freshwater dollars on a working watermaker when you have the Here's the membrane I'm using for this get lots of surface area in a small that lets water pass through while but at a much tinier scale. It's generally a so most modern desalination plants use reverse as you'll see, it still uses a lot of energy, way It takes a lot of pressure to force seawater or 40 times normal atmospheric pressure. pumps designed for continuous use, because this a nice pump well-suited for the application, I'm the local hardware store. The instructions The membrane sits inside this high unraveling under the immense forces inside. I had to redo a few connections when the A booster pump delivers the seawater then the pressure washer sends it into not all the feed water flows through the membrane. comes out on the other side just a little bit more and we'll talk more about it in a minute. The called the permeate, comes out in the center of if I close the valve on the brine discharge forcing more of the water through the membrane. and the one on the right is the permeate line. and the permeate flow goes up. Of course I but you still need some water to carry the Typically you need to run water through they settle into their best performance. to the task of running for that long, I was getting water with one to two parts per setup. That's not high quality drinking I ran this experiment a few times at different For this run, the combined power for the booster and it took about five minutes to produce a our residential household, it would take four more than 100 kilowatt-hours in a day. That's even considering the water quality wasn't a day or more than 5,000 dollars per It won't surprise you to learn that, just like via pressure washer demo is also not nearly Modern RO plants use huge racks of high quality also recover the energy from the brine stream saving the precious kilowatt-hours already meter or 264 gallons, of seawater from its about a hundred kilowatt-hours. The newest But, even though the separation step is energy in a seawater desal plant, and it's definitely demonstration, but these plants don't start but also dirt, algae, organic matter, and other or damage evaporators or membranes, so all desal first. That takes energy and cost to keep up with water even reaches the salt separation process. or evaporators have to be taken out of service for replaced. Additionally, you usually can't send RO It's too clean! It normally goes through a most people prefer the taste over just pure water. contaminated on its way through the distribution All that salt that didn't come out of the volume of water, making it more concentrated generally recover about half of the intake twice the concentration of normal seawater. tough to get rid of. You can't just discharge sea because of the environmental impacts, the sea floor (since the concentrated solution most brine discharge lines either use diffusers to or they blend the brine with some other stream of effluent so it's diluted before being released. inject the saltwater into the ground (an expensive With all the complications of separating salt from alternatives like harnessing renewable sources to not only distill seawater but also carry it the ground where it could easily be collected. which is already how we humans get the cook, and bathe. It's not like dams, and surface water intakes don't have their own if mother nature isn't dropping enough water for operate a pretty long pipeline for the immense And that's the problem with desalination. It's It seems so simple on the surface, but when you it gets really hard to justify over other costs between those alternatives because a newer technology, so it's harder political, and environmental challenges. For desalination can strongly couple water costs the cost of hydropower goes up because there's energy costs and thus making desalination Of course, desalination is a especially in places with large All the biggest plants are in middle eastern because they really have no choice. But it can in climate like California, Texas, and Florida. element in a diverse portfolio of resources, all water is more expensive than other options like But it can be more reliable too, providing water are limited or completely unavailable. And, a when you're not pulling salt out of seawater. (but not as much as the ocean) like estuaries a supply is available, desalination can be a Another way to make desal projects more on the risks. Many of the largest desalination companies rather than being financed, built, for a typical treatment plant. Partnering with the financing costs and operational risks in purchase agreement. You pay for it, build it, from you. This type of arrangement also keeps complicated technical issues and innovations lean on as there is with more established The private company running County I mentioned earlier is working on a a new standalone seawater intake required in 2018. Bonds issued for the project were meaning the facility has a relatively stable That's just one rating agency's assessment of it gives some confidence that the technology of become a bigger and bigger part of the world's One of the cool things I learned about is that there is a theoretical minimum amount of Even the most efficient RO or distillation and there's a great paper in the Journal I have to be honest, trying to read this And that happens a lot to me actually, where the edge or beyond my understanding. And I but I would much rather break through that lack of and it makes me better at this job. And, I've just found that today's sponsor Brilliant.org Of course Brilliant has a huge library of in understanding desalination was this fun set tickles the right part of my brain. But what I interactive. Most people, including me, reading, and doing. That's why I start at If that sounds useful to you, you should Brilliant.org/PracticalEngineering. It's and you can get through a lot of courses in back like I did, the link below will get They even have an app so you can try this never stop trying to learn new things, and it supports the channel too. Thank you