One of the most fundamental jobs of an engineer If the loads exceed the strengths, you know Buildings and other structures face a huge rain, ice, earthquakes, and crowds of people. One of the most interesting forces faced by Hey I'm Grady and this is Practical Engineering. Today we're diving into one of the classic Narrows Bridge. This video is sponsored by the Great Courses More on that later. A bridge is a quintessential civil structure. Humanity's need to get from one place to itself. And for so many years, there was one force gravity. The fundamental question of bridge design itself and all the people and vehicles that them downward?&quot; And secondary to that, &quot;How can we do it economically, bridges are funded by the taxpayer?&quot; So over time, bridge designs evolved with and ability to create better construction shapes, one of those shapes being the suspension A suspension bridge is essentially just a rods which suspend the deck, hence the name. The primary advantage of suspension bridges distances with only two towers, reducing the the cost. This advantage of being able to span long suspension bridges their iconic slender and But that same lack of material reduces the Where, before, bridges were generally stiff needed to be considered, now a new force started In July 1940, the Tacoma Narrows bridge opened the Kitsap Peninsula. At the time, it was the third-longest suspension Financing construction of the bridge was a an innovative design. Rather than the originally-proposed trusses, stiffen the deck, giving the bridge its iconic Unfortunately, that analogy extended beyond Even during construction, it was apparent moderate winds. Construction workers gave it the nickname Only four months after it opened, the bridge In fact, this failure was so dramatic, that video before. So what's happening here? You've probably heard of resonance which natural frequency of a system. The classic example is a swing. With resonance, small periodic driving forces, to large oscillations over time because the In the case of wind-induced motion, the periodic vortex shedding. This is where a fluid flowing past a blunt the backside. When these alternating zones of low pressure of the structure, even small amounts of wind This is why some chimneys are equipped with up the vortices. The day of its failure, the Tacoma Narrows shedding. You can see this in the vertical undulations But this resonance isn't why it failed. About 45 minutes before failure, a different You can see in the historical footage that, vertically, but in a twisting or torsional The reason for this change in oscillation has has to do with the aerodynamics of the Rather than a truss through which wind can with the large steel plates on either side wind. Any amount of twist in the bridge created that actually amplify the twisting motion. As the bridge returned to its natural state, where the wind could catch it and continue This phenomenon is called aeroelastic flutter. It's the same reason that a strap or sheet It's a completely separate mechanism than periodic forces are self induced from the bridge. This torsional flutter eventually created and the bridge failed. One way that modern bridges avoid flutter so that the pressures on either side can equalize. I cut a slot in my model, and sure enough Another option is just to make the bridge that push and pull on the structure. Of course, bridges aren't the only civil Take a look at the very first Practical Engineering how wind-induced motion can be mitigated in For a simpler example, take a look outside You might notice small devices hanging near These are stockbridge dampers that help suppress signs. And of course, other types of engineers contend I've heard that airplanes are designed for These days, we have a much better understanding that can be faced by buildings and other structures. But, much of our current understanding has The case of the Tacoma Narrows bridge is a in engineering and physics classrooms across The main lesson isn't necessarily that you when you design a suspension bridge (even I think more importantly it's a reminder mistakes. When you push the envelope, you have to be before start to become important. Unanticipated challenges are a cost of innovation in mind. Thank you for watching, and let me know what Thanks to the Great Courses Plus for sponsoring If you're watching Practical Engineering, learning about new things through online video. At the Great Courses Plus you can get unlimited by award-winning professors from around the I like this course on Every Day Engineering eye to the things we use in our everyday lives. He uses practical examples in his lectures easier to understand. Great Courses Plus is offering a free trial high quality courses about science, math, play chess, or become a photographer. Click on the link in the description below to start your free trial today. Again, thank you for watching, and let me