When you are looking for a suit you have made-to-measure or custom, and bespoke. the other? What are the pros and cons? watching He Spoke Style, and today, three different types of suits. [MUSIC] So off bespoke. If you've heard these terms you are in the right place. If you've idea, but need some guidance. You are also I'm going to keep it really simple. I'm over some of the pros and the cons, why other, and finally show you an example of measure, and bespoke--from my closet. First it sounds like. any store you walk into, whether that's J.Crew. Off the rack suits are machine widely in terms of quality and standards. going to be the same price or quality as But it doesn't matter whether it's a it's an off the rack suit, a machine is standardized. And unless you can find a you should plan on setting aside some benefits of an off the rack suit? Biggest something, you can get it right away. off the rack suit is designed for the different so it is literally impossible everyone that will fit perfectly. If very high probability that you're going to to get a better fit. Next, you have a very of the suit, the fabrics, and the you see is what you get. You have details of the suit. We're talking about button colors, linings, and on and on and off the rack, is that you pay attention make sure that the jacket fits your that is very difficult and costly to get into that. So making sure you have a absolute best thing you can do if you of suit is made to measure, also called from a pre-existing pattern that is then fit. There are a lot more gradations in off the rack, so you will definitely be Made to measure suits are, for the most there are some programs that do offer the suit. With made to measure you have a You choose the lapel style, pocket style, color do you want the buttons to be? The want a cuff? Now, the amount of control program. Some allow just a few you have complete control. I will say that I've been in the business, that I've quality of made to measure programs out many benefits, the biggest of which is also generally getting a higher-quality Made to measure is more expensive. You typically it can take four to eight order to when the garment actually comes probably not going to fit exactly right. another week, possibly two, for Now if made to measure fits your budget, Not only are you typically getting a fit, but depending on the program, you customization of your suit. ultimate and only true custom option. And craftsmanship and quality. The term when a tailor would have choose a particular cloth. From that been spoken for. Now unlike a pre-existing pattern, a bespoke suit uses tailor will take your measurements and and only yours. With a bespoke suit you every single detail. If you want any kind be done. Bespoke suits are generally However, depending on the program, a during the manufacturing process. One bespoke is that every tailor is going to be a specific style of shoulder. It could And what I would say to that is that if cede some control over those stylistic that you are working with. If you are should not ask for a soft shoulder, for because you've done your research, you their styles, and that's why you're suit? You are getting a one-of-a-kind the design and all of the details. You quality. And because the pattern is made superior fit. All that comes with a price have a very, very long lead time, complete done bespoke before, there really is pay a premium for that level of quality for everyone. But if you can afford it, Next, let's take a look at an example of First up, an off the rack suit from Z windowpane pattern. Single-breasted. vent. Half canvas. Belt loops on the trousers as well. As I said before, with immensely depending on the brand and the used. This suit is by Z Zegna, so the actually had this suit for about four has held up extremely well. Remember, off get. And a few things here I want to more control over. The lapels, at about little narrower than the three and a still think, proportionally, they look Next, the button stance. Button stance is comfortable for me. But it also leaves of the shirt, open for exposure, which I thing, the sleeve buttons are there are buttonholes, but that is just not have working sleeve buttons as an jacket sleeve alterations. Finally, the sit way under my belly button, which is in all, I think the suit fits very well. off the rack suit, so you can't expect it Actually the third suit that I ever had from a local program here in Baltimore fabric with a great houndstooth, or puppy two. Peak lapel. Patch pockets. Four buttons Double vent. Full canvas. Side adjusters Lots more control here. The fabric is as I saw the swatch. It's hard to find a the rack, you know? I chose to have all lapel, and I got it at my preferred width. roll two. Side adjusters. Working sleeve not have found this exact suit in a create the exact garment that I was here, though if I had to nitpick, I would smooth as it could or should be. Finally, made with a beautiful Sweeping, oversized peak lapels. Flap buttons on the sleeve. Double vent. Full And, again, my preferred two-inch cuff. got to work with the legend himself, things I said about doing bespoke is style or details that are specific to definitely the stronger shoulder. At the shoulder, so this was almost like putting to really appreciate it and also desire made. Also one of the things I think you sweep of the lapel. It was great to work to all of his experience, obviously, but well, which is why the jacket is a little else. One area I did defer to Edward was full break. I like it. I think it elongates my leg and shows off the drape of the fabric. I did have four fittings--four fitting. And that was just because the quality was so high. All in all, this suit is got three choices--off the rack, made to you buy? My take is that if you are you should avoid buying off the rack it takes you more time to save up, if you made to measure program, you will get a a higher quality garment. And you you are getting what you want. Bespoke can afford it, I wouldn't stop you. longer to get the finished product. So questions you have, leave those down in video. Don't forget to subscribe to the watching and stay tailored.