Sometimes this is how my brain feels and sometimes it feels like this. There's just a lot of things to think about get in the way of doing other things, So I decided to try something This is the book The Artist's Way. And in it, Julia Cameron talks three pages of daily first thing upon arising. There are a lot of people who have claimed so I thought I would commit to 30 days to see if they might change my life too the first week went by pretty easily. All right. Week one, check in. I'm feeling very optimistic about writing they can be really helpful. I've always enjoyed and it helps me sort through whatever's and doing it in this way feels a little more productive Morning pages are meant to be The pages are simple yet profound. We discover an inner voice that speaks Now, while there's no wrong way to do There are some aspects to consider As I mentioned, morning pages should be This is because the pages are not meant to be a recounting It's not like a journal or a diary It's a way to clear our minds They give us space in our brain so that we can approach the rest Check in number two. So I've been doing morning pages to keep up with it every day, It has been really helpful when there is something immediately that I need to work through But when there's not something that's immediately on my mind, But with that being said, every day as a daily habit rather than Even when it feels like pushing Having the daily practice This is because discipline is an often overlooked And no matter what it is, you write. Keeping up with the daily Which brings me to my next point. What does it mean to write stream As I mentioned, this is not a journal. Think of it more like a brain dump. A way to rid yourself of those unwanted Living rent free in your brain. Thoughts like what that pesky voice you need to sort the laundry These are just noise that cloud your thoughts and keep you You may also find yourself using morning That's normal. They can be used to take those negative thoughts out of your brain and hopeful thoughts That's why morning pages are unique. They're not meant to be high art. You're not trying to write something In fact, it's best to avoid They're meant to be messy, that are only half finished Or you may write pointless things You also shouldn't and you probably shouldn't go back You write them The third recommendation is that you write three full pages in longhand. Now, if the idea of writing that much The goal is to commit no matter how much writing However, Julia Cameron does believe paper is the most ideal. Also, the book itself isn't that important, one dedicated to your morning pages So you might be wondering the 21st century and we have computers if that's what's best for you, However, you will see more results This is because longhand And by slowing down, we connect Writing things down instead of typing them It's not easy to delete or backtrack It takes more time Typing may be less time but efficient doesn't Writing by hand allows for more reflection and you're less likely to be emotionally There are definitely to just get And then there's days It's like walking through mud. It's not fun. Page two almost always feels like a chore. On page one, I can write And then page two is like, What do I write next? And then I'll usually come up But page two is hard. It's important to know the mood to do your morning pages, to set everything up beforehand You may find that having a specific spot somewhere that's comfortable Or you may want to silence your phone, the cat ahead of time. You may prefer to have some music playing something free from lyrics I find that headphones are the best option me from getting distracted. Okay, check in number three. I think that I'm at a point to see the value in this Even when I don't have as much to say, for me to find something to say. I felt a lot better about doing morning I was feeling really frustrated last week, I wasn't in the right mindset I was in this kind of impatient, with type mindset. And this week I really tried to make sure and being very intentional with And so it's a lot easier for me to sit and not feel like this was a chore I just enjoyed my time as I was doing it. All of this may sound like a lot of work and you may be thinking, But the benefits far outweigh 30 minutes earlier, or by putting away You could be freeing up time for something or in life. As many people claim. When Julia Cameron is asked why she writes morning pages, the other side of our fear, There really are so many benefits pages, though, and I don't think But I will tell you about some of the ones The first is the clarity being able to dump thoughts onto the page This made my day feel way kind of like having a clean desk The second benefit was problem A lot of times I have a problem that is affecting my day, or I don't even know what it is and write stream of consciousness. The problem tends to reveal itself. The third benefit was the improvement A lot of my worries but they still roll around in my brain It takes their power away sometimes. Once those anxieties are on the page, that I won't even be The anxiety shrink. They're way less consequential. The fourth I can be negative and complain if I need And a lot of times, once I do that, This provokes me to have grace when I need to or to examine With understanding comes I do think it's important to note, a habit of complaining. So be careful My fifth benefit is productivity, decision One of my biggest problems When your to do list is long to try and pick what you should do next. What I noticed with Morning Pages is that the most important things If there was something I was putting off, and start examining why. If I felt stuck, I could debate the pros and cons Sometimes I would learn that I've been wanting to try Things tend to pop up in the pages Morning pages may hold insights and intuitions Typically, they puncture denial. That brings me to my next benefit, what I like Sometimes we don't know what we like. Sometimes we don't have an answer to how This can be in the broad sense, or looking for meaning and purpose. Or it could be smaller, like discovering you enjoy baking cookies It's easy to be so wrapped up in our day and our work to the point what things bring us joy Once you realize that you keep talking pages, you realize that you might want Finally, the seventh benefit I got from morning Morning pages themselves are not art, but they do help us with art Although the content of morning pages they often move us first to more This could be by quieting the inner critic I can't do something. Or because I'm being less analytic I'm able to be more imaginative, Also, as I mentioned earlier, In your creative practice. They help with creative blocks. They give you a chance to find new ideas. And since people are more creative in writing allows for more opportunities And that's how it feels New ideas seemingly pop up on their own, The morning pages let artists brain play. I could definitely go on longer of this simple exercise on your life, Definitely. Check out the first few chapters Cameron if you want to learn more. All right. It's been 30 days, I can't say that these have been life I know a lot of people call them that, but I will say that I plan to continue I think that they are very helpful It has been great all those other thoughts so that I can just start focusing on the It really is just so helpful and get it down onto the paper so that you don't have to think about it up to all the creativity The prompts have been helpful. I have checked a few online and used those and those are things that I gravitate writing about anyways in my morning pages. So it has been helpful for the day What I have discovered over the past 30 days is that morning pages It's a personal and private way for me And because of that, what I like, what I don't like, Morning pages and enthusiasms It also helps reveal problems and then Morning pages are a tool for discovering where you are, where you want to go, I highly recommend morning pages or not, and I hope you give them if you are considering trying out I created a free prompt list Thank you so much If you found it valuable and you'd like to support me, And I hope you have