After six months of winter, The villages at the top of the world The good news spreads but humans and animals alike know Praying is sometimes their last hope, especially since some paths No matter the difficulty, Life is brought back This dust is called Himalayan powder, We have nothing here. All we do in life is work in the village. We didn't have the chance to study, but now that we have the road, Roads mean access However, traveling the Himalayas requires Nepal is like an impregnable citadel. It has eight of the ten highest mountains This geography so the country has embarked but the remote regions One mistake and it's over. When the road disappears under the snow, Be careful. Going back to the village It's too deep, and the mules are sinking. For both animals and people. Hold her hand. Only look at where you put your feet, Its mountains seem hostile, but those who know how to deal with them For us, this is the perfect place. We can concentrate At least the bad news of the world In Nepal, to face the trails In the country, such as Simikot, To reach it, or walk for three days, following the mule convoys Prajwal is the mayor of a remote village. He's about to return One thousand five hundred inhabitants You have to put Wrap it up! This load is very important to us. I had to fight to get this medicine and several batches of vaccines We have many problems in the Limi Valley. We have neither a doctor nor a hospital. We're cut off from the world. In the past four years, The town of Simikot and its villages but sometimes the villagers and a good pair of shoes. Prajwal and his group through the high mountains This track has revolutionized People used to move around very little. We had no roads. We never imagined The first one we received You can't imagine how crowded it was. It was the first time Here, the slightest mistake I pray to the gods Help us clear these rocks! We, the people of Limi, must always This does not bode well Since he became mayor Prajwal has been doing everything he can such as opening it up to tourism. Today, his village only welcomes He would like to see many more. It's been four months and went to Kathmandu. I went to plead our case to secure aid for the village. It's hard to leave your family However, if I don't do it, who is going to get the funds In the meantime, the state has paid and inject the children with vaccines. In total, there are about ten of them We stop here. After 30 kilometers, the track ends. It's still under construction. Now, they will have to walk to reach a road [Nepali spoken audio] Can we load this on the mules? It's the vaccines. Be careful how you handle them. It's not good to shake them too much. The doctors don't go It's up to me as a nurse The path is steep, The mules leave an hour early, giving the team time They make a diversion To catch up with them, but it's a risky one. Let's not hang around here. The risk of falling rocks A few hours ago, They were evacuated for treatment. The rocks keep falling, let's go! Come on, come on, let's move! A little further on, it's much worse. This trail is crazy! I'm very afraid, I'm going to turn back. Hold his hand, I'll secure this side. Put your stick here. Slowly, slowly. Send the rope to us. It's your turn. Slowly, slowly. Take small steps. Put your feet down. Let go of the rope now! Life is very difficult here. It's paths like these After ten kilometers of perilous walking, The journey has only just begun. The Himalayas still hold Walking in these mountains the drivers need even more. Too much speed, Not enough speed, and they deliver late, Nagendra has resorted to accelerating regardless of the road conditions Come on, let's go! I'm going to be late. We like to play dangerous games. These roads don't scare us. However, it's not only the ravines in town, danger is everywhere. Killing a beast If I run over a chicken, The local people ask EUR100 to EUR150 of you if you run over one of their chickens. They say that with one chicken, In his trailer, 14 tons of goods he delivers to Gamgadhi, 140 kilometers away, precariously balanced He did not choose this job. My father died when I was 15. I had to stop my studies It was up to me, the eldest son, and take on the role of a father. It's a shame because I was good at school. My life is like that of a deer This is the most dangerous part If you look to the right, If you slip, We dive straight into the river. The slightest mistake, and it's over. I have three friends who died here. Praise the Lord, he is with us! There is nothing but emptiness all around. The poor state of Nepal's roads and keeps the country in poverty. To improve its infrastructure, the authorities have joined to build the new Silk Road. For the past four years, construction sites but in remote valleys, like where Nagendra drives, The track is still king. Tired men and machines. Fortunately, solidarity A friend asked Nagendra His truck had been broken down Hi, how are you? I'm fine. Hold the ropes tight. We'll slide him under the board. Hold it tight. Let go of the ballast. They have been here for four days. They have been here for four days. I brought the part from Surkhet, After a long hill, my truck started vibrating, Look, here is the shaft. When it broke, it also damaged the gear. Brother, do you have I'll take a look. They've been driving There's nothing like a good meal [Nepali spoken audio] The trucks reached our village, but they never left. The mechanics can't fix it. Nagendra tries to help them, On the road to the Limi Valley, Prajwal and his team that dropped them off at this hostel. It was their last night with some comfort. Where is the second bag? Look at it! Let's put them together. Prajwal is on edge. They still have about 50 kilometers to go, with two treacherous passes at 4,500 It's going to be cold. If there is heavy snowfall it will be very difficult To everyone's relief, a stretch of track but it's out of the question It's a safety measure. If the cars can't pass, the animals will still be able Pull the strap. The road is pretty good so far, As they arrive at an altitude the earth gradually gives way to ice. I think it should pass. Is the river frozen there? Yes. Be careful. Turn left instead. Go like this. That was superb. However, not for long. When the snow starts to melt, -What's going on? Look at all these rocks! The road is in a really bad state. Look, there are big blocks everywhere. I don't think the 4WDs There is nothing to be done, [Nepali spoken audio] The mayor and his team have no choice It's getting hard but the yaks are doing fine. The strength of my youth The walk is all the more difficult as they carry the coolers They're too fragile They must find the animals. Otherwise, they will spend the night without tents or sleeping bags, At around 4,500 meters, the muscles struggle, and for good reason. It's getting hard to breathe. At this altitude, As the group tires, the mules appear. We'll set up camp here. I hope we can find water. I'm trying to break the ice When night falls, the temperature drops -It's too cold. The men laugh, Finally sheltered, he expresses his fear and of seeing his animals by sinking into the snow. If there is too much snow tomorrow, Don't worry about your mules, The snow will put them to the test, but they are far from predicting Living on top of the world Nagendra spent part of the night and they're finally ready to leave. Make sure that all the screws the work must be well done. The last nut is barely screwed on He has 60 kilometers left out of 140. Let's go back! Now, he has to make up for lost time. The driver speeds up and it's barely wider than his truck. The traffic in the mountains He should come forward a bit. The young boss He just wishes that the roads, were at least in good condition. I earn about EUR250 per trip, but considering the risks, That's because if you break your truck, There are many traps along the road. If not for the holes, The truck is stuck, we can't move forward. We still have this problem We're almost there, However, by a dint of perseverance, the 17-ton truck I try to travel a lot, I work day and night I have loans to pay back. I am building a house. You have to work hard After a two-day journey Nagendra finally reaches the town of Gamgadhi. It wasn't easy, We're happy. It's so desolate here that people have trouble We all dream of having a nice road. However, in the 14 years we haven't seen much improvement, so let's not dream too much. In these regions, like these rock breakers who make gravel, Most Nepalese are herders or farmers, but in this mountainous country, Tourism remains with mountain trekking For the Nepalese, this is not a sport Prajwal and his group and for the past two days, they've been alternating between driving They carry medicine and vaccines We have to get over the pass After that, the wind might pick up If that happens, we won't make it tonight, They still have 35 kilometers to go but the muleteer is worried. The snow that fell during the night might complicate A terrible ordeal awaits them. Easy, easy. Five hours of walking The two nurses are already getting tired. You can't even see the pass Look, we'll have to go all the way up! At more than 5,100 meters. I have aches and pains all over. It's getting hard to walk in this snow. However, we mountain women are strong. After hours of climbing, a group of adults and children Hello! They don't bring good news. How is it up there? It's very difficult. There was a group with 11 horses The animals couldn't cross the pass. These words do not reassure the muleteer, As for these children, We came from the Limi Valley High school classes will resume. Take care of yourself and study hard. In their village, school stops at college. The group did not have to wait long [Nepali spoken audio] It's too much suffering for the animals, even if the men The muleteer makes a decision [Nepali spoken audio] My mules can't go any further. It's difficult, but a few more meters Look at the schoolchildren The man doesn't want to find out. He deems it too dangerous for the animals. Please don't unload the mules. We agreed to go Why are you unloading? What are you doing? What are you doing? This is as far as I go. You should have told us You can't abandon us now! It's hard, just a few more meters. They beg you to go on, What kind of person are you? Please don't go! There is a lot of snow. There are still two The mules cannot go any further, I'm not going to take that risk. Here, put them there. We have to leave part of our load behind. In a few days, we will send men from the village Come on. Be careful! Indeed, the mules would never have passed. Two hours later, which ends at over 5,000 meters, Let's wave those prayer flags! The colors represent the five elements, that is fulfilled We reached the top We wave the prayer flags [Nepali spoken audio] We, the people of Limi, Dead or alive, -How far is Limi? We'll have to walk till late in the night, By not turning back with the mules, Without them, it would be impossible They kept the most fragile thing The village is still far away, so to spend the night, only, it's 20 kilometers At 6:00 p.m., We are still far away. We absolutely must reach the sheep pen, Otherwise, we will die of hypothermia! The whole group is in Prajwal's hands. There are no landmarks, He can't make a single mistake. Be careful where you walk, We're going to cross here. The sheep pen They're almost saved. The owner is nowhere to be found. It's a matter of life and death. Prajwal acts fast. It's 11:00 p.m. We almost slept outside. Tonight, they'll only drink tea. The next morning, He goes to look for cars Come on, we have to go. Come on, everyone, inside. Let's go. The last few kilometers are easy compared to the journey They finally reach the Limi Valley. Protected by surrounding mountains, Limi is one of the most The three villages nestled in its heart are home to 1,500 people and only one hour of electricity per day. I am very happy Fortunately, everything went okay. I'm reassured about the vaccines, Take off your jacket Come on, put it on! Prajwal's welcome is celebrated This is our traditional dress. When you are in the presence and you have responsibilities as mayor, for example, you have to wear this outfit. It's a way of preserving our culture. Especially since, on that day, everyone has put on their best clothes It's exceptional, Come on, let's go! Our people are originally from Tibet. This representation and our religious beliefs. In the Limy Valley, that they can become a burden. On this side of Nepal, the villages are run by Buddhist monks. It's not official, They even have authority over the mayor. It is the life of the monastery People follow the rules and it works for them. For example, the second son of each family Another rule is that to live elsewhere. Otherwise, there would not be There would be no one left to maintain At the moment, their prayers Up there lurks a danger, a threat so great in a matter of minutes. At an altitude of 5,000 meters, Glaciers are melting, At any moment, the banks could give way and release hundreds of thousands If it happens, the tsunami To face a future disaster, the village fortifies itself Everywhere else, but in Limi, we are the mules. Everyone is on the same page, Even the mayor has his hands in the dirt. He could watch us work, We are a community. Everyone is conscripted, as help from the state We will not abandon our village. The landslides and floods and the land we farm. However, we were born here, Many people ask us and why we don't go somewhere else. We will stay here. The monastery is everything to us. It is impossible for us to leave Although Nepal emits it is one of the countries Since 1997, a quarter of its glaciers The inhabitants of the Limi Valley just electricity, a road, and cars,