- I'm sitting in a hot with solid sand. (laughs) This is one of the coolest things ever. If you take a tub of sand like this, and then add air in just the right way, it basically becomes a liquefied soup. (chill music) In science, this is It's used in industrial applications such as powder coat to make sure that the grain (chill music) With air on, the top surface It's like an air hockey table. And then when you cut off the air, it freezes everything (chill music) So today I'm gonna show you like this yourself. And then because I became to be fully immersed we made a hot tub sized version. As you can see from this 60 year old video from the Royal Institute of Science, this demo isn't exactly new. I've wanted to build one for a long time, but you can find literally on how to make one like that. So I started combing through for massive industrial sized fluid beds, and I noticed that they all had a bunch of small So starting with that in mind, it still took us 25 failed versions before we arrived at this design. As you can see, it's just a arranged sort of in a ladder. But the key is to drill 90 degrees apart from each other, and then do a bunch of those spaced 25 millimeters apart. Then you glue all the pipes together, and just make sure you So that will keep the And then you just seal off the And then fill your container or we found glass beads And you could power with a or you could just rent a like this for about 30 bucks, and that'll give you As usual, I'll put a I use the build in the video description. So my buddy Ken, had an old which we decided to put to good use. (driving music) (laughs) It just stops and you're It's like a weighted blanket Oh! (chill music) Now that it was tested and ready, in my ongoing quest to (kids yelling) I decided to surprise my nephews with it. (screaming) But before we get to swimming in sand, let's talk about the science Wait, wait, wait, don't click away if you think science is boring, if you're new here, you to science is similar to I try to bring people in or a cool thing to see, and (velociraptor growls) - Clever girl. (velociraptor roars) - Admittedly, the analogy But if you promise to hang with I promise to try and between trying to make without oversimplifying fluidization is just when so that the force of the air is equal to the downward And when that happens on any it hovers in equilibrium like this. You can think of forces like a tug of war. And if an object is an equilibrium, that means there's a tie, and it doesn't accelerate just like in a real tug of war, if the sides are even. However, if you add stone cold that will make it totally unbalanced, and will start to move this way, which is actually what happens if you accidentally turn As the fluidization where the sand particles which makes them easy to move around. This is also the reason with air to cushion the Then you notice that some and other stuff sinks. This has to do with the buoyancy force, which is a function of the and the volume of the object itself. Whenever an object exists there are forces from pressure but they push a little bit which is why it hurts in a dog pile, or it hurts your ears more the And this makes sense the more water there is And if you add up the size and direction of all those arrows, a and you're left with one That is the buoyancy force. And if your buoyancy force than your force from gravity, you float. And if your buoyancy than the force from gravity, you sink. Now we usually think but you could think of being buoyant in our atmosphere. So here's a trick question. Which of these has a It's actually the rubber ball. Buoyancy force has nothing to do with the density of the So since the rubber ball it has a higher buoyancy force. But you might object, &quot;Then and the balloon floats?&quot; Remember, it's a tug of war. The rubber ball sinks because on the thick rubber is bigger than the buoyancy force. But for the balloon, even as big of a buoyancy force it still floats up because that buoyancy force is from the helium and the thin rubber shell. And the helium will keep from deep in a lake, and then where the density of the to the density of the because that's where the We made it through. Now back to my nephews. (funky music) (nephews laughing) (all laughing) Okay, cut it. (all laughing) (sand rushing in slow motion) (upbeat techno music)