"We're at Defonte's My name is Anthony Demonte, in my hands right now. [ITALIAN] [HIP HOP MUSIC] [MELLOW MUSIC] "Guys, anything else?" "Baby. Good morning, buddy." "Sometimes I have a line to unlock it." "Ronnie, any parlays What's going on?" "My name is Larry Demonte. I'm not a Defonte. I used to work here and I learned the business." "Hey. What's up, my friend? How you doing? How's everything? What's up, buddy? How you doing? All right? Good. Good." "My partner is Nicky Defonte. His grandfather was Nicky came to me and said, are going to retire. Why don't you come You know the business. And then me and Nicky I built the business up, "Ready? Was that quick enough?" "No, but you could add it. You want to add mayonnaise? Yeah, sure. You got it. Large or small? Small." "The energy is always Happiness, love, and The motherlands. We've been here Look at that finished product. So when you come you feel like you're family. What's up, primo?" "Yeah." "Since I was born, I've been so it feels great to Thank you very much. Yes, thank you. Have a great day." [UPBEAT MUSIC] "People get overwhelmed when many choices you have here, "People come in, they all different types. My favorite is the roast beef. I like it with yellow cheese, and mayo. That's my favorite." "Which one means "The Cenzo. The one I named after my son." [SOMBER MUSIC] "Anybody next over here?" "Cenzo 13 you want, right?" "Yeah." "Cenzo 13." "Yeah, I kind of don't know. I walked in, and then And he was like, I made "His nickname, they His name is Vincenzo, Vincent. And my lucky number was 13. And he used to always, he would pick 13. He played football, So it became his He passed away three My father used to your kids are pieces So I have a piece but I'll be with "Cenzo 13. You got it, brother." "Thank you." "That special sells the because my dad put all of his "I wanted to invent a real We put Sopressata, broccoli fresh mozzarella, hot peppers, and olive oil. People love it." "Is this your "Yeah, my favorite." "Yeah, but everything's "Watch your back, Jerry. Come on, Jerry." "Yeah, his colorful You know, he was And when you open it up, you come out of there, between and the green from the the mozzarella." [MELLOW MUSIC] "So when the Cenzo first And people ordered it, and I and be in a bad spot. But as time went Now people order it, and it with me. So much alike -- we were like yin alike and so much that we balance each When I talk about my brother, I say my best friend. And I feel like part [WAVES CRASHING] [FUNK MUSIC] "Somebody's free, "They used to make everything You go to a lot of delis, It's already made. So we kept the tradition. We do it every morning fresh. Everything here is homemade." [UPBEAT MUSIC] "O.K., Vic. Ready. Now you work it. You got to get one When it starts going like Now I make the balls. And that's what's "There's so much that goes in the kitchen and the hard really make us who we are. It's worth it to me. It's a little hard work, "How's everything? How're you doing? How's everything? Good seeing you." "What's up, Jonathan?" "Still come in "Good seeing you. Good seeing you." "How long have you "Since the '70s. What's that? Over 50 years." "The school was right I was going to and we would sneak over here And I'm not kidding you. I was about this And they'd always remember my "You look good, Larry." "Thank you." "How you feel?" "Yeah, all right, brother." "I mean, considering." "Yeah. Thank God. Hanging in there, pal." "My dad would even bring me, all the time. And it's a lot of laughs. We still have a lot of "Hey, how're you doing, pal." "Good to see you." "How's Nikki?" "Good. He's good. I will always." "It's good to see "Good to see you." "You see people come in the place. They just love that vibe. They don't feel out of sort. They feel like part "Third grade, right?" "Third grade." "Nice." "It's that old feeling -- that old feeling like it's that keeps people coming back. We changed with the times, but feeling." "Have a great day, pal." "Bye, Frankie." "The best in New York City." "I have employees here. 18 years, 15 years, 20 years, right, that they don't leave." [PEACEFUL MUSIC] "Peoples." "Peoples." "Hey. What's up?" "All the Sopranos, -- came here. A lot of movie stars and stuff very known, and it's so people talk about it. And they come in, they try Yeah, you can go. Smile. You're on camera." "Yeah, yeah." - [LAUGHS]: [WHISTLING] "Oil and vinegar." "Cousins came to visit - [ITALIAN] "Thank you." "Great to meet you guys." "Thank you." "Have a good one. Take care." "We're at the motherlands. We're going to make The Cenzo Special, [ITALIAN] "The business picked up more media. So he's been doing that, and and he's been "A lot of people say when it's not good, but we're It's a pleasure [EXCLAMATION] "It's going to be Thank you very much. Appreciate it." [MELLOW MUSIC] "I name some of the sandwiches away. And then when they say I think of my father. And when they ordered I think of Danny and worked for when I was a kid. I always think of my son, but I think about him." [MELLOW MUSIC]