Translator: Riaki Ponist Thank you so much. I am a journalist. My job is to talk to people all over the world. Today, I want to tell you why I decided to do this with my life My story begins in Caracas, Venezuela, in South America, where I grew up; a place that to me was, filled with magic and wonder. From a very young age, my parents wanted me I remember one time my dad came up to me and said, &quot;Mariana, I'm going to send you - who was six at the time - &quot;...to a place where nobody I want you to experience He went on and on about the benefits in this summer camp in the United States, stressing a little phrase that I didn't pay &quot;You never know what the future holds.&quot; Meanwhile, in my seven-year-old mind, I was thinking, we were going (Laughter) Maybe it was going to be even better, and we were going to go where Mickey Mouse lived. (Laughter) I got really excited. My dad, however, From Caracas, he he sent us (Laughter) Mickey Mouse was not up there, (Laughter) and with no cell phone, I couldn't look up any information. We got there, and one of the first things I noticed was that the other kids' hair and most of them had blue eyes. Meanwhile, this is what we looked like. The first night, the camp director and said, &quot;Kids, we have a very the Atencios are here from Venezuela.&quot; (Laughter) The other kids looked at us They would ask us things like, &quot;Do you know what a hamburger is?&quot; Or, &quot;Do you go to school (Laughter) I would try to answer and they would just laugh. I know they were not trying to be mean; they were just trying and make a correlation We could either be like them, or like characters out of a book like Aladdin or the Jungle Book. We certainly didn't look like them, we didn't speak their language, we were different. When you're seven years old, that hurts. But I had my little sister and she cried every day at summer camp. So I decided to put on a brave face, and embrace everything I could We later did what we called for eight years in different cities What I remember most about these moments Making a friend was a special reward. Everybody wants to feel and we think it should happen When you're different, You have to be either anything to be cool for the crowd Later on, when I was in high school, my dad expanded on his summer plan, and from Caracas he sent me for the senior year of high school. This time, I remember about &quot;the American high school It was going to be perfect, just like in my favorite TV show: (Laughter) I get there, and they tell me that my assigned roommate I opened the door, and there she was, sitting on the bed, with a headscarf. Her name was Fatima, and she was not what I expected. She probably sensed my disappointment because I didn't do too much to hide it. See, as a teenager, I wanted to be popular, maybe have a boyfriend for prom, and I felt that Fatima just got in the way with her shyness I didn't realize like the kids at summer camp made me feel. This was the high school &quot;Do you know what a hamburger is?&quot; I was consumed by my own selfishness and unable to put myself in her shoes. I have to be honest with you, we only lasted a couple because she was later sent instead of other students. I remember thinking, &quot;Ah, she'll be okay. She's just different.&quot; You see, when we label it dehumanizes them in a way. They become &quot;the other.&quot; They're not worthy of our time, and in fact, they, &quot;the other,&quot; So, how do we recognize our blind spots? It begins by understanding by embracing those traits. Only then can you begin to appreciate I remember when this hit me. It was a couple months after that. I had found that boyfriend for prom, made a group of friends, and practically forgotten about Fatima, until everybody signed on to participate You needed to offer a talent for auction. It seemed like everybody Some kids were going to play the violin, others were going to recite and I remember thinking, &quot;We don't practice talents But I was determined The day of the talent show comes, and I get up on stage and put it on the side and press &quot;Play,&quot; and a song by my favorite And I go, &quot;Whenever, wherever, and I said, &quot;My name is Mariana, It seemed like the whole school My dance class really stood out from, like, the 10th violin class Going back to my dorm room, I felt really special. That's when I started a person that I had failed to see She was from the Middle East, just like Shakira's family She could have probably taught me had I been open to it. Now, I want you all to take that sticker that was given to you where you wrote down and I want you to look at it. If you're watching at home, and write down what makes you different. You may feel guarded when you look at it, maybe even a little ashamed, But you need to begin to embrace it. Remember, it is the first step When I went back home to Venezuela, I began to understand Being able to speak different languages, to navigate all these it gave me a unique sensibility. I was finally beginning to understand the importance of putting myself That is a big part of the reason Especially being from a part of the world &quot;the illegal aliens,&quot; I wanted to do something to change that. It was right around the time, however, when the Venezuelan government shut down the biggest television station Censorship was growing, and my dad came up to me &quot;How are you going to be You have to leave.&quot; That's when it hit me. That's what he had been preparing me for. That is what the future held for me. So in 2008, I packed my bags, without a return ticket this time. I was painfully aware I was becoming a refugee of sorts, once again, and now for good. I was able to come on a scholarship I remember when they gave me to cover the historic election I felt so lucky, so hopeful. I was, like, &quot;Yes, this is it. I've come to post-racial America, where the notion of us and them and will probably Boy, was I wrong, right? Why didn't Barack Obama's presidency Why do some people still feel threatened by immigrants, LGBTQ, and minority groups who are just trying to find a space in this United States I didn't have the answers back then, but on November 8th, 2016, when Donald Trump became that a large part of the electorate Some see people coming to take their jobs, or potential terrorists Meanwhile, minority groups oftentimes and narrow-mindedness on the other side. It's like we're stuck in these bubbles The only way to do it, is to realize that being different It takes courage to show respect. In the words of Voltaire: &quot;I may not agree but I will fight to the death Failing to see anything good makes a dialogue impossible. Without a dialogue, we will keep because we will not learn anything new. I covered the 2016 election for NBC News. It was my first big assignment where I had crossed over And I wanted to do something different. I watched election results Few thought of sharing that moment but actually stood When it became apparent this eight-year-old girl named Angelina She sobbed, and she asked me I hugged her back and I said, but I really didn't know. This was the photo we took that night, Here was this little girl who was around the same age I was She already knows she is &quot;the other.&quot; She walks home from school that her mom can be taken away. So, how do we put ourselves How do we make her and not simply unworthy By giving camera time to her I tried to make people see them and not simply &quot;illegal aliens.&quot; Yes, they broke a law, but they've also given like many other immigrants I've already told you how my path To end, I want to tell you how I hit one that shook me to my very core. The day, April 10th, 2014, I was driving to the studio, &quot;Are you on the air?&quot; they asked. I immediately knew something was wrong. &quot;What happened?&quot; I said. &quot;It's your sister; It was as if my heart stopped. My hands gripped the steering wheel, and I remember hearing the words: &quot;It is unlikely she will ever walk again.&quot; They say your life can change Mine did at that moment. My sister went from being only a year apart in age, to not being able to move her legs, sit up, or get dressed by herself. This wasn't like summer camp, This was terrifying. Throughout the course of two years, and she spent the most But that wasn't even the worst of it. The worst was something so painful, It was the way people looked at her, looked at us, changed. People were unable to see or a millennial with a sharp wit Everywhere we went, I realized that people just saw They were unable to see After fighting like a warrior, I can thankfully tell you and has recovered (Applause) Thank you. But during that traumatic ordeal, I learned there are differences and it's hard to find positive in them. My sister's not better off But she taught me: you can't let Being able to reimagine yourself that is the toughest task of all, but it's also the most beautiful. You see, we all come People with physical environmentally impacted communities, boys who want to dress as girls, women who have been sexually assaulted, athletes who bend black, white, Asian, Native American, We all want what everyone wants: But sometimes, society tells us, we don't fit the mold. Well, if you look at my story, from being born somewhere different, to telling stories what makes me different is what has made me I have traveled the world, and talked to people You know what I've learned? The single thing every one of us So take a stand to defend Let's appeal to it. Let's be humanists, To end, I want you to take that sticker, where you wrote down and I want you to celebrate it shout it from the rooftops. I also encourage you &quot;What is on other people's &quot;What makes them different?&quot; Let's celebrate those imperfections I hope that it teaches you that nobody We are all different. We are all quirky, and unique, and that is what makes us Thank you so much. (Applause)