n twenty-seventeen the then President of country in the world decided to withdraw his been agreed and signed up to by almost every Despite that unilateral declaration, many clear that they would continue their own to follow the decarbonisation pathways When President Joe Biden defeated one of the first executive decisions he took framework. The Biden administration then went despite being quite ferociously adulterated by the pockets of special interest lobbyists in the most significant and historic pieces of energy Now I don't know whether you keep up with American by, that guy from twenty-seventeen has just been the United States, and he says he'll reverse Paris again and start systematically dismantling And that's a bit shit really, isn't it? energy transition, and how can individual states Hello and welcome to Just Have a Think US Presidential election result by county. not my place to comment on how or why such an free and the home of the brave. I'll leave that party. Suffice to say, America is a democracy My focus for this video is purely on the let's start with a few stats that According to The US Energy Information significant growth in clean energy in 2023. source. New capacity additions were up eighty beginning of twenty-twenty-four the country had an solar capacity, which was a twenty-three Wind power capacity was less stellar, but twenty-twenty-three, and battery storage with capacity now standing at sixteen gigawatts, the end of twenty-twenty-four. by twenty-five percent in twenty-twenty-three, from the previous year. And greenhouse gas during the year, even as the economy grew. in all the clean power industry added a total of scale clean energy projects, beating the previous tell us that the U.S. now has some two-hundred its electricity grids, enough to power the homes. That equates to sixteen percent solar. Developers started construction on another few months of twenty-twenty-three, which brings a whopping one-hundred and seventy gigawatts. two hundred and six billion dollars announced during the Biden administration. all those dollars went to, shall we? of them went into Republican districts, result of the Inflation Reduction Act. force, nearly a hundred and fifty billion new facilities producing things like electric solar panels and wind turbines and almost half states of Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, It's a total of about sixty-three billion dollars manufacturing jobs to those regions. for the infrastructure projects to actually deploy out all the wind turbines, nearly half a trillion flowed into the economy as a direct result of the hundred thousand new jobs across the country. sector are growing at twice the Maybe Kamala and Tim should have mentioned Four of the top ten leading states for green twenty-twenty-four election. Most obviously renewable industry in the union, employing You gonna jeopardize that, Donald? Between twenty-twenty-one and twenty-twenty-three billion dollars in private clean energy capacity to a whopping forty-one gigawatts California didn't swing for Donald this time live there, more than half a million of Renewable generation capacity there reached representing nearly forty percent and with the exponentially accelerating growth for renewables to completely displace fossil fuels I could go on and on, but essentially what I'm little economic boom going on with green energy, likely be as unpopular in states that turned One of the safeguards put into the Inflation investment horizon for clean energy projects, solidly Republican states providing hundreds workers. Are the representatives and Senators would remove that employment and economic growth And then there's good old Elon, isn't there? this is a family channel, but I don't envisage manufacturer doing anything to disadvantage the federal regulatory system causing damage the progress of American made EVs to be pretty According to an assessment by Reuters, despite Mr Trump's pledge to "drill baby in reality his policies are unlikely to In fact, most analysts project that U.S. very similar during a Trump administration to the Permian Basin and New Mexico that has already made Growth in that sector won't be determined by and as global demand for oil and gas continues to and the profitability of things like fracking Of course, a Trump administration will probably federal agencies that deliver IRA grants and clear that he will immediately halt all new thinks they kill birds and send whales doolally. anyway really, and it currently represents a the blindingly obvious opportunity it offers, so and short-sighted thing to do, won't really slow So, am I suggesting that the accelerating so unstoppable that it can't be hampered by an No of course I'm not. Don't be daft. I imagine he up all the good progress that's been made so far, suggesting though, is that the free market economy decide the progress of the transition, and try and reverse the precipitous drop in the cost of so whether he likes it or not, his capitalist renewables as a nice little earner for their And speaking of the climate, here comes the Despite the record-setting pace of annual of what's required for the country to achieve and of course isolationist policies like tariffs too. So, while the next four years might not it will most definitely not be And as this recent chart from Bloomberg ourselves that twenty-twenty-four is on taking us above the 1.5 degrees Celsius and putting us well on track to hit 3 degrees If you're still not sure why that's a very very set aside an hour or so when you can focus watch this chilling documentary from the may just change the way you look at the world. views on this topic, one way or another, so as the comments section below. That's it for amazing folks who support my work via Patreon, messages out of your way. And I must just give a with pledges of ten dollars or more a month. Andrew H, Peter Parker and Paul Gauthier. who joined recently too. Don't forget to jump over to find out how you can join them and have a look including free membership. And if you enjoyed me by hitting the subscribe button on YouTube and a penny to do that and it's just a simple click Most important of all though, thanks very much to just have a think.