in the Islamic Emirate we've joined them today it's done. In the name of Allah. He became one of us. On the mountains of the Islamic Emirate. "The best of you are those who learn the Qur'an and teach it" (Prophet Mohammad PBUH) Who are the Taliban? What do you mean by Taliban? We're going to meet the minister of culture now. The Minister of Information and Culture. To learn more about the future of this country. 35 million people live in this country! Taliban also learn English after living in the mountains. Hamid Allah will tell us his story. My name is Khairullah Khairkhwa I'm from Kandahar province. In the first Emirate I was the governor of Herat. After the Emirate fell I was taken by the Americans to Guantanamo for about 13 years give or take. Then I was part of the negotiations with the U.S in Qatar. Then the change happened We came back here and I was I assigned to this ministry Ministry of Information and culture and youth affairs. Can you tell us a little about your time in Guantanamo prison? It's because I mentioned it before he wasn't paying attention. Glory be to Allah He created humans and he gave him traits With everything you go through after a while you forget. This is a trait in humans. If I didn't forget I wouldn't be able to sit here and work. Now, I've forgotten all that trouble and the torture I received there. I've forgotten all that, Thank God. But we expect the reward from Allah. This was unimaginable how we were in prison, then we got out through exchange then coming back to Afghanistan all of these things people can only imagine but we were sure that God was with us we were imprisoned of simply serving our people that's why we had no trial they sat with us and told us that they were afraid of us. If you get out, you'll be against us. And at the end there was an exchange and we got out. How did you feel after the victory? It never crossed our minds or the minds of our enemies that we'll be back this way. When the fight started against the U.S and NATO people said that we were crazy. Carrying rifles in the mountains and Americans can see a needle on the ground so, how could they do that? It was a victory from Allah Allah is showing them that look what you have and how the victory is going to be. Muslims' victory always comes when nobody expects it The potential is not paralleled If it were, then they will say well, they had this and that They have to learn the lesson that this is God's victory. What happened to it? Explosives By the Americans? Of course, they fought Americans. That's why. He said he got injured in the foot. From the mountain to rule. All praise to Allah This is a blessing from God as I said, nobody expected it. They trained the army trained the police and the intelligence. They spent billions of dollars on them and no group is left of them here. They left and others took their place. It's 4 I did 3 A book of Language of the Media. As you know they did everything they could on social media and the media to defame Afghanistan. Thank God, there's peace After about 44 years. There was no central government there's always been problems Now, east to west north to south all roads are open nobody ask which tribe you're from or which region you're from or where you're going. At the moment we're developed even economically, matters of peace and administration. Every country is built upon peace without peace everything is under a risk. We're not saying that everything is perfect now There are some things we have to work and put effort. Anyone can come Even if they were from NATO or Americans if they come for tourism there's no problem we won't ask them for anything. So, no discrimination - Anyone can visit Afghanistan if they want to? True. Women or men? No problem, anyone. I'm Ruhullah Omar a ministry of defense official. When we got close to the Afghan capital, Kabul the ex-president Ashraf Ghani fled and left the government without a leader. We entered Kabul And thank God peace was set when we came but the U.S forces were at the airport but they were surrounded We had an agreement between us on a cease-fire till they get out of Afghanistan. That's why, as Muslims, we were committed to that agreement though they were surrounded by our fighters. Then the government was established and as ministry of defense officials all praise to Allah we were able to train a powerful army. All Afghan borders are under our control now. There's no area outside of the control of the Islamic Emirate Now, the new name of the Army is The Islamic National Army Islam comes first, then the country that Muslims live in There was an army when you entered Kabul Where did they suddenly disappear to? The previous Afghan army we pardoned by the Supreme leader (Amir al-Mu'minin) for all their crimes of killing and displacing people out of their homes. Now, they live like normal people They left their weapons? They left their weapons and surrendered. After 2001 you lived in the mountains for a long time How was that life and how did you resist all this period of 20 years? Between a force riding bikes and the world's most powerful army U.S army and NATO. The word "occupation" means that forces that come must leave anywhere, occupation forces must leave even if it takes 20 years. It's an experience for us as Afghans The British forces came and they left. Soviet forces came and left then all the western world came and they also left. Every Afghan loves Arab people and love Arab countries. during the last 20 years every American and occupant soldier were scared all the time that someone may come and kill him here This affected their minds That's why, if you saw the news reports You'll find that all armies that left Afghanistan are suffering from psychological illnesses. And in some places like the Afghan capital in all the places they live in they built places underground to hide in, in case something happens. Now we'll get into a school and check out the students here. They want to change curricula that's why there are no schools for girls they want to change the curriculum that were here for 20 years set by the Americans. so, now girls at high schools and universities are not allowed to study. Now, the Quran memorizers came and they will be honored they will be graduating from this school. this is a high school. They built the school by a mosque that's 400 years old. They will be honored now like a graduation ceremony for Quran memorizers. And then, they can work any job in the government. They can join Taliban but they have to graduate from this school Today, we're in the Qasimiyah University in Kabul Today, at the university there's a graduation ceremony for 17 Quran memorizers. The turban will be tied around their heads. Wearing turbans they pass by all those sheikhs they're all sheikhs and scholars? They're all sheikhs, scholars and professors After the ceremony they get a reward and a certificate. Yes. That indicates that this person has memorized the whole Quran from start to finish - So, you've memorized the Quran? I've memorized the Quran and graduated from religious science. I put it back in its place. I was honored for Quran memorization. I honored you by the turban. Leaders in the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan Also wear a turban. This is a gift. but this is your turban! Yes, it's yours now. Look! The leader just gave me his turban! You're our honored guest. I'm one of Taliban's leaders. I put the turban on his head. Water of the sky, water of the river and of the snow. Heaven water. Are you a graduate? You've graduated? I'm from Afghanistan. Kabul I'm from Kandahar. Peace be upon you.