The Statue of Liberty is one of the most (if Anyone visiting New York City can see her, her own secrets. One of them is - she might not even be a Counting down from: 9. The Statue of Liberty was once split into It's really hard to picture it, but the Statue in over 300 copper pieces. The precious cargo was traveling in 214 crates The iconic arm holding the torch wasn't there, It was standing in Madison Square Park for pedestal. When the ship carrying the statue arrived, The official dedication ceremony took place Cleveland presiding over it. 8. It was one of history's first crowd-funding First, French sculptor Frederic Auguste the statue. It wasn't actually sponsored by the local When it was finished, the sculptor offered would build a pedestal for it. The federal government didn't like the idea, a few years. Then, American newspaper magnate Joseph Pulitzer He basically started one of the first massive every contributor an honorary shout-out in Even though 80% of the donations were small managed to collect the necessary amount from By the way, the famous sonnet &quot;The New Colossus&quot;, inside the Statue, was also part of the fund-raising 7. The Statue of Liberty wasn't always green. The Statue of Liberty is made of copper, so a penny. According to the New York Historical Society, by 1920. There was a time when it was half brown and The new color survived the restoration, and ever disappear. 6. It used to serve as a lighthouse The statue was originaly supposed to serve York Harbor. And, two years after it arrived in the US, For 16 years, the Statue's lamp served as But it wasn't bright enough, and, running to cover the entire statue in gold to make Congress said no to that idea since it would've 5. It's all about number seven It's easy to notice the Statue has seven spikes across the seven oceans and continents. The less obvious reference to the number 7 are 25 of them, which makes seven if you add There are 16 leaves around the torch, and The sum of both those digits is seven as well. Clearly, that number meant a lot for the Statue's 4. The construction supporting the Statue was The pedestal of the Statue of Liberty was It currently hosts museums that show the history recorded oral stories, and the original torch Famous engineer Alexander Gustave Eiffel (sound framework to keep the statue stable. It's strong enough to withstand around 600 When the wind is high, the Statue can sway 5 inches. 354 steps lead up to the crown of Lady Liberty, off limits. Speaking of visiting the statue, have you (I have, and walked all those 300 some steps those windows. It was kinda claustrophobic, and very cool.) Or maybe there is some other iconic monument Share your experiences in the comment section 3. It might have masonic ties. There's a popular theory claiming that the to be dressed as an Arab peasant woman and Suez Canal. The ruler of Egypt couldn't afford it, so dress and new name, and sent it as a gift of the American Revolution. So what does that have to do with the masons? Well, Bartholdi himself was a freemason. He represented the French Grand Orient Temple He supposedly wanted to put the statue there The torch Lady Liberty is holding is an important of Enlightenment" or the "Flaming Torch The masons also took part in the cornerstone William A. Brodie, presided over it in the 2. The face of the Statue of Liberty could be When you think of the Statue of Liberty, do Most people are positive it's a representation The widely accepted story is that Bartholdi Author and journalist, Elizabeth Mitchell, used his brother's face as a model! As she was studying the photographs of Bartholdi's a different eyebrow shape, thinner nose and Then, she pointed out the striking resemblance years and the statue. Because of his mental health condition, Bartholdi's would spend hours watching him. That could've helped him recreate his face Another theory was presented by French writer modeled after her ancestor Sarah Salmon. According to her, Bartholdi found Sarah's Even though she had immigrated to the United at his studio when they briefly went back He could've used that opportunity to draw 1. There's more than one Statue of Liberty versions, or the one on Las Vegas Boulevard. You can find a smaller Statue of Liberty, in the Jardin du Luxembourg in Paris. It's been there since 1906, after Bartholdi Fair of 1900. Another version of the iconic monument was celebrate the 100th anniversary of the French It has two dates on it - July 4, 1776, and of two nations, and the importance of revolution. There's also a life-size copy of the torch People from around the world sponsored its friendship. It was set not far from the Eiffel Tower on The Statue, of course, has also inspired numerous its most famous replicas greets the visitors Hey, if you learned something new today, then friend! And here are some other cool videos I think Just click to the left or right, and stay