I've talked a lot about observing the night and seeing what you can see. It's pretty and of course that's all we humans could But now we can do better. We can use telescopes. The first person to invent the telescope is Galileo did not invent them. He wasn't even or the first person to publish results! But years, and his amazing string of discoveries in the history books. Aggressive self-marketing You might think the purpose of a telescope them better. That's how a lot of telescopes exactly the case. If you want to be really make things easier to see: To make the invisible visible more clearly. A telescope works by gathering light. Think the bucket, the more rain you collect. If of water even when it's only sprinkling In the case of a telescope, the "bucket" that collects light. We call this device the more light it collects. Look at your eyes... our eyes for a moment. They also work as light our pupils, which even under the best of a very tiny bucket indeed. But we can do better. To extend the analogy, at the bottom. All that light that it collects your eye. It turns a trickle of light into The amount of light it collects depends on double the diameter of the collector, you'd the area of the collector goes up as the square and you collect 100 times as much light! Clearly, show us faint objects increases enormously. In fact that was one of Galileo's first were invisible to the naked eye were easily only had a lens a few centimeters across. for his eyes to see them, but when he they popped into visibility. The primary way telescopes work is to change I can see a star with my eye because light my eye. But most of that light misses my eye, collects that light, bounces it around, and When the very first telescopes were built, done using lenses. When light goes from one air to going through water or glass - it the time; a spoon sitting in a glass of water fine, but the light you see from it is getting called refraction. The way light bends depends on what's bending the object doing the bending. It so happens lens shape, it bends -- or refracts -- the a single spot. It's a light funnel! This refraction has a couple of interesting top of a distant object is bent down, and this light comes to a focus, it means you left and right, which can be a little disconcerting, a refracting telescope. For another thing, the lens can magnify the bent, and the image created of object observed eye. It depends on a lot of factors including object, and how far away the lens is, but in the That has obvious advantages; a planet like other than a dot to the eye, but a telescope be seen. When Galileo and other early astronomers were revealed: Craters on the Moon, the phases Saturn, and so much more. The Universe itself When astronomers talk about using a telescope called resolution. This is the ability to You're familiar with this; when you're toward you appears as a single light. When -- into two headlights. A telescope increases resolution, making it together, or to see details on the Moon's the size of the objective; in general the better your resolution is. Resolution is more useful than magnification is a limit to how well your telescope resolves much you can magnify the image. If you magnify resolve, you just get mush. Refracting telescopes are great, but they hard to make. They get thin near the edge, light bend by different amounts as they pass star, say, and a blue one will still look No less a mind than Isaac Newton figured a change the direction light travels, and if light rays to a focus. Telescopes that use The advantages of reflectors are huge: You where a lens has two sides. Also a mirror be manufactured much larger more easily and improvements made over the centuries, most on the Newtonian design, and in fact no large a lens as their objective. Nowadays, it's And that brings us to this week's aptly The most common question I'm asked (besides, Phil, kind of telescope should I buy?" It's a legitimate question, but it's very up to you and asked, "What kind of car should a lot more information. Same for telescopes. Do you want to look at to spot galaxies? Are you really devoted to for a child or an adult? These questions are critical. Most small 'scopes at detail on the Moon and planets (they tend do). But they're tricky to use because they Bigger 'scopes are good for fainter objects, to set up and use. I hate hearing about a 'scope that So here's what I recommend: Find an observatory, likely to have star parties, public observing different kinds of telescopes. Their owners them -- as an astronomer, I can assure that them to talk, it's shutting them up -- so you'll get Also, I usually recommend getting binoculars fun to use, easy to carry around, and you see some nice things. Even if you decide not can also be used during the day on hikes and of binoculars and I use them all the time. There's a third aspect to telescopes that's faint things easier to see. They can literally our eyes can see. In the year 1800, William Herschel discovered to our eyes. In the time since we've learned microwave, ultraviolet, X-rays, and gamma in all these flavors of light, if we have flavors of light. Radio waves pass right around to observe visible light. X-rays and gamma rays pass But we're smart, we humans. We learned that waves, and can be formed just like gigantic forms of light need different kinds of telescopes, 'em. We can now detect cosmic phenomena radio waves to gamma rays, and have even built particles from space as well, such as neutrinos learned far more about the Universe than Galileo And we're in the midst of another revolution, but in a sense our eyes act like movie cameras, images per second. That's a short amount longer exposures, allowing the light to build The first photographs taken through a telescope discoveries; for example, in the 20th century details in distant galaxies that led to our a critically important concept that we'll And now we have digital detectors, similar larger and far more sensitive. They can be dozens to detect in minutes objects that would've digital cameras can also be designed to detect can store vast amounts of that data easily that huge ocean of information, performing and comets are discovered using autonomous objects among the tens or hundreds of thousands This has also ushered in the era of remote and programmed to scan the sky automatically. space, above the sea of air in our atmosphere We can visit other worlds and send the pictures the Hubble Space Telescope into orbit around the Earth I would argue that the past century has seen as the invention of the telescope in the first sky was new, and everywhere you pointed a But with our huge telescopes and incredibly We learn more about the Universe every day, every day, too. That's one of the best parts a jigsaw puzzle with an infinite number of And remember: Even with all the wonders revealed good instruments, too. You don't need big thing is to go outside. Look up! That's Today you learned that telescopes do two things: collect light so we can see fainter objects. which use a lens, and reflectors, which use used to look at light our eyes can't see, electronic detectors, we have been able to Crash Course is produced in association with by me, Phil Plait. The script was edited by Michelle Thaller. It was co-directed by Nicholas team is Thought Cafe.