Wouldn't Alban show us the no-foot technique? Just to have a bit of contrast... Hi everyone, welcome to the Cote Bloc channel Today, we are at Vertical Art Rungis for a new format, an athlete format. We are lucky to have an internationally renowned athlete! I'm going to invite the girls over to talk about it. The first format was with Manu Cornu! We were with the boys, Elioth and Pierre. Today we are with the girls from the Cote Bloc team. Lorraine, hello, delighted. How are you ? A little stressed? Why ? There is a bit of pressure though! But no ! We are here in a good mood! Marion, how are you? I have no choice but to be fine (nervous laughter) We're also with Seb, the outsider who holds the camera. In any case, I hope you'll like this format. Let's try to guess who it is! She is smiling, she is efficient, already three silver medals at only 17 years old at the World Cup stages. Who is it ? Who is it ? It's Oriane Bertone! Hi Oriana, how are you? It's going a little tired from my sessions yesterday and today but it's ok! Are you used to climbing in this magnificent Verticale Art Rungis gym? My boyfriend is a route-setter here, so I'm here a lot, and it's a great gym to climb in competitive style. I'm in the Vertical Art team, but my club is the Reunion club. You stay anchored in la Reunion (French department). Ok, that's what we'll see in the third format, interview format! To introduce you to what we're going to do today, we're going to go on a little normal vlog, we're going to warm up, discover the gym and learn more about Oriane I have a trick question! Did you know the Cote Bloc channel? Yeah, I had seen the little episode you had done with Manu, so I had already seen yes. I had seen comments stipulated that there is something that will be done with Oriane... I did not know, I was not aware haha I hope you will like it and I wish you a very good video on Cote Bloc Oriane, how do you warm up in everyday life? I warm up a lot on the floor. I do a lot of stretching, a lot of joints exercises. A short hour in general when I do big sessions. I warm up for 1h15 on the floor. We're in the weight room. Little warm-up and after, we find ourselves on the mat! Thomas, are you preparing a documentary? Exactly, I'm preparing a documentary on Oriane Bertone but shh, it's top secret! So Oriane, what is your warm-up color? I think I'll start in the blue, but not this one, it looks too hard to warm up! We're going to make blue boulders to warm up. Yes. Go on show me. It's ok, it's hot, it's a bit sticky! If I miss there it sucks! You're supposed to fine us today! Cameo! How's Alban? I'm fine and you ? It's going great! Can you introduce yourself for those who don't know you? Champion of France ? Yes, that's it yeah in 2017. And you had a gold medal at a world cup stage? Yes in Toronto and that was in 2015. So now, I work in the Vertical Art climbing gyms. It's a pretty good retraining to work in rock climbing. It's always more enjoyable. We coach the young people of the France team a little bit with Quentin. Always in bouldering. So well, it's a logical follow-up after the athletic career to convert into that. We are more specialized in returns, in block openings, in competition monitoring. [Alban talking about open blocks for Oriane] We have prepared boulder problems for Oriane. Obviously always too hard otherwise it's not funny and then there you go. So there are lots of different styles and then like that we will try to push our limits! Can you try them if we can't? Carefree ! Well if you tried with us anyway! It hurts ! Oh dear an injury, it's going to make the buzz! Oriane slide block, is that your anti-style? Yes...i hate it! It hurts too much ! A small boulder problem that heats up well! The forearms. Good for warming up! It's putting pressure on me, don't worry, it's for the fans Go seb the marginal! I remind you that we owe him his nickname because he won a competition but marginally 5 seconds from the end Go Seb you know Go a little narrative tension there Go it holds well! so that's the warm-up blocks Before the rulers on the volumes it's a bit surprising we expect to have the same style, rulers rulers And in fact it's a bit of compress platasses Well, we're going on another red, yeah, I think it's the hardest in the room The hardest in the room altogether? Possibly! I think it was seb who was chosen to start the 1st run Yeah in the draw Ouuh! Seb! Big shoulder move Ouh seb the big shoulder move We're going to title the hardest red in the room We've tried only one red again that she's going to destroy it go go It's a run and jump in fact , you put one foot and you go directly up there Or you jump directly above it's okay it didn't look extreme afterwards? it's ok yeah He's going to be marginalized as hell yeah You have to jump and... Come on Lorraine! Come on, let's believe it! Yes ! I arrived outstretched arms, so difficult More to the right No no no! The other right. Here's the other right, like that You really orient yourself where the grip is good you understand where his nickname Seb the marginal comes from It's because he has a very marginal way of climbing What is did he miss Oriane? Huh? there not much Just to hold what here it takes time for the body to understand the movement I was going to say the time for the movement to take over the body And then you have to quickly put your feet back into the wall to hold The abs kick Is your style, Marion? Alright, well, Good luck ! It does not matter. It may be a little physical No the 1st was better I went there without thinking infact Can you introduce us the boulder problem that we are going to do ? I don't know it I don't know ! You always have to present the boulder problem, you haven't try it yet Volume boulder problem, a little ass twisting, that'll be cool Come on, you'll have to bring both hands back Injury! You want us to call a doctor ? No it's fine You're stressing me ahah Sorry, it's the camera effect It may be easier than the other boulder problem. Seb, you should not fall on this one... Well done. I saw you falling... It gave me strength to take advantage for once ! I'm sorry Seb... Coordination boulder problem... You start on the flat hold in no foot, and you do &quot;tact-tact&quot;. It actually looks flat above... For the settings of the final boulder problems, you must mark them to know exactly how to position them. That's why there are many marks everywhere. There's a hold right there to hold the swing with the right hand but hey... You want to do the left move and stop there... It does not seems super hard but it does not feel like a natural movement. (B) : Alban... we cannot do this boulder. (B) : Do you know this boulder by heart? First version was much harder we could have repainted the hold in purple it would have been funny ;) You put your foot back and you go get the pinch at the mantle (mantle = top of the block) When you have the small vertical, you put your feet on the triangle and presto, you will cross on the last one, here ! I'm in pain here! Is that anti-style? no, it's really my style, it's just that I'm a little tired, I'm having trouble especially on the physical movements You did a workout this morning didn't you? Yesterday, and yet another one this morning, suddenly uh... We call the joker Alban ! Let me do one or two reds first to warm up you must not swing too much, if you go too fast you will be thrown backwards you only need to make a small leap towards the hold and tac tac yeah yeah that's it It's going to be hard This is the last block of the video Go strong Don't forget to subscribe, it's important I saw my hands slipping, I told them to please stay Alban, won't you show us the no foot technique Just to have a little contrast between the beginners and the athletes But when I do slab without hands, I still put magnesium that touched the we heard this is the end of the first video will pass on the second video the four blocks in the style and anti style d'Orian supervised by Mr.Albant Levier who is just on our left that day this afternoon it went well past. yeah yeah it's fine at home I've said it several times I'm a little tired suddenly I also have a little trouble motivating too when I go to the block, so houa. THX lady, so this day ? well super the blocks are hard, but super happy to have tried extreme blocks it's a bit of a quick format, we don't necessarily have the time To work the blocks, but in any case it makes us super happy to have received you in this first video you are our second athlete after Manu Cornu, Oriane Bertone I hope that we will make others well listen in any case we thank vertical'art Rungis for their welcome every time we just called back in a vertical'art and above all we are really very very well received I want to climb often at Chevaleret it's a pure pleasure in any case subscribe if you like this kind of commented videos lake and share you know it's for referencing I wish you a good day, see you, ciao