Three generations running this restaurant and we're even going to order. All right. But this is Rancho Plaza Grill. I got chicken fajitas. It's an amazing place to come and eat. Authentic northern New Mexico food. The Chilis are the best. Here you have the everything this area is known for. And when Adam Medina and his wife Raelynn, it with the help of Adam's late father. My dad was in the restaurant business His dream was to open up a restaurant. I got out of culinary school. This place came up, me and my dad and my mom The four of us started it. So who. Are we cooking with. Today? Me? You won't come back if you cook with me. All right. What are we going to make, Chef? Cardinal Levada. Cardinal Levada is marinated pork and they What are we kicking off with? Pork stock for our chili sauces. This is New Mexico. New Mexico choice. They're showing off I salt the bones first. Next and backs. Put them in the oven for 75 a couple hours. Bones, go in here we add vegetables, onions, Garlic. Tomato paste and some red chili pods. Put it back in the oven. About 45 minutes of Okay, you glaze. Pull all the flavor out of that. This goes in there. Step back. Oh, dear. Okay. The water simmer again. Five hours or. So. We'll strain. This. I reserve like a quarter of it. Reduce that for my marinade for my Carne de I've never heard of someone marinating pork Yeah, we're making a base water. Crushed red chili and chili powder. So we blend this reserve for the red chili But now you're going to add other ingredients Yeah. Garlic, white vinegar, salt. And then our reduced pork stock blend this. And what is the pork that we're using for the It's a pork sirloin. How long is this pork going to marinate? At least eight hours. What else are we going to work on? Our red chili sauce, ground pork. We fry this pretty crisp. And make a roux with the flour. Then we add our fresh minced garlic chili So get some stock in here. So that pork stock is like one of the Yeah, a little bit of salt. Let it simmer about 30 minutes. How do you make the rice? We start off by Browning, a parboil rice Got it. And then we add pork stock. This dish doesn't take pork stock. And the one thing that doesn't get pork. Stock, celery and onions, pureed tomatoes, garlic and bay leaf. Cook it about 35 minutes. All right, chef. Let's see it. So, rice, Marinated pork? This is our chili sauce that A healthy amount of sauce, huh? Lettuce, tomato. And there we go. You can't tell you're hungry. You're just shoveling. It's like trying to The sauce has got a real depth of flavor. It does a good amount of heat. Really tender. Lots of flavor. I love the amount of sauce you put on there beans and the rice. I see why. Everybody loves it. Can't get another plate. The meat is just what really brings out that Just amazing. Can't beat it anywhere. Just like Mom's. I'm here in Albuquerque, New Mexico. We love coming down here for Triple D. We always find really dynamite joints, all So one of the types of food that we're Latino. But I'm not talking about the You would expect I'm getting some Tex-Mex. No, I'm talking about Puerto Rican and a This is the Guava Tree Cafe. One pernil too much. Just one Cubano. Every bite that you take, it's magical. Oh, wow. I'm working on the vegetarian arepas. As soon as the smell of everything that's know you're in an amazing place. Which is a lovechild of Colombian born Diego I always call him The Latin Lover. Which is a story behind this because he's. Passionate around his food. Rice and beans. Old date. He and co-owner Ana Cook are putting out big Mediocre, please. From a kitchen the size of a postage stamp. What was this place before the restaurant You made it into a restaurant? Yeah. You're crazy. So what kind of food do you guys do? Latino, Miami style street. Food in New Mexico from a guy from Colombia. Do you hear that story all the time? These arepas Macha, which is the vegetarian It's kind of like a pita pocket, but instead vegetables in it. You get that good, hearty from it. We are ready for a vegetarian arepas built A lot of them garlic. Salt, veggie oil. Roast that off. This is going to be on our next black beans, cloves, bay leaf, red pepper and a bunch of Cover them with plastic and foil, 350 for an So time to make the. Dough white cornmeal, nice. And fine. Salt. And then we just add water. Oh. It's going to take forever doing it like Just be easier if I poured it right now. We need to go through the hand. Can you add some more, please? Don't want to add too much though. He's ready and we're going to go on the And we grill it both sides. All right. Just need some crust outside. What's next? Oh, wow. That's from Colombia. The Oh, is the sauce. Tomatoes, green onions, pepper, salt, Camino. More memories from home, H-o-t and. Then some oil. Blend it up in the oil. All right. It's going to be an hour. Again, White Sweet contains a lot of plantains. Oh, yeah, The black beans. We built mushrooms. You're going to fit all that in there. They're red bell peppers and top. I'm not going to fit all that in my mouth. Top with the fresco cheese right there and It's heavy. That's a really good ribeye, nice I love that you really roasted down the That's my favorite part. Good. Bite to the beans. The roasted red bell peppers are great. And the salsa. Oh. I like the acid of that. We got sweet. You got tangy, You got rich. I mean, really good, buddy. Got one. Ready. It's amazing. Crunch on the outside. And then soft and flavorful and smooth on Layers of flavor. Literally, the sweetness of the plantains is The salsa that came with the arepas was So a triple D, I've been there. I've done that. I've met them, I've heard type of menu that there is. I'm here in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and This is a story about an immigrant family They're doing a menu that I've I don't think This one's unique. This is Coda Bakery, Vietnamese Deli and One shrimp and pork sausage, banh mi and I was not expecting to find such a great I'm a fun guy. I was born and raised in Vietnam. So this food is home to me. It's home cooking. That owner win win made the journey to America. You were leaving Vietnam. Your wife's pregnant. I was the one that was born on the boat. Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho! So on the birth certificate and my international waters. Seriously? Yes. Would we call this a Vietnamese Absolutely. This is a Vietnamese like casual, But the flavor is authentic. I have a sandwich for table number four. Is layered with different types of pork. Very tasty. We keep coming back for it over Duck. What does it. Mean? Special? We are going to start with the housemade High gluten, flour, butter oil, salt dough Ice water. It will retard the yeast bread, roll it out and give it a longer can get the flavor. Yes. Ta da! So now we're going to make the Vietnamese We're doing more of a pressed ham like a It's more cushion, actually. Cushion. And then boneless skinless chicken This is just like everyday equipment that you You know, this thing right here is what you Tapioca starch. A little binder, glutinous rice, flour, vegetable seasoning. Crank it up. Oil, ice, water, sugar, water. Like a simple syrup. Now we're going to whip Then it goes to the emulsifier. Yes, that's where you really get that Whereas she said it was going to break down Nothing I love more than meat ice cream. Put this into the. Mold and we're going to steam it an hour and Now we're going to make the pate. Of course we are, because we're going to make I'm probably going to go mill some paper to Pork liver. Great. My favorite. Perfect Pork butt, white onions, fresh garlic Glutinous rice flour. It's a binder. Garlic powder, black pepper, little bit of sugar, onion, oil puree. This to the mold steam. For an hour, 15 minutes. That's how big the sandwich is. There are about a foot long housemade garlic And then the patty that we just made, pork Call it head cheese. Jambon like a garlic ham. And then the Vietnamese ham that we just Right. Soy sauce, pickled carrots and daikon Makes bombs look boring. That's why it's called duck bit because it's Do you hear that? Crunch? My mouth is. On. Bon appetit. Amazing. This is probably one of the most try. This is a trophy of success for all Oh, my goodness. Outstanding. Thank you. I need a beer for you. The whole sandwich is. Really fresh and tasty. It has the vegetables. It has the butter on the baguette. And they baked the baguettes here. So it's better than pretty much any sandwich We're going to make our bison fries. It's house cut fries topped with slow cooked The ultimate comfort food. All right, so what are we getting into? I like to kick the bison in a pressure A gigantic shank. I'm just doing salt and pepper in there. Sear both sides. I'm going to take the seared meat out just to vegetables. And this is all for our gravy that we're Yes. Shallots, celery, carrots, garlic, bay leaf, Tomatoes and a little fresh thyme. Adding the meat back in. And seal it up. It takes about 35 minutes. Got it. And we have this very tender osso We keep all those vegetables and turn that We are in New Mexico. Some chopped green chili. Worchestershire. Blend it all up with the The most important thing is that bone So we actually scoop it out and it gives it Add the meat back into it and we're done. Are we going to fresh cut these fries? We hand. Cut them. Ladies and gentlemen. Never seen this before on triple. She's going to cut the potatoes with her We use Colorado organic red potatoes. Soak them in water. To get some of that starch out. This thing's. Snapping. We boil them first, and then we're Do you just like to work extra 25 hours a what I'm going to do is I'm going to cut Do you drink coffee? Yes, a lot. Just give you a big old plate of fries. That's how many people get it really good. All your shenanigans are paying off. Add some delicious gruyere, and then we're I like that. Some chives. And voila. The Gruyere. I can smell it right off the That's remarkable. I mean, like, this is dinner. Big rich beef flavor coming from The fry has tremendous potato flavor. It's just submersed in enough of that juice. The Gruyere got its way to melt down nook fries. That's a destination dish. I'd come back tomorrow for this and the next So when I hear there's a chef that's all restaurant where the name kind of plays a Crew. You know, I got to check it out. This is Dr. Feelgood's Kitchen. We got New Mexican pulled pork outside. Come get. It. It's a good comfort food and sometimes Everything is made from scratch, locally I dig it all put together by Josh Gerwin. Fresh baked bread. Yes, sir. Butchering whole animals. I have a. Full blown butcher shop about five doors Really? Yeah. We bring whole hogs in. We got the belly. It's going to make our bacon, which goes. Into a classic sandwich with a not so classic Josh's twist on the BLT. It's a whole burger of bacon, which. Certainly I've never heard of anywhere except The mayo and the freshly baked bread. It's just delicious. What are we going to make? Bacon. All right, man, Let's get into it. Brown Kosher salt. How many bells you guys doing in a week? 8 to 12. So, no, nine, 10 or 11? Well, because two come per pig. I'll be over here. Cure our pork belly now. 7 to 10 days. What are. Applewood? 4 to 6 hours at 160 until it gets I grind it and make a nine ounce patty. You give them nine ounces of bacon on this Well, in the lean meat that binds it See beautiful bacon. Dude, put that on the grill. Yeah, no kidding. Can I just have this on a All that effort to make this great bacon, Yeah. And then make the patty and we're Pretty much. And I season it with some kosher salt and Cook it in a wood fired oven. You make the bread also. Yeah. Potato bread. It's like half potatoes and This is more potato than bread. I've never seen potato bread at this level. We go in with our water. Fresh yeast, super critical, some olive oil. Ap flour, bread, flour, salt. Mix it for about 12 minutes. Let it proof for about an hour till it Portion it out. Roll them out into the Let them proof and approximately double in What temperature are going to bake at. 350 About 20 minutes. Okay so side Kaiser. Okay get a little bit of mayonnaise on it. Nice heirloom tomatoes, gorgeous. Some organic greens, tiny bacon patty over I've never seen that much bacon on a BLT. Top it with our Kaiser for you. Housemade onion rings. You ready? That's a monster. Well, this is what everybody wants a BLT to You're getting the volume of a burger, the patty is just all that crispy, crunchy, Then on the inside, it's super tender. It's just done perfectly. I mean, it's BLT of another level. You are a dangerous man. Thank you very much, BLT, You ready? It's big mouthfuls of juicy bacon every time That freshly made. Bread is what takes it over the top.