(eerie music) (water splashing) - Whew, there we go! That is our first snapping Welcome to Dragon Tails, guys. You've seen me catch but this is a little bit different. My personal record is six Today, I'm going to try to What's awesome about this is that snapping turtle is a female, and is officially our All right, let's get the adventure (dramatic music) (water sloshing) Oh, look at this This is just completely a green algae mess of ooze, perfect snapping turtle habitat. But it does make them a I'm gonna move out and around this tree. Be really tough to catch - [Friend] Is that a turtle? - [Coyote] That is a turtle. - How are you gonna get it? - I'm gonna have to dive Are you good? Oh, he's moving. (Coyote grunts) - Oh. I'm losing it. - I lost it, I lost it. - [Coyote] Holy cow, - [Friend] This way. (water sloshing) - [Coyote] Oh, oh, under me, under me. Right there, right there. Right there, go around. (water splashing) (Coyote grunts) - [Friend] Did you feel him? - No, I didn't. - I'm pretty sure - that was him. - That was so close! So close to catching and miss! I had the back of its shell, and then it propelled itself forward, and pulled right out of my hand. Well, I'd say that's it for this location. Okay, we're on to our second location. There's some huge turtles in here, but they're very tough to catch. I actually see one that's up I might be able to get this one by hand. (soft music) There. - Is that him? - [Friend] How deep is it? - Really deep. All right, we're going to the kayak. I can't catch that turtle. (birds chirping) (water splashing) Yes! Got one! Yeah, there we go! That's a good turtle, right there. Whew! Okay. (grunts) In the boat with you, buddy. (turtle snaps) This is definitely the most getting the turtle in your boat, and then getting it back Not the biggest turtle Check that out! Definitely bigger than the This turtle is actually named Winston, only the second time I have And look at that nose. The beak is a little worn down, but this is still a very, very healthy common snapping turtle. All right, we have seen three turtles. We have caught two. I think it's time that we and see if we can up our numbers. All right, let's get this (turtle splashes) Okay, location number three, one of my favorite spots in Gahanna, Ohio, And I already see a snapping turtle out there moving in the mud. We're going straight into this. (tense music) There he is, he's gonna start moving. (water sloshing) Oh, just like that! Wow! There we go. Turtle number three. And this is one of the most famous turtles here in central Ohio. His name is Homer. I've named all the after mythological Greek gods. And this is one of the most Now, not as big and as heavy that we see in other locations, but definitely just as angry. Well, how about that? Walking right up, that is Very, very sharp claws on this turtle. Okay, let's see who else we can find. Looking good, buddy. There we go. All right! That's a great start for this location. Okay, we're heading back in to here. See if we can find some more turtles. - [Friend] This is really - [Coyote] That is a perfect start. - [Friend] I mean for our time. - Yes! That's gonna help us, here's Right here. - That is Hercules! Whoo! Homer and Hercules back-to-back. Look at that. This turtle is the biggest turtle that lives in this location. How about that? Back to back-to-back turtles - Oh, that is great. What a beautiful common snapping turtle. And I am very happy to see that he is healthy and doing well. Hi, buddy, how are you? Does it go, &quot;Hey, Coyote, how are you?&quot; All right, that is four turtles now. I'm gonna place him right back here. Watch your toes. And we'll see who else we can find. All right, off you go. How about that? - [Friend] Whoo! - Our numbers just like I'd say that's pretty We caught two of the three turtles that live in this very small, urban swamp. That brings our total count up to four. We're almost halfway there. And we still got the That was huge. That may be the fastest I've ever caught two very sizeable snapping (door thuds) (rock music) All right, guys, last location. Do you believe in miracles? Can I catch six turtles at this location? Only time will tell. We got one time around the pond. Here we go! Now the sunlight is definitely I can see right down to the bottom. So if there is turtle hunting or moving, I should be able to see it. - [Friend] There's one right Oh, he's a big one. (water splashing) Got him! - Oh, the water's deep. Completely getting swallowed in the water. Damn, it's cold! But that is a huge turtle! One of the biggest turtles The turtle known as Big Daddy. And that is wow, officially I'm just gonna let him go. We gotta keep moving. Here we go, moving on. See you later, big guy. Wow, what a catch! Yes! Now my waders are I might need to drain them. Yeah! Snapper right there, It's Hubert. (water splashes) No, not, look at this guy! Yes, look at that! Turtle number six! (Coyote laughing) Wow, I don't know what this turtle is. I've actually never caught it But that is turtle number six. I've officially tied my personal best. Six turtles in a single day. We've only got four more to go. How awesome is that? - Whoo! That is one stinky, All right, put him right back in. And let's see if we can get number seven. Oh, we're heating up now. Yes! What's exciting about this is that if I catch a seventh turtle, that will be my new personal record for most turtles caught in a day. Got a snapping turtle just hiding. Come here, buddy. There we go! Look at that! (friend laughing) - [Friend] Whoo! - Wow! There we have it, that's seven! That's my new personal - Nice! But that is number seven. Wow, this is a really Some of the claws are kind probably from fighting with at some point. Okay, this guy's going See you, buddy. Whoo, don't bite me. - Feisty. Let's find it. It's tough because I want 'cause we're running out of time. But we really have to glide slowly when you're looking for snapping turtles because if you drift too far past one, you'll have no chance of catching it. Big turtle right there, it's Oscar. It's Oscar! (tense music) Here we go. (water splashing) - [Friend] Whoo! - Yes! Big, big, big turtle - right there. Whoo! There we have it. That is an absolute gigantor. It's Oscar! Oh, my goodness, it's Oscar. This is the largest snapping And he means business. Look at the size of him. Holy mackerel! That is turtle number eight right there. Oh, I'm losing him, oh, he's so slippery! Oh, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow! Look at the size of that dragon. Oh, my gosh! He is so incredibly heavy. - [Friend] Is that the biggest one so far? - This is the biggest - [Friend] Whoa! - This is the largest snapping turtle ow, in this body of water. And he is as prehistoric as it gets. All right, guys, there it Nine and 10 is all that's left. All right, guys, we are The water is perfectly Can we catch turtles nine and 10? Let's see what happens. What's crazy about this location, is there's probably 30 turtles, maybe more that live in here. (gentle music) - [Friend] The sun is behind the cloud. - It's definitely hurting me right now. Between that and the fact that I can not, even the shallow water is extremely murky. Man, if our conditions were I think we would've gotten it. All right, we'll go back up through here. I think that'll do it. Valiant effort. (Coyote sighs) This close. We topped out at eight turtles today. Ah, I look back at that We could've made it to nine! But in the end, I did beat my personal record which was six turtles in a single day. And I can't be too disappointed. Not only did we catch Big the largest turtle that And that's the story of The legend, you're always going In this instance it was, can I catch 10 turtles in a single day? I was close, so close! I feel like if the conditions had been just a little bit better, if the water had been a little clear, if there may have been a little less wind, and a little more sun, we But hey! Eight turtles in a single day isn't bad. I'm Coyote Peterson, be brave, stay wild. We'll see you on the next adventure. All right, that's the day! (wild music)