Roni, it's okay. It's okay. Hey guys, I'm Vanessa So Roni is not here for the intro because this video was kind of hard for her to film So before we actually start the video make sure to subscribe to our channel. We post new videos every single Tuesday All right, so let me explain Basically this whole situation that Roni has been in it started in 2016. The brand new iPhone 7 Wow I'm gonna call you, iPhone Steven. Wow It's just an iPhone Roni, it's not like it's your boyfriend All right, Roni hurry up we're gonna be late to the party Coming! What are you wearing? I'm iPhone Steven. What's in your hand? iPhone Steven dressed as me. You dressed your phone up for Halloween? It's a couples costume, duh Weird Merry Christmas, Roni Merry Christmas iPhone Steven. I got you a gift. Oh no, that's for Steven This is for me from my friend Steven, so I'll open your gift first. You didn't have to, it's a rubber tripod stand. Aw, thank you So cute Okay, now I'm gonna open yours and I got you extra batteries so now you have more life I got to you this Roni What did you get me? Um... Ten, Nine, Eight, Seven, Six, Five, Four, Three, Two, One! Happy New Year!! Happy New Year, iPhone Steven! Happy New Year, Roni! Take a picture Happy New Year.... Aww, I remember this one and this one. Oh! I forgot about that one. (laughs) Paris, what a romantic getaway Except that Nessa wouldn't leave us alone the entire time Did you call for me? No, nothing Okay See what I mean? She never leaves us alone Roni, Roni, Roni! Look what I got, The new iPhone XR Really? Wow, look the screen is like ten times bigger than yours I like the size of my screen it fits perfect in my hand Are you sure you don't want a new iPhone? The iPhone 7 is like pretty old. No way, I love iPhone Steven and we're happy together Okay Nessa, so when did you hire a professional photographer to do a photo shoot? What are you talking about? Your Twitter! I wanted some pictures too. I literally just took that selfie like 10 seconds ago and I was using portrait mode It makes you look amazing. See? I don't need portrait mode to take amazing pictures. What happened did you run out of storage again? No, I'm just- I just want to delete some pictures Mhmm Why are you calling me? You're in the other room. I wanted to show you something. What is that? I'm a Koala! You're so cute How did you do that? Thank you, it's called Memoji. How do you do that? I'm wanna try. Oh you can't. It's only on the new phones. Your phone is too old Oh... Okay, hold on a second. Eh? Look I'm a Memoji too! Oh That's so scary Roni! That's like the creepiest thing you've ever done in your entire life. Please don't ever do that again Well, anyways, this is all I want to show you! Bye! Nessa, can I please borrow a charger. What percentage are you at? Eighteen. Oh, yeah, you can use this one. All you gotta do is just place the phone on it and it automatically charges it wirelessly. Okay, cool Wait, move it like this You know what your phone is old so it's not gonna work with this. Okay. Well now I'm at 15% Do mom and dad have a charger I can borrow? No, we all have these charges cause we got new phones There has to be a charger around here. No Now I'm at 10% why is it dying so fast? There has to be a charger somewhere in here. No The drawers No No 1%?! Got it! Okay Oh! USB?! Ahh Oh, oh! Here we go *struggles* yeah! Ugh, fine Steven just go like you always do! Hey, Nessa? Nessa? *gasps* Helloooo I unlocked it Let's see how portrait mode really is like. Wow! It's so much better. Hello :) What about this Memoji thing I'm a chicken Bwak, bwak, bwak, bwak... Roni!! What are you doing on my phone? I didn't mean to I just I picked it up and it unlocked because of the face thing and I didn't mean to I swear You like it, don't you? No, I do not! Admit it. No, I love iPhone Steven Who are trying to convince? Me? or yourself? Fine! I love the new iPhone XR! are are you happy? You know what you need to do Hey iPhone Steven We need to talk Are you breaking up with me? I can't believe this, after everything. We've been through This isn't easy for me. What about Paris? You said we'd be together forever You're just not good enough for my sister Roni, can you take me somewhere away from Nessa, so we can talk about this in private? Nessa, can we have some space? Okay *depressing music* Okay, we're alone. Is it someone else, another phone? Please tell me you're not leaving me for an Android. No, of course not. It's just we want different things. I want to be able to talk to my friends as a monkey emoji or a poop emoji. I have emojis too, look. Steven, It's over You are forgetting one thing. I'm logged in to your YouTube, Instagram, Snapchat. I'll delete everything Don't do this. You can do it! No! *cries* Roni, it's okay. It's okay. You know what? I know what will make you feel better. *sniffs* What? A new iPhone XR! Oh, really? For me? Mhmm Wow I'll call you iPhone Xavier. ugh Thanks Nessa for the new iPhone, you're the best sister ever, I love you So that's the story, that's what happened and now Roni wants to come in and explain a little bit This video wasn't sponsored *laughs* Sorry, we click baited. Sorry! It's just about my phone. I'm going- we're upgrading our phones and we just thought it'd be a fun little sketch Hope you guys enjoyed this video. We had a lot of fun making it. I put eyelashes on my phone for this video. So give it a thumbs up for that! Give it a thumbs up for creativity Hope you guys enjoy this video! Let us know on the comments below which was your favorite part. So before this video ends, we want to let you guys know that we're gonna be live-streaming on our live Channel, Merrell Twins Live Right after this video premieres and if you don't know what a premiere is, we are premiering our videos at a certain time So stay up-to-date with the community tab on our channel to see what time we are premiering, premiering is when you guys can comment live While we watch the video together, it's really fun. We really enjoy it a lot. But yeah, we're going to livestream after this video. so be there and we will talk to you guys live! And Thanks for watching!! If you like this video give it a thumbs up! Subscribe to our channel by clicking this button right over here and if you click this button right here You can subscribe to our second channel! Check out some of the other videos we've done and we will see you guys next time. Bye!!