- This is an $80,000 Tesla. And today, I'm gonna steal But to even get my hands on this thing, I had to take a journey of car hacking. (tense music) But today, we're gonna figure out how easy it really is for thieves Let's go. Thanks to Omaze for My name's Jeremiah Burton, and giving you the chance to I'm out here at the Peterson Museum in LA to give y'all the exciting news that the good folks over the chance to win this The taxes and shipping Just go to omaze.com/donut22 to enter for your chance to win. This iconic American roadster is modeled after the iconic Shelby Cobra, designed by the legend You ever heard of him? It's got a 7.3 liter a five speed manual, and slithers down the road Not to mention, if you win this you get to pick whatever root and tune and beautiful color you want. And to top off this happy sandwich, donations benefit the That's where I'm at right now. A nonprofit that preserves and its impact on the world. They work with underserved communities, boast educational programs and And your donation will help them continue to build automotive history. So head on over to omaze.com/donut22 today to enter for your chance to win. Good luck. All right. Now, who do I have to talk to to get my catfish, Camaro, in here? Huh? Anybody around? You, ma'am, with the blazer. Nope? Nope? You're not... Nope? Okay, so I've been seeing a about thieves hacking And apparently, it's becoming So if these thieves can do it, is it something that I can figure out? Well, I did some research and the first thing I came across is something called a replay attack. Apparently, this is the And it works like this. When you hit the lock or it sends a radio signal to your car, but that radio signal can It's just out there in the ether just waiting for someone to capture it. And if you can capture that signal, theoretically, you could play it back and unlock a car without the key. And it turns out devices that I found this one right here on Amazon. It's called a Software Defined Radio. So I'm gonna buy it and see if it'll actually And if not, I'll just No big deal. Okay, I've spent some and I think I got it figured out. Now, the first thing I'm gonna and I'm gonna set my Now that's important because in the United States transmits at. I'll do a start right here, and now this device right here in the 315 megahertz range. Now, what I can do is hit unlock, and this device And what I can do is I And if you look at it, this is the actual that's used to unlock my catfish, Camaro. What I can do is I can without this key fob and unlock my car. Well, let's go see if it works. Okay, so I'm outside We got the catfish door, it's locked. Can't get in, but I have the code here and fingers crossed, all I need to do is just hit play. It'll play that code and open the door. Let's see. Here we go. Three, two, one. (beeping) (tense music) Meh. Okay. All right. (cameraman chuckling) (Jeremiah laughing) Stop. All right Save it. Take two. Here we go. (beeping) Okay, what the... (car honking) Not doing it. Okay. Third time is a charm. Of course, it doesn't work off the jump. That would be too easy. Here we go. Three, two, one. (tense music) Did it work? Hey! There it goes. Heck, yeah. Okay, so that was pretty neat but that's me breaking into my own car. What if I break into someone else's car? James is over there. He's in a meeting. He's a little preoccupied. Let's see if I can get into his stuff. (upbeat music) Don't need those. Hey, James. - I got something to show you. - You're gonna steal my car? (Jeremiah laughing) I know the video is about. I talked to... (Jeremiah laughing) - Go ahead. Go ahead, pull on that handle. Make sure it's locked. - It's locked. - Great. You know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna unlock it. (beeping) (Jeremiah laughing) Yeah. All right, so what I did and I'm using this hack... Okay, but here's the This would never work and that's because 99% of cars use something called rolling code. Every time you press the button the code changes. So the code I captured with Sorry, bad guys. Guess you're just gonna And you can see here, this code is different from this code. Once that code gets played, See these, guys? These are different codes. They look different. See these two right here? That's like a fish, and this is like a pig. But there's an even bigger problem. I can break into the car, You still need a key to do that. And I wanna steal a car, So replay attacks aren't gonna cut it. So I hopped back onto trustee old Google, and that's when I found See, unlike old caveman most modern cars use something called passive keyless entry system. When the car detects your nearby, it sends a wake up signal to the key. The key then sends an encrypted and the two trade codes several times, confirming they are the Once both are confirmed, and then start. And this is where relay attacks come in. You can trick a car into than it actually is by It's kind of like a wifi range extender. So you're inside the supermarket buying flaming hot wonder bread. Yeah, it's a thing. It's pretty good. And it just so happens to boosting the signal from your who's standing near your car outside. By the time you get outside, So all I got to do now is buy Unfortunately, I can't find one online, so I'm gonna have to do the when they created the internet, and that is buy something on the dark web. (tense music) (upbeat music) Oh, sick. Best prices in USA from developer, high quality, tested worldwide free shipping, Let's see how much these things cost. $15,000? Where does this guy has his freaking mind? We can't afford that. Let's see if I can get... Let's see if the guy So I messaged to see but I didn't get a response. So if buying one isn't an option, what about building one? So I started doing some more research. And it turns out all I have to do is build and program it to receive an encrypted 125 from the car, up sample, and retransmit to the key. Receive the 350 megahertz up-sample that two point Transmit it back to the car, which see the next coded of response in the sequence before the 100 Okay. Actually this was way And at this point I spent literal weeks trying to figure this out. And I haven't gotten any than when I started. I've been spending so many hours, just roadblock after but I can't just fail. I'm not a failure. I got to get to stealing a car or else this video is gonna suck. (tense music) Luckily for me, I found smarter than me, his name is Sultan. So Sultan is a security researcher who hacks into stuff to And I actually came across while I was researching for this video. He discovered a new kind of relay attack that works on cars like Teslas. So he's flying out here to show me how it's done. And of course, Murphy's Law, the day he got here, I got mega diarrhea. So Justin took over for me. Don't eat ceviche when it's hot. - Sultan is a Bluetooth hacking expert, and he discovered a huge vulnerability in keyless entry technology, specifically phone as a key. That's when you use your phone to replace the key of your car. And this is something that are starting to utilize, including Tesla. The relay attack has So how is this Bluetooth - The basic concepts are the same, in that making you're they're close to each other. But the difference is that with Bluetooth, it's switching frequencies all the time, and there is some more complexity in handling the frequency I mean, I just used free I mean, you could make a And you need two of those. So let's say 20 bucks of attack is feasible. - [Justin] How close does the to the phone key or the car? - I've experimented and there was like 15 meters With some devices, if there weren't strict latency limits, they could even be on - Wow. That's impressive. Let's go see this thing in action. I'm excited. - Yes. - All right. So we are outside with this locked Tesla. Jimmy has a phone inside over 50 feet away that has the Bluetooth So just to prove to you that it's locked, the mirror is folded in, the car is asleep, security mode is on. So we're gonna go ahead and Are you guys ready? - Yeah. - Steal a damn Tesla! (tense music) - All right. Activate the device. Here we go. (tense music) - Okay, press enter on your end. - All right. It's doing stuff on the screen. (beeping) (tense music) - Vice has been activated. - Uh-oh. (tense music) (people cheering) (Justin laughing) - But this is just step one. We got to drive away in this thing. - [Jimmy] Did you guys take my Tesla? - Your Tesla is about to disappear, Jimmy. (tense music) (beeping) (people cheering) Fix it, Elon. (people clapping) (upbeat music) - This makes me happy. - Real Mechanic Stuff. Really excited about these shirts. I love the design. They're now available at donutmedia.com. Just get one if you wanna look cool. Don't worry, dude. I got you. Real Mechanic Stuff. - So that was absolutely nuts. We just stole this Tesla for $20. Guys, I am telling you, please It's a simple fix to Follow Donut at Donut Media. Follow me at Justin Freeman on Instagram. Like and subscribe. Thank you for watching. Y'all have a good one.