State governments in the US After meeting our little money left. One count suggests that 27 funds to pay their bills. The problem is most Connecticut, New Jersey, Not only city of Chicago, running straight into a finances. City of Chicago deficit. The state is while also needing to bail Transit Authority. Chicago Public Schools is The state cannot afford States received about $800 government to kick off the That spending obscured long What we're seeing is largely pandemic surpluses. You know, we saw a big There was really like a bit States now are working with country's population and Even economically powerful To the degree that the federal aid, it becomes a vulnerability. State governments account economic output, and they workforce. So why are so broke? And what can they do State governments pay for of education, health care, housing, but they receive from the federal government In 2022, federal grants spending from state more than usual. During the pandemic. We saw A lot of one time had the effect of obscuring that states faced. The ensuing economic boom and increased revenues. The increase in revenue taxes and increase We you all of us together tax cut ever by a huge increase in teacher history. We understand that that's, politically palatable, an election. It is something that if may see some future know, expenditures and have to correct. Virtually every state made a In some cases, this is a states to spend down these On the other side, this know, tightening budget needing to draw on those meet right now. But the federal funds given 2026 as a cost of living the country. For too many, the cost of The higher cost of living is consider tax relief. That includes places like Statehood that do well are Dakota. And what these is that they have a footprint. Many policymakers across the managing the pandemic era A huge looming question out term affordability of the increases that were State governments also have financial liabilities. There are states like New Jersey. While these states really debt after the great reason for their weak obligation. Roughly 86% of public These are retirement plans income for life. State and cities in order to maybe paying them less in the private sector, and they ended up getting If pension liabilities are as 27 states lack the money What goes a little bit under liabilities are an debt. The portion of that increases by 7% every This debt leaves states with programs. So we're talking hospitals. We're talking about roads. We're talking about Take Illinois, for example, employees but has less than pay them back. We've seen analysis from JP actually fund these that were made decades ago, state income tax overnight Illinois Governor JB spending on areas like education. Penny by Penny. We are still working things for our state. This requires tax increases that option may not be Illinois, which already has Using taxes to raise limited. Higher taxes tend to make earners. That's according California. When the marginal tax rate loses about 0.8% in the tax bracket. That's actually like 1% of the tax base in for the most part accounts revenues overall. Moving forward, state emerging risks like more population and migration. Migration, I believe, is biggest issues that will In the 2020s, many Americans into states like Florida, Coincidentally, those states taxes, of course they are climate, but they also have risk. That's where it gets for politicians in terms of Florida, for example, has lack of state income taxes policies, but it sees risks Florida is being challenged outside of policymakers Within Florida's long term actually highlight Medicaid concern for the state. And, of course, climate hitting the state of The federal government of disaster related costs. Agencies like the Federal Authority or FEMA could budgets and require further I think anyone that's leading the response, that response is. There's a great concern of the federal government, and bailout for people who It's a big number that's taxpayer. Ultimately. Nearly all counties in the some sort of climate I don't think people always heat days with climate. I think the Midwest being can compound other hazards, impactful to agriculture. Crop production in the that gross state product. You know, we've seen a lot last couple of years. Right now, the market isn't into securities, into And so this becomes a state and local Even in North Carolina, disaster struck. You know, could anyone have need to check on your infrastructure and can it test? The largest banks have to do the Great Recession. There's a similar concept At least 20 states review conducting stress tests or assessments, and all 50 are These savings are used Some states, like new have very low savings in Other states like Wyoming their operations for Alaska is very resource rich A lot of its tax revenue is what's called severance production. It really is a state like Alaska, as well Dakota and Wyoming. This dependance on oil severance taxes is really The point of optimism is more states do their homework to understand fiscally sustainable For example, the state of in its long term assessment And to the state leaders finding longer term revenue. Some spending This trend has contributed states across the board. When you're in a healthy That's when you're supposed and not reacting to it. This is really an opportune are in geographic areas of risk. The level of annual issuance to double from about 400 to and 900 billion annually assets in the US, to be to climate hazards. 68% of investment advisors public debt as the top country. I don't think politicians solve this in Illinois, and actually during the to Congress asking for a That is really the only it's so politically toxic Illinois residents. There are certainly forward. And there's still pension debt outstanding. So that's that's big annual revenues that those