- One of life's most is to know when it's time to (pensive music) - [Reporter] After 17 years at the helm of the Republican Party in the Senate, Mitch McConnell announced from his leadership role in November. - I love the Senate. It's been my life. There may be more distinguished throughout our history, with any more admiration for the Senate. (camera shutter snapping) - [Reporter] Now the in Senate history. - [Crowd] Mitch, Mitch, Mitch! - [Reporter] McConnell and a reputation as a master But in recent years, he also and a changing Republican Party. - The Senate's gonna be a very different place, unquestionably. - [Announcer] Switch to Mitch for Senator. - [Reporter] Mitch McConnell in 1984, flipping a seat in Kentucky where he holds the title of the state's longest-serving senator. He served as the Republican before becoming the He would be voted leader eight more times across four presidential administrations. - Mitch McConnell is almost That's not that he is universally loved. - Some folks still don't think I spend enough time with Congress. &quot;Why don't you get a drink with Really? Why don't you get a drink - He's either your greatest asset or your biggest liability that came before the federal government. I remember him saying &quot;It's taken me 30 years to convince everybody I'm an asshole. I'm not gonna turn back now.&quot; (laughs) - [Reporter] Wielding to push his agenda, McConnell didn't aim for public popularity or shy away from controversial opinions. - Our top political priority should be to deny President - He is perfectly comfortable being the most unpopular and his view is he's not Like, he's just, there's no in that role that's gonna satisfy a 60% majority of Americans, just not. - [Reporter] With a decades-long tenure comes many legislative highs - This is a guy who watched John McCain cast the decisive no vote a heartbreaker for the Republican Party. - [McCain] No. - [Reporter] Shortly after to deliver on passing a the largest structural overhaul of the tax system in more than 30 years. - Probably from a legislative perspective, the signature accomplishment - [Reporter] Some of will last for years to come. During the Trump administration, he pushed through the confirmations of more than 200 judicial nominees, including 53 on appeals courts, and three on the Supreme Court. In 2016, McConnell refused for then-President Barack Obama's Supreme Court nominee, Merrick Garland. - We're not giving lifetime on the way out the door to for the next 25 or 30 years. - [Reporter] In October, 2020 McConnell and Senate Republicans confirmed Amy Coney just days before the - A lot of what we've done will be undone sooner or They won't be able to do much about this for a long time to come. - [Reporter] The appointment from Senate Democrats. - They subjected Judge Garland to an unprecedented partisan blockade, but they're erecting a to rush Judge Barrett onto the bench. - McConnell has cemented on the Supreme Court for - [Reporter] One of McConnell has faced during his tenure is the rapidly changing Republican Party shifting away from more and moving toward former populist brand of conservatism. - Believe me, I know the at this particular moment in time. I have many faults. Misunderstanding politics - [Reporter] Many of came during the Trump administration, but the pair had a relatively - McConnell has this idea you must sit and stand firm. And that's absolutely what And that's not to say it was always easy. That's not to say it but it did speak to McConnell's and ability to persevere as qualities that were Things really fell apart, though, between McConnell and Donald when McConnell did not vote but got up and gave a very, in public view on the Senate floor. - There's no question, none, that President Trump is for provoking the events of the day. No question about it. - [Reporter] McConnell's follows a series of health setbacks after the leader appeared to freeze during two public appearances. - All right, I'm sorry, you - [Reporter] The Senate Minority Leader who turned 82 on February 20th said it's time for a He will step back from the but plans to remain in the Senate until his term expires in 2027. - McConnell has been a very at a time when rank-and-file to be devolved out into their hands. And so it could mean a weakening of the Senate Republicans' leadership. It's very, very hard to see to bring together all of the mastery of the Senate rules, the mental and emotional of leadership that we saw - I have full confidence in my conference to choose my replacement and - And if you look at what he from the moment he walked into that office to the moment he walks out, has been the most consequential figure over the longest period of time of any Senate leader in history. - [Press Corps Member] (press corps chattering)