The story of this sporting adventure with a of a team, with its laborious beginnings, and finally, the glorious series of its victories. of the drivers, technicians and mechanics who of international automobile competition. acquire a literally dazzling track record: 3, Formula 2 and Formula 1, three European World of Formula 1 drivers and constructors of brands in Sport-Prototypes, and finally, Nearly a quarter of a century at the end of this been matched by another French team. It of the post-war period. We reconditioned German Junkers, to carry out and meteorological probe test campaigns at Colomb Bechar and is to be at the forefront of new technologies. in 1941 by Marcel Chassagny. Already before the war for the Societe nationale he directed his activities towards This is how Matra is designing rocket launchers field in France. Six years later, Matra moves from conventional weapons to specialist in self-guided air-to-air missiles. his activities in road and Europe ndeg1 radio station, joined forces with Marcel Chassagny and Certainly the defense sector supported by the but Matra was driven by a spirit of creativity as to the development of the Bambi in the manufacture of the Moynet Jupiter 360 aircraft. participated in the development of the manufacturing Rubis and Diamant rockets and French high-tech industries. plastic boat hulls and the the Djet from the manufacturer Rene Bonnet, through its subsidiary La Generale d'Application Plastique in Romorantin. Matra continued alone to manufacture these world equipped with a central rear engine. defector from Dassault, appointed then took charge of the destiny of Matra-Sports. I repeat, is high defense, it is but limited, which has an image... defense is Cold War in 1964, and I want to develop the group significant reservoir of gray matter, and for a name which accepts competition, but which creativity in high technology. And it is exactly that. That's why in compete, and I placed this years, with initial ambitions that Ambitions which seemed disproportionate because in lowest point. Only Alpine and Rene Bonnet with defended the national colors in "The birth of a French single-seater racing car France at that time, it was a desert, after the war, there were teams pre-war which notably Talbot had been taken over by cars in Grand Prix from 1950, Gordini. had tried to continue on his own. French motorsport in the Grands Prix between forced to cease all activity in Formula 1 but that was all, due to lack of means, "Matra-Sports at that time was was in Romorantin and then to a garage at design office but which in reality was a Rene Bonnets were being repaired, since we had taken over Rene the upper floor were the rudiments of the relatively established company. who was called modest. When I arrived, there was a there were two boys: Hubert, who had had. designed the first three workers. There was one called winter, it must have been March. 1965, it was we would periodically heat ourselves with an &quot;The first winter that we worked in the degrees. On a small radiator, we constantly had And we drew with gloves so It gloves: that's how it started. like him from Bonnet, Jacques of Formula 3. Above all, it is a question &quot;I knew that a hull was needed since the made a polyester hull at Bonnet, with there was no question of polyester there, the to put in bulkheads for the fuel, be built in a certain order, it was necessary to partitions gradually etc.... Naturally The concept of the monocoque chassis with construction of future Matra single-seaters. The grandmother of the Formula 1 MS10, MS11 and MS80. Cosworth or Holbay, mated to The finish is remarkable, and above all the All that remains is to find the drivers "Matra took over Rene Bonnet, and the man who decides made an appointment with him, and as I arrived in a state which was not quite the interview was quite difficult at the start. of questions about whether I would be able or also to victory." &quot;I had heard about him and a before 64, and I took it. Of course, all the madness to take a boy who will were the others: Offenstadt, who was who we had taken since he had won the Ford steering wheel I told him: 'you're going to start And then there were mechanics discovered each other at the Monaco Grand Prix.&quot; its first feat, because the MS1 designed at the end of on May 29, 1965. When Louis Chiron lowers race in their history. Faced with the Offenstadt retired and the No. 37 of Jean-Pierre &quot;The first race was Monaco. It was because this race placed a lot of demands on the on which we had bet a lot, failed due to connecting the the engine, the gearbox and the wheels as best I could by holding the engine and gearbox we were quite far away of course. race and that was already not so bad." In fact, the beginnings are modest and the rest Beltoise entered the running, the two Matras broke Jaussaud sinks a connecting rod, Offenstadt finishes Lagardere are showing signs of impatience. where the destiny of Matra-Sports will be The Champagne circuit is at the height great post-war drivers and all motor racing haunt the paddock and the with its long straights and turns will become the scene of a victory which weighed The small Matra team is complete, with Director of the Competition Department since adjusting cars, and in particular on his friend rally driver Bernard Consten to find tension, it should be noted, is at its maximum. it was Le Guezec who was in charge, and I you are going to work until the last moment on the three cars'. They worked on all the failure cases' It was a poorly all the mechanics to do well, there was a people who came from different backgrounds. that if we didn't have won in Reims, I would motivate everyone even more.&quot; yet in the game and we had too but in Reims, it's an advantage. I discovered were different tires. In the team we were I thought I went out because hit me in the back and I luckily, I didn't lose too I set off again quickly and the small tires which made I had set an astronomical lap record, I I could have done on my own, thanks to &quot;We want to advance the technique Formula 2 most certainly, and a little During this first interview, Jean-Luc and the results of season 65 reinforced French Formula 3 champion with 7 victories. Lagardere is seeking the collaboration of an two Matra single-seaters discreetly embarked who races the great hope Jackie Stewart, will The journalist Gerard Crombac remembers. would send a Formula 2 B.R.M. engine to Formula 3 chassis, and then we would send the at Goodwood and Stewart would test it. And if he Lagardere would have Formula 2 chassis made, would race the Matra International team." Jean-Luc, I called Jackie to tell him that we were in a French car called Matra. So 'I want you to come and test this car'. He wasting our time trying this car have to do it because I promised we would'.&quot; told me he wanted me to come and try the with this because we have enough to do car I realized that it was the best hands. It was incredible the precision with realized that it had enormous potential. The spoke to me and I could talk to it. to drive and gave me complete confidence. fabulous years where Jackie will drive the happiness, winning 18 victories The Matra team is strengthening with the arrival who will join the design office, Andre Legan, take charge of the manufacturing workshop numerous mechanics from the For the 1966 season, Matra decided to Formula 3 and Formula 2 single-seaters. They would equip Jean-Pierre Jaussaud, Henri Pescarolo and Johnny Stewart and Jacky Ickx; the John Coombs team John Surtess, Hubert Hahn and Ludovico Scarfiotti. construction of a prototype, the 620, for the considerable workload for this very young team. Clermont-Ferrand race, was hellish. depression for three days and it was really and night, it was almost day and night. At first, fallen into the madness' And then, I &quot;It was day, it was night. We had to was ready. We dismantled the car completely, the hubs, everything went into it, braking. We &quot;There have been times when four or five cars or 15 cars, we can't do them at the we arrive late. All weeks we add a little tip, a little a little thing to the shock absorbers." the advantage compared to Alpine where I came from, production of aviation quality, extremely of expressing one's need through a plan which were following the plan. they were wrong on the part. They had allowed us to make up for a mistake in the plan.&quot; its first success in Formula 2 at the German Grand Prix took fifteen first places and Servoz Gavin the Matra team is the French team, ambassador of choice for the country's image. That year, Matra presented its brand MS7. Indeed, international sporting regulations for F2, with the engine capacity increasing from 1000 Cosworth engine. The steering wheels are entrusted to Beltoise, the end of a sumptuous season, the latter Also in 1967, the Matra Formula of the Temporada in Argentina with Jean-Pierre French Championship. Henri Pescarolo will deliver a teammate Jean-Pierre Jaussaud, and win The Matra Formula 3 team is accompanied the 'Crio au Tournesol' team driven by Guenard. Jean-Pierre Jabouille will continue prepared by Richard Belkechout. extraordinary for Jean-Pierre Beltoise who despite a monumental spin, Jean-Pierre Brabham and Jackie Stewart. At the end of European Formula 2 Trophy. More than ever, Even victorious, the race is expensive. We first M530 production car will make it possible by the competition. But we hesitate in the face of the Jean-Luc Lagardere knows the cost of starting the 3-liter V12 engine that will power it. It the adventure alone. It was then that he met Jean de Distribution des Produits Petroliers. distribution activities of the subsidiaries of the ERAP group. From Congo and Canada, the group produces 20 the UGD will launch, a few months later, a "And so they have exactly the same young image, a competitive image, a dynamic image. This is how I get closer to the "We were aware that the quality of our that it was extraordinarily disparate. We Guillaumat who was president of the group, and to launch a brand that would unify But there was a second difficulty of which to our large international foreign competitors Petroleum Company, our credibility on a technical taking advantage of the launch of the brand, which a theme that could. underpin our focused on product quality, the technical challenge The dream of the 100% French single-seater is taking shape, even for four years, is not enough. We is ready to support such a project. the fight is hot between Alpine and Matra to Jean-Luc Lagardere obtained from the Fund for a loan of 6 million francs for "So I told him: 'there it is, it's very simple. thanks to which we will excel in Formula 1 and thanks to I will come at that time' History he became President of the Republic, great attempt that. we had made at Le Mans. industrial France received a The necessary funds having been raised, the of the Formula 1 engine. Georges Martin, of the Engine, Advanced Studies and &quot;So the V12, it was extremely simple. I might still be trying to a 12 cylinder or a 16 cylinder told me: 'we have to make a V12, and it has to "But I gave Martin an extremely of the exhaust to be singular, in &quot;I couldn't wait for this period of three the study of an engine. So to do the pre-study friend who worked with me at Simca, who if he couldn't help me on Saturday, Sunday, of a Formula 1 engine. This is what was started like that, let's say the study And this is how Georges Chariatte went garden to draw the plans for the V12 Matra. my barracks and made a V at 60, and I and the other version chosen by It is ultimately a bore of 79.7x50 which the Matra engine team, in After seven months of gestation, the its 48 valves, and its four on December 19, 1967. It then developed 388 HP. the start-up of this V12 engine, on the will say that the first meows of this engine goosebumps for a long time And then afterward, there first time after the war that which would now seem ridiculous. , high. Then we had to discover all For the four musketeers of the Matra had already entered Formula at the Grand Prix of the United States, Mexico, For the 1968 season, Matra decided to the MS11 jointly with the V12 engine, While waiting for these two new Ken Tyrrell and Jackie Stewart a transitional single-seater that they arrive one fine morning in the called 'stalags' by certain mischievous spirits. by the Ford Cosworth V8, Tyrrell and Stewart to carry out tests on the South African circuit this single-seater in competition, In Kyalami, it is summer, and Jackie Stewart, as an tests to refine the settings and Finally, entered in the first Grand on the front row and started in the lead before hot and promising debut. on the eve of the restless nights of May 68, the entire the fruit of their efforts and dreams: a They are all there, from Lagardere to calculators, designers, boilermakers mechanics, engine builders, all these men automobile racing. finally it's the big day, the first . The impressive blue single-seater the attention from mechanics and photographers and television. It is "I knew that all of France Ferrari engine, in short the noble engine par excellence. former deliveryman for the Beltoise butcher's shop, who was beyond my dreams, my most it was me driving it. is in fact unavailable to drive the MS10 with a to the whimsical but gifted Johnny Servoz-Gavin. party-loving. I think it was more partying bit of purgatory, so I was doing came to look for me to drive his F1, people much more experienced than me to time in practice and I was on the front row started in F1, so we were trying in then it worked well since I was able to start Yes, a Matra leading the most prestigious before being eliminated in a collision. As for it stopped definitively on the twelfth lap. world's elite of Formula 1: Brabham, and the famous Lotus Ford 49. It's the Golden Age these modern-day knights And here we go for a season full of Stewart in the lead with a 40 second lead, In Zandwoort, at the Dutch Grand Prix contested experimental rain tires manufactured by Dunlop. Starting from despite two spins which forced him ranked second behind a Historic double, because it marks the first Formula 1 world championship. Nurburgring, it's rain and fog with Dantesque conditions Stewart will perform than four minutes ahead of the Lotus of Graham At Monza, Johny Servoz Gavin overtakes the Ferrari second place and Beltoise ranks fifth. Stewart and Graham Hill, unfortunately mechanical problems and would ultimately finish second Unquestionably the results of the 1968 season the world title due to the injury which For 1969, Jean-Luc Lagardere announced that he he would enter four cars equipped with the V12. is put on hold for a season. carry all the hopes. It will be driven by will race it. Bruno Morin becomes &quot;My role as Ken Tyrrell said was: and the Matra factory'. In fact Ken Tyrrell was he was a world champion in but it is certain that in terms of chassis, in the Anglo-Saxon 'trial and error' empiricism. It so he asked for us to come and support him." the structural tank technology this season, since in 1970 the use The MS80 is also characterized by the shape of to reduce polar inertia by concentrating center of gravity. The front suspension abandons classic system of superimposed triangles with Successful from the start, it will require The MS80 has a little sister: the with a multi-tubular chassis and it weighs almost 600kgs. It is therefore much difficult. The undisputed queen of the championship And that's Stewart's coronation. and from the Italian Grand Prix on September 7, he was crowned World Champion. Despite Graham Hill, Stewart held the head of the peloton the 69 championship Grands Prix. This was the apogee Champion titles. of the World of Manufacturers and third European &quot;I think the best memory of secure the title in 1969, precisely that in front of a completely historic Italian crowd In fact I believe at the time it was the in a Formula 1 race. It really was was driving that car. with complete of a car developed by engineers At the end of the 1969 season, Matra signed a marketing of the Bagheera, and it became world championship with a Ford engine. Jean-Luc Lagardere with a new version of the 12-cylinder now in the center of the V. To try to a comparative test between this engine and the V8 &quot;The V12 was very progressive. It made an . But at the time I the best chassis and, of course, the best this complete combination with Matra anymore because I This is the end of the fruitful collaboration are chosen to pilot the MS120. The shape of . But it lacks rigidity and the MS120 some successes, Beltoise and Pescarolo the 1970 season. The MS120s were struggling. flaw of a V12, that is, it lacked was much less competitive than the Cosworth. handling no longer existed because with the MS120, It was a car that was certainly maintained by a competitive enough team. and a much worse engine, so we For the 1971 season, Jean-Luc Lagardere replaced New Zealander Chris Amon, a defector from Ferrari. but Matra Simca Shell. The and the car is lightened. But the 1971 season did Chris Amon's victory at the Buenos Aires Grand Prix, the MS120B only finished third once Chassis 120 enters its third very few modifications because the majority Simca and Shell were not convinced of the value and the majority of efforts were devoted only enter one Formula 1 car for Chris Amon. completely new car appeared: the MS120D taking up the more rigid, the MS120D debuts with fanfare Charade circuit. Amon set the best time in practice puncture forced him to stop briefly he finished in a worthy third place. unfortunately not be confirmed subsequently: 120 to its swan song with an Prix of the season in the United States. after winning 12 Grands Prix and &quot;What I would like to say is that Matra is could come back to Formula 1 and achieve they have the capacity to manufacture at Formula 1, they would be a power to be Two years later, after a third that Matra was abandoning all forms of competition. persuasion to obtain the maintenance "When Lagardere told me that we are stopping everything, I everything is definitely stopping'. So I told him: 'when never, or definitely for a while definitely, that doesn't mean anything' So your definitely'. ' we will have no problem restarting a have reset on the right, no problem'. an engine, there will be no one left we started from nothing, and they won't leave In 1975 Matra made a discreet return to Formula UOP Shadow. The MS73 type engine but the Shadow-Matra driven by Jean-Pierre But at the end of 1975, the presentation French Formula 1: the Ligier Gitanes JS5. not without having benefited from the arrival of some of Ducarouge, operations manager, Paul Carillo, It is the MS73 type engine, which the Ligier-Gitanes JS5 for the 1976 season. its latest evolution of the V12: the MS76 whose of the crankshaft and the bottom of the crankcase. The beauty of the and the MS76 will be the first Matra engine The event takes place in Sweden on hoped for and long awaited victory. of a 100% French single-seater In 78 and 79, the V12 Matra gave the new Ligier JS17, in the colors of Talbot and evolution: the MS 81 type. It consumes less and between 510 and 515CV at 10 rpm. Prix of Austria and Canada and Jacques Lafitte during the last Grand Prix of the season. developed a superb V6 Turbo with a blind cylinder head which which crowns Matra's know-how, and financial considerations despite appeals from the This is how the adventure of engineers, mechanics, this whole group of men world motorsport. They could leave with their heads their dream into reality, they had made their &quot;What is important, you see, in an dead at all. Why Prost, etc? was just us. Why suddenly in France and internationally. And why did all the others continue, including abroad? Ducarouge, if I dare the adventure and the potential were not dead the After the history of single-seaters crowned by and manufacturers in 1969, here is the In 10 years, alongside their involvement the men of Matra have not only won two World Brand Championships. also the saga of the firm which Talbot and Gordini to restore France's It was in the blue spring of 1965 that Jean-Luc motor racing with small Formula 3 or Holbay engine. After a difficult start to the season, a to general astonishment, the Reims Grand Prix the resurrection of French motorsport, and ambitious goals, which appear to many to be Formula 1 World Championship and winning the 24 Hours of Le Mans. to win everything in 1965 or 1966, but to work Le Mans car. You have to know when in the the French, is the most important race. Mans weekend there are hundreds and there is an extraordinary enthusiasm for so it was normal that I aimed at one point or The 24 Hours of Le Mans which gives so much by German, British Talbot driven by Rosier in 1950. French teams were fighting with the means at passion and D system enhanced with &quot;In national production, there had been the DBs the Rene Bonnet and then there was also Alpine. Renault engines raced mainly in small displacement results of these cars It was only the or at the 1000 km of Nurburing Alpine could aim for or at the Index of Performance. which was make a French racing car win calculated the equalization between the performance to try to restore the imbalance For the moment the small Matra team is regrouped dilapidated buildings from the 1930s "In a large hangar, a we had partitions installed in a corner Moynet plane which also belonged to Matra. &quot;One day on a paper 75 centimeters it rained all weekend, and when I arrived grown of 5 millimeters. It was folkloric.&quot; all, learning how to build a prototype, and Claude the 610, prepared for the Cevennes criterium. Jet with widened tracks, prepared by Cosworth. will be strengthened with newcomers like Jean and Bernard Boyer, a defector from Alpine who &quot;From my entered in October 65, I started 66 which were the F3 and the F2 1000 cm3. more confusing because Lagardere to have family ties with the future And so it is Philippe Guedon, a young engineer who begins work on the brand Matra 530. Jean-Luc Lagardere wants an "By honesty and homogeneity the cars we made to resemble understood the approach well. This is a point on reason why all our first recall the basic architecture of racing cars he asked for the 620 car to have a Which turned out to be relatively easy, we had contacted, called and we found the analogy Unlike the Formula 3 the 620 is multi-tubular equipped The engine is a V8 B.R.M. of 1915cm3 which rpm. The gearbox is a aluminum at Pichon-Parat in Sens. It weighs clearly the designers are aiming for reliability. which were not sufficiently precise at the start, less experience. Matra's technical team Bonnet or Alpine like me, and who had displacement, generally 1000 or 1100 cm3, and the which we were unable to solve. 'a Three 620s entered the 1966 24 Hours of Le between Ford and Ferrari. Beaten by strong armada of eight 7-litre MKII prototypes of 14 Ferraris led by the aging the Dino Ferrari and the Porsche Carrera in its two-litre category. Porsches, unfortunately the BRM engine was a for endurance, so apart from the fact the engines couldn't last 24 hours, Indeed at the thirteenth hour, the Jaussaud-Pescarolo due to engine failure, and the No. 41 of Beltoise-Servoz-Gavin due to and Matra begins its long march towards the Everyone knows that no manufacturer has &quot;The 620, so the 1966 car had too small, and on the 630, we put wheels progression is logical. Unfortunately, Not for long, because Jean-Luc Lagardere signed at ELF which would concern the study and Obviously the chassis of the 620 so we will prepare for it by equipping a comparable power: a 4.7 liter Ford V8 . For Le light alloy bodywork for a BRM engine. Thus configured, these cars &quot;And I scared myself with this car there was an aerodynamic problem that we did at one point, I found it. found I it lacks support' and when I told that to the there was no problem since. the water, the oil, was in fact in the back, and it seemed in fact it was a problem of order. they made the decision to put Robby Weber in And Lagardere brought us all together the and tomorrow, we will be the first to leave." the 24 Hours of Le Mans 67, the scene of a led by the formidable MKIVs, and the 330P4s. We note the appearance of the original and equipped with a fin worthy of a US 300 spectators, it was the MarkII of Gurney On the Matra side, the 630 No. 29 of Beltoise and hour, and the 630 No. 30 of Jaussaud-Pescarolo The hard learning continues and despite these of racing a 100% French prototype at Le and so as not to be caught off guard, Matra This interim car proves capable of supporting is the dream of an entire team and of in France. Georges Martin, engineer and at Simca, is the project manager. on the one hand, it had to win World Drivers' Championship, and also, it had to regulations for the 24 Hours of Le Mans did so it was necessary to make a 3 liter engine in enlarged between 3 liters and 4.2 liters. departure liter capacity. Jean-Luc Lagardere always asked me power be?' at the moment. The problem is that it works And this is the engine born on with its 12 cylinders arranged in a 60deg V, operated by a cascade of twelve pinions. The entire Matra team, after only present a 100% French sports prototype as a 100% French Formula 1: the The 630 V12 debuted at Spa the same weekend as the problem is being adjusted and maintained by a But all hopes are high for these absolute victory at the 24 Hours of Le Mans. 24 Hours of Le Mans took place in September and the official debut at the Spa 1000 km, only one Matra 630 and driven by Pescarolo and Servoz Gavin. against the brand new and efficient and fast Alfa-Romeo tipo 33/2. Thanks to of the GT40, Lucien Bianchi and Pedro Rodriguez From the first lap Servoz encountered He leaves with the knife between his teeth. Night seventh place. But deprived of a windshield wiper longer drive in a hurry. more than the others this famous Matra spirit surpass oneself for the brand. I had grown up with technical and financial level that the and when Lagardere came to tell me: 'we're had exploded, because it was. the new a windshield wiper failure, it seemed so and said to myself: 'of all way, whatever happens, I will out after a few laps, end up outside anyway, but at least I was sure. that I drove like crazy all night and lap was the last, and in fact it was. &quot;With Henri Pescarolo's performance during incredible, and the whole world was amazed it was quite fantastic. says Henri, in second position in the 24 Hours of Le Mans, And then it's the drama of the twenty-first at his stand for a long time to change braking circuit and violently leaves the track: his Pescarolo's car on the debris of the Alpine accident. Pescarolo came to a definitive stop at the tearing off part of the rear cover and were dashed, but during Matra showed the world that it could win. reach, and in the Velizy workshops, at an original prototype: the 640. It was student of Romani and of Charles Deutsch and contractor for this car. Jean-Luc Lagardere has Bernard Boyer's new Spider 650 and this "The ground connections were for the first time in the development of a which is a system that has very hand, in terms of aerodynamics In addition, a hydropneumatic suspension on which I had was the aerodynamics based on the experience at Charles Deutsch, we aimed to make a around 0.24 promising us a speed transverse stability of the car was guaranteed by where a car's attitude. could know depending on the speed of the of the suspensions at different speed levels, had planned an experimental plan where we were going to rear flap of this car. We were going to look for And during these tests the 640 suffered deformation which greatly disrupted the car's handling than four months, the 640 cannot be ready for the exceptional closure of the carry out the adjustments of the 640 'in situ'. it was Servoz who had to start the tests. so I went back and forth on warm up the car, so I wasn't going I must have been at 25,260 km/h while we had been car that is supposed to go at 300, After so many emotions, and preferring definitively stopped the the Matra team on Bernard Boyer's spider 650 knew well having been there before him, and that he had. he took at the level of the car. His option lap time at Le Mans, knowing that we had have their noses to the wind and who had suffered I knew from having worked with them that when you bad conditions, that doesn't work. the driver must also want to make it work. going faster, winning a race means After an intensive test campaign Matra presents 4 cars at Le Mans 69: an for Servoz-Gavin-Muller and Galli-Widdows, and the Porsche for its part enters five 917s of 4.5 counter the indestructible Ford GT40 of John Wyer Ford his fourth victory by 63650 from the Matra achieved a group shot in fifth and seventh place. Despite the perseverance and. the establishment of a The 650 proved to be a remarkable car by many today to be the best Matra. The 650 was designed at the same time as the It was off-road, it was capable very bumpy track, which the MS80 Handicapped at Le Mans by the regulations which liters, Matra entered two 650s at the Tour equipped with shielding, the 650 will work wonders. They and the 71 edition with Larousse-Johnny Rives. . We therefore completed the 4,500 hill climbs like Mont Ventoux or on the northern side with gravel etc. . road possible and unimaginable, and of the trip our car was brand new.&quot; the development of an efficient and Mans. The war machine is now ready "This tour was an incredible adventure. It was because the Tour de France was 5,000 kilometers light vehicles and time controls They were refueling stops circuit race. It was a race, a real race. 70 the Matra team is present knowing that year, against 24 Porsches. Three Jabouille-Depailler and Brabham-Cevert, and one hour of racing, they will all break their But at Matra, refueling at the enthusiasm and determination as ever. At the 1000 km of young Francois Cevert who won a Jack Brabham. The all-new MS660 has flexible tanks arranged in a layer under its floor. Porsche armada of thirty-three units, the sole signing of the agreement with Simca, was entrusted exemplary race of regularity, the 660 was but abandoned at the sixteenth hour due to another battle, but still not the war. it served as a draft, so to speak, of three years, 1972, 1973 and 1974. The 670 is the two world championships for brands. So the tests that we came to do on the 24 Hour races. that is to say that we prepared close to that of the race. We put the car without trying to stop. .&quot; wanted to use the long tails called 'pedal boats'. penalized us, we used the body shape avoid a depression behind the car.&quot; It was a 24-hour endurance race, therefore to have lighting power and therefore a last point, it's an endurance race, in terms of defining the engines.&quot; oil refueling with spacings oil, so we made of the segmentation of the pistons, which are the for oil consumption The Le to minimize this consumption." of the signaling with people who were close to the people who were defining the strategy with all the people who were present in were telephoned to Mulsanne, the place where the the signs and directions were shown to the drivers.&quot; 'turn by lap', that is to say, clocking all I'm not telling you what it was. is, because there are medium cars, and as a result, so you are left with pages to turn, but I couldn't drink, because last time at lunch on Friday and I did "We did 24-hour endurance tests on at refueling stops in conditions Hours of Le Mans stand. So the whole team lurked at the which are obligatory in endurance races brake changes, possibly the functions were determined and precise because. more person, otherwise there would be a fault "And there wasn't a washer subcontracted n't capable of working day and night for had a problem with the tests, or even during plane or a helicopter, in short, we would have done everything and in this garage we had tons and In case we had a problem, we The big day has arrived. Matra presents its 660 from which it takes its general architecture. The three liters allow Matra to finally face fitted with long tail bodies and to Beltoise-Amon and Cevert-Ganley, Henri Pescarolo had a short rear and that is to say the model of the previous year, the 660C which is driven by Jabouille-Hobbs. World Champion of Brands, unfortunately after realizing that its 312 would Under the eyes of Georges Pompidou, Sylvain guests and 300 enthusiastic spectators, presented itself as a national affair. In peak. &quot;At the start, I found myself between the President Madame Pompidou, on the tower. On the first lap I on the side, blue flames, I understand I will always remember, Mr. happening?' I replied to him: 'for I hope that the other three &quot;We had carried out tests the day before it was different, we couldn't see, he was working what, then he broke on the second that I had broken it because I wanted to get In fact, it was a connecting rod that passed through the the Lola-Ford made life difficult for the three staged a beautiful chase in the lead between &quot;At one point, I was quite tired So I go there, I lie down, I don't fall asleep Then I wait for him to come back. There were on. It was after that that I realized minutes 40 seconds the sound well since I won't sleep, I might as well "I absolutely did not want to drive with Graham a very specific race in which you were the weather conditions. Considering that he had to win the race, and I told myself that he became too hard, he would stop. That's because he was fabulous again one and that's where he made the difference, he &quot;It's not the night that's very long, it's From 9 a.m. in the morning, it's very long. after spending the night, if it's going to last break at three or four hours Just before noon, Ganley's 670 Marie-Claude Beaumont's Corvette and the mechanics, drunk with fatigue, repaired the hood An hour and a half from the gearbox blocked. but a historic double. It had been 22 years the 24 Hours of Le Mans. A victory that will remain "It's something very strong, I've it's very short, but it's very strong!" it's goosebumps." come out of the stands, who climb it's something impressive." It's crazy, especially when you've drunk &quot;Doing the mechanics on a car that's car next to the driver, that's crazy. is quite fabulous.&quot; &quot;We're on cloud nine, and it's realize what happened.&quot; Sylvain Floirat, our President of the group, and he that I have always had a tricolor flag in my you speak if I am happy'.&quot; of Pescarolo and Hill was extraordinary!&quot; free Matra to apply for the the 24 Hours of Le Mans. To face this moved in the fall of 72 to the Circuit Paul employ around forty people under the direction of Bernard Boyer department entirely dedicated to testing and scientific possibilities offered by the Matra group. resistance calculations and Jean-Jacques Zignani "So we were doing aerodynamic campaigns and we passed different bodies and we did different tests where we the CX, the CZ, the CY, in short the different &quot;We used the first also used in rockets and missiles, sensors, accelerometers, different board the vehicles and which allowed us parameters of the car. From the data which entered and the aerodynamic loads which calculation activity. The calculations were done by with the first microcomputers, using resistance of materials as it could be &quot;It was revolutionary, the normally made up of at the time wanted to it was a fortune. Now it it was a big step forward, it it was great. There was a Department which had and which allowed us to carry out a day, in half a second.&quot; Matra presents at the 24 Hours of Le Mans a team Beltoise-Cevert, Pescarolo-Larousse and and Depailler-Wolleck in 'la Marie'. three formidable 312PBs for the Television, radio and the large crowd summit clash which is in line with the President Sylvain Floirat accompanied of these 24 Hours of Le Mans which are celebrating It will be the most difficult Le Mans campaign for the entire Matra team tactical battle, but also a battle on The infernal pace to which begin to thin the ranks of the two teams. At the eighth hour: abandonment following engine problems. Beltoise following a final escape At the twelfth hour again: abandonment of At mid-race Ickx-Redman are 2 and in the early morning the two cars At eleven o'clock in the morning, Ickx stops at the the fuel buffer canister has broken. parades in the lead with four laps in advance. Larousse stopped for refueling, Unaccustomed to dismantling the starter, lost a lot of time in this operation. &quot;We dismantle the starter, we bring it into the with the outer screw, and as the inner screw decision with Georges Martin to leave the time we don't think of everything, and Jean-Luc Lagardere are you sure it will hold?'. are you sure that the starter will hold?' the starter hanging on the end of a wire, and I stupidity. And then the car arrived we put in the second screw, it Indeed, victory has chosen its side, because at in the pits, engine broken and the Matra, still without forcing its final stint. "Pesca" wins and Matra once again adds his name to the After the 24 Hours, the season is not run and win, at Zeltweg and Watkins Glen. fulfilled their contract. With these two victories, Matra triumphs in the Thus, after eight short years the most famous team in the world. Matra presented the latest evolution of the If the general architecture remains unchanged, modification of the front hood, the wind screen, the wing. A considerable effort was made &quot;We managed to no longer even paint certain paint. We had the gelcoat which is a Orly 915 blue, the famous Matra racing blue , and so The 670 is equipped with a Porsche synchro gearbox dog gearbox for the 1000 kilometer races. in competition: it is an absolute weapon. the blue cars are threatened two Ligier-JS2 Maseratis and two Porsche RSR Hours a victory is never a given. Pescarolo-Larousse, Jabouille-Migault, and for their part, are launching the brand new 680. Indeed, Pescarolo took the lead from the 670B of Wolleck and Jaussaud broke Jabouille-Migault's 670 was in fourth place Pescarolo leads comfortably with eleven laps Lennep, when, at the eighteenth hour, his 670 the exceptional efficiency of the Matra team &quot;When the car stops, you must accessories around the box, at a temperature of 140 to 150deg, remove everything, put everything back together, refuel in 42 We formed a team that was perhaps one was made over several years. and the team And thanks to this ultra-quick intervention, over the Porsche Turbo. He will enter in the Golden Book of the 24 Hours of Le Mans. in the absence of Ferrari which concentrated its efforts fast Alfa-Romeo 33TT12. But the French team and win ten victories out of the eleven races But times are changing, the Yom Kippur War, speed limits, the temporary ban the end of the 'Trente Glorieuses' of question &quot;I hesitated a lot, and I remembered that in for ten years. I saw that we had achieved realistic level, I couldn't bring Matra, anything other than confirmations which are, if I continue, it will be for me. to please, and I consider that in my responsibilities, I personal pleasure ahead of the interests of thousands so, in these cases, reason always takes I have made, I have strived, of course, to but ultimately to decide with the reason and "I have no regrets about having experienced these exceptional people who are Chassagny, the engine was a V12, I was living a dream, more never been as beautiful as this. I was not a a life beyond my dreams. , so I