(hands clapping) - [Patrick] Just give me an applause. (hands clapping) - Sync. Well, if I'm gonna be you, I'm gonna get one of your - Okay. the little like, (imitating logo) then I'll be like- - Today, we're talking about Gerald Undone and it's not good. - (chuckles) But that does sound like something you would say. It's hot under these lights, I'm noticing. You got them turned up. - Do you want the AC on? Do you want to see what to have an early heart attack? Because it's the AC unit. - Okay, 75? - Well, it gets loud. So you're an expert. How do I fix this? - How much money you got? (laughs) Kidding, are you willing to move? - Yeah, normally we - That makes sense. Why didn't you do that? - I just wanted you to suffer, so. - Okay. I thought it would be fun. - I feel like even the labs - Oh yeah. - [Patrick] I'm really hearing it. - Okay. - Turn it off, Steve. (both laughing) Okay, so we're in your main shot here, right? - And we're gonna do a This is what it looks like. I can kind of see myself - Yeah. - And- We discovered corner shots, like I feel like Archimedes or something. - Yeah. I'd love to tell you about it. - I always noticed about was that you have extremely hard kind of like kick lighting, hair lighting, and it's this bad boy. - Yeah. where it was coming from. That'll get you. You see that? That's coming right across. See what I talked about? Kicking stands. - Yeah. (both laughing) And of course, yeah, operating the camera. He's on the FX 30 again So, on this camera, is this the one you use - Yeah. So we use A75 now. - Alpha 7R5. You gotta make sure you mix the Roman with the Greek and. (laughs) Are you taking points off? I don't have to be mean. He's gonna do it for himself. - I like this camera. We got that in December. We were shooting on a Panasonic UX 180 and then- - Sometimes an A73. - A7R3, A73R? I don't know where the R goes, but it has an R in the name. - Then it's A7R3. - Okay. That would've been two Probably not the most More of a photo camera. - Well, and it cuts off at 30 minutes too. - Right, yeah. - So that was problematic. - Are you shooting in - We do 4K 60 and- - Why 60? - It's better. - At what? - It's more. - (chuckles) It is more. - The number is larger. (chuckles) - Like, I know that the But why? - Why not 30? Why did you jump to 60? - So, I'm trying to think. I'm trying to like psychoanalyze why I chose that originally. I think it's because 60 fps is the minimum you want in games. I never really thought about it until really the last couple years. And I think by that point we were too deep into 60 fps to go back. - Well let's see what else you've got that maybe you were too So we got A7R5. I do see you have an overhead camera here. - Yes. - We just set this up. - Like a week or two ago. - Is it another of the - This is the A73. So we tend to hand on to gear as long as possible. - And deploy it somewhere else. So yeah, A73's up here, and we've got the table taped off so you could see the markers I think there's some more under And we just- like you leave the Mod-Mat here? - Yeah, I think it's - And then what do you do on it? For like what? - Tear down? Taking stuff apart, so we just added that. - We didn't mention because but you don't have any fixed microphones- - Correct. Right now, you're using that I provided. - But usually use the Sennheiser? - Yeah, so we use the Zoom which is very old. I got this in probably So we tend to keep stuff until it breaks. - Yeah. These are newer. So yeah, these are Sony And we just got these. We're using G3s up until We have one of these Nanlites back here for just some color. We added this recently. We have this, like I was saying, I try to find a use for So I actually, I forget It's been a while. Oh, it's a Timpani light. - Oh, I'm familiar with that one. - So this was early in RGB - Well that took a while to kick on, eh? - Yeah. It has some. So sometimes you have to 'cause the light doesn't work. It's a firmware issue. - But you just wanted to - Yeah, we wanted to get like into the room type of thing. - Sure. And then this is your - Yeah. with a free nail and set to 60% power. So- the 120D bug? The 99, 100% bug? You know - I don't, no. - On the Mark 1 or Mark - So check this out. This is a 120D Mark 2, 99%. - Yeah. So 99%. And this one has a problem to 100, it just stops. It just cuts off. - And so this has happened where we run 'em all at 100 normally if they're like bounces and for some reason over time, they just degrade to where it's like 99, then you get down to 98. So I don't know if it - Are you manually or are you using the Sidus Link? You using a remote for the lights up? - I use this remote. So And then I manually turn those two on. - Are they all in the same group or each one's for a different link? - A is for this set and D And that's all we got right now. I think we have B down - Steve generally has scripts like, or would you call 'em scripts or like- I mean, yeah, this is from maybe a year or two ago, yeah. - Mind if I take a sheet? Is it notes though, like, or is it- - So this is what you want - For the most part, but I find that... I'll allow myself to It helps it feel more natural I feel like. So like, especially if it's As I start reading a sentence, I'm like, I really didn't caveat this enough. Which is part of the problem we have with video length. - Videos get longer because I do that. But then, I mean, it's a choice. Like do you want them to Or do you try to make it more consumable? - I always respected the fact audience with 30 minute - I'm shocked and continue to be grateful that people actually care - We're gonna make this video - Sorry. (chuckles) - You have to cut a lot. Now, we're just gonna leave it all in. - But I do wanna move away from this- - Yeah. Crazy area. - No, we just need to - We can stop for five minutes. - Is all we need to do. It can be cut. - Have you heard of Adobe Premiere? - [Gerald] Is that what you guys use? - Yeah. - [Gerald] Taking points off for that. - [Steve] Da Vinci, what - Sony Vegas. (laughs) - [Steve] Front page. - I'll give you points Yeah. I use Resolve. Yeah. DaVinci Resolve. - I'm gonna cut on this camera. - Yeah. Oh, we didn't mention this. That's quite the HDMI - I know. - Yeah, no they're awesome. Have you actually... So this guy, I mean, it's all about the face, right? - I can trust this guy. - You can trust this. (laughs) That seems the sleazy one. We gave Steve this cable literally before we started this video. But look, look at this, HDMI cable since this video by the cables. Look at this. - Look at this. Everywhere. Like B&amp;H if you're in the US, Amazon. If you're in Canada, we've - I'm trying to help You seem to do well when you (both laughing) You gotta be okay with You're like, &quot;Buy them.&quot; - Yeah. - Figure it out. It's not hard. - Yeah, so we have that one We haven't done one in a happen at that larger table. - Right. - So and it's also nice for case reviews, stuff where we have big things. You know, that kind of - Yeah. - So, and then it's the camera closet whenever you wanna check- - This looks like it's all batteries. - Yes. Let's see what we got going on here. Sony DSLR. Well that's a misnomer. You don't have any Sony DSLRs, you don't have any Alpha 99s or whatever. - I don't know what things mean anymore. They were DSLRs when I started buying 'em. - Sony DSLRs? - I don't know. The Sony- Do you think he ever had a Sony Is that who like the Sony partnership was? - I did have Minoltas. - Yeah. - Explain to me the difference. 'Cause all I know is the acronym, right? - Single lens reflex, pentaprism, mirror box, actuator see through the viewfinder. Fire off the shutter, outta and then CMOS. The mirrorless camera, - Okay. By the way, we never tell. What lens are we running over here? It looks like a G Master from a distance. How many guys, 24 to 70? - Yeah. - GM2? - GM2. Yeah. - Nice. That's a good combo. Yeah. I think this is another... This might be our GM... No, that's a GM2 also. Yeah. - So you got two of the new lenses, but you saved the old camera, right? That's right. Yeah. And we have a GM one which - Curious actually this We're in a studio but we're than a Canadian. And as we've already discovered- - As evidenced by your continual- - Exactly. - And I saw that 75 degrees over there, which is, what's that like? - Celsius. - [Steve] No, that's already in Celsius. - Oh, there you go. 75 Celsius. Exactly. The A7R5 for you in 4K 60. What's your thermal performance been like? - No problems. I mean, I - How long would you say Kinda a roll recording. - Longest is probably, it's So- - Yeah. I don't know if you saw that one. That was a flex. He's like, &quot;Well how long That's how long I roll for? - Exactly. (all laughing) - Yeah, the worst it was 115 degrees in Arizona. So when we were there filming. - Right. Cameras don't work in Arizona. They don't have a fan. - Yeah, I mean it was a problem. - Yeah. You with this guy? - Yeah, I think we wrote... We shot at 10, 80, 60. - Sure. - We got down from 4K. - The reason why I asked it's hard to provide reliable because of changing like everybody and different humidity and different everything. - But I was curious to You said you've been good - Oh yeah, no problem here. If you ever wanna do for let know I can help out. Do room temp at 21. Parameters, simulate a higher ambient, radiator thermal chamber, thermocouple. I don't wanna do camera reviews. I'm not qualified. I am So if you ever want to get it's possible we could run and then just give me, - That's interesting. that's the audience. What do you guys think? Does All right, what were we I was- about batteries, but I'm - [Gerald] Conversation about pentaprism. - I'm really excited about - All right. What do we got? Sony L series batteries. Steve went more the big box. See he bought the gray, Nobody has official Sony You could say like $200 - Very expensive, yeah. I mean like this one was Yeah, so this is the exception 'cause we still use this one occasionally. So this is a Panasonic, I think it's a UX 180I think it's called. And it's 4K 60 early days, probably 2016 purchase or something. When I bought this camera, most of our videos that from sort of field reports. So like going to a convention. - Right. - And for those it was... I don't know, to us it was important at the time to be able to like plug XR - How were you operating at those times? Did you have an operator? Were you putting 'em on a tripod? Were somebody shouldering this thing? - We would typically put it on a tripod for the shoots, for interviews. - Yeah? - Would you travel with - Around then, it was typically plus one, sometimes a plus two. So this is still used for live for our tear downs. So when we take the thing apart, we typically- of a muscle memory there. Did you see that? Did - [Patrick] Oh, we got it. - Well, John Wick scene with like pistol, or whatever. This is the last camera that heavily. - And before I was like, &quot;Okay, I'm more qualified to And so yeah, this we use for tear downs 'cause it shoots really when there's a bunch of Also the optical zoom's like 20x, it does a pretty tight zoom (ladder clicks) - Yeah. in Canada? Everybody in Canada's just really tall. - Oh, okay. And why is it here? - I think it's here because rail systems lately. - I ask because you got a lot of space but Patrick keeps tripping over everything and then there's just a - Well I was trying to - I'm not... Have to take a couple - Okay. Got OSHA in here. - Okay, what have we got over here? - So, we have easy rigs for - I stand corrected fam. - [Patrick] Look at that. - Alpha 65 with a Minolta lens. - Yeah. - He does have Sony DSLRs. What'd we got here, little Sam Yang 30, everything's labeled. I don't even have to like pick It's like what have I got here? You know? Except for this one. This isn't labeled. - [Steve] Yeah. And he's labeled that. - A macro. - Insufficient labeling. - This is not a roll lighting right now. - (laughs) Can you imagine, this is how intense lighting. He just like gets into like the next. - Do you want like this? So you installed pretty much - Yeah. - [Steve] Exactly. - [Gerald] And you wanna - Yeah. - So, for movement it's got these, we just put these safety So you can pull the brake, which is just like a Delrin brake, and roll it back. Thank you. And we've got on each side for each of the rail systems. - I've never seen these pantographs. - It's like oddly mechanically So it's got this pulley system. (camera clicking) - Listen to that. I haven't seen these in studio before. - Sometimes he'll brand it light to light it from the bottom. - That's predominantly what this area? So we've started shooting A roll. He uses it mostly for B roll. But when I'm doing like we like to film basically a This is how we turn - [Gerald] That's a clicky one. - You hear all the clicks? - So yeah, this hooks up and outlets everywhere. - Is this an appropriate Is that the correct amount? Yeah, you should normally on one CP. So we have these, these shots of basically that we actually run in - [Gerald] Are you trying to tell me this is all just a backdrop? - [Steve] Yeah. - It's a nine screen. - Faked benchmark backdrop. - It's a hell of life. - Are your benchmarks fake, Steve? Is that what you're telling me? - These ones are? Yeah. These ones are. But what's really cool about this, all nine of these screens for of things are running off a single GPU and then a minis form PC, so- - How is it run off a single GPU? Do you have like splitters or something? - There's just an insane - Cool. So this is... Wait, it's got... There's some funky audio right there. Oh, oh, oh you hearing that? - Yeah. - You getting that Patrick? - I've always found that when you pile them up on top of each other and put them in the corner of room. - [Steve] They work great. - Yeah, that's why we're getting because this is not how - So that was for our and then we put the hemi-anechoic chamber, and now I don't know - I'm noticing a couple You kinda hearing it bounce around. - [Patrick] Do it one more time. - Yeah. (vocalizes) Have you but 'cause you mostly wear a lab and it's close, you find - No, but if I, if this door is open, if the bathroom door's open. - Bathroom. Oh wow. - Oh wow. - [Steve] So that's open Like it's echoing right now. - Yeah. That's wild. If it was me, you know what I'd do with I'd put them on wheels and I over here, - I would just wheel one right here and like close off the room, you know. - That makes sense. Yeah. - Plus like you said, What the hell do you Got him. Okay, show me is we can't put the $5 stand on a sound blanket. But show me this hemi-anechoic first. - [Steve] Let me turn Otherwise I'll get dinged for more points. - What the hell's he talking about? The funny thing is we can't hear him but the mic can hear 'em. All we hear over here is like, (blabbing) but over there it's like perfect audio. Look at this, look at this nonsense. Too hot. . - [Steve] This is the - Wow. - So I'm on my tie for - Yeah. That's a good car. - Got air that you can when nobody got what got in there. - Definitely. - Hemi-anechoic chamber where there's basically and the floor is just a floor. There's no wedges on the floor. - So don't describe what it Do you wanna see what it does? - So I move this mic cable. - Well immediate deafening here. - [Patrick] Immediately. - I wonder what the vibe Like if the microphone, like, I wonder if the noise for the microphone- - [Patrick] Instantly. I - Yeah? That's wild. - Yeah, so I was hosting in here the first time the other day and I started presenting and as I host, I continually brought my projection down. - [Gerald] Oh, geez. - [Steve] Yeah. That's (both laughing) - You're just shock touching it too. - [Steve] It gets very staticky in here. - Why is that? - This room is so isolated from many great paths to ground. There are through the outlets, but we are isolated from the floor and there's basically plastics So this floor is on sprains, like... (floor thuds) - Oh, bounce. - Oh, bouncy house. - What a hemi-anechoic chamber outside noise and set a So the decibel level, as you notice when you're talking So anything that's, any you get basically like one pass. It doesn't really reflect, hence anechoic. What value does it add to test lives in? And because it's so quiet, it's like, so. - It seems like a... I'm sure you have a counterpoint but- - Yeah. - On the surface that - It's a great question. - And it makes perfect So the reasoning is in a test to do is eliminate all variables compare one product to the next to both of them. - In case your environment changed. - Right. So it's amazing like I don't have it in here, but how sensitive the microphones are. If there's a train like we'll pick up a low frequency if we're just testing in the room. But with the chamber we can - Interesting. And so one of the problems is- - So it's less about and more about keeping for regular use cases. - If I can ask, what does - Well we publicly set it, so it was about a quarter - So- when you come here. - What an adjustment. You spent too long in - Yeah. - So this insanity, what's this all about? - Yes, this is basically more or less, so this is this stuff that, I mean, it looks really cool, but this is basically where it feeds the AC in It comes out here. So this is the return, other side of the supply. - So it's coming into the room and the length of it get filtered through all these mesh panels to - So this is where you edit? - Well do you edit? Do you edit much? - I actually do still edit a lot. - Yeah. - Was it that you edited it primarily and then you stepped away from it or? - Well, I started editing and I've always done some of the editing. It just depends 'cause when the topics get if it starts to take more screen than to do it, I'll But for the most part, - Is he your primary editor? - Of editing. Yeah. - Is he any good? - He's very good. So are we all gamers in this room? Is this the Nexus for the gamers? - Is this like a Nvidia CEO Like, &quot;What's up gamers, as you all know-&quot; - What's either your best game if it was to get competitive up in here or your favorite game? - I used to be okay at Rocket League. I have not played for like eight months, so probably not good now. - Competitive? No, I - [Gerald] If you had to - To save my life? - [Gerald] That's right. It was like, you must win at this game. What game would you choose? - No, I mean, I would probably end up being So, I mean, but that's okay. - [Gerald] What character? - Scout. doesn't he? You're giving off Scout vibes. What about you Vitali? Do you game? - Am I? - A little bit. - You can't call the channel gamer. We're testing your game. We're checking your gamer badges here. - I tried to play the Double Four. It didn't end well. - The game? Yeah, the end game doesn't play well. And what about you Steve? - To save my life? - Yeah, to save your life, what's your best competitive game? - Was Age of Empires 3. - Of course he was gonna say an RTS. - I was... Why? (chuckles) - It's always like a copied answer. - Why? I was number one for a little bit. - That sounds impressive actually. So now it's 70 degrees in here, hey Steve? - Yeah. What the hell is this? You here? The is you're hear this long - But I got something better Steve, I prepared some benchmarks for you. - Is this from my... Oh this is from- (Steve laughs) - This is how you perform compared to all the other studios I've toured. And you can figure out. I mean I... - It's all how you orient it. - Yeah. It depends how you look at it. - And as customary because you passed. I would say that I was pretty soft. I would say it's pretty soft done, Steve, but Jesus (indistinct). - [Patrick] I'm not used to the space. - We're gonna give you a - Thank you. - Can you stand here, Patrick? - Have you ever been in a forest? - Yeah, exactly. It's like Steve, you come outta the shot. Patrick, you stand wide and it's like, just tell me what is (both laughing) And it's like there's this one. - [Patrick] Yeah. One, two, three. - And then this craziness over here. I don't really... The thing is I don't wanna You know what I mean? So like it works. So what do I have to say? But I can say that I don't if you think of it from like &quot;Well okay, it's gonna and then we're gonna use that and we're gonna need to fill 'cause (indistinct).&quot; No, this is just like, &quot;What if we got a bunch of lights, put 'em 100% and just the room a little bit?&quot; And it's like, &quot;Yeah, it'll look bright.&quot; (all laughing) (screen beeping) - This is not Clique? - It is a Clique, but - I'm taking points off. - You gotta press the pocket clippy thing. - What? - See? - To deceive people so if they're not qualified to click. (pen clicking) You get a press play and then the radio plays but it's like the top 40 and like song 39's one you want, so you're like cutting your own, you're like mixing your own tape. - Yeah, I never did that. - No? - Yeah, obviously. - You think I know the finger combination if I didn't do that? This is muscle memory, babe. (screen beeping) Why'd you bring... You messed up the flow, Steve. We're over here now. We haven't finished over here. We're walking back and forth. People are like, tell me more about that. - [Steve] I'm trying to throw you off. (screen beeping) - It's a truck simulator. - Yeah. - Honestly though, put a Good pair of headphones. - Good pair headphones. - Put those on. - Okay. (screen beeping) good enough Patrick? - [Patrick] Good enough for me. - Good job, Steve. - Thanks. - I passed. I think you. - Did like an '80s cop (both laughing)