The Game of Thrones books describe hundreds wars, drama and politics, and an awful lot Three hundred years ago, Aegon Targaryen took three centuries - until Robert Baratheon Targaryen rule was often tumultuous - like, in a civil war called the Dance of the Dragons. But in the hundred years before Robert's was the Blackfyres. King Aegon Targaryen the Fourth was called king. He was corrupt and impulsive, full of gluttony His wife was his sister Naerys, and they had But Aegon also took hundreds of other women Aegon hated Naerys and Daeron, so he spread their brother Aemon, and that Aemon was Daeron's Aegon threatened to make one of his bastards Aegon's favourite bastard was Daemon Waters. His mother was Aegon's cousin Daena "the Daena had been locked away to preserve her and hooked up with Aegon. Daena named their son Daemon, after a Prince earlier. Prince Daemon was renowned as a dangerous - so the name was an ominous "warning" From a young age, Daemon was a talented warrior. When he was just twelve years old, King Aegon legendary Valyrian steel sword Blackfyre. Blackfyre was the sword of Aegon the Conqueror, years]. It's a powerful symbol of the Targaryen true heir Prince Daeron Targaryen, but to From that day, Daemon took the name Daemon King Aegon died a horrible death, literally And on his deathbed, he made one last spiteful them the right to inherit like a trueborn Daeron was still his eldest son and heir, the Throne - a perfect recipe for conflict. After Aegon died, Daeron became king. He worked to repair the realm that Aegon had Aegon's bastards. He gave Daemon some land, and married him King Daeron married a Dornish princess, Myriah the rest of Westeros [under Targaryen rule], since the Conquest. King Daeron gave the Dornish more political privileges that the other kingdoms didn't Houses in the reach and the stormlands [Marcher of years, and still saw them as enemies. Aegon the Unworthy had hated the Dornish and And before him, tens of thousands died in There was a lot of bad blood here. So when King Daeron got in bed with the Dornish, Some didn't trust Daeron and Myriah's had the dark hair and dark eyes of a Dornishman, So a combination of politics and prejudice his Dornish allies]. They looked instead to Daemon Blackfyre - he And Daemon was way cooler than Daeron. Daeron was weak and scholarly, he read books big strong warrior with the legendary "sword Some lords thought "Daemon was the better Throne. Daemon was also influenced by his siblings. The "Great Bastards" of Aegon the Unworthy Brynden Rivers called "Bloodraven", and Shiera was the most beautiful woman in the in blood to keep her youth. Bittersteel and Bloodraven hated each other, chose Bloodraven over Bittersteel. Bittersteel and Bloodraven also had a family Cause Bittersteel's mother was Barba Bracken, and the Blackwoods and Brackens have hated When Barba hooked up with King Aegon, the Barba queen - which could've potentially But that.. went.. very badly, and [partly political influence. While Melissa Blackwood and Bloodraven kept So Bittersteel was.. bitter about the fall his girl Shiera. Author George Martin said Bittersteel was Bloodraven and Daeron. So Bittersteel urged Daemon to rebel against There was also this knight called Quentyn at King Daeron for not letting him join the So Fireball and Bittersteel and everyone else Daemon to rebel. Daemon declared himself the rightful king - claiming that Daeron was the bastard son So rebel lords gathered to Daemon's black the black. The great houses, like the Lannisters, Arryns, Targaryens - they wanted to preserve their The Blackfyre supporters were mostly the less a different king - houses like the Yronwoods have a history of rebelling against their So there were "many battles" all across Fireball kicked some Lannister arse in the But just before the final battle, Fireball fans suspect that Bloodraven was behind this. But the First Blackfyre Rebellion ended at Daemon Blackfyre fought brilliantly, and had Corbray had a Valyrian steel sword called Blackfyre the sound could be heard from miles Daemon defeated Corbray, but then helped his Bloodraven took advantage of this moment to arrows, "driven as much by sorcery" as Daemon Blackfyre and two of his sons were Bittersteel took up Daemon's sword and led Bloodraven fought a duel with Bittersteel, Then Prince Baelor Breakspear and Prince Maekar an anvil. So Daemon Blackfyre was defeated - but some They went across to Essos, and founded a mercenary exiled lords and knights from Westeros. They took contracts to fight all over the return to Westeros and put a Blackfyre on Back in Westeros, King Daeron punished the Rebels like Gormon Peake had some of their taken hostage, to stop them from rebelling So it seemed that Daeron had cemented his he would rule for many more years. But then something terrible happened. The heir to the throne Baelor Breakspear died Knight. Then a deadly plague hit Westeros, that killed So the weak and bookish Aerys Targaryen became raiders and drought. Bloodraven practically ruled the realm for people for treasonous speech. Many people hated Bloodraven. And the recent plague had killed a lot of So Gormon Peake saw these divided times as He planned a second Blackfyre rebellion with Second. With Lord Butterwell, they held a wedding Daemon was convinced he would succeed and of a dragon egg hatching. But he didn't have enough allies - Bittersteel possibly because Daemon was gay, or possibly Daemon's magic dreams didn't work out Duncan the Tall, and the son of Fireball, whole thing, go watch our Mystery Knight video. The point is, the Second Blackfyre Rebellion imprisoned Daemon the Second. But after Daemon died, his brother Haegon Haegon Blackfyre, Bittersteel, and the Golden the Targaryens. We're told that Prince Maekar showed "leadership", Aerion took.. "actions". Aerion was mad and cruel, so whatever "actions" Bloodraven fought another duel with Bittersteel. This was twenty years after the first rebellion, got to root their sister. This personal beef between the white dragon the Blackwood and the Bracken, continued to Anyway the Blackfyres were defeated, and Haegon surrendered, which sounds like something Bloodraven We're told almost nothing about the Third story in a future Dunk &amp; Egg novella. We do know that Bittersteel was captured, end his rebellions. But King Aerys chose to just send him to the This was "a foolish mercy", because Bittersteel for the next Blackfyre rebellion. After King Aerys died, Maekar became king. When Maekar died, there was a big council They didn't want Aerion's son Maegor to was crazy. They didn't want Daeron's daughter Vaella, a girl. Maester Aemon refused to be king, because And they didn't want Egg, because he grew and Egg all these crazy ideas about how peasants So then, a fifth option arrived - Aenys said that he should be king. Bloodraven promised to let Aenys come to King's lied, and cut off Aenys' head, ruthlessly And the council chose Egg to be king. As punishment for dishonourably killing Aenys, Watch on the Wall. Years later, Bloodraven became the magical questionable things for the sake of the greater boy. In Book 5, Bloodraven tells Bran that he once he hated, and a woman he desired. The woman he desired was Shiera, the brother The brother he loved might have been Daeron. But maybe, in a way, Bloodraven loved his of tragedy to his killing of Daemon on the Bloodraven does some terrible things in his He kills his brother Daemon. Runs a brutal surveillance state under King Dishonourably kills Aenys, and possibly Haegon Bloodraven argues that the ends justify the Traitors must be crushed, or else they'll his honour for the sake of the realm. And it seems like Bloodraven's right. Like, King Aerys showed mercy to Bittersteel, just went and rebelled again. Back when Daeron was king, he was friendly to the wife who bore his rebel sons. If Daeron had imprisoned or killed Daemon might never have happened. "too much mercy" from the Targaryens led and murder"]. Like how Ned Stark's mercy just gets him So is Bloodraven right, that mercy and honour violence can keep you safe? Well the story's not over yet. In the reign of King Egg, the Fourth Blackfyre Daemon the First's grandson, Daemon Blackfyre Bittersteel and the Golden Company - but King Egg rode out to fight them, alongside the Small - who was probably named after At the Battle of Wendwater Bridge, Dunk killed defeated again, Bittersteel fled east again, battle fighting as a mercenary. He was sixty-nine years old, and he died as defiance upon his lips". Bittersteel failed to get a Blackfyre on the But his legacy lives on. The Golden Company, and the surviving Blackfyres The Golden Company gilded Bittersteel's carry it into battle on their banners, so return to Westeros to see a Blackfyre on the [Their war cry is "Beneath the gold, the King Egg died in the mysterious tragedy of Egg's son Jaehaerys became king, and he Over in Essos, "nine outlaws, exiles, pirates, the Tree of Crowns", and] formed "an unholy The "Band of Nine", or "Ninepenny Kings", the world who worked together to conquer. They included Derrick Fossoway, the Bad Apple Hedge Knight. There was Samarro Saan, an ancestor of the And there was "the last Blackfyre", Maelys Maelys was "grotesquely huge", strong, He had supposedly eaten his twin brother in from his neck. Maelys took over the Golden Company by killing horse with one punch, then ripped his cousin's Maelys and the Ninepenny Kings and the Golden and prepared to attack Westeros. So King Jaehaerys sent an army to destroy Ormund was killed by Maelys, and he died in the father of Robert, Stannis and Renly Baratheon. Lord Quellon Greyjoy, grandfather of Theon The Starks, Lannisters, Arryns, Tullys and here, united against the Ninepenny Kings. Many young knights won fame and glory in the Blackfish, and Tywin Lannister, along with During the war, Tywin and Steffon Baratheon Targaryen - but that friendship later broke Lord Hoster Tully made friends with a Lord live with the Tullys in Riverrun - the beginning Jon Arryn made friends with Rickard Stark to the Arryn-Stark-Baratheon alliance that So a lot of the relationships that shaped began in this war. The war ended when a young Barristan Selmy and killed Maelys the Monstrous. So after five generations of rebellions, House never be a threat again. ...Right? We're told that Maelys was "the last Blackfyre". But then we're told that Maelys was just which implies that some Blackfyres survived daughters or granddaughters might've survived So maybe the Blackfyres could return. In the books, Varys and Illyrio's secret of Westeros. They say that Young Griff is Aegon Targaryen, to have died, but Varys claims they secretly Some characters don't believe this kid is And in visions and prophecy, we're warned dragon", meaning a fake Targaryen. Varys was a mummer, or street performer, and Varys says that "Power resides where men trick. Young Griff is his "mummer's dragon". So what's the trick? There's a theory that the Young Griff is Blackfyre. Cause in Book 5, Young Griff invades Westeros Targaryen. And he's supported by the Golden Company. For a hundred years, the Golden Company have So Tyrion asks why would they fight for a And that's when Illyrio says that the Blackfyres He says the Golden Company supports them because Illyrio and Varys made their alliance with Blackheart Toyne. And the Toynes would have a particular grudge caused the downfall of their family a hundred It is so weird for the Golden Company to support This might also explain Illyrio's motivations. Cause Tyrion wonders why Illyrio is in this Westeros. Illyrio is a cheese merchant from Essos, why a foreign throne? Illyrio says he's just in it for the money, Illyrio says he has "debts of affection Illyrio is very fond of Young Griff - he gives him gifts. He's almost like a father to Young Griff. Illyrio once had a wife called Serra, who And Serra had silver-gold hair like a Targaryen.. So the theory is that Serra was a Blackfyre, Illyrio wants Young Griff on the Iron Throne And it looks like Young Griff might actually failed. Cause, in some ways, Young Griff is similar young, handsome, and confident. He uses a fake name, and dyes his hair to But Daemon the Second failed because he didn't and he didn't have important symbols like Young Griff could soon have all three. He has the Golden Company's army, and they've He's working on an alliance with Dorne, As for the sword Blackfyre, its location is But in a draft of a chapter read by George Griff, and mentions a "sword". So some fans believe that Illyrio has the Griff, to show his legitimacy as king - and Young Griff might just win the Iron Throne. But when Daenerys finally arrives, blazing gonna want Young Griff off her chair. In Daenerys' vision of the "mummer's of lies". Maybe she'll slay the lie that Young Griff king, finally truly ending House Blackfyre. But, if that's what happens, what's the Is the whole Blackfyre plotline, and Young and the Throne? Is the "mummer's dragon" only there as Daenerys says? Maybe this could tie back to the theme of Like, all throughout the Blackfyre rebellions, and you should brutally kill your enemies. But maybe this time, brutal murder would be Like, Young Griff might be seen as a popular crowd"]. So if Daenerys the scary dragon lady incinerates on her, even if Daenerys is right. Maybe this time, mercy to the Blackfyres would And maybe being right, and having the true Maybe it doesn't matter whether Young Griff "Power resides where men believe it resides". And "Treason ... is only a word". This whole hundred-year conflict traces back of King Aegon. And for all we know, Daemon might have been Maybe Naerys really did cheat on Aegon with king all along. But why should a question of who porked who Jorah once told Daenerys that the common people true king or a usurper" - they just want But the idea of monarchy where the Throne has caused wars for centuries, and another this cycle of violence. So maybe the Throne should be destroyed in trueborn and falseborn. So that a different a kind of king can rule. Bran Stark won't have kids, trueborn or There won't be wars to inherit his throne, immortality from the weirwoods, like his master The magic of the weirwoods and the three-eyed If Bran becomes king in the books, he might gods. So after a hundred years, and six Blackfyre victory in his ancient rivalry with Bittersteel He might even get Shiera back in the end - there's sorceress Quaithe. But that's all just speculation. We don't know how the books will end. We don't know if Bran will be king in the Griff if is a Blackfyre. But the history of the Blackfyre rebellions mercy, and monarchy, and they could be an Ice and Fire. If you watched this video, and you haven't do that. As well as the main five books, there's And you can get any one these on audiobook Sign up for a free Premium Plus trial membership, you cancel the trial. You could get a Game of Thrones book, or Dune, Membership also includes unlimited access Audible Plus Catalog. Just make sure you choose the Premium Plus Sign up at audible.com/asx, or text asx to Thanks for watching. Please like comment and subscribe, and check and Dunk &amp; Egg. Thanks to the Patrons, including thatshinybastard, Peter, Gregarwolf, Matthew Tyler, Fatcunt mario. Cheers.