Tell me what you think of this, what I always call, protocol, if I want to learn something from a manuscript I I used to highlight things. And I had a very elaborate, extracted from my university days, system of stars and that mean a lot to me, that, yes, bring me within the chapter. But a few years ago, I was teaching a course in the biology department at Stanford, and for some reason, we had them read a study And I learned from that study that one of the best things we can do is read information, in whatever form, a magazine, research and then to take some time maybe walk, maybe close one's eyes, maybe leave them open, doesn't matter, and just try and remember How much does one remember? Then go back to the And I've just been positively astonished at how much more information I can learn when I'm not simply going of just underlining things but stepping away and thinking, &quot;Okay, yeah, oh, I don't remember how many subjects there were. I'll go back and check that, maybe make a note. And okay, they did this, then they did that, and then,&quot; and then it's crystallized. And as I say this, I realize, of course this should work, [laughing] this is the But somehow, that's not the way we are taught to learn. Yeah, well, I'm smiling I wrote this book called &quot;How to Become a And the whole premise of the book was, &quot;I'm going to talk to who have straight A's and who don't seem Like, not burnt out. And I'm just going to And the protocol was, &quot;How did you study for the How did you take notes for the last?&quot; So I was just asking them to walk through their methodology. The core idea of that book was active recall. That was the core idea, that replicating ideas, &quot;Replicating the information from scratch as if teaching a class without That is the only way to learn. And the thing about it was, it's a trade off. it's efficient, doesn't take much time, but it's incredibly This is why students often avoid it. It is difficult to sit there and try to replicate and pull forth, &quot;Okay, what did I read here? How did that work?&quot; It's mentally very taxing, but it's very time efficient, right? If you're willing to with that pain, you learn very quickly. And not only do you learn very quickly, you don't forget. It's almost like you have a when you study this way. You sit down to do a test and you're replicating from what you studied, the ideas sort of come out fully formed because it's such a fantastic It was my key, the whole premise that got me writing that book is I went through this period as a college student where I came in freshman year, was a fine student, not a great student, but a fine student. I was rowing crew and I was And then I developed a heart condition, and had to stop. Congenital wiring in the heart, atrial flutter thing. It meant I couldn't row crew anymore. So a prolapse of some sort? It was a circuitry issue that would lead to a It's like really rapid, like tachycardia, right? You get 200-250 beats a minute just, and it could be exercise induced, right? Which is not optimal, you could take beta blockers, which would moderate but beta blockers reduce And if you're a athlete where the entire thing that matters is your max heart rate, so you're doing something your performance on beta It makes no sense, it's like that wears weighted shoes, it's too frustrating. Right, and it also makes you super mellow. I was a pretty mellow guy. [both laughing] But I was a worst rower. So I stopped that, and I was like, &quot;Okay, I want to get I said, &quot;I can get and writing,&quot; right? That's when I actually made the decisions that I then stuck with for But one of the things I did to is I said, &quot;I'm going to with how to study for tests and how to write papers.&quot; And I would try this, &quot;How did it go?&quot; deconstruct experiment. Try this, &quot;How'd it go?&quot; deconstruct experiment. And active recall was the thing that turned me all around. And so I went from a pretty good student to 4.0 every single quarter, Sophomore year, junior year, senior year. I got one A minus [laughing] between my sophomore It was like this It was active recall. I rebuilt all of my studying, so if it was for a humanities class, I had a whole way of taking notes that was all built around For math classes, my main study tool was &quot;All right, do this proof,&quot; white piece of paper, and just, &quot;Can I do it from scratch?&quot; If I could, I know that technique. If I don't, &quot;All right, and try it again later.&quot;` Completely transformed. I did so well academically, that's why I ended up writing that book that basically spread that So I'm a huge advocate for active recall. It's really hard, but it is the way to learn new things. And as you pointed out, it is very time efficient. Oh yeah. I mean, it was a problem, it was a social problem for me that I would have to pretend [laughing] during finals period that I was going to the library to study because I would be done studying. This active recall, it's brutal, but it's incredibly efficient. You sit down there, I would have my cards and I would mark it, &quot;Okay, I struggled with this,&quot; I'd put it in this pile, &quot;I got it done,&quot; I'd put it in this pile. And so then you would just go back to the, &quot;I struggled with it,&quot; pile, and work on that. And then make a new, &quot;I And these would exponentially decay. And so in a few hours, with a few other tricks that worked, you could really master the And then, what am I supposed to do? I didn't do all-nighters. It wouldn't make any sense. Active recall is how you prepare, and it's going to take four hours and it's going to be tough, so do it in the morning and then you're done. I love it. I learned essentially all of neuroanatomy looking down the microscope And then I would try and take I do not have a photographic memory. But then I would get home in the evening, look through the neuroanatomy textbook, lie down, and try and fly through the And then if I arrived at that I couldn't identify, I would then go check my notes and go back. So basically, I learned neuroanatomy, which I'm poor at a great but neuroanatomy, I'm solid at, and then some, if I may say so. And it's because there's a mental map, and you can kind of move through it, fly through it dynamically. Thank you for tuning into the If you enjoyed the clip please check out the full-length episode by clicking here.