A beta of Hollow Knight just showed up online Now I'm sure you're wondering how this Does somebody's uncle work at Team Cherry? Did a hacker break into their servers? Well no, one of Team Cherry's playtesters, as Graig, posted the beta on a few discord So Team Cherry just decided to let anyone cool. This beta in particular was provided to Kickstarter And it was also available in a Humble Bundle game officially launched, basically acting So this isn't the biggest discovery in the No, there aren't any unused bosses here. And no, your long lost father isn't here But I think it would be fun to run through and what little differences there are between The beta doesn't have the Hallownest poem Instead we just get this simple introduction This cutscene has always stood out to me due It would make sense that this cutscene was You can see how Ari Gibson's art style for years. The first major difference you can see in instead of five. Considering how difficult Hollow Knight can probably a good idea. We can see from some of the earliest footage masks, which would have just been ridiculous. Another notable difference is that the Knight's difficult to fight enemies, but at the same I can't put my finger on it, but I think or grace period, which can make timing your Also it takes way more hits to get enough But don't worry. Team Cherry gave the Knight another ability From the start of the game, the Knight has I wouldn't call it the most elegant move. It's kind of awkward to use and I never Even against False Knight it really didn't If you dash twice in succession, you can see like it's a fucking anime character. At first I thought this was just a pointless times in a row successfully, the third dash other two. I guess this could be useful for speedrunning, Night, but the timing is really tricky so fucking normie. King's Pass is pretty much identical to the dialogue on the lore tablets. There is a spike pit in the first hallway, Also the Fury of the Fallen charm is not there. Instead it's just a chest full of Geo. In fact, there are no charms at all in this There is a map for the Forgotten Crossroads with no interactable elements. There's just some cool attention to detail However, the functionally of the map in the if Team Cherry made the other maps like this Dirtmouth is pretty similar to what we see Jiji's cave is gone though. And there is a different sign in front of The biggest change here is related to Elderbug's Out of all the character dialogue in the beta, A lot of it is slight rewordings of different which is just kinda odd. But Elderbug also has additional dialogue game. He mentions that Dirtmouth was actually founded to sneak back into Hallownest after it was Now this doesn't make any goddamn sense. Why would there be a stag station if the town Even the Last Stag talks about this. I guess Elderbug is getting senile in his Elderbug also has some additional dialogue Hallownest. Apparently she had lost both her mother and her why she was going. She mentioned that she was dreaming of a stone singing inside of it. This is obviously referring to the Black Egg But what's the deal with the singing? In the Quirrel comic, he sort of dreams about Knight specifically. And there's no singing. In the final game, singing is mentioned a And you could maybe argue that the Radiance A prime example would be how Myla mentions But the Radiance's infection is more about So I'm not surprised this dialogue wasn't In fact, this dialogue doesn't even trigger It appears in the game files of the beta, itself. But that's enough Elder Bug discussion for Let's dive down into the Forgotten Crossroads. There are a few differences here at the Black Notably, all three Dreamer masks are identical. Does this mean there are three Monomon's Well no. This is because the Dreamers were originally In fact, you can see a spot in the final game used. Quirrel is also here, and he sports almost Although he has one additional line of dialogue Heading back to the left and down, we can in the beta is pretty similar to the final We've got the Grufather, the Balder blocking area: not much here is different, the biggest slightly different. Cornifer is in the same spot, but he lacks familiar hum. He also sounds a little less confident in Iselda at all. Going left from here we can see what acid I have to say it looks kind of cool. Going back right, we can see that the Vengefly in the Crossroads. That would explain why Greenpath suddenly Zote there. Team Cherry just grabbed all the stuff in no one would notice. Zote's dialogue is pretty much the same. Still blathering on about his backstory like Going through the rest of the Crossroads is Gruz Mother is still there, although she has A similar ribcage can be found in Mato's Salubra's hut is there but you can't enter You can rescue Sly. Although he doesn't offer you anything to Myla is the same, although there is no elevator And the crystals are a more dull grey color. There are some hoppers in the beta Crossroads. Looking at even older builds we can see that location where you originally fight the False False Knight is here in this beta, although The first encounter with the Snail Shaman Mound is called the Shrine of Souls. Also Vengeful Spirit costs half your soul just awful. Did I mention the beta is a bit more difficult? Because it is. Speaking of which, the shade in the beta looks It is just a dark blue tone of the Knight, And when you defeat it, instead of void being I think it's better that the final game raises questions about where this Geo is stored I mean, we all know it's in the Knight's to it, you know? You know what else is dumb? These weird husk statues. What even are these things? Ellina mentions them in the Wanderer's Journal, "What the fuck am I a looking at?". I feel like Team Cherry justed added them serve any purpose. Anyway, in the demo, we see a lot of this I thought this guy was removed from the final of a few rooms. Another tiny change Team Cherry made was to Its spikes are less defined in this version We can also see that there were actually 3 more horny. Team Cherry mentioned in a blog post that it could be killed like a Goomba. Watching people play their game helped them in order to teach players not to jump on them. With the Vengeful Spirit spell, you can make turns you around and tells you the demo is But of course, that is not enough for me to As I'm sure you've guessed, dataminers for additional nuggets of info. If you've watched my videos before, you Knight that is either zoomed out or has the I can do this using a debug mod created by And 56 even created a mod for this beta so So I just wanted to give a huge thanks to Hollow Knight modding community. Unfortunately, there isn't much new stuff The beta itself doesn't contain any rooms like that. We can see this entrance to the Fog Canyon, but not much else. Also, we can find Iselda. There's no animation for her though. She just stands there like a fucking person It turns out the forward dash is also in the naturally. There are some parts of the beta that require just by fly pogoing. Utilizing this technique actually makes it the coveted fifth mask! Moving on, there is one unused music file It appears to be an old track from the Forgotten In the beta, Larkin's music has already I don't know who composed this old music music of some kind. In an even earlier build of the game that you can hear some different stock music. We've actually been able to identify this It's called Our Story Begins by Kevin MacLeod. Now if you spend a good deal of time on YouTube, He makes royalty free music. Like if you've watched any DIY or vlogger Some of my favorite tracks by him include Sneaky Snitch, and of course, my personal favorite, Monkeys Spinning Monkeys. I can hardly think of another person who has Truly Kevin MacLeod is an unsung hero of YouTube, Knight. Thank you for everything Kevin. You truly are an inspiration to us all. Some of the sound effects are different. The whispering of the lore tablets in the The Knight also makes this annoying glass There are also some additional Quirrel voice Sly has a completely different voice actor In terms of art, there are some really early of Tears. I love how randomly all these windows are It's quite the architectural statement. There also appears to be sprites for an unused Two users known as Mebi and Nes were able This is really cool to see, and I wonder how Maybe the stag would be asleep if you came It really is a shame this animation didn't Although this sprite was reused and modified So that's nice. The map shown when talking to the Last Stag This random section at the bottom left corner Kinda random but okay. If we look at the ingame files, we can actually already in the game. A big thanks to Mola for stitching these together a color coated version to make out each section I never noticed before that some of the symbols themselves. Like Greenpath has with these pillars, that The City of Tears also has these tall buildings fountain. The Fungal Wastes also have mushrooms depicted We can see that the final map is a bit wider. Also the Stag Nest and City Storeroom stations While the Forest of Bones was replaced with And the Palace Grounds station was changed whereas the beta version clearly invokes the Perhaps because Team Cherry wanted the hidden And that's pretty much everything unique There might be a few other details we could most everything remotely interesting. Honestly, I'm just happy that Team Cherry It's great to be able to preserve this chunk Now if only we could convince them to release to Unity. You know the builds with the snail village But that's probably never going to happen. For now, I should just set my hopes way lower. Like maybe hoping that Team Cherry will actually It appears to be album art for the Pale Court That song was ultimately released on the Gods this art was made for never released. We have high quality versions of this art crown is this visible. Honestly it drives me up a wall that we don't I can barely sleep at night. I've even tried recreating the image myself. I can't put my finger on it, but it just Honestly, I think I'll have to take a break