- This is StarTalk. I'm your host, Neil deGrasse Tyson, your personal Astrophysicist, and I'm here today with Russell Peters. Russell, dude! - First time on StarTalk! - First time, first time - Oh, well thank you, for - It's real. - I believe it's real. I heard rumors that you and said who'd you want and I came up in the list. - You were the number one person. - [Neil] Okay, well we're before we make the dinner plans. - Okay, go ahead. (laughing) Go for it, yeah. Yeah, before I invite you out. - So thanks for doing this. Today is an episode of Cosmic Queries. Every now and then, we gather questions that we've either solicited or trickled in from our fan base, and the topic today is You didn't know there - Well, I mean, would this (laughing) - I don't know, actually. You've been handed the - Oh, I've got the questions. - You've got all the questions. - These are actually really good questions from what I can see so far. - Okay. Well that... - I'm impressed and I'm like oh good that's a question I - Well that's good. You can pick 'em that way. But before we get into that, remind me. You're on the road all the time touring. - Constantly. - Constantly. - It's all I know, 30 years of this. - Where is home? Or is it in some bus somewhere? - Well, technically, home is... Well, I guess technically home is Toronto. - [Neil] Born and raised in Toronto. - Born and raised in Toronto. - [Neil] Okay. - But I've been living in - [Neil] 'Merica. - 'Merica, 13 years now. - 13 damn years. - I'll tell you what boy. - Tell you what. - I'll tell you what, you (laughing) - Boy. So no, it's great to know and you've been doing this a long time. So just trying to... Make comedic sense of the world for us 'cause we need some laughs. - Lemme tell you something, this world definitely needs some laughs. (laughing) It needs something. It needs laughs before (laughing) - And when you're done with this, get the hell back out there. - That's right. - Get back to work. So what do you have for us? - All right, you ready? - Yeah. - Renee Douglas-- - We are duty-bound to make sure the first question is from a Patreon. - Oh yeah, absolutely, - That's what are you reading, okay. - Renee Douglas from why do you think Mercury - Ooh. Ooh. Hmm, well Mercury's pretty small. Mercury is... Mercury is, I forgot whether or just slightly smaller than our moon, but it's small. It's much denser, it has a huge iron core, so it's much heavier than the moon. So it's got planet mass and it's hard to have when you're small. Jupiter is huge, has more mass in the Solar System and it - 60 plus? - It's own mini planetary But the act of being small it's just harder when you're that small and orbiting that close to the Sun because then you have a Who's your daddy? Who's your gravitational allegiance? - Who's your gravity daddy? - Who's your gravity daddy? (laughing) So by the way, Pluto and is all so small. They're like six moons in the but Pluto has multiple moons. The point is that far there's very little sort of from other objects. So you can sustain orbits - I always thought was of whether it was allowed - No. Well sort of, okay. So it's turns out if your gravity loses to of the object. So the rock will take So below a certain size looks like Idaho potatoes. - Yes, I've seen those. (laughing) I've seen the pictures. - You've seen the pictures? You've seen... in fact I used to have one here. Yeah, in fact right up there. Can you reach up and grab that. You can reach up. You get it. - [Russell] Lemme grab your potato. (laughing) - Just grab that, this is a precise model. Anyhow so this is a model and this is sufficiently small, that it takes whatever shape Rocks take their own shape and how they formed. But if this object were larger then the gravity of the object says I'm trying to get everything and there's only one shape you take if everybody tries to and that's a sphere. So to be a planet you got to be big enough and have enough mass to be a sphere. But that's not the only rule. Pluto is big enough to be a sphere. Now we say in your orbit We don't want anything else So Pluto it's orbiting what there's thousands of other with Pluto. - It's littered, right? - [Neil] It's littered, great word, just like the asteroid belt. - Correct. - Littered, so nobody in the space of objects so even though one of the asteroids is big enough to be a sphere and Pluto's big enough to be a sphere. So the rules are are you and significant enough in your-- (laughing) - I'm a little sensitive, but thank you. - Big enough to be round in your orbit to have cleared it out so basically you're the only game in town? And you have to satisfy both of those then you're a legit planet - Are we... could we effectively be as moons for the Sun? - I don't see why not except because the Sun we have a different designation (laughing) - It's warm. Hot's a little overrated, but it's a little warm, it's warm. - Yeah you would vaporize. - It's muggy. (laughing) - I could take the heat, it's that I can't handle. So you can think of it that way and not to like over run this answer, but people wondered a you know the turn of the previous century, wait a minute, if the Solar System has a and planets have moons that orbit them, atoms have nuclei and maybe it's that all the way down? - That's fair. - Or all the way up, right? So we have a galaxy, there's and our whole Solar System maybe it's just Solar But you get to the size of the atom and there's nothing smaller than that, there's nothing smaller than the particles that make up the nucleus. So. - Except for antimatter. - No there's a-- (laughing) You wish. - See what I did there? - Yeah. (laughing) So there isn't some other that we have yet discovered If you probe the atom and say oh, there's another No, we ain't finding that. - Well that was Renee - Okay. - You want this one, you ready? - [Neil] It's up to you. You don't even have to go in order. - Okay, well that's good. What would the climate be like on Earth if it wasn't for the axial tilt? That was from Michel Grote. - Oh, yeah. So that's a good one. So this is someone who on its axis relative to So it tips like this. Tipped 23 and 1/2 degrees. In fact, this is tipped - That's an Asian one. - In case you were wondering. Got Earth back there. Let me get Earth, hold on. - [Russell] That's the one I remember. - Yeah so this is... so I'm holding in my lap for a map of Earth-- - Actually a globe. - [Neil] Thank you. (laughing) - Let me help you out with this there. - [Neil] Thank you, thank you. - Hang on there astro fella. (laughing) - It's a globe and it's in social studies class because all the countries are color-coded, but of course Earth from space - I know, it's weird how they did that. (laughing) I tend to believe this globe much more. - So we're tipped on our that because of that tipping the Northern Hemisphere and six months later that same hemisphere is tipped away from the Sun. And if you tip towards the Sun your rays are much more intense and there's much more and you get summertime. And around the other side, their Sun angles are low, and we experience winter. Now since we're part of the same Earth as the Southern Hemisphere, if we're tipped towards they're tipped away from So we experience summer when that's all. So that's all that's going on. - So then how does the equator - Oh! Well! If the equator is exactly and the Southern Hemisphere then they are switching always then the equator has no seasons. - Interesting. - It can't. - Wouldn't it... - It can't have seasons. - When it's even on the other side? - It can't have seasons because it is always exactly between all other seasons. The only way to be that is and what they do is they say or it's the the stormy season. - To make them feel good about it. - Just so they think but temperature-wise the And it's largely true for all the tropics, but might want to be precise, the equator does not go through seasons. So if you want to undo the tilt and have Earth's just no seasons. - But it would still rotate, right? - We would still rotate on our axis and still revolve around the Sun, we'd still have years - For anyone? - Again, unless it's just There'd be no temperature based seasons of any significant measure. - Would we still have (laughing) That's what I'm trying to figure out here. - Yeah, hot water out of the faucet. - No, no, I mean cold weather It would just be warm all the way around? - Well no, so you would have... Oh sorry, so the farther the cooler would get. Right, now the whole earth but a given latitude that's all I'm saying. So the hottest part would be the equator and then you move away from and that would be the coldest spot. - I don't think you should but whatever. (laughing) The poles have done nothing to you. Let's see. - If the poles are people from Poland then the Polish are people - Yeah, their kind of. Their from Chicago. (laughing) - I'm pole-ish, yeah. All right, what else you got? - Let's see, if we were just such as Jupiter, like they (laughing) what would happen to us Well if you... All right, I will just keep reading but I'm not an astrophysicist obviously but even I'm looking Come on Jeremy Small, - The word assuming I think carries-- - Assuming we could survive, there isn't a solid so where would we go? - Good question. So if I plunk you down on Jupiter you would just descend through the clouds. Okay? Jupiter gets denser and denser if you have a pressure proof you will continue to fall until you are about the same density and then you just sort That's what would happen. - So you would find your floating point. - Your floating point. But if you didn't have your pressure suit, you'd be crushed by the atmospheric - [Russell] But don't they... - And you would vaporize because it gets very hot very quickly. But ignoring the vaporizing you'll find your place, your zone. Yeah. - So is that what happened to Cassini? - Oh, so Cassini, oh, you did... my boy did some did some homework. - I'm a nerd for this stuff. - [Neil] Oh, very good. - And just a quick side note so you know, in 2017 I went to Chile... - Get that he's pronouncing - Like I'm a professional and stuff. - Chile. - Chile. - I'm a Chileno. (laughing) I went to... - They have observatories there. - The European, the European Space, ESO. - Yeah, European Southern Observatory. - Yes, I went there three nights there. - [Neil] How? - I have a friend. - [Neil] You knew somebody? - I'm friends with Nile Rogers. - [Neil] Okay, all right, you know people. - And Nile, this guy and last minute Nile bailed - Isn't it magical? - It is ridiculous. - It is ridiculously magical when it gets dark and you see out and it's just you and the cosmos. - But I thought that I was and see things 'cause - There's no lenses. - Yeah, no, they just - Lasers another thing we can do. Yeah, yeah. The two reasons why but we can save that for another question if it ever gets asked, but it is truly magical to - It is pretty wild. They did pull out like a little - [Neil] Well 'cause we don't look through telescopes anymore-- - No, apparently not. (laughing) I found out. - You thought there'd waiting for you to walk up to it. - Yeah, like I thought like this-- - [Neil] And you see the - I saw the pictures and I'm gonna look through those and like you don't look through those. (Neil laughing) It just sends us data and I'm like well, how's that help me? (Neil laughing) I could have read the data at home. - All right. - Can I sneak mine in? - Oh sneak, go on. - Lemme sneak the one I wrote last minute. - You got your own question? - I do. - Is that allowed? - I don't know, I'm doing it. - Engineers is that allowed? - I'm doing it. I brought a question. - Okay go, go for it. - Is the Big Bang Theory only or does it encompass like - Ooh. So first it's a TV show - Highly successful and I've never watched - Really? Yes, one of the most So if you type the Big the show comes up first. - Right, it's a far more important. (Neil laughing) Far more important. - And then next I think called Big Bang. - Is there? - Yes and then they come up next. Then the origin of the universe. These are our priorities. - Is it still considered a theory? - So a theory is the modern word we use to describe successful of nature. So quantum theory, relativity so people will say oh, it's just a theory. That's the word we use to If you have an idea that it's a hypothesis. Okay? So it's Einstein's theory of relativity, it's Russell's hypothesis if - I have no idea. (laughing) - Until it's put out and and investigated and tested then we're good to go with it. So the Big Bang is our and expansion of the and it goes not only to the but it would include the It's just that it's hard to get answers to that which is beyond our horizon. So colloquially we say it is the theory of our understanding of the but technically the whole even the parts you can't see - So from nothingness - Yes. And by the way just to because the way you said just want you to know. - It was, it had a - [Neil] You copped a - I did and I was like and with the answer. (Neil laughing) I was like it didn't really - How do you get something from nothing? So let's say you have, oh you know, let me save the answer to - The answer this Mr. Bender, next week. (laughing) - When we come back on StarTalk, we'll find out how you on this edition of Cosmic (upbeat music) We're back on StarTalk, Cosmic Queries Edition, And helping me answer is my co-host today, visiting for the first Russell. - Hey, I'm back. - I can't go to Netflix They're trying to get me - Yeah, don't waste your time. (laughing) Listen, you're an astrophysicist, - I love your rapport with the audience, it's great, it's great. You just make them all feel - Well hopefully. (Neil laughing) I'm not holding them captive, you know. Unless they have Stockholm Syndrome and I don't know about it. - So you've got questions? - [Russell] I've got questions. - And it's on everyday - Actually, you left it was a big cliffhanger that we left on and you didn't finish it for me. - Ooh, I forgot. - And I almost forgot too - Oh yeah, I did. I said nice things about (laughing) - I was like I'm listening. - So the question was how do you get something out of nothing? So the thing is with energy and negative energy, it's it's actually a real physical and each of those have time, and matter. But if you bring them together, So how does this happen? So think about it. Let's say there's level ground and then I have a shovel and and I stack it over here. So I'm digging a hole and making a mound. Well I can keep doing as arbitrarily as high as I want and I can climb to the top but there's a hole next to it. So how did I get that high? How is that even possible? I took the dirt over here But I put the dirt back in So it's a way to think about what it means when you have negative A lot of things we do where but you ended with something, something that you care about. But in the total picture it sums to zero. - See, now that's a good explanation. That I can walk away with - [Neil] And not lose sleep tonight, good. - Yeah, I would have, I Tonight I'm gonna be I should have asked him. Let's go with, I haven't read this one, I'm just gonna read it (laughing) - And see what happens. - Let's see what happens. It might be a crappy Vincent Zimmerman wants to know-- - [Neil] From where, where is he? - At Twitter. - [Neil] Twitter, sure. - From the town of Twitter. what's the most distant star you can see with the naked eye? - Ooh. So that's an interesting question. I can answer that two ways. So one of them is the most distant thing you can see with the naked eye is our nearest red-blooded And for the longest, well it was called the Andromeda nebula because it was just this among the stars that trace out So he named it after Andromeda. And it was a nebula. A fuzzy thing. And then with better wait a minute this thing Wait a minute, this thing is far away. Wait a minute, this is It's not just a fuzzy It's another Milky Way. Well how far away is it? It was not close, quote, we see in the night sky. This is outside of our entire galaxy. The stars you see in the thousands of light-years away. The Andromeda Galaxy is two And you can see that with the naked eye. - I believe I saw that - You would have, well, no, no, no. That's too far north. There are other fuzzy - I saw two. - That's called, those and written about by Ferdinand Magellan. - Mm-hmm, that guy was no (laughing) - He was, sorry, what I should say is Western folk first learned when Magellan did his Clearly Aboriginal peoples of Australia knew all about the Magellanic Clouds. So they named it in his and they were called clouds at the time. They are galaxies as well. Except they're closer. - There's a small one and a big one. - And they're called the and the Large Magellanic Cloud. - Yeah, they really went out on the names. (laughing) - We tell it like it is. - No, they blew the bank on that one. - So those are relatively nearby. A couple hundred thousand The Andromeda is two You're not seeing an individual star, you're seeing hundreds The muddled muddied light, the blended light of that comprise the Andromeda Galaxy. That is the farthest object And you can't see that from New York or any light polluted place. Just go out in the country - Would you venture to think that if there are people there, that they could see us the - Oh, by all means. Oh yeah, I think about that all the time. In fact if there was and they had detectors and they would see us not as we are, but as we were two million years ago. Because that light is only - Wow. - [Neil] So they would not see signs of what we would call intelligence on Earth. - If they saw us now they (laughing) - So yeah, the Andromeda Galaxy. There it is. - That's pretty awesome. - Yeah. I think the word awesome shouldn't have qualifiers in front of it. Something either is or is not awesome. - It's not pretty awesome? It's not similar to awesome? It is not a simile of awesome? (laughing) I'm pretty awesome, I'm - All right, all right. - I mean it's awesome, but - Oh, pretty awesome. - This is a completely let's try this. This is slightly angry Lugia, Lugia? I don't know, that's Why do sodium and chloride, two extremely toxic and harmful chemicals combine to form normal table salt? - This is the beauty of chemistry. So you think that of things properties are somehow inherent in the thing, but the property is what manifests after you combine it So you combine sodium, that you can cut with a knife. That's how soft it is and it Add that to chlorine, which would poison you if you breathed it. Okay and put them together and you get completely Necessary for life. So when you put them together, all the chemistry, it's a new chemistry. It's a new thing. Don't think of it as it probably has some of those properties All that matters is what when they talk to your electrons? And if the configuration is different, that's all that matters and the electrons that in table salt are differently configured than the electrons that as either sodium or chlorine. And for me the best way to say this, I had a little paragraph it was let's take hydrogen. Hydrogen is explosive. If you have a ball of hydrogen - So is Mexican food. Carry on. (laughing) - Thank you for that So hydrogen will explode A ball of gaseous hydrogen. Oxygen promotes combustion. If you have a flame and add oxygen to it, it'll burn faster. Combine hydrogen and oxygen you get water that puts out flames. There you go. - You know what it reminds me of? It reminds me of George Carlin's old bit about halfway dirty words. Words aren't dirty until - Oh, okay. So he has a follow-on to - Well this is old great material, but he said cock isn't a And if you go to the dentist or the doctor and they give you a sucker. But when you put them (laughing) - Okay, so a good point. So alone those words mean things, you put them together it And so I think you can only get nice words that combine to make bad words. I don't think you can take bad words that combine to make a non-bad word. - Yeah, no. Well I mean, it's the same. It's the opposite. - Well maybe, a jackass. But jack is not a bad word, ass is kind of like a vulgar word. - Is a donkey. - Yeah, so it's the same thing. Meaning is everything in language. And if two words together deal with it. Don't say wait a minute, take it apart, and those have their own separate meanings therefore that word together has a, no. That ain't how it works. - So it's the same as the - [Neil] Exactly the same - But it works in the opposite way. Where sodium chloride can form - And make something beautiful, yes. - Gotcha. See what I did there for you? - Mm-hmm. - You're welcome kid. - [Neil] So what else you have? - Let's see, Raul Solonarajo at... - [Neil] You can do better than that. Try that again. - Raul Solonarajo. Nah-ran-ho, nah-ran-ho. Nah-rah-jo? Listen. It's on Twitter, what am I doing? No, it's not a good question. What would be the single that I could see with the naked eye? I don't know. - Oh. Ooh. - I mean that's... - No, I got this. I got this. - [Russell] I guess that's - I got this. Okay, you ready? I didn't know what's the I could ever see with the naked eye was until I saw it. Which meant I did not anticipate it. Okay, you ready? - [Russell] Yep. - This is 1999, I'm on the Brooklyn Bridge at two o'clock in the morning and I'm looking up. 'Cause that's how we roll. - That's exactly how you roll. - And it's November. I remember this because Okay, meteor showers are best So there I am and you're away from lights, but you're away from I'm a city person, it's the best I can do, and I'm there and I'm looking up and I'm seeing this meteor shower. It's called the Leonid meteor shower and you see the streaks of It's beautiful. We're getting like three This is a good rate. Okay. Then I saw a new star in the sky. I said I don't recognize that star. And it just got brighter and then it disappeared. Then I saw a puff of smoke and I said whoa, whoa! Okay, so you know what just happened? - No. - [Neil] You don't know - It sounds like a firework. - It was a meteor that was - Oh wow. And it disintegrated. - And it disintegrated There was no streak. There was no and I thought to myself, this is the final moment of my life. - It's the best way you could go. In all fairness. I mean it's the most appropriate way. - We are so accustomed to seeing and some of those are gonna and they're not gonna make a streak. They're just gonna get brighter. When I realized a split what I just witnessed, I freaked out. I mean not in a psycho, I just and I said damn, that's So that's the most terrifying - Well there you go Raul. It's definitely the most but what about you? What could... - All right, what else you got? - Let's see. Can you explain why some - But who said the question? - This is Ramona Vaughn on Facebook. - Ramona Vaughn. - Ramona, Ramona Vaughn. - Ramona. - Ramona Vaughn. Can you explain why some of rotate in the opposite direction? Retrograde is what they call it. - Yeah, yeah, so the its axis is tipped 98 degrees. So it's rotating upside down. - But what determines that, oh because it's going backwards. - Well no, you're asking... I was hoping you we're That's a very intelligent So if you take something and then I flip it, it's still turning. Who am I to say that's upside down? That's basically your question, right? It's 'cause the right hand rule. - Okay, but Uranus doesn't know that. (laughing) It's not like hey, Uranus is like Earth, what's going on there? Oh okay, I'm a lefty, I'm a lefty. - It's called a right hand rule. So here's how you do it, okay? So hold up your right hand in front of you like you're gonna shake someone's hand. Good. Okay, now stick your thumb up. That's the axis of rotation. Now curl your fingers. Your thumb is pointing north. - Yes. - I'm declaring that by tradition. Okay, so if you go to the planet and curl your fingers in your thumb is going to Okay? So if I take Uranus with my and I then tip my thumb Uranus is turning back the other way, but the north still has to that rotation. So that's what defines the right hand rule just by convention. That's how we can say Uranus Now why do we think that happens? - So their south is our north? - [Neil] Correct. - So they're Australia. (laughing) - No, why'd you get me to Your north is their north. Their north is their north. It just happens to be in everybody else's, occupying the same area as everyone else's Southern Hemisphere. That's all. But Uranus doesn't have issues here. - Well Uranus doesn't have much. (laughing) - So we think in the early Solar System because all the planets would have formed in the same sort of circulating cloud and so you don't get all the planets are going the that's the direction the Sun is rotating, that's the direction Earth is rotating, so everybody's turning the same way because that's the rotational out of which we formed. If you rotate the other way, the way we explain that is you had some bad stuff You got slammed by some other object in the early Solar System - So possibly during-- - We think likely, not just possibly, but even likely. - From the Big Bang. - No, no, way later when it's Big Bang made the whole universe, wait 10 billion years then We're a little late. - We're the dust settling so to speak. - Very good. - There we go. - Very good. So it got slammed in and then it got tipped that So we got take another break and when we're back more Cosmic Queries, Astrophysics Household Edition. When we return. (upbeat music) StarTalk, we're back. third and final segment of Cosmic Queries, Household Astrophysics Edition. Is that what we called this? Household? Everyday, Everyday Astrophysics. - Household sounds like a cleaner. (laughing) Like these are like tips for you to get the stove shiny again, you know? - Using cosmic principles. So Russell Peters great So you got all the questions there. - I got all the questions. - Give them to me. - I don't know if that's a real name. I see bank Carl. It's an Instagram name. Anyway, what is a that makes your appreciation - Wow. - [Russell] That's a deep question. - It's beautiful. That's a beautiful question. Let me just hear that question again. - I feel we need sax when you do it. (laughing) What is a fascinating fact or thought that makes your appreciation - Hmm. - A fact and a thought are - I know, I know, here it goes. Here it goes. I bask in our collective ignorance on the frontier of the unknown. I long to look out, look behind me and say hey, we got that and look in front of me and say we have no idea what that is. And so what keeps me awake at night and has me run back to is the prospect that we of a major discovery, answering a question that but possibly revealing a question we had not previously known to ask. That's my muse, my cosmic muse. - I feel you overflowing. (laughing) - I had to give an overflowing answer. - You're like in LA when it rains. The LA River is overflowing. - All right Russel, give me more. - All right. Harry from California. - [Neil] Harry, no last name? - No. - Just Harry? Do you know Harry in California? - No but scary leavened - Okay. (chuckles) - Harry from California wants to know what do you think the single in the history of physics is and why? - Oh. Ooh, I got this. Okay. Now physics or astrophysics, - Astrophysics is a subset of physics, but we good, we good. Some years ago I wrote an essay. It won an award from the a writing prize award, and In The Beginning. And you're in the chair that I won and it's stenciled on the back. Plus I got $3,000, which is totally cool. - $3,000 is always a good thing to get. - Except I don't have the $3,000 anymore, but I do have the chair. - Because you bought (laughing) - So here's what I In that essay I celebrated the existence and the consequence of E equals MC squared on the arc of the universe. There is no understanding in the universe without that equation. Stars would not produce energy. There would have been no Big Bang. Everything we take for owes its foundation to The equivalence of matter For me that was the greatest discovery because of how much it Combine that with quantum physics, had a lot of good folks A watershed decade in the history of human understanding of the universe. Quantum physics is a theory of the small, atoms, molecules, nuclei. Coming to understand on its smallest scale made us badass. Not only could we have now well, bad, good and bad, bad. Take the word bad in both contexts because that empowered us to The foundation of the nuclear arsenals. - The atom bomb. - Exactly. Exactly. Yet it gave us our deepest understanding of how the world works and is the foundation to the entire information technology revolution. There is no creation storage in the IT universe without an - Are you saying IT because I'm Indian and that's what my people excel at? - [Neil] Oh, that's your people? - That my people, we excel at IT. - Aren't you from Toronto? - Yeah, but I got to go (laughing) - You got fam in India? - I do. - Oh, cool. - Tons-oh. - Okay. So yeah for me, equals MC-squared. That's I think the most There's some close seconds but I put equals MC-squared at the top. And what's cool is we learned that's your first equation, right? - Well I was never a good student. - [Neil] Oh, yeah? - I became more curious as I became older 'cause I always questioned everything. - [Neil] That's it. - [Russell] I know. - You don't need anything else. - I know but in the 70s and school, they didn't want you to question, they just want to accept I got questions about this. And they just boiled me - What do they say, what (laughing) - One teacher told me I was I showed him. Now he's gonna say oh I like no you didn't. I saw the look in your eye and I heard the tone in your voice. - [Neil] Right, right, right. - So wait, but did you find it, and not to go off topic here, but don't you find it fascinating that... so Albert Einstein they came up with E equals MC-squared, right? - Yeah, yeah. - But it's in such a short amount of time, like it took us how many - [Neil] Millennia. - Millennia to get there we just did so much in Like why were we so dumb before that? (laughing) Like what made is so stupid before that and then all of a sudden like oh, bam! - Okay. It looks that way. It only looks that way. Okay? I have books from five years that would've been the year 1900. I have books. You read those books, science books. You read those books and say are so vast and so amazing. We are lucky to be Look at the steam ships across the ocean. We're laying telegraph cables. We can now communicate great distances. We have the railroads across the country. The world is smaller than ever before, what a great time to be alive. That's what they're So that's what you sound like today. What a great time to be alive. Look at all the discoveries we've made. All I'm telling you is when you're living in a great time, every year feels like you're Come back in a hundred years, we'll say those idiots back in 2019. What the hell did they know? - Yeah, well yeah, you can go back to 1999 and be like a computer? It was you know? - Right or no, no, no. In 1999 no one has any - Yeah, well we had the - I had a Palm Pilot. - I had a Palm Pilot and I - Yeah, you thought it was great. I remember, I remember Okay? In that movie there's Gekko with a cell phone. And it's like shoulder-mounted I remember 'cause I saw and I remembered wow, that's cool. He could walk and there's no wires and he's talking on a phone and any of us today looking that say what the hell were we thinking? - I remember my brother's about the size of that book, and you had to carry-- - Big fat book on my table. - It had a handle that pulled out and it still had like a receiver, like a-- - Uh-huh, uh-huh. - And the buttons were separate. - But it was portable. - It was portable. I used to sit in my brother's car and talk to my girlfriend - You're showing off in - No, because he had free so I would use it then and didn't matter then. - Right, right, right. So the evidence you're living at every moment you think - Okay. Okay, but okay. Let's go with not just equals MC-squared. Let's say from like the mid-1800s to now, we made some big strides, but what was happening before that, that just we were not doing anything. It just seems like we were - In the middle of the 1800s and harnessed electricity. - Right, that's what I'm saying. when all that started-- - You want to go before electricity? - Yeah, like before that. Like let's goes 1700s. - Oh, oh. - Like we were just - The steam engine. Steam ships. Excuse me. - All right, all right. (laughing) All right, let's go 1600s. - 1600s, we've discovered that The Earth is not in the - What was that guy's name again? That was Galileo? - Galileo. - Yes, see, all right. - Yeah, yeah. - Okay, just checking. - So no, there were discoveries. - Making sure you knew. Making sure you're legit. Make sure this isn't - It is true that discoveries It is less likely that there that would change your life at that time. That is true. But think of the mindset. If any discovery changed that was amazing, Because previously it didn't It would change it over generations. - Right, that's when things (laughing) What I'm saying is people cared That was the best part of their day. (laughing) - And you go later on, there and we discovered cures and there was... - Yeah, but I mean what I'm saying is like they were all farther apart, you know spread apart - The 1700s into the 1800s, that's seaworthy so we can which has precision navigation. This stuff, you think you just go back then and I'm just saying. - No, but I'm saying, what I'm saying is is that I feel like every something new that's but now there's so many things coming in, there's so many things that that they hold back on us now. (laughing) It's almost like hold on a second. - This is too much for you. Yeah, we gotta be nice, - I was talking to a and he was tell me about technology that is about to be He said but we've had And now they're introducing They make it seem like it's he goes but this has been around. - Because they have a and they want to get their The RND that produced it. - Yes. - Yeah, yeah. - So there's so much-- - They're holding back. That's an interesting concept. So if we keep this up we what we could be doing just 'cause they're trying to make a buck off of stuff that they invented a hundred years ago. - Exactly. - Okay, interesting. This is an interesting conspiracy theory. - I don't know if it's a conspiracy or if it's just a hypothesis. - We only have a couple of minutes left. We're go into lightning round, okay? So ask me five questions and I'll give you sound Okay? - All right, from these questions? - And they took my bell from me. We'll have to simulate this. Okay, ready? Go! - Okay, here, ready? When the Earth and the moon what effect could that have - Oh, excellent. So the moon is spiraling away from Earth at the rate of a few inches a year. One effect of that is that Earth is slowing down in our rotation. We have to put in leap You know the moon is trying to do? - What? - It's trying to slow us equals one month for the moon. When that happens we will always show the same face to the moon. And when that happens there Tides will end. - Really? - Yeah, well moon tides will end. We'll still have Sun tides, but the moon tides will end, yeah. - What are moon tides exactly? - The gravity of the moon across the Earth stretches the Earth. The part of the Earth close to the moon pulls closer to the moon. The part that's farther and it stretches and Earth tidal bulges. You're at the beach and the tide comes in, the tide comes out goes out. Nothing's coming in and out, you are rotating on the solid Earth in and out of a tidal bulge on the ocean surface. - Is it like when you're and you start rocking back and forth, the water starts-- - No, in that case it's just - Okay. - In this case it looks but it's not, it's you rotating into it. Hardly anyone knows that we talk about tides moving in and out, but we are rotating into the tidal bulge and out of the tidal bulge. And there'll be a point the tides will just be static - So that is inevitable. - It'll take longer for that to happen than the future life expectancy of the Sun so don't worry about it. - Okay. (laughing) Well that's a concern of mine. - I'm supposed give a short - [Russell] Well I know but-- - I'll give you one last one, go. - How similar must an in order to host human life? - Oh, you know I think that has slightly less gravity. What do you weigh here on Earth? 185 pounds? - Thank you, but 215. - 215, dude where you packing it? You're big boned, it's big bones. - You were talking about, nevermind. (laughing) Bulges. - If you go to a exoplanet and your way 190 pounds, Slightly more gravity, and you a 230, 240, - Don't take me back up there. - So there's a range, you won't be fatter, you'll just weigh more. Your weight is not only how it's also what's the force So you weight more but You'll just be heavier. - So my mass will be the same? - Mass will be the same, correct. But your weight can be less or more depending on what planet you're on. In fact it's less or more on Earth. If you go to the equator On the equator you're moving You weigh less on the equator than you do here in New York City. You weigh less on a mountaintop - We should go to the equator guys. (laughing) They should have weigh-ins - At the equator. And if you had a mountain on the equator you weigh less than any - That's it. I'm gonna propose it to the UFC. - But you have to ascend the mountain. - Eh. - You'll lose the weight hoped you lose by being just by climbing the mountain. So you better off just... By the way, it's not all that much weight. You pee out more weight by going to the equator. It's ounces, it's not pounds. - Well then I'd be pissed. (laughing) If I went through all that. - Russell, we got to go. - Why, this is so much fun. - Thanks, we got to do this again. - Yes, please. - [Neil] Next time you come through town. - Yes. - [Neil] Are you a world - I come to New York all the time. - [Neil] New York's gotta - It's definitely in my soul. - [Neil] Very good. - It's my favorite place on Earth. - Russell, great to have you. You've been listening to StarTalk Cosmic Queries. Thank you to Russel Peters. - Thank you. - The one and the only and as always as always I (upbeat music)