The Stargate franchise spans three plus other non-canon material. Want covered. This is the correct order in Any Stargate watch-through should It's the film that launched the entire franchise, to the Stargate universe. The plot builds on pyramids in Giza, Egypt and proceeds to create of that central concept. the main protagonist of the original movie He is a confirmed believer in the theory that Not surprisingly, academia at large rejects and with crackpot academics in movies: Jackson The U.S. military has managed to get their hands which is dubbed the Stargate. Eventually, Jackson perfectly stoically by Kurt Russell. Together As it turns out, this large ring-like You "dial" a set of coordinates in 3D you can transport yourself to another planet. team, this is no vacation. On this new world, they They must defeat an evil alien dictator that calls After finishing the movie, you get to enjoy in the form of Stargate SG-1. The series we're just going to focus on the first seven. SG-1 roughly one year after the events of the movie. its own, and aliens walk through, killing and Naturally the government reacts by setting to monitor the device and mount a rescue mission. always authoritative Don Davis, who pulls Jack out of retirement. From there, O'Neill makes Jackson, played by Michael Shanks. He completes as played by Amanda Tapping, and warrior Teal'c, as depicted by Christopher Judge. an aggressive, highly advanced alien civilization To protect Earth, Stargate Command assembles a the Stargate, exploring the universe and searching Each episode has SG-1 visiting new locations them the edge over the Goa'uld, but interesting In the first seven seasons, the four-person team traveling to other planets and facing After wrapping up season 7, things start to get was still in production, MGM took advantage of called Stargate Atlantis. Both of the shows and their stories run in parallel to each other. independent from each other. They take place in storylines and casts. But there are a few episodes You won't have to weave the episodes start watching Stargate SG-1 season 8 and The climax of Stargate SG-1 season 7 The SG-1 team discovers its Stargate Command sends a permanent team there, the lost city. Stargate SG-1 season 8 continues finally defeats its two biggest opponents: The Atlantis introduces several new characters as Continuing on with the trend, your next step with Stargate Atlantis season 2. Once again, the two shows, but it will help to watch them take place at the same time. established characters enter and leave depending change for SG-1. Both Jack O'Neill and General play minor roles in the series. They are replaced of Stargate Command, and Ben Browder as Cameron Additionally, Vala Mal Doran, a recurring becomes a primary member of the SG-1 though morally dubious human alien with &quot;Ladies first.&quot; Season 9 also introduces a new race of villains existence of humans living in the Milky Way in our region of the universe. The Ori's ultimate Origin. Their highly advanced technology and innovative ways to defeat this menacing foe. develop a retrovirus that will turn the Wraith flaws, with test subjects producing ambiguous discover Earth's location and decide to head there Season 10 is the last hurrah for Stargate SG-1, same time. Being the last season of the series, up in SG-1. Without giving anything major away, including the fate of at least one fan-favorite of the show's big bads. After dozens of episodes, time to head over to Stargate Atlantis season 3. Wraith from assaulting Earth, but they fail in their foe. The team on Atlantis continue introduced in the form of self-replicating These creatures threaten to destroy Atlantis, heads to the stars. You heard that right, Soon after Atlantis flees, it's badly damaged Before moving on to the next season of couple of hours to watch the direct-to-video up right after the end of Stargate SG-1. about the Ori left at the end of SG-1, and for all. The movie opens by explaining the Ark of Truth, a mysterious machine which has the the team is eager to find it. Unfortunately Despite it being a suicide mission, they visit the resurrect an old enemy: The Replicators. assault on our galaxy, but SG-1 activates albeit in an unexpected way. See, the device gods. The Priors are humans who serve the Ori and invade Earth. The Ark of Truth causes all Priors and they leave their religion, and abandon SG-1 preparing to go through the Stargate on a With the Ark of Truth wrapped up, head back There was some transition in the For one, this is the first time Atlantis Secondly, the main cast shifted quite a bit. became incapacitated, which made room for Samantha Carter made the move from the SG-1 team, &quot;Thanks for saving our asses It was a risky move.&quot; to the risk you and your team took.&quot; this season. Season 4 opens with Atlantis still to make repairs. They continue their two-front and part way through the season make the brilliant The Atlantis team manage to reprogram the are their enemies, and by the end of the With only one season of Stargate Atlantis to watch the next standalone movie in the Stargate seasons 4 and 5 of Atlantis and completes the It revolves around one of the only survivors of Stargate Command. Ba'al, the last of the of his people. He continued to play a minor role joined forces with Stargate Command, but In Stargate: Continuum, the SG-1 team a permanent end to him. However, it turns and the real System Lord has enacted Ba'al time travels to 1939 and actually prevents Doing so creates an alternate timeline where assault on Earth, a few members of SG-1 remember they revert history back to its original course. to be executed. This time, the characters are timeline. They complete the extraction process, It's time to head back to Atlantis one more is the last. Fortunately, the show does a pretty McKay, the snobbish geek, finally falls in love the Wraith. In the end, humans can finally free from the tyranny of enemy alien forces. pretty spectacular. The Wraith discover the dinner being the only thing on their minds. fly the city to Earth and join in a massive battle and glorious victory, Atlantis lands in The Stargate franchise continued after the end this latest entry in the franchise only lasted two you can watch both in order without having to The plot and characters are far removed from its own independent story arc. In Stargate called the Ancients. The Ancients sent a ship The vessel traveled so far that it's actually And because the journey is so long, it's have enough juice to send the travellers back. plunge, and they wind up stuck on the Ancient's including trying to find a way to get home, figure out what the Ancients wanted to accomplish investigating something incredibly close to the and there's evidence that life might have existed Up to this point, we've been going in the Stargate franchise. The last entry in is actually a web series that serves as a prequel The series is set in 1939, long before the events from the rest of the shows. It only contains After the initial release, every episode which is now available to stream. If you've you should have no problem knocking The plot follows Catherine Langford played by of the Stargate. In SG-1, Langford is a minor It's explained throughout the series that the Stargate program. Now we get to see more The main antagonist for this short knows about the Stargate and how it works. here! Plus, even more Looper videos about Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit