You know, I often get told, "Thoughty2, reply,, "Thanks Mum, but really, what is Which sounds kind of profound, even if I do Turns out, though, it's a question that's seem to have an internal intelligence radar, "She's a genius" or "He probably can't But that level of subjectivity isn't useful of intelligence. You might see Albert Einstein Ronald McDonald as the greatest philosopher Which I don't. Anymore. Unsurprisingly, I'm not the first person to define intelligence for centuries, but that everyone can agree on. And this is a foaming at the mouth and shouting stuff about the testing of intelligence, but more on that The Oxford Dictionary defines intelligence and skills." Sounds pretty good, in my opinion. and break for an early lunch, but there's Over the years, multiple social scientists It's been described as , "The ability and "Goal-directed adaptive behaviour" Alex Wissner-Gross even defined intelligence rather nifty equation, where F is the force future actions, and S is the diversity of Unfortunately, you have to be a genius to place. Some brave souls have tried to build a standard educational psychology Linda Gottfredson prepared to represent the mainstream science on intelligence. including specialists in anthropology, behaviour sociology, and a bunch of other jobs that Fifty-two university professors signed the about intelligence. Sounds convincing, but experts and psychologists, not least because genetically determined by race and included caused differences in intelligence are not These days, there are so many different definitions Legg and Marcus Hutter tried to catalogue but said there were many more. You might be wondering why it's so important can put it on a sandwich, so who cares if Well, one reason there's an argument about And another is that recently, people have because they want to be able to better define in the not-too-distant future, someone will But, to make sure they deserve all the fame, the world's most famous nerd, the machine's will need to pass a test. Since 1950, the accepted standard has been computer science himself, Alan Turing. Turing's Game, was that a machine could be considered to work out whether they were communicating In 2014 it was claimed the Turing Test had Goostman, which simulates a 13-year-old Ukrainian which doesn't surprise me. I once convinced named Gretchen, and no-one gave me a prize. Scott Aaronson asked Eugene how many legs between 2 and 4. Maybe, three?' So at this he fooled were all just high. So the Turing Test probably still stands, to test full AI in the future. And if we're need to agree on what counts as intelligence. Another reason it's important to define used to make judgements about who should get and even who should live and who should die. It began in the late nineteenth century with If you've seen my video on the wisdom of fondness for oxen, and that he was interested in, shall we say 'interesting' ways. He inherited, and theorised that intelligence physical traits, like their reflexes, muscle Andre the Giant would be a genius, so it's end. He did, however, become certain that some and that desirable and undesirable genetic through selective breeding. Basically, the of the messy bits. This didn't go down well desirables, but that didn't bother Galton. for the most part quite unreasonable, against The idea of selective breeding in humans wasn't name - eugenics - and it wouldn't be long testing. At the turn of the 20th-century, British psychologist of whether intelligence is one thing or a In 1904, he declared the existence of a general - something which, to this day, women claim According to Spearman, people may have a range words, numbers, or spatial comprehension, intelligence that differs from one person He came to this conclusion through a process tests to identify correlations between different did well in one area of cognitive testing So, if you're good with numbers, you're Another psychologist, L L Thurston, rejected of one general intelligence, there were seven verbal comprehension, word fluency, perceptual and memory. This was where the study of intelligence split sees intelligence as a single, unifying pattern, separate streams. Spearman's idea of a single general intelligence of a number may sound familiar to you. If system, there's a good chance you'll have designed to establish your Intelligence Quotient. If you have an IQ of 140 or above, you're 100, you have what's thought of as average For the origins of the IQ test, we need to his G-factor to the world. In France, two devised the Binet-Simon test, which was designed school and needed to be placed in special Building on the idea of a G-factor, Binet working memory, and visual-spatial skills used to find and help cognitively slower children. Although the Binet-Simon test was created otherwise have been sent to mental asylums, a tool to serve less compassionate ends. In 1912, German psychologist William Stern the phrase 'intelligence quotient' and dividing a person's mental age by chronological Nothing wrong with that. But when American psychologist Lewis Terman with the American government to change army To identify the correct candidates for officer million men during World War I in the first time, eugenics - that fun fest of selective idea of being able to measure someone's a hand in a latex glove. The military testing was problematic for many across different military camps to the fact like the idea intelligence is an inherited more to American culture than general intelligence. immigrants to the US, at a disadvantage as and often didn't speak much English. As a result, men from minority groups scored the eugenics argument that intelligence was used the data to build a false hierarchy of Soon, this thinking began to influence public who had worked with Lewis Terman in bringing unlike Francis Galton who favoured selective wanted to eliminate undesirable characteristics He called people who had done poorly in IQ because intelligence was hereditary, they And so it was that states like Virginia passed of people with low IQ scores, with the Supreme By the end of these campaigns, more than 64,000 on their IQ scores, with 20,000 in California The full madness of this approach was made by the results in California they came to the birth of people they deemed unfit. Call me old-fashioned, but if a Nazi arrived job, I'dd probably consider a career change. Anyway, the Nazis clearly went home brimming they used pseudo IQ tests and other assessments 400,000 people, and the murder of another unworthy of life'. Back in the US, the horror of what was happening of eugenics - there's nothing like genocide IQ tests were still considered relevant, but began to question the structure of the tests, had a significant impact on test results. They showed, for example, that IQ test scores known as the Flynn Effect, and it was widely nutrition, and healthcare. Interestingly enough, in IQ test performance seems to have begun according to a whole raft of different studies out people really are getting stupider - something with an internet connection. Over the second half of the twentieth century, IQ tests included unconscious cultural biases IQ tests are still pretty similar in terms but we have more sophisticated ways of making still used in many public systems, like schooling ways. In some areas of the US, for example, they score below a specific IQ, because anyone Regardless, IQ tests remain controversial continued to search for alternative ways of Perhaps the best-known example is the Theory professor Howard Gardner as an alternative Echoing the spirit of LL Thurston's work, intelligences that operate fairly independently types: your ability with words and language your way with numbers and reasoning to how you understand maps and other visual Musical intelligence, which is about, well, Naturalistic intelligence, which is how well different plant species and the weather to use your body intelligently - for a real-world video in which I will communicate the entire Interpersonal intelligence describes how well Intrapersonal intelligence has to do with Later, Gardner also added Existential intelligence, and answer the more profound questions about, Intuitively, the idea of multiple intelligences can be a musical ignoramus but have the navigational Dave got arrested for indecency despite being This approach also fits well with some other intelligence theory first developed by Peter by Daniel Goleman. Gardner's theory of multiple intelligences systems around the world and has been applied lacks the scientific evidence to back it up. As another alternative, psychologist Robert of intelligence. Sternberg agreed with Gardner but limited his selection to three: analytical creative intelligence, and practical intelligence. He also argued that these types of intelligence of his theory point to the fact that there different intelligences, so if you're high That, of course, takes us back to the start G. So, if you're ever worried that you're don't fret. Nobody seems to have the faintest a whole bunch of different versions to choose one of them.At the very least, you've proved youtube videos, and that's got to count