Do you know the and listening? Hearing is perceiving and Listening is paying Have you ever heard a conversation to be listening, but you could tell they I notice, you notice and If you want to create deep you must work on your listening skills. Hey there, and welcome to Evercoach, the leading online training platform for coaches who want to create I'm your host Ajit Nawalkha, and today we exploring five of my favorite active listening techniques to become a better person and coach. But first don't forget to subscribe to the Evercoach channel, we release new videos like this every week to support your coaching. Open, two-way verbal of building rapport. In any conversation, you have Each has a specific role, but together they create a Notice that the role is Active listening in as the ability to stay entirely committed and focused on what the speaker is saying, understand their message So let's dive into the Techniques to improve your as an individual, and as a coach. The first technique to is blocking out all the distractions. Have you ever noticed that and want to pay full but you start thinking of the or notice the noise of the coffee machine that is right behind or going into a coaching Not good. It happens to us all Distractions will always be around, but for us to accomplish we have to be prepared to and focus on the conversation. There are two types of distractions, internal and external. Internal distractions are your own thoughts and sabotage your concentration. For example, having a busy you forget to go to grocery shopping or remembering you have The external factors that are those triggered by things around you. The sound of your phone, when you get a new email, or it could even be a noisy mosquito that sneaked into your room or - Squirrel. - What easy changes can you and increase your capacity to focus on the conversation instead. To reduce any internal distractions, especially before a coaching session, practice meditation or breath walk, it will help your mind and quiet the inner chatter. So you can really focus on the present dialogue To eliminate the external distraction, make sure you create an environment with the least distractions possible. Turn off your phone or put it on silent. Close the blinds or the view If you're at a cafe, you might want to sit facing the wall to a white getting distracted by movement, and so you can concentrate on the speaker. Small changes go a long way. The next technique is to develop a P-A-C-E or PACE conversation. PACE stands for purpose, It's a simple formula for and improving active listening. First, you identify the Then you ask questions to then you connect at an empathetic And lastly, you encourage the speaker to feel understood after To get results from this technique, you need to focus on the conversation so you can actually develop Before making your questions, to finish speaking, so and they don't feel interrupted. - I'll tell you what you talk at least. - As a part of this to show you can be empathetic and understand the speaker and their body language. How do you practice after or on day-to-day interactions? Let us know if you would add of techniques in the The next technique to work on is to pay attention to the This means not only listening to the message being delivered, but also the speakers emotions in short their body language. Focusing the nonverbal of the speaker. Does it match what they're really saying? If you don't understand you might not be able nor can you guide your client that is more beneficial. The same word or sentence can on how you say it. I can say I got a new client or I got a new client, our facial expressions tone for white context to And this is not only for it applies to you too, from being silent with arms show you're not really paying attention or that you're not interested. A few tips to keep the conversation going while understanding the make use of your facial and give the speaker some mm-hmm, mmm. Active listening is not it's also what we see that It will allow you to connect better with the other people and your clients, and be able to guide more that is to be achieved. If you want to learn more about how to read your client's body The full technique is to turn during the conversation. As human beings, it's only to help others and look to the problem at hand. But sometimes we don't want with a portfolio of solutions. No one likes a know it all anyways. - And you know about that stuff? - Penny, I'm a physicist. I have a working knowledge and everything it contains. - Control your eagerness to chime in and try to team those of view is complete. Truth is, we don't know it We need to have all the facts and context before even and offering our ideas. As an active listener, you and be flexible in considering while pausing any judgment, Last but not the least, hone your active listening what you've listened. Repeat and rephrase the main to ensure you understood the content and clarify it before giving back. There are two purposes of doing this, on one hand, it'll keep your mind on track with all the information. And secondly, it will also allow that you have paid attention You can rephrase their thoughts or ask for the questions with, let me see if I got this clear Or what did you mean with...? It's a great technique, specially for coaches as to further organize their thoughts and ideas with more clarity. It is really painful during the conversation and with a simple, huh? Or how come? I rather just say they got distracted? - Huh? - What? - It's a good question. Active listening is used and understanding between the participants of any conversation, you gain perspective and information while providing Once you got the entire message and want to offer your be assertive and open with your opinion, without attacking the speaker, treat the receiver just as to be treated and be honest with your perception and message. This way they'll feel more because you did pay attention. My wish for you is that and honing your listening skills, as they are the most to become an extraordinary coach. I hope you can apply it but in your daily life and So together, you can Now, don't stop your learning here. Active listening is one of the most important Watch this video next to every master coach has. Oh, you're still here, amazing you made it all you should be proud of yourself in your growth. Hope you found this video useful for yourself and Help us spread the love by with your friends and to learn about active We release videos like this every week, you probably want to be notified so go ahead and smash so you get a notification on YouTube every time we release a new video. Serve love, stay awesome and