The frigid ocean of the video game Subnautica: gigantic herbivores to vicious carnivores. Like the tropical seas of the game's predecessor, world of bewildering landscapes, detailed Many of the aliens in Below Zero were created designers out there. And unlike the first game, in Below Zero, So, for this entry into the archive, we'll charting biomes under the waves and upon ice; -- forms of arctic life. This two-part series will analyze the biology how they compare to life in Earth's oceans. And although this experience once again ranks fieldwork for the Archive, I'm determined So, let's dive in together, and explore Sector Zero is a region of extremely low temperatures, to the cold. Beginning on the ice floats above the shallows, region where land meets the sea. Huddled together on a float is a flock of Pengwings are small, predatory fauna which... When a Pengwing dives underwater, however, them to twist through the currents with remarkable Despite their appearance, Pengwings are carnivores, a rather alarming set of teeth. In their body shape and behavior, Pengwings penguins -- with both species adapting to And on any ice-float with Pengwings, you will of Pengwings who never stray far from their Even more than adults, infant Penglings are But what they might lack in overall balance, And while Penglings might possess the same, remarkably docile creatures, perfectly content As nice as it is to briefly hold a baby Pengling, routines... As we dive into the polar waters, a shallow, the ice floats. The landscape of this coastal sea is dominated rapidly growing coral polyps that can exceed Bioluminescent blue barnacles grow on the are actually a separate species taking advantage But why would the coral bridges grow into The answer lies in a phenomenon known as Thigmotropism plants in response to touch. Thigmotropism is what allows vines to wrap the likely reason the great Coral bridges Just beyond these coral bridges, we encounter with its massive yellow eyes. Relatives of the Common Peeper in the tropical a whitish hue for better camouflage against Other familiar herbivores also swim here, hoopfish. Together, these species form an important larger, less familiar creatures that lurk Swimming northwards, I've reached a region This entire biome is situated under thick On the underside of these icebergs, hazardous like jagged fangs. Highly unstable, Brinicles frequently shatter Yet as foreboding as the Sparse Arctic seems, This odd-looking fellow is called a Brinewing. With its rotund form and beak-like mouth, herbivore. But the Brinewing is a powerful predator. To hunt, it unleashes a rapid-fire torrent in the water, and can encase its prey in ice. A scan suggests the Brinewing uses a highly-specialized from the surrounding salt water. As unusal an adaptation as this might seem, using water jets launched from their specialized Other species in the Sparse Arctic have very Like the enormous Titan Holefish -- a slow center of its body. The Titan Holefish is a relative of the tiny, much larger than its cousin you can actually But what is the purpose of this hole? A scan suggests the gel-like interior is lined DNA doesn't match that of the Holefish... The mystery of the eggs is revealed when I Holefish. Soon, many others join in, swarming like a These are Symbiotes -- small predators that hole of the Titan Holefish, and in turn defend with food. This highly cooperative lifestyle is an example few on Planet 4546 B. As a result, the Titan swimming forward on impulse, fully trusting need. Just beyond the Sparse Arctic, the bare sand Here, Creepvine Plants sway in the polar current, seeds. These Creepvine plants are close relatives waters of the tropics, although the chemical them a pale yellow. Among the fronds, familiar fish like the boomerang ...And some very unfamiliar fish swim here These extremely bizarre lifeforms are called method of swimming ever conceived. Using three pairs of siphons on the side of waterwheels. At a glance, its bizarre body the plan somewhat But ultimately, the Spinner Fish is one of Speaking of one of a kind, I soon spot an I'm just about to scan it when it swims Frustrated, I give chase, and find the creature mock me. Thankfully I'm able to cut it off and snatch Finishing the scan, I discover this creature with both a developed brain and finger like It's called a Sea Monkey -- a nickname Unlike those Sea Monkeys, however, the Sea as an actual primate -- meaning it's the But given time, the Sea Monkeys might have I just hope they evolve to be less annoying... With the Kelp Forest thoroughly charted, it's Sticking my head above the water, however, polar storm. Looking around, I realize that the Pengwing Upon arriving at their ice float, however, simply huddling for warmth and waiting out Truly, Pengwings are intriguing creatures. With the sun thankfully returning, it occurs learn about Pengwing flock dynamics, but I Time for some innovation. I've devised an alternative, less conspicuous This machine is my Spy Pengling, and it will flock with its hidden cameras while I continue I'm uncertain if the Pengwings will be fooled own... but the only way to find out is to As inconspicuously as I can, I deploy the Taking control via an axillary remote, I navigate It's... not a perfect disguise. But the Pengwings don't seem particularly Though it's unlikely this robot is fooling natural behavior. I'll leave the flock under its watchful Even further out to sea, the mysterious Lilypad means. In truth, these floating chunks of rock are of plant that define this ecosystem. Giant Lilypads are indeed so large that it's fear of sinking. But it's the bizarre life that swims in truly unique... Take, for example, the hilariously named Noot With its colorful markings and innocent, beak-like herbivore. But any fish that makes that mistake is soon The Noot Fish's beak is in fact a stretchy, it uses to envelop prey. This kind of extendible mouth somewhat resembles Ocean. Best to keep an eye out. But there are bigger predators here than the The Brute Shark is an aggressive predator eyes. With huge fangs and a massive, bony jaw, they Like many Earth sharks, they prefer to attack The only good news is that while they're fast. Still, if I don't keep my distance, I might Closer to the surface, I spot a remarkably Swimming nearer, the edges of my vision blur, Huh. Has the sky always been that color? Everything feels... floaty for a while. Eventually, the effect wears off, and with That lifeform, known as the Lily Paddler, would-be attackers with the mesmerizing patterns It's an impressive defense, and a vital one otherwise quite vulnerable. I just wish it didn't make my head hurt. A shadow passes overhead. Just above me, a whale-sized leviathan opens an entire school of fish in a single gulp. This is a Glow Whale, and while they're they're thankfully quite gentle. At almost 100 feet, or 30 meters in length, I've encountered in Sector Zero -- and A scan of the Glow Whales indicate they possess most notably around the corners of their eyes Careful not to startle it, I brush a Glow It's difficult to interpret whether this a message. In any case, the Glow Whale is content with As I watch it rejoin its pod, I wish I could But before the sun sets, there's one last Underneath layers of snow and ice, there are makes up a portion of Sector Zero. Dry land is so scarce on this ocean planet of lifeforms might live further inland. We'll have to see for ourselves. Passing through a narrow canyon, I find strange from the walls. These are Thermal Lilies, organisms that spend its energy, but also turn to track my movement A scan suggests they aren't dangerous, and absorbed, they're actually a welcome source Still, it's unsettling the way they follow Beyond the canyon, a snowy landscape far too Luckily, I have an alternate method of transportation. This is a Snowfox, a hoverbike designed for Zooming over the arctic terrain, I find it's At these speeds, I should be able to chart A short time later, I spot a hairy creature The question is, is it friendly? ...Not friendly. Putting the Snowfox in reverse, I discover After several near misses, I back away to That quadrupedal predator was a Snow Stalker, I can't help but be excited at the discovery With its white fur and imposing bulk, the similar to Earth polar bears. I'm curious about the lineage of such a A brief analysis reveals the Snow Stalker aquatic Stalker I encountered in the tropical While these two species diverged a long time their relation in the shape of their head A fascinating genetic ancestry. Speaking of which, a short way off from the cub playing in the snow. Just a fraction of the size of its parent, than its parent. Well, mostly... Trekking onward, I reach an icesheet marked This region is known as the Arctic Spires, A huge head bursts from below the ice. Seconds later, a massive, serpentine leviathan with a swipe from its massive horn. This terror of the frozen plains is an Ice At over three hundred feet, or 90 meters, and by far the largest creature I've seen Its glowing horn is superheated through an it to melt the very ice its prey is standing Time to make a fast exit. Speeding away on my Snowfox, I spot the Snowstalker We barely make it to safety. With creatures like the Ice Worm around, I till tomorrow. While the sun sets overhead, I check in to member of the flock, and has done an excellent Together, my pengling bot and I sit and watch And with the night comes a final surprise. The sky is lit up by a dazzling Aurora similar of earth. On our planet, these 'northern lights' caused by solar wind -- and we can theorize It's a beautiful, imposing display that universe. But with my Spy Pengling beside me, I don't A transmission interrupts my thoughts. It seems I'm picking up a mysterious communication... but from where? And who, or what, is sending it out? I'll venture deeper into the depths in Part investigating the source of the transmission, dangerous life of the deeper biomes. For now, though, our journey is at its end. As always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.