If you've ever thought, &quot;what if I just dug USSR did right here! That hole is deeper than the Everest is tall. They started digging it in the the United States only got to 600 ft before 20 years. They made it about a third of the way if you just... kept... digging? If you dug a hole all find? What would happen to you? And what does our our feet? &quot;Let's take a look at what's inside!&quot; &quot;to the ever set foot&quot; &quot;still falling!&quot; &quot;the center of the Earth&quot; Earth's crust is different&quot; &quot;the deeper you go into Imagine we go outside and we just start digging. temperature go up. Every kilometer through Right now, we're inside the crust. than 40 km deep which is less than the length layers of hard rock past precious metals and all kinds of impressively deep things that Sanford research Labs that do dark matter and insanely deep nuclear command bunker. There's some of the deepest mines in the world. As we to rise but by this point, unprotected just in ago. To go farther, let's equip ourselves with an temperature or pressure. Now finally at 12.2 km this is that hole the USSR dug the Kola Superdeep here this equipment was operated remotely. To equipment and drilling methods to pierce through discovered new fossilized organisms dating back much deeper than scientists previously thought. worked on this project and one of them told us down past the maximum depth that they had reached was a &quot;moonshot which will never be repeated or is this deepest hole that humans have ever dug deeper. At about 30 to 50 km down, we noticed that the mantle. At first the rock around us looks as we get a little deeper as the temperature rises rock around us starts to look like hot plastic. point of the rock but the pressure is so high that now starting to push through even hotter material. toward the top in these giant convection currents why is the earth hot? Well it's partly radiation formed by meteorites smashing against each other slowly but we don't need to worry about that, it's this stirring of hot goop brings enormous amounts on... how do we know that? If humans have only ever great question.&quot; That's Dr Megan Newcombe, a geologist She told me that studying the deep Earth is like to put together all of these indirect pieces of Ancient scientists had a lot of theories about Earth contained a central fire with underground maybe a set of concentric shells with life on each Godzilla movies. Isaac Newton suggested that based be denser than the stuff at the top. But it wasn't prove that the Earth had a central core and there breakthrough discoveries were thanks in large part up here, but it's also sending seismic waves down. main varieties: There's P waves and S waves.&quot; P waves can only travel through solids. They also behave that they're moving through. Which means that by all over the surface, scientists can understand that we've learned about how the mantle differs else: &quot;We find this S wave shadow on the opposite reason the s-waves couldn't propagate all the there's a liquid layer down there.&quot; That liquid core. We've now crossed into a liquid soup temperature has won the fight against pressure hot metal soup down there because its constant which in turn create the magnetic field around the end all life as we know it on the surface. But actually just reverses. The North and South because... &quot;you can actually read off all of those basalt is erupted along our mid ocean ridges, it was at that time and as the plates continue to off like a barcode.&quot; So what you're telling me is bottom of the ocean and scientists have learned it flipped here, it flipped here, it flipped here. When will it flip next? We're not sure! But I this: Why is the earth in layers? &quot;You're going to ocean. The entire Earth was molten liquid. During iron metal sank and formed the core and then densest minerals settled to the bottom and so made it through all of those layers we are deep something. Hang on though if you're going on a This is my water bottle, this is the Larq PureVis this it's purifying the water inside. It uses bacterial DNA specifically ecoli and salmonella. bottle without that. In this example here they 4 weeks, Larq is on the left and a water bottle then they waited to see what bacteria grows from that removes pollutants so better taste, healthier me remember to drink enough water. This is my real my goal almost every day. The way this works is the water level inside after each sip so I get on the cap will light up to remind me to drink the app so I have mine set to every hour and it cool for 24 hours. If you want to check it out story: At the very center of our planet there is surface of the Sun and for a long time we didn't the core was molten because why would it be solid? of those seismic waves and they noticed that when weird! Waves were being bent and reflected by sense if there was a solid core inside the larger with more precise recordings of the waves better turns out that the pressure here is so insanely and what's even stranger is that more recently data that seem to show Earth's core is rotating that rate changes. It is speeding up and slowing because why not! Very precise seismic data and that the Earth's inner core seems to be speeding you might have seen headlines that the earth's that if you were on the outside of the inner me like you were going the opposite direction if same direction. But this iron core is no match through it until finally we did it. We made it surface the pressure around us is 3.6 million ways what's around us right now is still a big scientists think that there might be there's atoms are packed differently way on the inside call it a new layer we've been wrong before but the Earth's magnetic field and when it might mimic the inner earth to learn more. Now the seismic waves with better computational models Earth conditions here on the surface. We are a home and we're doing everything we can to peek