Kneebaring is It's not only or piss some people off but I believe it's something I actually find the term kneebar I would rather use because when you are kneebaring, between a lower thigh depending on the size The more force you are creating between a lower thigh the more solid you will feel Kneebars can be used either for resting, Let's do the resting. My tip: For those that feel work on the kneebars. With the help of the kneebars, you can divide them and with the help you can actually climb Of course, a topic to talk about are the knee pads. Knee pads obviously make mostly easier, and I'd say, more fun. Surprisingly, when we we think of climbing where it's actually often the case but it's mostly The fact that you are wearing rubber reduces the pain but you don't need Whereas on the sandstone or granite, where it's much more that's where the rubber will make By the way, knee pads are not allowed which is a decision I think they are widely accessible, everybody can decide And especially doing kneebars is way worse for the skin. Especially doing a kneebar might create a blister Much longer than if you make Just as I find the term knee pad Again, it should be It's quite frequent seeing people wearing them on their knees. That means their knee pad That creates the problem because it creates pressure and you don't feel free The proper way to wear a knee pad on the lower part leaving the knee Then it doesn't burn the skin There are 3 factors that determine 1. Placement of the knee 3. Distance between these two Let's take a look The bigger and more incut the better the knee bar. If it gets more slopey the harder it is getting. If we take the bigger and wider it is, the more comfortable And mostly, there's so you'll be able to hang there The smaller the harder it is. Let's think It is, of course, individual. We have a different length but I'd say the perfect length is However, you can You can cover if you can Or you can go Like that, you can Nevertheless, obviously, and you're pulling onto a tiny foothold, Surprisingly, the placement We will talk about it later. This is Katka, but she has never So this is the first try. I'm pretty confident Try to release the hands... Wow, amazing! You still have The way how to relax the whole body if you have the courage. Doesn't feel amazing at first... Nice! In this situation, the only Wow, amazing! Katka did so I didn't have any possibility I'll show them myself. The two most common Often you can see They want to do the kneebar It's really difficult It's super physical! It's much easier to go lower and your head can be Or you can go upside down. Mistake number two is that you have an obvious and you leave your foot on the good and then you want to release. It's possible in this position And it's almost impossible Even though this foothold it's much better which, for my body type, No foothold, just pushing Even if I stay here and don't go upside In my case, even if there was I wouldn't use it. For me, the perfect position Of course, for every height, the perfect position Imagine it's like a triangle and you want to push That's one of the most important things This is A huge knee placement But still... hanging there Let's give it a try! No problem until now. Now I start feeling Pretty hard! This was one minute and it was really To continue, especially where I would it would be very easy The foot would be shaking and I wouldn't have the confidence But there is a solution! If the kneebar is good enough that means... ... you are like this... I usually go Up to the point where you don't And when you feel you make the switch and you go Like that, you can switch ... and then continue. To summarize the basics that influence 1. The knee placement 3. The distance There are two most when people try to kneebar. 1. They try to place a kneebar and then it's impossible to go lower 2. They are while searching for the best and not the best Sometimes, If the kneebar is good enough, Due to that, you can and you're really utilizing This was just a scratch but many other tips and tricks Join me and a brand-new membership Then, I can hang ooooon and then, When you focus on the just as high as possible, it's kind of awkward ... it's actually even better! Releasing for a few seconds but staying two minutes like this