hey, welcome to 12tone! so... lyrics. we don't tend to talk about them much on this by cool harmony stuff, but it's hard to deny they're the first thing most listeners will the clearest means of conveying your story, in lyric writing, I suppose I might as well lyrics are, in a way, one of the most mysterious how a minor key makes the harmony sound sad, and while those are both fairly broad generalizations at least they work as guidelines. but for lyrics, it can be hard to even get make your lyrics sound sad, but language is ways to say the same thing that even finding becomes a daunting task. and yet it's hard do exist, so what's the secret? well, it's surprisingly simple: practice. ok, that's not super helpful, so let's get I mean, it makes sense, right? lyrics are basically poetry set to music anyway, and just focus on the poetic structure, you words are more than just their meanings. they're also made up of sounds, and those from which we build lyrics. the most obvious part of this is rhyme. I suspect you're already familiar with the on the basics, but there's actually a lot the version you're probably thinking of right final syllables of two different lines, like the very meaningful line &quot;chickity China, and your brain stops tickin'.&quot; and yes, chicken sounds like tickin, but that rhymes. both those words contain that &quot;ick&quot; sound, words, like &quot;chickity&quot; and &quot;drumstick&quot;. this is called internal rhyme, where the rhyming of just sitting at the end. adding internal rhymes to your lyrics can whole thing feel like one composed piece instead together. you don't even have to connect these internal of &quot;China&quot; and &quot;chinese&quot;, whose first syllables that particular example may seem like cheating from a strictly phonetic perspective, it totally internal rhyme is a huge part of writing more more about it, the best place to look is probably can even replace end rhymes, blurring phonetic together into one giant, complicated rhyme it's really fascinating. check out Cardboard Castles by Watsky for but we're still just looking at rhyme placement: from an analytical perspective, what is a I mean, sure, it's when two sounds sound the well, all the examples I've used so far are end of the syllable or word is the same, like but boom also sounds like dune, which has completely different vowel. this brings us to what are called slant rhymes, quite as close. we can break these into two groups: assonance, where the consonant is the same. liberal use of these sorts of semi-rhymes, help your lyrics sound deep and polished without you just have to be aware of it. but rhymes aren't the only way in which the possibly even more important is the impact not, like, sounding British or whatever: in stress pattern in a given word. for instance, in the word &quot;explode&quot;, the emphasis it's on the first. in normal speech, these accents just fall often very tightly controlled: for instance, which meant that each line consisted of five accent pattern of &quot;explode&quot;. the patterns don't have to be tied to the line &quot;shall I compare thee to a summer's day&quot;, making it what's called a trochee, like &quot;syrup&quot;. but it's placed in such a way that it's actually and look at the phrase &quot;a summer's day&quot;, it traditional Western poetry tends to stick gives it a sort of rhythm that you don't find when I say &quot;shall I compare thee to a summer's syllables creates an almost musical quality off the tongue beautifully. but lyrics are different, because music already that's what drummers are for. this means we don't have to be nearly as strict we get to stop caring about accents. whatever melody you're singing, there's going notes, and in my opinion one of the biggest lyricists is how well they line up those accented lyrics. it's a really big deal: once, in a college, and the only thing I remember about it is second syllable on the downbeat. that stuck with me, and not in a good way. finally, I know we set aside meaning earlier poetry can help with that, too, or at least aspects of it: imagery. being able to evoke emotions and ideas indirectly for instance, Ben E. King could've sung &quot;when the night is cold and the land is dark, and I think most people would agree that that's poetry, again, strips away a lot of the other forcing you to invest as much emotional resonance plus, if you follow the forms we talked about to use the same line over and over. after all, there's only so many words that so yeah, poetry's awesome, but how do you well, I'd start by finding something to write something you have an emotional attachment object. it can be anything you want, just make sure then you just... write a poem about it. if you need some more guidance, I recommend but they've got a great structure for practicing we did a whole video on sonnets a while back, a link in the description. all in all, the conclusion here is probably with language, the better you'll get at it. poetry is like the pure, distilled form of isolation training at the gym, which I assume there's no formula for great lyrics, anyone but if you want to get better, probably the plus, if they're any good you can just set it's really that easy. anyway, thanks for watching, thanks to our and extra special thanks to this video's mysterious if you want to help out, and get some sweet there's a link to our Patreon on screen now. you can also join our mailing list to find subscribe, and above all, keep on rockin'.