Just 2 milligrams of fentanyl can kill you in a grains of sand. And worse, not all Fentanyl is the labs are cooking up newer and even more lethal weapons are headed straight to the USA. It's this discuss in today's episode of The Infographics Sadly, there are people out there who DEA's warnings that fentanyl is 'killing who take it are unaware of its deadly potential. thought was a fairly mild prescription opioid been contaminated with fentanyl. One of the the bathroom at Bernstein High School in unconscious at the nearby Lexington Park. 33 to 66 times stronger than the ones they thought this kind of thing is happening all over Experts are calling it the "fourth The first wave to wash over America's when unscrupulous pharmaceutical companies started over-prescribing them for general pain Patients with conditions like back pain in some cases, had addictive properties comparable consequences, affecting millions of Americans, Pharmaceutical companies took advantage of the painting the picture of blissful pain relief. This 2012, contributing to a nationwide epidemic The second wave, starting in 2010, saw a huge many of the people who'd become addicted to sources dried up, many who had become experiencing the harsh realities of addiction. opioid deaths, including those from fentanyl. splash is when fentanyl or something similar no idea the drug they took contained Later we'll discuss something but first, let's have a look at some numbers. a deadly, silent crisis. Each year, around 3,000 'Just Say No' campaign in the 1980s, overdoses per year. The numbers began to skyrocket: from 91,000 by 2020- a surge that would only get worse. of just over 111,00- an all-time high . lethal overdoses in 2022 and around why would anyone knowingly take this stuff? pleasure generator that provides a high the life apart. Opioids trigger a release of one dopamine. You get a rush of dopamine but opioids are like a cheat system that floods also floods into a part of your brain responsible making the user feel relaxed. Answer: about 60 million people worldwide The majority of these people for chronic pain, often end-of-life pain. stress-relieving hormones, natural opioids in natural endorphins by blocking pain signals and are especially vulnerable to opioid dependence. heroin, even in small doses. In a recent study, than smokers to overdose. Still, in 2024, it was smoking drug deaths than injecting deaths is often mixed with heroin, increasing the user said he always knows when his heroin is probably because it was cut with sugar- but it's Different opioids have different mechanisms pain relief, but the ones on the streets, the most bliss. Fentanyl hits faster and leaves A long-term user explained, "The rush is a couple of hours then you're sick Another said, "You really feel like you're King Many users say they don't like the synthetic makes them prefer using heroin. your body's betraying you. It's not just and restless legs--that hit hard. The emotional once, feels unbearable. And while the worst of the the emotional wounds can last much longer. For it's the speed that makes it even more dangerous. high- it's the fact that you can be breathing you could be dead. Two minutes--just like that. that work on the central nervous system, such Russian roulette just added two more bullets. there's a drug the DEA has called the "deadliest" or "tranq," but you might know it by its sedative qualities often leave users with their face seemingly in zombie-mode due Xylazine is very cheap, only $6 to so add it to some heroin or fentanyl and a for just a handful of dollars. Originally Xylazine has now invaded America's most dystopian also infamously known as 'The Walmart of Heroin.' Xylazine. The purity of the fentanyl there The problem is many of the chemicals needed to agrochemicals and regular pharmaceuticals. labs to do what used to take months of labor in that are easier to traffic and harder for the a lab was busted, and along with kilos of The prices of fentanyl on the especially when you consider its devastating single pills can cost as little as 50 cents, but an addict said a tenth of a gram of fentanyl you might see high-quality stuff goes for $25 Compare that to heroin, where a tenth of a gram less, sometimes more. Recently, fentanyl in San being $100 for three 0.1 gram bags in 2022 to $60 and accessible the drug has become. This just law enforcement and health officials to keep up. so deadly. Some of the worst places for Rhode Island, Hawaii and California. fentanyl seizures went up from a street value As for the fentanyl hotspot of Rhode Island, some people who had taken fentanyl-laced cocaine and Experts said you could buy a pill with just 1% fentanyl. If it's the latter, you better hope In 2021, in small towns in Long Island, fentanyl-laced cocaine in the space of a and on his phone was a text message from his was already dead by the time the message arrived. with these fentanyl-laced pills and powder. who take a contaminated line of coke, don't die. They are designed to be highly but the odds are someone somewhere will get milligrams can kill, a little extra in a pill or come back, especially if they've drunk alcohol. like carfentanil, which is about so 10,000 times stronger than morphine. 20 micrograms, about the size of a grain of sand. 12 have entered the global drug market. are both insanely strong and have been responsible a 24-year-old man in Switzerland who ordered some and was later found dead in his bedroom. the US. Back in 2016/17, it was responsible deaths. It's been found in counterfeit OxyContin, It is a deadly poison that has the consolation for eternity. The alternative can be devastating, your brain might have been starved of The world is awash with these synthetic In 2023, the DEA seized 80 million fentanyl-laced powder, enough to kill every American. easy to make and much easier to traffic, and we might have to re-think how how we Now you need to watch "New Street Drug have a look at "What Happens to Your