Hey guys! All good? Today we are going to talk about a delicate but essential topic: sexuality after the age of 60. I want you to remember that age is no barrier to anything! That is, there are many things you can improve after 60 years and one of them is your sex life. So, today I'm going to make a different video, I'm going to take phrases about sexuality that I get from you, men and women, and I'm going to talk if it's a myth or if it's true. Here in the video, I will also give you valuable tips for improving your sexuality at this stage of life. So stay with me until the end of the video and run the vignette! Doctor Roberto Yano, Cardiologist. Hello heart friends! All good? I am Doctor Roberto Yano, Cardiologist and Pacemaker Specialist. Are you already subscribed to the channel? Have you clicked the bell to receive all notifications? Guys, 80% of you are not subscribed to the channel, so after the video, don't forget to click &quot;Subscribe&quot;, subscribe to the channel, ok! But, today we're going to talk about an interesting topic, I'm going to unravel some myths, reveal some truths about sexuality in women and men after 60 years of age. I hear a lot of statements, misconceptions related to this topic and that's why I decided to make a video and make it very clear what is myth and what is true. &quot;Wow, doc! I can't believe people ask you about this!&quot; Of course they ask me and there are not few people, no! And what's wrong? Let's answer everything about this subject today! I think it's essential that we clarify these issues here to break taboos, improve your understanding of sexuality. Look, I'm also going to talk a little about menopause, andropause so that you understand what happens at this stage of life. But, let's go to what is myth and what is true. There are questions here from women and men, which are asked in the same proportion. But let's go! First question: Will all men have erectile dysfunction? That wasn't quite the question, I changed the word a little to make it more formal here for you. Well, what happens is that after the age of 60, it is more common for men to have erectile dysfunction. But that doesn't happen to everyone! This will depend on several factors, it could be a sign of a physical or psychological illness, it could be stress, for example. It can happen in patients with arterial hypertension, due to smoking, uncompensated diabetes, high cholesterol, neurological diseases, hormonal disorders or the use of some medications. It's important, in that case, to seek help if this is happening to you. So it's a myth! Not all men will experience erectile dysfunction, even after the age of 60. It is very important that you take care of your health in general. You have seen that many diseases can cause erectile dysfunction. You need to avoid these diseases and if you have any of them, you need to treat them accordingly. Another thing is to do regular physical exercise, have a good diet, these things are also essential. Second question: After menopause, women no longer need to use a contraceptive method, why don't they get pregnant anymore? Well, there was that case of Claudia Raia and even so I get that statement! Remember her case, aged 55, thinking she was already in menopause, she managed to get pregnant naturally. Menopause marks the end of fertility, and it is still possible to become fully pregnant at menopause. It is common for women to enter this phase between 45 and 55 years of age. In the last year, for you to have an idea, only three people got pregnant here in Brazil, after the age of 60! So, it's important that you talk to your gynecologist, are you sure you're in menopause. With some clinical data and the blood test, you can assess whether or not you still have a chance of getting pregnant after the age of 60, for example. Caution, at least use the barrier method if you are not sure you are in menopause. So it's also a myth, folks! Third question: Can some women over 60 hurt their intimate area more after having intercourse? Anyone who is a woman there and is at this stage of life will know! After the fall of the hormone estrogen, the woman begins to have some unpleasant symptoms, including vaginal dryness. Due to the lack of this lubrication, due to the lack of estrogen, the region can become more atrophied. In some cases, it can even hurt, lead to fissure, cause some symptoms such as burning, itching, pain. That's why it's so important to do the gynecological exam every year, talk to your doctor to learn how to prevent atrophy in that region. There are treatments that improve lubrication in the region and prevent against urine infections, bladder fall, even candidiasis itself. So this question is true. It might hurt even more. Did you know that Clinica Yano is now here in Indaiatuba, guys? So, if you are from Indaiatuba, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Sorocaba, Limeira, you can consult with us here, in person. We serve Cardiology, Gynecology and Dermatology. Then I'll leave our WhatsApp link here in the description. But let's go! Fourth question: Is it dangerous for your health to have intercourse in old age? Hey guys? What do you think? Leave it here in the comments, I want to know what you think? I don't see any danger in that for health! It's part of keeping the relationship healthy, even after 60, 70. If it's consensual and respectful, it's not a danger to anyone! Including, it's good for health, it can bring physical benefits, emotional health benefits! So that was easy, huh! This is a myth, people! Do you know what is dangerous here, at this stage of life? It's eating poorly, being sedentary, smoking, drinking excessively, failing to take the medications prescribed by your doctor. This is going to be really bad for your health, do you agree with me or not? But let's go! Fifth question: Do desire and libido decrease after the age of 60? Myth or truth? True, people. Menopause and andropause cause hormonal changes that affect desire in both women and men. So, menopause occurs in women and andropause occurs in men! So, don't think that men escaped this hormone drop, no! If you are male, you will also experience a drop in the production of androgenic hormones such as testosterone. This is a natural process that happens as we age. So, if the hormones drop, the tendency is, really, for the libido to decrease. Also remembering that desire also influences other factors, one of which is hormonal. There is the emotional issue, the social issue itself, that is, if you have completely no libido, don't just blame your hormones! There may be something else bothering you! And, there is treatment, okay! So, if you are a man and have no desire, look for a Urologist. If you are a woman, talk to your gynecologist. There are hormonal modulations and the indication, of course, will depend on each case! But, there is treatment, right! So go back and don't just stare! And so? Are you enjoying the video? If you liked the video, don't forget to share it, let's break this taboo and talk about something that may be essential for many people! My idea here is to save the world and I want to know if you're coming with me or not! Sixth question: Are there drugs, drugs for depression that interfere with sexual desire? First, depression itself, by itself, can already impair sexual desire and even reduce stimuli during sexual practice. There are also some medications that can decrease libido, including most antidepressants can cause this drop, okay! So, there are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, citalopram, fluoxetine, sertraline, for example; serotonin and norepinephrine uptake inhibitors such as venlafaxine, duloxetine can also impair your desire. So, if you take any of these medications or any other antidepressants, talk to your doctor about possible side effects. So, yes, it is true that some remedies hinder the issue of libido. I, here in the comments, receive many phrases and questions. And, to make this video, I selected the questions that I found most engaging, most meaningful. But, let's go to the last sentence then? Once again, if you really like this video, then I'll do the second part, okay? So click the like there! If I see that there was a lot of engagement, we will make the second part of this video. But, seventh sentence: People find it absurd that I think about my sex life after 60 years. Should I lose interest or pretend that there is no relationship after 60? Guys, this is a myth, right! People stereotyping sexuality in old age as if it were something that should lose relevance or even non-exist! This is the most absurd! In fact, talking about sexuality after age 60 should be normal! You have desire, talking about sexuality at this stage of life has to be normal, as in all other stages of your life! Of course, there are physical, hormonal changes that occur over the years. Even our minds are changing! Maturity and experience can help many people to find a new way of experiencing their own sexuality. She can also be focused on emotional connection and companionship with your partner. You still have the ability to enjoy cuddly moments and intimate moments! This all enriches your relationship and is important for your health, even after the age of 60. That's why I decided to talk a little about sexuality after the age of 60. It is important to combat this myth and help people to have a more realistic, positive view of this topic. Especially at this stage of life! I hope, then, that you enjoyed the video. I'm staying here. Today's message is this! A big hug and until next time!