Earlier this year, my brother was reading a lot me about an experiment, that he thought was really placed in a jar with oxygen, and then it was The diamond which was nearly pure carbon, burned thing, was converted to CO2 gas. This experiment a few fundamental ideas and theories, that were brother found most surprising though, was just and when he told me about this, I had pretty much under the impression that diamond was basically be fair it's really hard and chemically resistant, start reacting with oxygen. As we talked about then using that CO2, to make carbonated water. We using diamonds, was really funny and interesting, diamonds. Initially it was mostly just a joke, but something, that I really wanted to do. I just had So I set out on a mission, to make what was to my the world. To start off I first had to buy are of course extremely expensive, and can easily budget of this channel. As the size goes down for a while, I found what I felt was one of the five carats or 1g, of nice and clean uncut white this price lower, if I went with even smaller but I didn't want to go so small that it stopped what I found was a good balance of size, quality so I honestly have no idea if it really was and I found that I probably needed about 4g, so this came out to be just a bit over $200, and it showed up in their own separate bags, which reason. The diamonds themselves were about as slightly oversized grains of sand. Despite being and they were actually able to sparkle a bit. thing that I had to do, was figure out how I was have tried recreating the historic way, using a that was very efficient. Instead what seemed like were red-hot using something like a blowtorch, though I had to hold the diamonds in some sort of and the oxygen. Also ideally wanted it to be and it seemed like glass, was the only real though, including the lab grade borosilicate stuff quartz glass. Most forms of glass are made from to lower its softening point, and to make it nearly pure silicon dioxide, which gives it a should give me the ability to continually blast I looked online and I found that tubes made of and I found some relatively cheap ones on Amazon. and cut them into roughly 9 inch sections. To which let me hang it over two clamps. It wasn't test, so I didn't think it really mattered. The I figured that it would probably be okay. For those small red bottles that you can get from overpriced. So instead I went out and bought up a good quality regulator with it, which would of oxygen. When I was ready to get things started, blasted it with the blowtorch. Slowly over about and then I opened the oxygen regulator, and I shot to glow even brighter, and they were now, being seemed to be working really well, but the rest that the glass rod would be okay, because it that definitely wasn't the case. I also thought be fine because it wasn't touching anything, but was apparently getting hot enough to start melting This was exactly why I had to use quartz glass for miserable and melted mess. So that run was pretty something that I could use at all. I wanted to tube, everything else was metal . This run went just a few minutes, all of the diamond eventually possible to burn diamonds, but all the CO2 that the air. If I was gonna be using it to carbonate to capture it. I thought about how to do this for came up with, was just using liquid nitrogen. tube surrounded by liquid nitrogen, which should to first test this out though, and I started by Then after that I dropped in a test tube, and I threw in a few pieces of dry ice, and attached was slowly turning back into CO2 gas, and then is fed into the test tube though, it should into dry ice. This was exactly what happened, a cloud of dry ice started forming. The liquid just left it like this for several minutes. After chunk of dry ice, that had formed around it. At and to get it out, I just hit it while it was and the liquid nitrogen was definitely able the diamonds and collect the dry ice, but after and this would have to be done under pressure. have been done, but what I wanted to do was to mostly wanted to do this because I just kind of it would be really satisfying to be able to see set this all up I'd have to build some sort to the soda machine. I also wanted to make it as tinkering with different ideas, I came up with relatively simple, and I was able to buy all the McMaster-Carr. All the parts arrived a couple lay out the basic setup. On the left was the main and on the right was the pressure gage, and below diamond dry ice into the pipe, then quickly seal and pressurize the chamber. All the metal here was which was way higher than it was ever gonna get and if it ever even got close to 3,000, it would To put together most of it, I just wrapped each screwed them in. The only tricky part was this screw into. So to attach the pipe to the rest of To do this I started by drilling a small pilot with the bigger one that I actually needed, and I of metal, I added some soapy water to help keep a cheap plastic clamp, which really wasn't very in general, and with the soapy water it really had to be a huge deal, and it was still relatively hole in it, the next step was to make the threads as close to vertical as possible, and one trick and then to manually turn it. When I felt that the whole thing from the press. I then clamped it down and I started turning the tap. As I turned it, it but the deeper that it got, the more force going pretty well, but I somehow ended up so I had to go out and buy a new one. They're for about five dollars. Eventually I felt and at this point it was done. I then quickly was ready to finish putting everything together. I and I screwed on the cap by hand. And after that With this upper part of the chamber now ready, it all worked. I clamped on the lower pipe part, on this upper section. The dry ice was slowly sealed, the pressure was slowly increasing. I then to bubble if there were any leaks. At this point pressure in it, so it wasn't that surprising. As cooling down the pipe a lot, and it caused most I was gonna have to wait for all the dry ice to up to room temperature. It ended up maxing out at on it again. Pretty much all the joints still which was clearly bubbling. This just meant screw it on a bit more the. Test was now over, After fixing that valve connection this but at the last minute, I decided to modify it that I needed a pressure release valve, because gonna be putting it at, and also I was gonna be only way that it would ever get over pressured was but that just really wasn't very likely. However important to do things safe and properly, so if the pressure ever went above 2,000 psi. To I had with a cross, and screw on the new valve. sure that there were no leaks, and I didn't see last thing that I had to do, was figure out how to I decided to go with the SodaStream brand, and it section of high-pressure hosing, two quick-release SodaStream. I was able to find all these parts kind of overpriced. For the actual SodaStream I model. To set it up I took off the back, screwed to it. To attach the pressure chamber to it I cut I figured that the best and easiest way to hold and it seemed to work pretty well. I then and the setup was finally done. I did a few wasn't leaking or anything, and it all seemed to try and make the diamond water. For the burning time I actually clamped it down, instead of just small amount of water in it, which would wash all a bit of moisture to it though, so I followed with a drying salt. This was then fed directly and I started loading up the quartz tube, with all other things, I had about three and a half grams When this was all eventually done, I sealed the oxygen feed. I then opened the oxygen tank and I the water bubbler. The main purpose of the bubbler useful to gauge how much of it was flowing through good and steady rate, I filled the Dewar with some diamonds with a torch. Like before the diamonds tell that they were reacting with the oxygen. They dioxide, but I didn't see any dry ice forming, was a bunch of oxygen that first had to be pushed but I wasn't sure if that was actually what was a leak, and I was somehow losing all my precious worried about it, and I thought that this might be working. Along with all this nice dry ice though, and I was gonna be collecting a whole bunch of it. problem, but it actually turned out to be a good and solidifying on the side, and from potentially this was just going to take something like 10 which kind of killed me. The reaction that was which is nearly pure carbon, was reacting with the diamond just kind of slowly disappears, and Even in very pure diamond though, there's always gonna be left behind. I purposely went with white A lot of other diamonds can be slightly colored been fine to use. However I just wanted the CO2 contamination as I could. When it was done I took the bottom, but there was also a whole bunch of it was easy and I just had to shake the tube slowly sounded more and more solid, and eventually was planning to just throw it directly into the much I got. On something warm though dry ice would made a really cold watch glass. I was able to pour and I was honestly surprised by how much dry that this project seemed to be working, and I was came from diamond. I weighed the tube before and but in theory I should have gotten around 12.8g. because it was able to get out of the tube before could have been leaks in my system, and I could Either way though I still had way more than I was load it all into the chamber. I just and I quickly screwed on the cap. The pipe that and it was because I scaled it based on the ice slowly vaporized over the course of about 15 I waited another half an hour just to make sure and it was pretty much good to go. I now had this all I had to do was attach it to the SodaStream. make a new hole for the zip tie. That didn't even chamber, I attached the tubing, loaded a small valve. I was now finally ready to make my diamond I really felt that I was gonna somehow mess it up. I just went ahead and pushed the button, and the When I felt that it was done I took it off, and pressure was released. I made sure to quickly cap possible. To make this bottle I pretty much but there still was a very small amount of it carbonate anything else with, and I just decided a small amount of the diamond CO2, but I don't after spending over $1,000, and weeks of working tell I'd successfully carbonated water using worked this well. At over $1000 for this I still wasn't sure if it was actually worth hoping that once I tasted it and experience the doubts would disappear. Okay so it's finally So... tastes uhm, exactly like soda that is indistinguishable from regular soda water. water, because I just used tap water, and pass I think even think of using better quality yeah here kind of tastes horrible on its own. The it not taste absolutely terrible, but I think I should use something better, and now it just or maybe slightly inferior. But knowing that it it inherently better still. Okay so it turned out and I actually expected that to be the and it doesn't matter if it came from diamonds, always just going to be CO2, which means it'll taste. Despite this though I still really like the the fact that it worked so well. After tasting and I poured the rest of it into a bunch of small just leaving them as these unmarked vials, so I In total I was able to fill ten vials, and most of sure to keep three of them though, which I wanted get one, you just need to follow the link in the ways to enter. They're all free and for example, to my YouTube or my Instagram page. You literally that's pretty much it. If you want to subscribe that would be cool, but it's not at all required think I'll let this contest go for about the winners. Oh and also, I'll ship the vials and I'll include one of my beaker mugs with it. hope you guys enjoyed the video, and I guess I'll out to all my supporters on Patreon. Everyone hours before I post them to YouTube. Also and if you support me with $5 or more you'll