In this video we're going to talk about two and &quot;Cloud Engineer&quot;. Now there is a lot of mix up often use them interchangeably. They mix the tasks There are for example plenty of job descriptions Engineer, which would naturally make you think you have two names for the same role? And that's in this video. So first of all, let's start by two different roles with different purposes and up and even use them interchangeably is, because and skills and also because for relatively defining the boundaries between roles. Like when application, do operations, monitoring, build the change the light bulbs in the office. So basically or one job description. So in this video we're Cloud engineer does, what DevOps engineer does, between these roles and what is, that really the two. And of course since we are on TechWorld actual practical examples, not just some generic of the way, which is that DevOps engineer was DevOps is a concept and a set of principles and IT operation, server administrator and so on were principles. So that was the original idea of with hundreds of thousands of DevOps Engineer own engineering role, which I personally think all the details around it, you can watch my videos all this with the whole evolution of this role DevOps engineer is its own role, let's compare DevOps Engineer's main objective is to make the without bugs or issues and they achieve instead of manual steps of approving the validating that everything works or etc. So the DevOps engineers automate this whole interaction points. And I actually have a detailed DevOps Engineers tasks and responsibilities are, nutshell that's an objective of a DevOps Engineer. objective is to create and manage infrastructure developing can run on it. Now you're probably that sounds very vague and not really clear and First of all we have hundreds of cloud platforms a whole bunch of computers, server machines, wired etc., built the data centers with all those companies can now rent those servers for the started, with a simple use case to be able to infrastructure setup yourself, which is a huge But over time that evolved into something much have Cloud platforms that offer way more than You can now get not only your whole infrastructure top of that. Like your application needs maybe you want to run the whole application setup docker images on cloud, build the whole CI/CD geographic regions. And when you have hundreds your cloud resources users and permissions and through their cloud services and we have tons two data centers, who only operate in one country gigantic ones like AWS, Google Cloud, Azure. These with AWS being by far the most highly used one. company, you can create your entire setup on infrastructure and often without having to install Docker image registry or installing a kubernetes are often provided as managed ready services for AWS as an example. So with AWS you get tons of actual underlying physical infrastructure. AWS has also for machine learning, big data processing, services based on speed, size, durability. So not only that, you also have an option to create things on that yourself or you can let AWS manage by using their higher level managed services. all these options, which is very powerful and it place where you can rent your infrastructure. also comes the complexity, which means, sure, now registry and set up database with backups you can use the cloud services directly for those services and integrate them or plug them in into to the cloud platform that provides them. So service on AWS which is called EKS. Or you have on AWS called ECR. If you instead go for Azure or those platforms, now you have to learn how to use because they work a little bit differently. but they work differently and have different all that specific to the platform. The same way servers, firewall configuration, proxies for etc. So you need to learn AWS services, And when you use those services, you don't just it, everything works and that's it. That's configure it reliably and securely, but you get millions of users visiting your because your application setup was not designed someone hacks into your setup, wiping out your Or a new developer accidentally misconfigures setup. So knowing this cloud specific services in a proper way for your applications to and responsibilities of a Cloud I want to give a shout out to JetBrains Space While Space is a complete software development CI/CD issues and more, TeamCity offers a flexible together with Space and TeamCity means changes to And thanks to Safe Merge, you'll always have a So the combination of these tools is powerful and effort by ensuring you have a complete Getting started is easy and free so be sure I'll put the links in the video description. I mentioned that cloud platforms are different and So you need a specific knowledge of that specific infrastructure setup there. This means as a Cloud platform and learn how to use their services. So That's why we usually have AWS Cloud Engineer, back to the initial definition of creating and example tasks of an AWS Cloud Engineer, as part Well let's say a company is developing an should run on cloud. So AWS Cloud Engineer's job to run those applications, which AWS services configure stuff on them or use managed services configure and manage. Like install and configure from AWS where all of that is already configured. and how to configure that. Maybe your application those needs to AWS storage types. How to do be restored. Make sure the applications and access of the complexity of such large cloud platforms So there are lots of ways of misconfiguring why good Cloud Engineers who are able to configure etc. are so valuable. And since Cloud they know how to configure what company needs the company's business needs and requirements geographical distribution all over the world, Cloud Engineer would help configure that by using Another example would be, if a company has a Of course you need expertise in how to configure microservices application can run on it with reliability security, data backup and Cloud Engineering skills and expertise is needed. more and more companies are moving to cloud, but rather they have an existing on-premise migrate that to cloud. And building something than migrating an existing infrastructure cloud. So they want to migrate only parts which means they need integrations between local do multi-cloud, which means they want to use something happens to one AWS data center you have of strength of different cloud providers and AWS computing resources, but company has so they want to leverage Azure Cloud for that. So need to be connected across cloud platforms in those cases Cloud Engineer would develop the migrate to cloud and create integrations in hybrid to communicate securely and reliably across those because when you use many resources, many cloud to watch out for the cost or at least be able to complex setup with geographic distributions using can get pretty expensive. And that's again where to make sure that company doesn't have huge Cloud Engineers would also monitor the configured into the systems. Maybe the cost is spiking Are service running fine, do they have enough And finally cloud services and infrastructure you don't want to be managing and configuring manually. You don't want people joining how the whole infrastructure was created, where and why. So you need some transparency making sure when someone joins in the cloud and not accidentally misconfigure stuff or ruin break, in a cloud setup you want to be able to and recover the setup quickly without having to current setup and what exactly needs to be done. So Cloud Engineers would automate a lot of and maintenance using infrastructure as code. after some point you can't possibly manually need to have some automation. Now going back to and Cloud Engineer to summarize the differences, process to make it faster, while Cloud Engineers make companies cloud infrastructure reliable, So obviously two very different objectives. But its deployment on servers, on infrastructure. So DevOps Engineers responsibility naturally is configured and managed properly to allow validating whether deployment works with blue on. So DevOps Engineer's job would extend monitoring that is working fine so the making sure that it's secure, it's not running distributed and so on If application is DevOps engineer would make sure the cluster is security in place and so on. And again DevOps is so DevOps Engineers would also use infrastructures monitoring etc., but only the parts that directly So as you see the cloud infrastructure management be released, deployed, recovered and so on is also the main overlap happens. So from this perspective Cloud Engineers tasks. So companies usually just But logically it's not possible for one role to infrastructure management, to backup and So we have additional Cloud Engineer role, that is should actually be a help for DevOps Engineer So the objective of Cloud Engineer, which is the DevOps Engineer's objective because they have to run on that infrastructure. infrastructure and makes sure it runs reliably, on top of that to release the applications and cloud infrastructure. And you can even use to monitor the application to do the automated and so on. So that's basically the comparison some clarity around these two roles and was Let me know in the comments whether you work the confusion and the mix-up of those two and also be interested to know. And with that thank