Hook: company that dominated 90% of the camera market. bled market share and money, eventually that would be the end of the story. But not soaring over a billion. Chapter 1: Bankruptcy (Play clip: 0:05-0:11) a long, painful process, totalling 19 months. move away from cameras. Despite creating the it, and now it was too late. As they entered bankruptcy, Kodak's Liabilities was able to eliminate $4.1 billion of this left over. That's still a lot of debt. digital patent portfolio. They hoped but the actual figure was $527 million. Pension Plan". It's a bit complex, but imagine Kodak's pension obligations, specifically, but they did have some assets. units to Kodak Pension Plan for $650 million. they agreed to drop the remaining $2.1 billion. but Kodak agreed to pay these out after exiting package with JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. But there received a few cents back for every dollar. many were banking on Kodak surviving and enough to exit bankruptcy? All of this was overseen by a federal bankruptcy most of Kodak's creditors, despite quite a few On August 23, 2013, the judge and approved Kodak to exit &quot;This comes on a day when many and many are finding that their recovery as their debt is. But I cannot decree a larger shareholders if the value is not there." (source) very different company than the one in the popular one that filed for bankruptcy" (source). would they make money and pay off their debt? thing they desperately needed... was a good leader. Setup new CEO: Jeffrey J. Clarke. Clarke had a diverse positions in HP, Travelport, and Orbitz. But Once appointed CEO of Kodak, he had two bit surprising. (Play clip: 5:44-6:05) for Kodak's employees: he listened to them. to Kodak's employees, customers, partners evaluation of our operations, market He wanted input from staff. This was important, because it Resolution / Payoff it didn't keep up with the market. but were too slow to capitalise on it. again. His second key priority was (Play clip: 6:25-6:42 (end on "move fast") down by bureaucracy and red tape. Clarke cut and managers to innovate and share ideas. come with problems, but it's what Kodak needed. more than 100,000 employees to about 8,000 we have a bias for speed and agility that a and that is a competitive advantage. We an engine that is creating more." All of this was great, but it didn't Kodak needed a strong focus if they Chapter 3: Chartering a New Direction (Play 2:09-2:38) to customer behaviour and how it was changing. He cameras, but this would never be as big as it Before Clarke joined, Kodak's team was hard at they didn't have heaps of capital, their Stream Inkjet Technology. their ink and printing technology was excellent. But there was one problem. Consumers weren't Tension a major opportunity elsewhere. Kodak had dipped but hadn't yet fully committed. to dominate this industry. So they got to work. to focus entirely on digital printing for be massive corporate clients that needed highest quality, en masse. On February 11th, 2013, while still navigating The Prosper 5000XLi Press Printer. which could print 650 feet per minute, up to performance and make real-time adjustments, quantity, but it was also higher quality. pigment inks, offering a color range The Prosper 5000XLi was the best of the best. It the market. Kodak didn't just want to enter The question is, was it Chapter 4: Momentum The 5000XLi was a huge leap forward, but Kodak was still unprofitable. But with Clarke's leadership, and focus on innovation, So they kept going. They went Tension they released the Prosper 6000, a massive time. It could print 1000 feet per minute, it had better drying capabilities, and giving businesses even wider colors. At less than $0.005 per color A4 page. They and they did this further by offering multiple and the 6000P for newspapers or publishing. Have you noticed a quality upgrade on One of the biggest changes we've made is We've been leaning into using and custom AI footage which brings me to Invideo AI is already the leading AI million users worldwide, but their new the next level. Think Dall-E but for video. Sora, for several months, but Invideo AI V3 on the other hand is coming out full generative capabilities - meaning you Want a video of a diver exploring the Mariana Trench and finding massive structures and your voice for the narration? Simply enter Welcome to the world of endless and Invideo puts you in the director's seat If you haven't checked out Invideo go check it out right now even just to starting at just $20/mo. Just to go my code to get 2x the number of video Thank you to Invideo for sponsoring this video. Kodak was now moving at full speed. They and it was paying off. After emerging from they recorded their first annual That is unbelievable. Kodak had and quickly. And this was just the beginning. was "the world's fastest digital press,&quot; printing double the 5000XLi. Their printing division another area was slowly growing. devoted group of customers, who loved Younger generations found film more authentic and experience when it came to shooting photography. comeback, and it's still growing. years ago was completely accurate. (Play clip: 14:50-15:09) Kodak's quality. Christopher Nolan's Oppenheimer, 65mm film. Other directors including Quentin By this time, Clarke had stepped down from conflict. He had turned Kodak around, and now Grand Payoff of $1.1 billion, with an net income $75 million, are a very different company, but some parts of innovation, research, and the core parts of their needed the right leadership, and strategy. but few mention how they bounced back. who failed to capitalise on smartphones, but different market. One that's quite surprising.