is good. This issue will continue to bring you the latest game. O'Sullivan played against He Guoqiang and the Rockets in the 2024 International Championships. After the kickoff, Qiang directly hit the Rockets back to his seat with a far platform. Let's see He Guoqiang, who started at the beginning, if we can get it smoothly. The first drop of blood, the four pink ball, the small low shot was a little short. This shot is the key to unlocking the black ball by hitting and kicking. Now I can still hit it to see how the final effect is. Eleven nice, the effect is very good. Brother Qiang got started and it went smoothly. Unlocked the black ball. If the subsequent pile of balls is handled smoothly, there is hope that the Rockets can be defeated in a single stroke. He Guoqiang was once nominated for the best star eye. In his two encounters with O'Sullivan, he won both games, and his winning rate against the Rockets reached 100% 35 forty three control. It's a pity that I tried hard in the middle but fell on Snow's black ball. Fortunately, this shot sealed the mouth of the bag and did not leave the Rockets a chance. They tried to sink to the bottom to defend but failed. The Rockets felt a little better after coming up. The cold defense has not yet found the feeling. Five certing talk to you one. The red ball missed again. Although He Guoqiang had already exceeded the score in a single shot , this was not finished and left the Rockets a chance to warm up . Another distant stage failed to warm up. Instead, He Guoqiang failed in the first game. What suspense? 9 77 24 thirty two 35 309 forty four 50 Let's take a look at the second game. This time, Brother Qiang's accuracy was not online, leaving a comfortable starting position for the Rockets. Then Sullivan stepped into the game and entered for the black ball. The rhythm is one nice 14 15 23. The power is called to the right upward angle, and the umbrella ball can be piled up. The nice effect is very ideal. Although the start is not good , the Rockets quickly find a silky offensive state. 37 43 forty four. Let's kk the team again. The middle zone can continue to attack. There is basically no suspense in this game. 52 60 sit for six. The Rockets have just finished the overscore . The Rockets have also missed the mark. Now they are only over 6 points. He Guoqiang has no reason to give up. Although the star is not ideal , he can still work hard to get one 16. We saw that He Guoqiang was already getting up before he hit the rocket . We can see that O'Sullivan wanted to finish early and clock out. One six 10 fifty 20 Let's take a look at the third game between the two sides. Nice 16 seventeen can be seen from this shot. There are two red balls, so He Guoqiang can play them alone. There are also three red balls that are currently attacking around the black ball. See if he has any ideas. 25, 33, 41 The angle of this shot is not left out. He Guoqiang comes over to take a look. Suddenly he had no choice but to play with the red ball alone and fight for a distant table. He re-adjusted the fifty six. He Guoqiang's luck was really bad. Not only did the K-ball pile fail to have a chance to turn over, but he was late and returned to the first division with the prize to give the Rockets a proper chance. In this situation, if the team provides well, He Guoqiang really hopes to challenge for 147 points . 8 Everyone is thinking about the Rockets. The two of them worked together to score 147 points. 16 24 25 33 fort 47 fifty four fifty five. He Guoqiang's game is such a pity. He didn't make any mistakes . He was just unlucky and was beaten by the Rockets with one shot. 62 six to five 69 one outside of Edison and the clay one seven four one. Watching the Rockets' k-ball is completely an art. Many players have k-ball. It often breaks after the ball piles up, but the Rockets always have a high success rate no matter how hard they try. 17 25 certain two certificate 39 forty five fifty three 61 is really silky enough. He Guoqiang started the game with a white ball and lost it to the Rockets. Six nine was gone in this game. seven to six 83 another selling a fister in the flame Lai He Guoqiang's accuracy also declined after the Rockets opened the score. He Guoqiang one He Guoqiang six six forty He Guoqiang made a mistake in this shot. He should have wanted to hit the red ball to call the fellow player on the right. It's a pity that Coco is strong and twenty one has not been able to win after several times. The red ball is even attacking, leading the hand. Coffee is just rushing to attack and move. The Rockets' accuracy today is also good. They can always provide fire support. Six. Now the black ball is at least contained. You have to hit the red ball to ensure you win. Let's see if the Rockets of the Master of Chaos are still as sharp. 10 11 Something. Now the small teams around the pink ball have been solved. The biggest difficulty is to look at the 3 red balls near the bottoms. The handling of the ball and the black ball 24 31 38 four to four forty five 53 sector one 8 but in the hands of the Rockets it is still very easy and silky to solve the mess. The master is still as sharp as ever one outside one selfie in the flame one six 7 15 Rockets This shot went too far. Not only was the coffee angle extremely thin, but the movement of the white ball was also difficult to control. The pink ball slid down, which left me speechless. Unexpectedly, the red ball at the bottom brought the Rockets back to 28 with one stroke . So this six four to four took one and Snow looked to see if it would become a variable. fifty six 58, the Rockets failed to bring in and called the situation out. This is It is a good opportunity for He Guoqiang to play against the Rockets. It is difficult to find such an easy starting position. In this game, if you want to reverse the red ball in the bottom library and the blue ball above, it is the key point to see how Brother Hui Qiang handles the red ball. 8 77 25 circus ray red ball After collecting it , only the upper blue ball is left. Brother Qiang took a look at the top band on the right side of the yellow ball. This is obviously a position that he did not want to call the pole. In the previous game, he lost an opportunity due to a mistake in pole setting. Many players will deliberately move their positions. Avoid positions that you are not good at. The most typical one is Carrot. Forty will often deliberately move to the pole position. forty two, forty five, 49 fifty four six, fifth, no problem. He Guoqiang withstood the pressure and gave the Rockets a wonderful comeback. One Rockets today. The accuracy is really good. I basically grasped the five and six opportunities I saw. I walked to the line with the yellow ball and I can still cut. I need accuracy. Take a look at the rocket's shot to grasp the ball. It's amazing. It reached the best position of a hand swing. The Rockets' ability to correct mistakes is so strong that there is no solution at all and cheers 18 26 34 forty two forty eight is a simple ball error . The Rockets lightly hit the table again. Let's see if Brother Qiang can withstand the pressure and sanction the Rockets this time. One is a pity. If you don't seize the opportunity, the game will be difficult to beat. He Guoqiang 66 16 one as i was 16 and the flame. Another distant stage. It can be seen that the Rockets have really prepared seriously this time. The almost 50-year-old still maintains first-class accuracy compared to those two Thirty-year-old players are even more accurate five 11 27 35 for history 50 57 tried to do it again but failed and it was a familiar plot. When the Rockets added 50, the attack was interrupted , but this time there was no chance. He Guoqiang still had a chance to survive . Watch Can the match point be saved at once? The Rockets brought a strong right-hander to break up the situation. If He Guoqiang can't get started easily, the Rockets can just pick up a few and get off work. Six 7, 88, 25 are over, and He Guoqiang wants to get off work early. The undefeated streak against the Rockets also broke 32 certain three second line forty forty five forty seven fifty 54 59 65