Of all the recommendations I've gotten from you, this is near the top. So many say it's the best restaurant in America. Well, no surprise that getting I started asking around. But nobody could help. With the California trip fast It seemed like it was never going to happen. A few weeks before the trip, I was in Singapore having dinner at Zen, complaining to the Operations and He said "Let me see what I can do." Next thing I know, voila, we have a table! Cheers, Aaron. I owe you big time! This is how I was able to get a table at one The French Laundry. It's our last stop in this five-part series. Discovering the best 3 Michelin We started with Atelier Crenn, went to Quince and Benu and now, we are here. Welcome to Yountville, California. Before we head to our restaurant After all, this is Napa Valley. What better time to visit a winery? This is Opus One. One of California's most prestigious wineries. It started as a partnership between Baron Philippe de Rothschild of Chateau and Robert Mondavi, a leading figure The collaboration started in 1978, and the first vintage, Opus One Opus One is known for producing In addition to producing some the winery is open for private tasting Yountville is such a peaceful place. Pulling up to the iconic restaurant, I'm excited. French cuisine is close to my heart. But I have to admit, I'm also a little nervous. This is a Thomas Keller restaurant. He has made a name for himself as an innovator, a leader and his unparalleled But... I've been to another one of his restaurants, And I was not so impressed. And now that we are here at The French Laundry, Keller's flagship restaurant, But my first impression, From here, we see the team hard at work, while Stevie Wonder's Signed, Sealed, We arrive through the blue door and get a We have a moment of chit chat The white-washed interior of this historic And the table setting plays off the laundry Originally, this building was a saloon. Later it became a French steam laundry, and in 1974, Yountville His plan was to turn it into a restaurant. In choosing the name, they Don's wife Sally was a chef Who helped launch the farm-to-table Sally enjoyed a career as head chef where she served fixed price In 1994, a stranger rolled into town, hoping to realize his vision of a The writing was on the wall. That man's name was Thomas Keller. A deal was signed, the keys handed over and Everything was updated, except for one thing. The blue door. Sally passed away in 2022 I didn't want to change the world, just wanted to cook. To honor her memory, Keller serves one of Sally's Beautiful guesture. This calls for Krug. A grand cuvee 169. It's one of my favorites. and is a blend of 146 wines The youngest is from 2013 and Welcome drink in hand, I check out the wine list. It's exhaustive, with some Every meal at The French Laundry starts with this. It's a cone filled with smoked salmon mousse and The first bite was dominated by smoked salmon, This appetizer has it all. flavors of savory, sweet and mildly fishy, with creamy and crunchy textures. An elevated take on an old childhood Next is called 'Ritz Crackers' another throwback Appetizers down, the main courses to go. The caramelization brings out the while the hazelnuts add Brown butter ties everything Excellent. The cutlery here is top level. Although Chef Keller is not he does have a collection of ultra-high-end One of the fanciest items is a with a sticker price of just under 2000 euros. Our next course takes us to Japan. Here we have Sardines on toast - Japanese Japanese big fin squid with sweet pepper caponata. Pink hopper shrimp tempura. And Pacific Shima aji with Brokaw avocado mousse. Delicious course with 4 unique preparations. Loved it. My next drink is from Japan too. It's a sake from Junmai, and It's crafted by former Dom Perignon The story goes, when he retired from So he moved to Japan to learn This is one of them. IWA number 5. The number refers to five strains of yeast that For more honest Michelin star reviews like In the future, we will bring behind the scenes and special This is what I call a caviar dish. It's their signature oysters and pearls. Sabayon of pearl tapioca Gorgeous plating and amazing flavors. Each bite combines creamy sabayon with It's unforgettable, and so far, this is my favorite. Our new wine is a 1954 Madeira It's bold, sweet and quite acidic. This bottle is rare and is in It's just an example of one of the Having a lot of good wine is And that's exactly why on Christmas night in 2014, a gang of thieves broke in, made and robbed it. Walking away with over half a Although the robbers were organized, The thieves were caught and authorities even Our next course is Hen-egg custard Love the texture of this one, and the Then a local wine from here in Napa Valley. A 2022 sauvignon blanc from Eisele with pear, green apple and citrus fruit Our next course is called It's chickpea hummus, broccoli It's duck diodine stuffed with with shavings of chicken liver Unbelievable. Our next wine is a 2021 Kosta Brown chardonnay It's light and elegant and One of them is Alaskan king crab that Served with an artichoke and lemon reduction. So far, everything has been perfect. Outstanding service, delicious Our next course is called Boudin Noir. It's buttered popcorn grits and Interesting dish with rich tempered by the zing of the capers. Our next wine is an Italian Brunello. It's spicy and intense, fruit-forward, and floral. It's paired with a dish called Mac and Cheese. Macaroni, black winter truffle mousseline, crispy This is a brave one. Serving macaroni at a Michelin star restaurant. I love it. Do you see how close together the tables are? There is little room for the servers. But they manage to move efficiently When I mention it, I was told that in the past, servers had to take dance lessons so they could move gracefully in Fantastic! The wine I savor next is a 2019 pinot noir Fresh black and red fruit with a long finish. It will see us through two courses. This is rabbit with black mushroom The meat is tender and succulent prepared The sauce is intensely rich and creamy. Next up is an elevated beef wellington. On the plate it's served with wilted Simply irresistible. The wagyu is next level and with For cheese and desserts, we Inside the restaurant is nice, We start with aged mimolette Simple ingredients that play We also have some celebrating to do. My god-son, Bence, turned 18 a few I'm sure this is one birthday Our next wine is a 2007 dessert wine Alexander Valley. A beautiful selection of desserts are last. Here we have the chef's favorite with layers of hazelnut, praline, The classic French Laundry coffee and donuts also We also have a candied, sugar-baked red And a cross between tangerine and mango sorbet. And finally caramels, chocolates and macaroons. Who comes out next? The chef de cuisine, David Breeden. Unfortunately, we need to head to the In that time, we learn he is laid-back and Taking photos. Since then, He has notice He sees light, clouds, and When I asked him how he got started in it, He wanted to give more precise This is the mentality of a successful person. It's no wonder that founder and chef Thomas Keller is the first and only multiple three-star ratings in the Michelin Guide, as well as the first American male chef to be He's got his fingers in so many pies, He has sold over a million and a half cookbooks, consults for movies like Spanglish and Ratatouille and he coached the American team to its Before we say goodbye, we get And get a taste of how they manage a When all is said and done, the only Our total for today comes to What can I say about The French Laundry? There is no comparison to Keller's It was practically a perfect experience. I loved being here. I loved the flavors, the setting, Speaking of people, there is that really stood out for me. This guy. His name is Brighton. Highly professional and knows how to deliver His perfect posture, and elegent He is like a movie star. Smart, funny, kind, energetic, the list goes on. I have experienced lots of excellent But if there is one person who takes It's Brighton. What about the queen? That would have to be Lisa Nilsson. The Service Captain at Zen in Singapore. She created her own universe, She is like no other. I simply adore her. And now, it's that time. To say goodbye to California. Looking back, it was full of surprises. Before I went to the USA, I wasn't expecting any special or It's just not what came to mind In my trip to New York, I tried five and was impressed by one or two. Here in California, however, All five restaurants were completely different, each with a unique approach And four of them completely amazed me. It's rare to find places in the world where such diverse and fantastic restaurants I would have a hard time naming where I liked four restaurants I want to give a huge shout-out to all we covered on this trip. Thank you so much for hosting us.