(gentle brooding music) (plane alarm beeping) (static crackling) (Captain Takahama speaking in Japanese) (First Officer Sasaki (Captain Takahama and Engineer (thud resounding) (Captain Takahama speaking in Japanese) (plane alarm beeping) - Aboard a Japanese passenger flight on the 12th of August, 1985, Unbeknownst to the pilots, the plane had just undergone leaving them scrambling to get Over and over, they attempt to However, nothing they try seems to work. The airplane is completely unresponsive, yet the over 500 passengers on it have no idea just how dire On this aircraft, a structural component has a failure caused by a near and a failure that would lead to what is now known as in global aviation history. (gentle pensive music) Tonight's video is sponsored by Incogni. As we move towards an the idea of online privacy Every day, data brokers and are building a personal Your data, your home address, is more than likely just a search away. And to me, the thought of having details like this out there is horrifying. Enter Incogni, a service that actively fights for you, searching for and requesting from the hundreds of brokers out there. Five minutes is all it Granting you an entire team of experts dedicated to restoring your privacy. I recently saw reports had my information. 84. However, knowing that Incogni to get that number down to zero, I'm given peace of mind that my privacy is getting the upkeep it deserves. Go to incogni.com/nexpo and use code NEXPO for an exclusive offer of 60% off. Once again, that's in or click the link below off the market. Thank you so much to Incogni for making tonight's video possible. Now let's get to it. It's Monday. (pensive music) Delta Flight 191 is under investigation after a tragic accident. A string of unsolved murders grips a small town in Washington. And across the pond, in Tokyo, (car engine revving) it's rush hour. (ethereal music) It is the week of Obon, in which they honor and thousands are scrambling to get home to their families. At 6:00 PM, Japan Airlines Flight 123 prepares for its fifth flight of the day. This one is full, traveling a little under an hour away. On this day, 49-year-old is training his co-pilot, in a Boeing 747. The two were joined by a named Hiroshi Fukuda in the cockpit and 521 others awaiting this In every sense, this All is going to plan, and they're just a few (airplane zooming) Japan Airlines Flight And as the aircraft the passengers look out of their windows to a Tokyo slowly fading. (passengers faintly speaking) 12 minutes in, and they're nearing the cruising And just as everyone's (metal thuds) (passengers screaming) At 6:25 PM, there's a as the bathroom ceiling collapses. A blinding white light flashes, the water vapor in the and the oxygen masks fall in front of disoriented passengers. All of this happens in sending everyone on board (plane alarm beeping) (Captain Takahama speaking in Japanese) - [Intercom] Put out your cigarettes. This is an emergency descent. (Captain Takahama speaking in Japanese) (gentle ominous music) - [Nexpo] The crew begins to realize that the plane has become uncontrollable. After being granted permission to return to Haneda Airport, Captain Takahama panics, questioning why First Officer Sasaki is banking so much in one direction. He commands for him to ease up. However, all inputs performed As it turns out, all four hydraulic lines leading to the plane's wings are severed. And unbeknownst to them, their vertical stabilizer This plane is flying with and with that, their to land back home safely Inside the main cabin, a passenger takes one single photo in which we can observe the Unfortunately, the supply only meant to last long enough to a breathable altitude. What they were unaware of, though, was that the plane found itself stuck in what's known as a phugoid cycle, leaving the crew unable and in a way, unable to descend at all. Over and over, the craft and rapidly picks up speed before the nose naturally recovering the lost altitude and stalling. It again dives, ascends, all while banking at in either direction. By now, the crew is to make their way back to Haneda Airport for an emergency landing, yet the aircraft is to prevent that. (brooding music) (ominous music) The pilots have not and acute hypoxia has taken its grip. The phugoid cycle is problem number one, yet posing another threat side to side role of the aircraft. To mitigate this, the crew manages to effectively suppressing the phugoid cycle. However, over the course the plane descends over 10,000 feet while rolling at an Effectively, they achieve a complete 360 degree downward spiral and understandably losing hope as every critical second bleeds by. (ominous music) (air traffic controller (Captain Takahama speaking in Japanese) (air traffic controller (Captain Takahama and Engineer - [Captain Takahama] Turn right! (Captain Takahama and Engineer Right turn! (Captain Takahama and Engineer Right turn. (Captain Takahama and Engineer Left turn. (Engineer Fukuda speaking in Japanese) (Captain Takahama speaking in Japanese) (Engineer Fukuda speaking in Japanese) (plane alarm beeping) (Captain Takahama speaking in Japanese) Max power! Max power! Max power! (Engineer Fukuda speaking in Japanese) (First Officer Sasaki (Engineer Fukuda speaking in Japanese) (ominous music) - [Nexpo] The plane has They are now heading and straight towards Mount Takamagahara. Over the next five minutes, the to move away from this impending threat and manages to climb again to 11,000 feet. False hope, this is, however, as they find themselves in This time, right over treacherous terrain. (alarm beeping) - [GWPS] Pull up! (Captain Takahama speaking in Japanese) (alarm beeping) - [GWPS] Pull up! (alarm beeping) - [GWPS] Pull up! (brooding music) (rain pattering) (rain pattering) (crickets chirping) (helicopter buzzing) (ominous music) In the quaint village of Ueno nestled in the mountainside, residents awaken to a lingering odor. In the air, rescue and as they discern something On the ground, rows of trucks while crowds gather in Yet amidst all of this, hardly anyone knew the 21 miles southwest of their location, the remains of Japan Airlines and are scattered across the mountainside. The plane is completely shredded. The landscape wounded. And to say that this scene was grim is a criminal understatement. (ominous music) Out of the 524 passengers only four survived. This was the worst loss of life in the history of aviation. This incident is devastating, and the most frustrating is that it did not have to You see, just 20 minutes after impact, a US Air Force serviceman spotted and phoned in the crash location. However, instead of making the call to lend support immediately, the Japanese military called under the presumption that none For over 12 hours, the plane a handful still alive and awaiting help from numerous aircraft that passed right above them. Aircraft that saw them, yet they were completely unaware One of the four survivors later recalled their explaining how throughout the night, they could hear children It was loud at first. Yet as the hours went by, these pleas slowly faded into silence. Some fell out of consciousness, some lost the energy to continue. But for the vast majority, this stillness signaled of lives that could have been helped. It took 12 hours in total yet by then, the scene A Japanese medical doctor stated that had this rescue perhaps they would've But it was silent. (gentle music) In the years following the incident, no one would fly in Japan Air, resulting in the company taking With this, both the airline would pay out hundreds to the victim's families over time a reparation immaterial in the Even then, however, guilt festered in the minds of Japan Air a 59-year-old maintenance and a 57-year-old inspector would later take their own lives, with the former leaving a note &quot;I am atoning with my death.&quot; In the end, investigators to improper repairs to the the rear component of the pressure seal present in all aircraft. It was learned that seven years prior, the same aircraft encountered during a landing, cracking the bulkhead and rendering the plane unflyable. During repair, the engineers planned to utilize a large splice plate to connect the two sides of the crack while reinforcing it with When done correctly, the full structural integrity of the wall, rendering it just as safe In reality, however, the repair Instead of using one splice plate, Boeing's repair technicians used tomb in parallel to the crack, effectively rendering one completely useless. This oversight was never discovered and the plane flew in this condition over 12,000 times. (gentle music) (gentle somber music) This tragedy echoes through and is one of the most that should have been prevented. It's hard to grasp the sheer horror of experiencing a plane Those who did had to that is unimaginable. The agonizing moments afterward helpless under the night sky, effectively forgotten I feel horrible for everyone and for the families and friends that were eagerly waiting for them. Obon is typically a time of communion, an annual reconnection with But for the 520 victims who they were never able to finish Their families awaited and their memory is forever stained by an incident that never That night, there was nothing no way they could have known. But in the wake of it Their memory, their lives, will forever be cherished and their legacy will forever endure until the end of time. (gentle somber music) (gentle somber music continues) (gentle somber music continues)