Barton Paulson is a university professor and you into an expert in Google Sheets, spreadsheets And don't forget to like and subscribe to Welcome to Google Sheets, what I want to tell you you could learn to love them too. Now, you may But the important thing to know data gives you a map, it helps you find your that depends on what your goals are. They might political. But whatever it is you're interested if you have a business, it can help you figure paying clients. It can help you figure out what who can help you say what attracts new it may help you figure out what's the best And it can even help you figure out important your work or your services? So data is a method what does that have to do with Google Sheets? things that are really important with data. your data a home. Now you know where your stuff you can share it with other people, you get it with it. And then what what are those things that that you can do with Google sheets that are really you can explore your data, think of yourself as an and you're trying to find out what's all around Sheets, you can do that with graphs it can help you find the places of greatest value, Google Sheets can also help you sort and filter of tea bags, put them in little boxes, it makes what you're missing. In the data world. You can you can filter it here, I'm filtering by a couple you can find new clients that are in your database and you can focus on them and take care of it. And you, you can calculate things about that data. bringing things in to focus. The entire point of helps you reach practical goals, you want to bring can be pretty literal. Here I have a set of almost But over here on the right, you can see that the I've got conditional formatting that highlights values of 100 are. It helps you sort through the most use to you. Finally, believe it or not work creatively. Now, not necessarily to create find out that Google Sheets can help you free up the things that are most important to you. And you use when planning a big trip around the world with help figure out who was going to sit where on all to help you make a decision about what you want both your personal and professional goals. I'll as you go through the course you can follow at this address, data lab.cc slash tools 01. So that's data lab.cc slash tools slash je s try Google Sheets and what you'll listen to your data and find your way in your own you here. And I'm excited to hear from you about Sheets can help you find better value in your own there's one important piece of advice, I when you're working with data, always do take a look at your data, see what's in front maybe zoom in on some smaller things, but you need first graphs, then numbers. As far as I'm the numbers are simply a way of lending precision teach statistics, that every single thing we do in or you can calculate it with numbers as Now, I can't talk about this without within the statistics community is called an back in the 70s, somehow found a set of data small set of data here. And what you need to see the sample size, the mean, that's the average, the things are the correlation between the two the slope and the intercept. See those numbers right? There are the same as those numbers, right? So based on a cursory numerical analysis, On the other hand, when you graph it, Here's the first set of data, this is a nice are scattered around a little bit on this line. On the other hand, the second pair of variables Now, the kind of analysis we usually because that's the simplest possible way of You can draw a straight line through this, because really, you need to be modeling the relatively advanced. And I personally, The third set of variables, you see, we've got one number, oop, that's popping up. And it's what's going on with that number? Why is it a manufacturing process that might indicate that would be nice. But it could be something standard approach doesn't deal well with outliers that. And then the last one set for is a very where all of the numbers are jammed over here right, which would normally be an indication wrong in the data gathering. And so simply by enormous difference, even though, based on common these are artificial datasets, Charles anscombe, of data, but diverged so much graphically. But you would want to do a graphical analysis first. data about donations to a nonprofit organization things are motoring along kind of fine, suddenly, halfway through it more than doubles, up another 10,000 and it settles down, then it The graphical analysis, just a simple line on. And we need to figure out what's making maybe we can do more of that. And then also This is the way that even a visual analysis the actions that you take within your what's happening and allowing you to maximize your own goals. And besides, there's another thing, high information density medium. And so you're going to get a lot more insight than So the moral of all of this is simply always start follow them up with any numerical analysis that insight. And you'll avoid a lot more problems you need. If we're going to be on the same page we need to talk a little bit about the anatomy of describing it can make some sense. First thing Sheets is just called a spreadsheet. In Microsoft consist of more than one page, each of which has a called worksheets. And then Google Sheets, they're do your work. Now, each sheet consists of a number indicate what column you're in, this is column D, row number one, row number two. And what that and each row is a cell. So right here, I've got within a Google Sheet, that can put something B, two. So you always give the column and the row number second, B to this here is C And so that's the address, you have cells that columns and horizontal rows. Now, there's a lot showed you, you can have multiple tabs. And those or arrange things in different ways on each one. next to it that allows you to do things like There we go. Now we've got a little bit of color Or to see a list of all the tabs, that's good, add a sheet. And then when you come Now a lot of times the first row is for the and you might want that to stay where it is. You can do that by freezing a row or you can will stay there. Now there's a few different ways and hit freeze and say the first row or the first I personally find it easier to come over here and turns into a hand, you just click on that and drag you can see that when I scroll up and down, that with columns. If you want, for instance, this until you are have a little hand and then drag it called freezing rows and columns. And it's a way Also, when you come up to the top here, you'll shows up in each of these, including the ability So I can click this. And now it sorts the entire back to where I was, I could either do undo or I I sort by ID sort from ascending values from A to You also have a number of toolbars. Up program you've been using. There is one special And that is way down here in the bottom called a quick sandbox, and what it is, I've highlighted some numbers. And now when the sum, I actually use this a lot. If I'm I can get an immediate, somebody just dragging You can also click on it and see a whole lot of the count the number of scores and the number of But that's a way to get immediate information So the important thing is a spreadsheet each of which has cells that are arranged into and horizontal rows, which are named with numbers. course, you'll see there's a huge number of things More than anything, a spreadsheet, for data. And one of the important things to forms. A lot of it's numerically based, but even And there is also non numeric data. And Google want to show you some of those variations. So own purposes. The most obvious one, of course, is you put those in there, Google Sheets will usually you can type those in, you can get a lot of On the other hand, you can also get proportions is the same as 87%. In fact, if you can just take that proportion, and you there it is, it even gives you two You also have the option of just typing And that also works as a percent. If I press the Now, there's one thing you don't want to And then think if you do this is going to which is obviously not what you want. the point eight, seven, and You can also put in the number like pi and you pi has infinite decimals. So it can make have a number with a lot of decimals already you can increase the decimals, I don't know that if you want them. Now often the information you're to be financial, you can have money, you're going And you have several different options. One is you're familiar with this, but you come up to accounting. And what it does is it puts the way over here. Okay, that's pretty easy. You similar in certain ways, I'll come down here. And doesn't have the dollar sign in it And there's also currency. And you can I'm going to use dollar, that's where I am. And so And it's three different ways of representing the different each other, it becomes a little more So I'm going to put a negative there. And now common thing in accounting. And with financial, it currency, I put in a negative it sticks in front dealing with money, depending on what's the most also put in dates, you just type them in seven you in another video, there's a lot you can do time so for instance, 10 1031, just enter it as So those are all numbers. And there's a lot of is able to handle a lot more than that it's able so you can just type in words and it It turns out, with words. And I'll give you examples of those type in a valid web address, I just typed in data although it should be HTTPS, because I have you can click on them, and it'll take you there. now opening because I had it here in the cell, the there, it'll work a lot of different ways. You can a special function that calls in Google Finance $1,066 a share. And by the way, notice that we get if I were to delete that the disclaimer would and I've used a few of them already and have a the formula that pulls up this data is quotation marks at Google, because that's the one other interesting thing you can do in Google can include images. Now, this is an image that is image and then you put the URL for that image in that you know it increases in size as well. So it from a URL, put that one back to where it was. floating images and a number of other things. Let right here to insert, you can put in a chart, an I'll talk about a lot of those. Let me just insert know, when you include an image, I'm just gonna the one thing you need to know is that in the cell, you can drag it around, it's So it's not linked to this cell. And that's a in the cell. But it is possible to include trying to build up a repository or even have it gives you many different options. this is that Google Sheets is able to serve as a each of which might arise in different Once you have your data in Google Sheets, you have this is mostly cosmetic in terms of changing the that can help you organize the data that makes things to your attention. Let me give you some a computer before, this is going to be familiar. default font in Google Sheets is Arial, which is On the other hand, maybe you want a source meal goudy. That's one that I like. and you go to source meal. And now you may not If it's not, you just go to more font that takes fonts. Don't add all of them because then it gets for your purposes. And you can add it in here and anybody who uses your document. Another option code, a fixed width font is pretty common. You smaller 10 point by default eight point is well, not too hard to see. It make a lot bigger. And if you are putting in headings or titles. Now, to the choices that are here. So for instance, come up here, select the number and type you can also do the bold I got to do is do same thing with a tallix. Just come and strike through, I don't use strike through purposes. Okay, those are all quick and easy. The a computer before you know how to do this stuff. importance and directing focus. And that can be visualizations or making a table that you're help interpreted or you're sharing it with other there's red text, you can also do fill it puts in the cell. Now, by the way, when you to come and pick white text to go on top of You can do cell borders, and I do these only To do cell borders, select the cells that you borders. And you know, you can put cells borders you don't want to do that. There are times I horizontal lines going through the data, it's rows in a table, especially when it's printed. borders are an option. row height, you can snap snap to fit means something that happened I can drag it down. So it's super huge, or I I changed the font size, it automatically changed Similar to that you have options for column width, actually requires a small three column headings here. And I'm going to to have column headings in bold, and they're you can just select these three columns, And then it changes the width of each column so be situations in which you want to do that. On size columns can be a little disturbing. So you I can select all three of them here. And I can I just click this and drag it around a little and And that usually is easier to read because you In addition to that, and maybe this is a solution, I've got right here so far, is flush left, center it, you can also make it flush right by On the other hand, if you're doing a column, especially with the columns are different you also have the option of changing vertical one other thing. And that is text wrapping where this a little more obvious by making all of these that says extra extra extra long is now too big, and to change it so that it is wrapped. it is not breaking very well if I put Because it treats it as a single word. There we maybe you want these other ones on the bottom, towards the top towards the middle. purposes. These are a lot of different ways that is not to noodle away your time and just kind of it is to organize the document to make it clearer. to guide the eye through your document to make the even with a small range of options is going to When you're getting ready to work with your data, if you have tidy data. Now, this kind of a funny within the data science world, I want you to data, to the first three are going to take you of statistical software by Hadley Wickham, that And you can also take you to a page on the our about what is meant by tidy data. The idea is and is easier to take from one software package a little problematic, because spreadsheets are a lot of things that might suit your purposes when exporting or sharing with others kind of spreadsheet right here, that does some of the First and foremost, we've got a problem here of and you spread it all the way across these other there's a merge cell. This one is 15 cells everything. The problem with these is they change if I come here and click on column F, you and then it's selecting all of this. But if I I try to hit bowled back, it doesn't do anything I I'm just gonna come right here and doesn't want to work because of the merge cells. to get title centered, but they make it really that. The other thing that you don't want is you to have things spread across in different tables, again, if you're planning on sharing it with other take the data out of Google Sheets, and into some they're going to need something else. Specifically as a variable variables and columns are identical. thing. And so we need to get some of this by the way, is with tidy data is that all of this is an important piece of information to mark pieces. Also, we've got a comment kind of maybe this person could be coded as being west This is not the sort of thing you want to have you'll lose all of that information. And so let's them easier to work with and less problematic. get rid of those titles we had across the top. or surveyed in person, make a new column that information in this spreadsheet, it's not a change for the comment because I didn't think you might want to have two locations, starting Now there's a couple of other problems. One is don't even know what the zeros and ones are f&amp;m of data cleaning right now I'm going to come here Number one is I took the variable and I changed have a variable that you're going to treat as for no a one for Yes, and you name the variable assign female the one it's arbitrary, you can put down that they were female, I put a one for Similarly, for the method of surveying them, I give them a one and if it were anything else, like up. But there's one more step that we need to do got information hear about the location the person everything else is at the individual level. This we're repeating a lot of information. If you've database, you know that you set up separate you want to do the same thing with tidy data. But then, if you have this information at a into a separate table, it's just a tiny little a person's location was north, east, south or from this table. And when you do those things, separate sheets, you'll have one sheet that where each column is a variable, each row information is put into those variables that contains the variables for the other level of if you're going to be exporting your data so it working entirely within Google Sheets, it's doing whatever you want. Just be aware that gives you a lot of room for creativity, but it when in doubt, take the tidy data approach, keep easy to analyze and easy to get meaning out of faster if you're able to collaborate with the things that Google Sheets does best. To share all you need to do is come up to click on different ways you can share with people. Now email address right here. Here's a fake email you have the option of assigning different can change the document, they can edit it, or can't change the actual text. Or they can simply And it will email that person and let them know into it and they can start working on it with you. So for instance, you can say that anybody at account, or you can click on More here, you can which is what I've done on this one. And I've set I could set it up so they could comment or I hit save. And then as long as but you click Copy Link, and I'm going to open And now this is the way that anybody can see it, it's given me a little blurb about updates here. that other people this is my professional account And even though this person can edit it, they CSV or CSV file, and they can start working Now one of the nice things about the way that delete this one, I don't really want to share and done. But when you're sharing, you can see account. This is my company account. And you're instance, I'm going to be in this cell right is surrounded in pink same as we have up here you can see I have the document open. That's my company account. And it's a good way to see collaborating to get your analysis up and running within Google Sheets may accomplish your purposes. than one thing or there's more than one resource sharing each of them individually, it's a to do that All you need to do is come to the selected. And you can either come up here to to go share it, or you can, for instance, option, you're going to add the person you want to share and then with that include a message to them. Or you got a lot of different choices here. on the web could actually search for this, they have a specific link. Lots of other ways. And you see the contents, or whether they can organize right now I have it set to just view. And let's you know how it works. But I'm gonna copy the So I'm not logged into this one. And I'll enter are the three different files, I've got a little little data lab icon. I've got an empty document shared. And I've got the spreadsheet that I'm it gives us this little advertisement lets us logged into it, that's my personal account. That's it here, you do have the option of downloading individual files. The nice thing, of course, is automatically shared with everybody else who has with more than one step in it, say for instance, you have several different files that build faster and more efficient and more effective If you're going to work with data, you have to Sheets. Now, the fundamental way to do this is to there's a lot of times where that's the preferable statistical program, like SPSS or SAS, it's so a lot of advantages to it. One is it's really simultaneously on what you're doing here. Now, I data manually, and say Francis is going to be there's a few things you want to do to make your what's called tidy data. That's a term developed programming language R. And it means that a a case is the same thing as row. And there's just start with this one. If you're entering paper, the so that you can find that piece of paper in case get out a pen and write these numbers on a piece questions. Now I want to show you something kind able to do and what that is, is propagating. So for instance, I like to type q 01, where q is minute, I'm not doing q1 q2, cuz it's gonna think But if I do the leading zeros, especially important, I can select those first two, and then and fill in with the same pattern. You can do that to do is I'm going to take this top column, I'm center the columns you don't have to and there's justified to the left and numbers it's up to you. Sometimes I just like to do this it's a little easier to see what's going by simply dragging this bar down. And now when If you're going to be entering data from pieces so you go like this 123 and it can propagate that And now we've got the numbers as long as you're good to go. If several people are entering separate who has what. And the first person might the first 100 indicates the person, the second And then the next person can start with 201, go straight from 107 to 201, you just can't have people can be working separately on their own simultaneously in the same sheet. And it very simple method for entering this is to type and people are putting in a number. And then I nine, and I can go through and enter like this. to the end, I hit return. And it takes me back go on like this, I can type in the data however I answer a question is it best to simply leave it can put in eight, although I would hope that they a numerical variable. But the idea here is you can all the way through. And now you have entered subsequent analyses. Although it's possible for sheets or another spreadsheet. And again, there life is so much easier if you can simply import what I want to show you is slightly different place that stores files. So for instance, you can and you can store it in either the native Excel actually want to show you how to import something And to do this, we're simply going to go up And when you do that, it's going to ask you and select a file from my computer that I have three files here that are identical except they're just data files that have an ID number, a in a zip code, it's this is made up data. This is is the same data in a CSV or comma separated value text document, but they're still separated all of them. So what I'm going to do is And I'm going to select one of these files. I'm to hit open. And then it's going to bring up a what I want to do. Do I want to create a totally new sheet, I want to replace the current sheet. So on, put it there. And if I want to tell it what but it can detect it automatically. And it's easy to deal with, and then convert text takes just a second. And here it is, it's in my and the columns are intact. If I want to make my And maybe I will come here, maybe And make it all flush, right. Except for flush left. And my data sets ready to go. And now an existing Google Sheet very quick and easy I have an untested theory that the single most is spreadsheets. And of those I think the spreadsheets. So for instance, if somebody sends from online, it might be an Excel format. And even into Google Drive or into Google Sheets, I do plain ol cop Paste. So I've got a spreadsheet I've been using for some other examples. I'm and then command or control with space, I get the go back to excel sheets and hit paste, I'm going my data I'm ready to go. On the other hand, it from web pages on tables. I do this occasionally. I have a link here to a page in Wikipedia on Nobel this page. And it talks about who's won the Nobel we have a table with a list of everybody who has 2017. There we go. Now what I'm going find it works best if I start at the bottom And I'm gonna go up to 1901, almost there. And I'm going to copy the headings I do Command or Ctrl C to copy it. Then I'm going to come to this cell right here. And all Now this is going to do something slightly weird. million links in this table. And truthfully, that data. So I'm actually going to ask Google Sheets text, I do that by coming to this little clipboard And I say give me the values only. And now And that's a great way to go. I can then I can then lock that first I can highlight the columns and then just And now I've got a data set that I do want to show you one tiny more little trick go to this sheet called paste transpose. And I'm Now, I showed you in another video how Google 123, it just keeps continuing. If you do q 01 or the week. So I've got Sunday, Monday here. And I'm down a little bit. And look we have now have the want to switch it from being arranged vertically what you want to do is a special kind of paste to copy this by hitting Ctrl or Command C, that'll click, it's actually a two finger, click on we've got a few options here. The one I want to and it flips it around from the rows to the for analysis, this can save you a lot of stress that's just one final tip on getting data by copy with data, one of the truisms is that about 80% of And when you're working in Google Sheets, you got especially in terms of keeping notes for yourself I want to show you how to make notes which are a show you another time. A note is something to that cell. So for instance, let's try this. data. I've got days of the week, I've got months There are a couple of mistakes in this one. So One possibility is to make a note here, I can And I can insert a note. Or I can note. And what I'm going to When I click away from that, you can this little corner. And if I hover over the cell, somebody has to actually be on the sheet to know where I'm sharing this. And you can see that it's just a note that's in the cell. Now, some there stuff that you need to know to interpret that can be there temporarily in terms of drawing effective at drawing, but adding a little more effective way is to actually make a comment, which When you're collaborating with others on your and forth. And sometimes the best way is to put Now, you can do notes, which I showed you and they're there, they don't draw attention And they're really not as helpful as an actual work, I'm going to highlight two errors in this twice. Now to insert a comment, I can do a few Or I can use the keyboard shortcut, which which is what I'm using and Windows computers. click on it and come down to insert comment. And then you see that it brings up who's making then it's going to say, why is this repeated. to hit the comment. And so that's that rephrase. account to see what it looks like in the that there's a comment there. So it's drawing And it lets me know who's asking the question. June was so good, we wanted it twice. And I can And then I can come down here Oh look, it And if you want to bring in somebody else, you let's put data at sample Comm. I don't What do you think? And this is a way of bringing them and highlight in the comment for them, not a real email address, I'm gonna hit Cancel to you can ask for information, you can propose to it, you can go like this, you can say, we've now resolved it. So we can hit resolve. And that is now done, I can go to the And you can see that the comment And it's fixed. And so this is a really good repairing, and then making the action, I'll just And I'll insert another comment. This Anyhow, that's something you can do for future And it makes organizing the data and getting Google Sheets. When you're collaborating with put notes into the document or to have the but that's asynchronous, it's not in real times when having a real time conversation is your work. Fortunately, Google Sheets makes that chat. functionality. To do that, you have to have I can come over here and I can see that I've click on this icon, which says show chat. And type Hello. And then lets me know I've sent them And it's telling me that there's a it just kind of goes away. But if I come up dot, I open up the chat, What's up. And now I've got this conversation to work together in a way to try to solve the really far apart. And maybe for instance, a live This chat history stays there, as long as anybody to my other account. And I will close the document indication that Barton Paulson, that's my other and then I open it right back And there's actually nothing there because the chat history disappears once everybody closes the to have this real time conversation about what's done, how to interpret and how to apply your they don't really seem worth discussing. But it can make your life a lot easier. This applies things. And what I want to show you in terms of it around. Now, obviously, if you want to select on that cell, and you can move it around by doing arrows that's left in one cell. That's easy. If on the letter above that column. And you've got one column, click and drag across. Now you've just click on the row number. Can you select well by clicking and dragging. So that's easy. come up here and click on this area that's every single cell in the entire spreadsheet. Let's just this first row. Now actually, to make this can see the entire data set, I'm first going to these controls right here. And so now you can see, here and I've got an empty row right here, that's Now, let me come up to here, I'll just stick entire column, I can do it with the keyboard by is it selects vertically, until it thinks And it thinks it's reached the end because so it ignores it. On the other hand, if that And I were to give this a title up here, I'll whole data set, I'm going to come back over to down to the bottom because now it sees this are gaps in it. So Ctrl Space selects the entire And if I want to expand my selection, I can left arrow to get more of what I want. There's me just hit escape. I'll actually I'll just And what this does is it selects the entire row I can use the down arrow or I can use the up sometimes a little more precisely One other thing that you want to know is about this score. So it's on the other side of it. Now when I come up here, I have a hand, if I I'll put it back by undoing that move. That's I'll expand that, I can click and just drag And this can be an important way of fixing the way manually with an ID number. But in terms of far the easiest way to go. And so the ability my doing shift and the arrows, or to select by doing Ctrl. N space, or shift and space are the functions you want. It's a small thing, and it can make your life much quicker and less One of the most important things you can do it sorted, put it in order, because a spreadsheet And is to actually look at the data that's in thing, but it makes a really big difference. Sheets. And you need to be aware this works a Excel. Because when there are gaps in Excel, you can actually terminally mess up the data. But have is a small data set here with an ID number. letters and categories and so on. Here's all you little sea, watch how this little arrow shows a to z which means ascending or Z to A which is So now I've sorted it descending based on this one category, what you need to do is to sort it by I might want to have this category over here, I I've got some fours and some ones. By the way, not in terms of meaning. But let's say I wanted to the scores. So what I have to do is So I'm going to come to score. And I'm going And then I come next to category. And I sort I've got my 123 and three. And so this way, I you have to do it kind of in a backwards easy way to get things under control. Also, one important to have an ID row a column that possible to get back your original order, And then right back to where I was to begin with. data, you don't need to see everybody but you Google Sheets allows you to do this very easily your data in front of you is you come over and you And when you click that, it selects the data headers in green. And you get these little different things with these. You can select text, I'll show you a two step selection for the criteria. So for instance, let me come over category one and three, I can deselect these can clear them all and then select just So one and three and I click that and you see then if I want to do a nother layer on top of and I can say I only want to see Cases whose select them manually because you only have a few condition. And I've got a lot of different choices greater than not greater than or equal to, but And when I click that, the other whereas I originally had 19 lines of data, it's kind of hard to tell because it's hiding the But now I only have the six cases that meet my two and having a score greater than three. And so for instance, people who have made over a certain who've been involved an unusually high amount with particular cases, and give them the attention that your data and filter out cases that needs special what I call ad hoc filters, which are the ones And it brings up a menu like this. But you also views, which stay with the data and you can have are a little different. I'm going to click on to get those. And then you see the window looks and the column headers and row headers are in going to do here is let's say let's get the click on this filter for ID. And then I'm value is less than or equal to 10. And there we have it and see by the way But what's interesting is I can save this filter, one, I just highlight that, and I replace And so now, that's a saved filter. And if I come you can see it saved right there. Now let's create another filter view, I'm going to say new filter view. And let's replicate a filter let's come to category and select just and then let's select scores that are Alright, and now I've got those cases. And category one and three, score greater than So when I come back here, I have both of those off. So if I want to go see just the first If I want my compound selection, I click like the entire data set, I simply click none. And when I have to find cases that have not yet been And I just select down to those unable to focus save the view into your data and also to be again, allows you to soar through your data focus and get your analysis done. You may get to a point with just specific collaborators, but you actually you to publish your both your spreadsheet and different from sharing via link where people can your folder. This is actually where you can post or a PDF. And well it makes the most sense to do in a web page. I want to show you how this works File and then come down to publish to the web. choices. You can publish the entire document, I'll do the entire document for right now. But you can publish it as a web page, in which case, do any of these other formats, in which case, of the file. So you don't see anything there. Let me show you what this looks like. I'm going to hit Publish. It says Do I want do this stuff by accident. And now I've got this go to a private browser, I'm going to open it attractive or well formatted. But that's because Because I published the entire spreadsheet, I have hyperlink selections. And so this is one way better if it's graphics that you're sharing, I don't have an example of those later. But The other option, by the way, aside from linking like a WordPress site, or Squarespace or your own So that is already hosted in house for people, but it's right there in front of them. And any out and your message out to as wide an audience sharing files and sharing your work is of course put stuff in you accidentally delete something, there are problems. And you may want to be able this is really, really simple in Google Sheets, to this, all you need to do is come to file, interesting things is that you have an option of draft two or clients review or whatever. But When I click on that, it's going to show me Now these ones I mean, if you click open on And two things, you have the option saying show and the final version, which are my named ones. the changes. So if I unclick that, it simply shows it lets you know that all of this got added the teal Barton pulse and founder RF we one. And you can see for instance, that there was you see the number of tabs changes, And so this is an option to hit restore this before things got out of hand, you can recover create these different versions that allow you to to be a fancy person using GitHub, or subversion version history in Google Sheets to keep track contributed what, it's a great way of getting The first graph I want to show you isn't it's a hack. It uses a function called repeat to actually is really convenient and makes a you how this works. What I have here is a made a person might have on several different And I've counted the number of people. Now you can put the number in there. But let's just see how we then I'm going to type in equals because I'm using Now, when you use the repeat function, the first repeat what's it going to put in many times and the quote and then the vertical pipe that's And then you tell it how many times you want And you can see it's giving you a preview formula with the closing parenthesis, hit return. that show an indication of how many people you this is because it's a formula, I can just drag one of my cells. And so it's really easy to see we have here. And that's about twice as many as want to draw attention to one particular category, you can just highlight that row. And And now you've got a bar that matches the to make it easy to find what you're looking different categories you're looking at. Plus, this paste it down here. Now what we're getting other than pipes. So for instance, I got a little copy that, I'm going to come back over to this. And so now you got a graphic, you can use any it lets you get a very quick visualization. And The single most useful chart that you can make is either the number of people in a group, or an to do in Google Sheets. Here I have a table. This followers in each platform. And all I have to do in the top, and I come over to Insert Chart. And a bar chart by default. Now you can see here, if But this is the bar chart really quick and easy. this first, I'm actually going to move it over a Instead of saying count versus social media I just clicked on that. And I'm going to put by because it doesn't tell me anything useful. So I I'm going to change this word over here from count to followers. And then I don't think I need select that and then delete it. And then finally, I'm going to double click on the bars, pick a And so there's an excellent bar chart. Now this isn't a bar chart, it's a column chart, And so let's take a quick look at how we can make and then paste it. And then So I can put it underneath. I'll scroll up now. And all I need to do is double click on this want a column chart, I want a bar chart. Now I'm default title. So I'm going to change it again to And I need to clean this up again. But the reason because if you have long labels now the words But if they were longer than this makes it easier head sideways or something and it puts it so it's easier to follow through with it in a chart you can make a bar chart a column chart give you all the information you need to A recent development in Google Sheets is a way Now in another video, I showed you how to create the number of cases you have in each category. raw data. So here, we just have a list of a whole Facebook, so on and so forth, we can scroll down, But we don't even have to count them. All I click on that. And it creates a bar chart, still do a couple of things here to clean this So that it says social media followers legend because it's not helpful I need to change this over here to say just horizontal axis, I don't need that title at all. have it, you got a bar chart quick and easy. Now you see the bars are out of order. What they are appears in the data. So you can see the very first then we scroll down a little bit, we get one small problem. But it still makes followers are from Facebook, the least or from in your data without even having to do the If you want to look at the relationship between and how they affect your results, a grouped So here I have the same social media followers data we've had previously as subscribers, you might be able to tell these apart and get But let's see how we can show each of these. And gives us a few important alternatives. I'm just Insert Chart. And once again, it's nice select the entire table of data and it gives it by side chart. Now I'm going to make just a few platform. And although in other examples, I've in this one because you can see that blue means hand, with a vertical column chart like this where the right isn't really helpful, because you got to on this. And instead of having it on the right, can see that we have the blue on the left the red other data. I'm going to get rid of this because And now it's a little bit closer. And then I am vertical axis here, I'm going to add that one okay. And so this is a basic side by side chart, of subscribers in Facebook, we got more there of visitors on Facebook, but also Instagram and made up data. But you see a different pattern on more subscribers and visitors. Again, this is made I want to show you two other ways of arranging kinds of insight. Maybe you're not so concerned but whether they simply come to your site and the chart by stacking the blue and the red. Here's and paste it here. I'm going to scroll get So this is a simple copy of what we had before. time I'm going to come to this option under data. things are right next to each other. They're not now it puts the one on top of the other And more subscribers in Facebook than anything But overall, you can see we're getting the second most from Facebook, the third most get a total, this can be really, really helpful. the legend back on the right, because you And so now we have visitors on top subscribers. Now there's one other option. And the deal is, it's hard to compare proportions with this when But maybe you want to look at percentages of visitors. And so we have one more option with a paste it in, and I won't bring it down here. We'll scroll up, I'm actually going to the first thing I'm going to do, bring it gonna change the chart type. Now right now sometimes a bar chart, which is the horizontal What I'm going to do here first is I'm going to I'm going to go to what's called 100%, where but the proportions of people. And now for terms of the number of subscribers, if we go back only a small number of people visiting from who are subscribers is huge compared to the very small, in my Pinterest data, just 10.2%. Now going to delete this one, and we don't need that title to say proportions of followers, point five means 50%, and so on, I'm probably And then I'm just going to change the in here and click on the red. And I'm going It's a little prettier to look at. But these are showing you both the platform of persons on and or visitor. And they give you different insights, next to each other. The second one lets you look at the proportions. All of them are valid, all of any of that can be used to help you plan what your Most people when they think of spreadsheets, Sheets is very similar to excel, a lot But there are some differences part of it, because functionality in that respect. But some things If you want to make a bar chart and make all you got to do is click on that bar and you have to do it differently. Say for instance, I and I want to draw attention to Instagram. Instagrams bar a different color than the others gonna do is I'm going to create a second column to take Instagrams value, and I'm going to move no platform has values in both of these columns. this works. I come to social media followers. And a group to barter but it's a really funny looking information from each of the columns. But if we standard, then we suddenly have what we want. however that I think are important number one is creates confusion. So we get rid of that and we platform. And then I can delete this one here on And now we've got a simple bar chart, column chart one particular category Instagram, by putting a bar chart, it's a funny way to have to go about making a clear visualization and drawing attention the number of cases or observations in a category, Now, I have to mention, there's a lot of people in the mere mention of pie charts. But I want to charts are actually a good choice. Number one if you have a template, and they use pie there actually is some evidence to say that to read than bar charts, especially if you're Third, there are some times where a pie chart only trying to show one number a percentage. I'm going to take the social media followers data, Chart now. By default, Google Sheets makes a good make things a little different. Now you'll notice I put Instagram first. That's because in other But if you're going to have one particular it should be the first one, that means it'll leads off the impressions. So what I'm going to And you can see we have right here, a suggested pie chart or the beach ball or the pinwheel. And to change a few things. I'm going to change this And then I'm going to make one other thing where the way I do that is by coming over to pie chart. segments is a slice, you say label. Now, is redundant because it says Instagram here and I can't control what is displayed But I'm going to show you a couple of things I want to point out these labels. First the word medium didn't show up. And Twitter is circumstances might be a good idea, but it's a by coming here, again to pie chart. And I'm I think if I go to 14, nope, I gotta go they're all inside. And I can also change their So now it's a little more uniform. And it's a see the one I want to talk about is right here to show you an easier way to draw attention optic, no overwhelm of a pie chart. So what I'm and you copy and paste it and I'll And what I'm going to do them is several things, to change the chart type. Now there are two ways and you see chart, it says pie chart that you can see there are three variations on the there's a donut chart, and that's But I'm going to show you there's another 3d pie chart which is lean back, which actually is actually distorts the data harder to read. Just by clicking this one or I can come back option early The donut hole right now to 0%. I I can make it bigger 50, I can make it bigger 50% seems to work well for a lot of purposes, I'm going to make a few other choices, I'm And I'm going to do kind of a fun one here, title and it makes the chart as big as it can That's these things right here, Facebook, 31.3%, So now I just have this colorful donut. I'm going want to draw attention to Instagram. So I'm going these manually. But I can do it pretty quickly. to emphasize a uniform gray, there's a gray that's So all of them get to be that great except Now there's one major problem here. And that is it's really hard to tell. So I'm I'm going to come back up to pie chart and do a use is going to be a lighter shade of Gray's say makes it possible to tell a part of the slices. that Instagram is about one six, in fact, to the others. Now there's one thing that I and I usually do this in presentation software. little piece in there. But it can be done here in that says how big this is as a percentage. Now, if That's good. What I'm going to do is I'm going to is kind of a funny way to do it. But it I'm going to insert a text box, 16%. And then I'm going to make it And then I'm going to make it much larger, I can make that box a little smaller, I hit Save the side. But I can just click on that. drag it And now what you have is you got a number in the one highlighted pieces. And it makes situation where I actually think that pie charts it easier to present a kind of information and When you have a quantitative or measured variable, somebody spent on your website, or the number of as a way of looking at the overall shape of any spikes in particular places helps to see if some artificial data I have here on hypothetical we've got a bunch of rows of data here 113. But One of the things is Google Sheets, again, is would be most appropriate for this. There's I need to click on this and get rid of the legend And what you can see is that most of the orders from $0 to $1,650. Next one to $3,300. By the way, 1650, then 3300. That's called the bucket width it as small as you want as big as you want. What thumb that says you usually somewhere around seven to do that. And you can see, we've got one case, middle. This is a skewed distribution, which is with something like money. And we've got this like this, the first thing you want to do is then you get to decide what you want to include so unusual, it represents a different category, But let me show you a couple of things To help decide what's going on with your And well, since it brought me to this one, prefer that color. But let me come back up to it's doing buckets at $1,650 each, which I think $1,000 each. And well, it does introduce a lot I'm going to change these values here and not have just going to make them straight up vertical. At And so this is one way of looking at it, we still it lets us know where most of our cases are. Now with outliers. Of course, you could just exclude of the group that we're wanting to deal with. But there is one option. So I'm going to double this one right here, it's outlier percentile. certain percent of cases, and it brings them watch what happens when I do this. Right. Now huge gap. And then the next highest is at 5000. down. Now what it's also done, unfortunately, is and it gives them these really weird arbitrary not much you can do about that, you know, you can setting the value to zero. But once you've done But it still lets you see the pictures that most we got this little gap here, then we got a couple percentage, if you want it, you could do for bit more. But you're never gonna get rid of these of those, by the way is to just back up and do the you were originally. But the important thing here by default, you're able to see that most of And then you got this really huge gap with this times as high as anybody else. But this is the generalities where most of the orders are, and the start on trying to make sense of your orders. And the most important things you can look at in an the number of customers you have the number of in. There's a lot of different things. And one line graph, where you have time across the measured vertically. Now I'm going to show you line graph. What I have here is a made up data nonprofit organization. So we have donations, we ticket sales, we have grants that they receive the total amount of revenue for each month. And But this is enough to show us how these kinds of I'm going to start by doing just donations, also because that's what goes across the And I come over and I hit Insert Chart. And can see that things are kind of flat here at And by the way, if you just hover over, it can point. But there's a few things that would be I'm going to put not donations versus month that donations by month. And then we because there's only one line doesn't tell And then I'm going to make a couple of don't like you know, the jagged line. So I'm thickness, I find a thicker line is often easier And then I'm going to put points on to indicate now we have a point at each place, that's going to scroll back up to the top here to line, because right now it goes I think that the jagged parts draw too much we make it curved, and it's a little Now, just as a note, there is a separate smooth you want. But since I was just using the automatic way to go. The next thing I want to fix is this easy to read. But the 1000s parse takes up more And I'm going to come here to the vertical axis to all these numbers by 1000. But I need to make sure donations. So I'm going to modify this vertical 1000s. And then there's one more thing I want to it's giving me some of the months and you know, see all of them. And so all I had to do is click axis and say treat labels as text. And when I do it also slammed some which is hard to read. And then I don't think we need this title here what it is. And so there is a very clear line by month from October of 2016 to February of want to see what happened between here and here to the way up to this maximum, and why did it fall so you're going to want to look at. But fortunately, is to bring these things to your attention, so beginning, there's more than one source of revenue there's also events, there's grants, and there's show you how that works, when I'm going to So now I'm going to take this new move things up, but not all the way I want to because I need to change the data that and do edit chart, then I'm going to hit data over to the data. If I do shift command space the entire block of data. I hit that and voila, and I'm going to make some changes to this. select all series, and I'm going to do all of pixel dots. Now, because I changed darker orange one sort of conflicts color. So I'm going to come here to And I'm going to change it to a blue. Great, Now there's a couple of other things I need to do one is I need to change the title here because revenue by Source by month. And then here revenue. There we go. And there's one other thing. to know which is which. And so I need to put the then I'm going to put it on the, well, let's see And there is on the bottom. I actually on the bottom looks a little bit better, in the chart that we have going across. In any time of several different values. And it lets you and gives you a better picture, in this case, If you want to show changes over time, you do which I've showed elsewhere. But Google Sheets designed for things that have months or years often financial over time. I'm going to use the make this specialized timeline. I'll start with And when I click on the Insert Chart, it's which we've had before. But I'm going to come and go way down to the bottom where we have it's a different kind of thing, it actually I'm going to do a couple of things first, just And I'm going to change the line thickness And I'm going to give it Fill Opacity, just 10% it a little easier to see what's going on. There's values here go from 5000 to 10,000 to 15,000. they should always start at zero. So I'm going And now we're setting that's as many I want to show you is that when you come over it will highlight that value, and give us the different ways. Number one is you can come down time range. That's, you know, that's the whole zoom buttons, you can say go back to the max, If you've ever worked with financial data on Now, this is a simple timeline, with we can do more than that. In fact, I'm going to Let me drag that new copied And what I'm going to do in this the data that it uses. And I'm going to give it just click in here and do this Shift Ctrl or And now I've got all of it there. And there's maintains all the same options that I do the interactive thing, we can click right here, you see how it says donations, events, As I come into the chart, it'll give us the actual so that is a great way to explore the data and timeline chart, well, it has fewer options overall hard to assemble on your own, but give you the Changes in spreadsheet graphics may come interesting developments in data visualization is something called a sparkline. Now, this Edward tufte. He really father of modern data a very small graphic that fits in line with text. right in a cell. What I'm going to show you is how different kinds of data because this sparkline Now, this is a formula. So I type equals, and see it says it's gonna give me a miniature chart what data I so I highlight this data, and then I now have a timeline chart, it's really Let's scroll down a little. And so now I've variation in donations over time, it sets the highest values here at the top, and it doesn't indicate months, it's just going from the neat thing, because it's a formula, I can do to apply to other columns. And so now I've This is really a marvelous thing, when you want to look at them really quickly. you know, I can just make the cell bigger Also, you have the option of changing some of the this one right here, it looks like it goes scroll through the data, you see that So it's a little misleading to have it start fixing a parameter called y min. So I'm going to I'm going to paste in a comma, and then in curly Google sheets for sparklines. I put in quotes, comma, and then the value I want it to have, so that it's a little over halfway up. That's change other things as well, you can change which I'll do with this one, this is our total, I'm going to put in there, two arguments, one, I'm it's a way of specifying colors is frequently I've been using in lots of other things, then I second argument, that is line width and two means is stands apart from the others, but also lets us handy way to look at data. And the flexibility, Now I'm going to come over, I'm going to I'm going to come over to this next column is in your data. This originally comes from Sports And then putting in some zeros indicate that something like that. You can adapt this to other client where they lost a client, I don't know, down here and I'm going to put in another And I'm going to select the data. Now if I just do graph that I have over in the others. And that a special kind of sparklines, I'm going to open information, where it's a chart type is when loss me this little collection of bars on the top half I'll go back to 200. scroll over a little bit, two wins, we got a couple of rain outs and then seeing this pattern of a dichotomous variable. different colors for the tops and for the bottom, can there's a lot of options for coloring this. want to come and finish with one other one. And that is the social media follower data that which allowed me to draw just vertical bars using this with sparklines. But it takes a little bit of then I'll tell it the thing I'm going to draw going to get an error message. And the reason you need at least two data points, and I only gave what I'm going to do is I'm going to double click that I'm doing a bar chart. So I put comma, and And when I do that, it draws a bar that fills up I can drag it down. But you'll see there's another each bar should go to the maximum. So right now, is I have to change the maximum on each of these, the maximum value here in our account, which is I'm going to come right here, and Now when I'm putting is max is equal to the use the dollar sign to and dollar sign seven, as I drag the formula down. Now the first But as I drag it down, now you see that all the they are of the maximum score of 50. So of visualizing several different kinds of data, even simple bar charts, but all done within number of ways, they've got a lot of other But this is an really fun development in data to be able to predict the future or at least try One way to do this is with using scatter plots scaled variables. In this example, I'm looking at of sales in quarter two of these are totally to build a scatterplot and get some predictive and I just click on Insert Chart, by default, it not what I want. I want to see how they connect And one of the suggested charts is a scatterplot. sales in quarter one and sales and quarter to that was really low in quarter one, it's about went better. What are the others, it was just pretty consistent. Now I do want to show you might make it work better for your presentations. and I'm going to change just for instance, And then I'm going to take this option right here line that goes through data that summarizes the got this really unusual score over here, that's an downhill pattern overall, I can make that a And you can change the color and the opacity. But show r squared. Now, this is a little more about visualization, because this is getting into measure of the strength of association between you read it like a proportion. So the fact that r squared equals 0.091. That tells you that 9% of for by the variance in quarter one sales. It's an association there, but it's small, I'm going to I'm going to come back to this trendline. But is I simply want to change the title for this, I'm just going to remove that. So we just is a good final chart for looking at If you're familiar with scatter plots, and if you best way to look at the association between two of different possible associations to find the insight into what's out happening in your to show the association between two quantitative to one of the observations, you want to, in other programs, this might be easy to do, just as we saw with bar charts, if you want to change a way it works here is again, we create a new column So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to have channel, a new method of making sales, I'm going to come down here to this 116, because of there and paste it over here. And now you column all by itself. Let me highlight all of this the spacebar, and then come over to Insert three bar charts, which is definitely not what And now when I move this over, you can see itself Way up high. And that accentuates it. with this particular data set. Now another And it does the trend line for the collection really kind of flat all the way through. And that q2, except for this one special new channel that in the second quarter. So again, it's a little one of them in Google Sheets, you're going to you only need to put one of the values for it into it in a different color and draw attention Google Sheets is that it's made by Google. And a very serious Ted company with a very high end And they have found ways to bring this into Google doing something that kind of pulls the rug out showing you the automatic graphs you can get from If you look way down in the bottom right, you And it shows up in several different programs. slides. But hearing cheats, it does something You can also do the Option Shift x, and it brings to ask for instance, like what's the correlation sources. And look, it'll give you a scatterplot. this information a lot of these directly from you want to do it in shades of green look, now But the important one is down here with charts and some of these we've made on our own. The idea is it makes a chart, It even For every year donations increases by about on this button, if you want to see it larger, it Or you can even add it to make it a part of your And now it's there in our spreadsheet. And then I can come back. I'll get out of that some of the other charts are. We got a line we've got this little stacked bar graph. December value greater than most for events. And if we come More. It'll do more of this. And so we come and bar charts. And donations went down It's it's really kind of amazing. And this is work on their products, which they spend a lot of here. And so it truthfully, when you start working waiting for the end, go at the beginning to pre made charts, and even some suggestions on the give you additional insights that you might not it's a fabulous, fabulous addition to Google applications easier. When you've made all of different ways that you can get that information with people, you can save the charts as images you can copy them and put them onto websites. But that works well, because Google Sheets is in fact charts to the web. Now I'm going to begin It's this page right here, we just want to publish do this. Let's just come right up here to file and is whether I want to do the entire document, And what these are actually listed in our graphs is going to ask whether I want to do tab separated file or a PDF or something And I'm going to hit Publish. And double checks, very, very long web address. Now, I'm going to in for me. And I enter that and go to it. And repeat chart. And so it's not well formatted. of getting the stuff out immediately. Let's where I was. And of course, this one. And And I'm going to come down to this bottom one, So this might be the sort of thing that I'm going to hit these three buttons right here. could do it from the File menu as well. I'm gonna and I have an option of making it interactive or as an image. And by the way, you can see down here Also, I'm gonna hit publish, it's gonna check with address. And I'll go back to this page, open it's a web page. It's up here on docstoc it actually is low resolution that's about 500 But it's available to people and people can Now I want to go a third choice. And that is let's same data about revenue sources, revenue streams. one of the cool things about timelines is that say I want just the last one year, I want the up this editing window. So I'll slide things over. can use as a way of changing the timeframe So let's come up to these three little dots and an image, this one I'm going to make interactive. if I want to do that. I'm going to copy that other page, open a new tab and put the address in look exactly the way it was before. It's arranged three sources are listed on the left as opposed to go through. And you do have this zoom thing. the thing to drag across the bottom, the timeline of the best ways of interacting. So not perfect, things by just giving people a webpage, give them data in certain ways and start getting some of the to finish with one little thing here, I'm going to stuff published, you know, the time may come, you you need to do is come down here, this is showing here. But you see the checkmarks, next to the And those links will no longer be active, and publishing is one interesting, not perfect, but an there, sharing your message, sharing your data, around you. When people think about computers and machine learning and these artificial intelligence things. But it turns out that the vast are simple arithmetic, addition and subtraction, easy to do in Google Sheets with formulas. cell references. So when you're writing a formula, sell. And you can do this with what are absolute references. And I'll demonstrate both. here is a list of the numbers one through 10. want to multiply it times two. And I'm going type equals, that tells Google Sheets, I'm going I want to multiply it's one over to the left, and and when I do that, you can see a preview of there's a two, if you want to see again, what's And it will highlight the cell is referred the matches here. If you have more than one cell But you can see that there's a formula there. I'm going to drag it down. And what is going to do going to say, at each step, take this cell that is if you want to see what all the formulas look the keyboard is above the tab. And that shows you a four to a five, so on down to a 12 and because all it says is go one to the left. it has an a written here, but it just is Now there's other ways to do it, you don't have view formulas, you may want to do a running total, First, I'm going to write a formula That's the simplest possible formula. I'm going to say take the number that's right the left. Okay, so one above and add one to you'll see that in each point, it's taking the that's immediately to the left and adding them I get to the bottom here 110. That actually is say for instance of invoices, and you need to know is actually how you would do it and relative other hand, sometimes you say don't just go one to refer to a specific column or a specific row where you get the idea of an absolute reference. table. And I'll show you really how not to do it. to say so formula will take one to the left. And one to the top. Okay, one times two is easy. It's not going to do five times two here is to the right, then I end up with some really here instead of 3 million. And so that's not Instead, I need to tell it that when it goes And when it goes to the top, it needs to always to column E, it will sometimes need to go to depending on the row it's in. So we're going to do And the way to tell it to always go to one is to use $1 sign on the US keyboard that's although it can adjust the row. And over always go to row number two. And when I do And now it works the way I want to. So if I click number and that number. If I click on this And if I do this cell is going to six times five, by the way, there is a more sophisticated way But that's a special circumstance. And I'm other situation where you may want to use absolute to do is I'm going to recreate this table here, And I'm going to copy all those values. And there we go. So I've got them all there. But which means it always has to go to exactly I need to do is I click on this formula here, I'm going to click on this cell E eight, but and $1 sign before the eight. And then when specific cell when doing the multiplication. you can see he's taking that here, it's doing the relative reference up to And the same thing here, relative reference back. So that's the combination of absolute and gives you more flexibility in how you create up your analyses. Some of the most useful the most basic. So I want to show you some of the to get the first types of insight out of your one variation on them our count and sum and values you have in front of you, it's getting I'm going to take this series of dates here. and we've got the number of people attending a of these is not a number, it's text I wrote down But let's do this first one, which is count. type equals and then the word count. But there's a shortcut to it. If I come right up here, If I simply say count, it inserts equals count know what data should account. And I'm going And when I hit return, I get 13. So there are 13 is it only counts how many numbers there are, so there may be situations where you need to any kind of information that's in the cell. And variation called count a, you can think of count And this one, I am going to type out I'm going to and that pops up right there. So I can click and drag over the data. And then I'm going And that tells us that there are 14 values numbers within that range. But there are 14 So counting can be very important just for more useful, it's going to be adding things I'm going to put my cursor right here, select that And it simply wants to know what data to add And I have a sum of 170. So over 14 days, we had of 170 people show up, which raises the next 13 classes, what's the average number of people is to simply take this sum and divide it by But I can also use the built in formula for me, for instance, that piece of text in there as come over here and click average, the average same thing. It's where you get a total of the amount of time and you divide it by the I'm going to hit average, and then simply drag me that have an average of 13.1 people in each sometimes it's lower, we go from seven to 21, but operations, simply counting how many numbers you But you're also going to find those are going to operations are most often the most effective in arithmetic procedures are very simple to do More than anything, a spreadsheet, like Google the important things to remember is that data numerically based, but even then you can format non numeric data. And Google Sheets can handle a of those variations. So you know what you can obvious one, of course, is just plain old numbers, Google Sheets will usually put them flush, right and you can get a lot out of just those kinds of get proportions which are red like percentages. if you want to see it as a percentage, you can here on the format is percent key. And there But it's obviously 87%. You also have the option And that also works as a percent. If I press the Now, there's one thing you don't want to do, and do this, it can turn it into 87%, it turns into So you need to start with a proportion, the point You can also put in the number like pi and you pi has infinite decimals. So it can make a little with a lot of decimals already entered. And I'm decimals, I don't know that you really need a lot often the information you're going to be entering can have money, you're going to be keeping track different options. One is the accounting format. this, but you come up to format to number and then it puts the comma and for the 1000s. It puts the easy. You can also do financial formatting, which and you'll see it puts in the comma but otherwise bit differently. And there's also currency. And I'm going to use dollar, that's where I am. And so And it's three different ways of representing the different each other, it becomes a little more So I'm going to put a negative there, and now common thing in accounting. And with financial, to currency, they appoint a negative, it sticks ways of dealing with money, depending on what's You can also put in dates, you just type and then I'll show you in another video, there's And you can also use time, so for instance, 10 minutes, colon, and seconds. So those are all do with numbers. But Google Sheets is able to well. For instance, it can handle text, so there's a lot of functions that allow you to deal in a later movie. You can put in web links, if you lab.cc, my address, it recognizes that as HTTP, certificate. And those are live links, you So here for instance, I have my website data lab the same thing works, you can put email addresses You can put web data, this is an interesting Google Finance data. So this is today's And by the way, notice that we get this if I were to delete that the disclaimer would and I've used a few of them already and have a the formula that pulls up this data is quotation marks goog, because that's the symbol interesting thing you can do in Google Sheets he images. Now, this is an image that is on the image and then you put the URL for that image in that you know it increases in size as well. So from a URL, put that one back to where it was. floating images and a number of other things. Let right here to insert, you can put in a chart, an I'll talk about a lot of those. Let me just insert to know when you include an image, I'm just gonna The one thing you need to know is that it's a you can drag it around, it's also really big, to this cell. And that's a little different from possible to include this information, especially or even have a sort of a branding with your And so what you can see from all of this is that for a lot of different kinds of data, each of in your own work. Numbers are probably what come spreadsheets. And that's reasonable, because in fact filled with numbers. But spreadsheets They can use text as well, which is good, because chances are you're going to have to work with addresses and what their last orders were. And the show you A few specific functions that can be very Sheets. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to if you don't know Ruth St. Denis, she's one of the her name looks like it should be pronounced, Ruth, the first thing we want to do is simply find And that's a really simple one, because And it counts the number of letters and spaces and in this particular cell. Great, that's a starting looking for a particular piece of text. And space, because for a lot of people that's going And the function I use for that is called you're trying to find. And I have quotation marks find the first space in this cell. And return because we have Ruth is 1234 letters and the space we want to select the text up to the first way we're going to do that is with the function and go how far I'm saying five characters. And we got when we were looking for the first blank Now to get her last name, I'm going to 14, which is the total length minus five, which I'm going to simply do that. This one, however, And so I use the function right says count back to the left nine spaces that gets us to Also, a lot of times when you get information you might have spaces where they shouldn't be have often want to clean those things up. So things Ruth St. Denis here, and you may not be able to And there are also three spaces after her name. function developed specifically for this called and trailing spaces. And so now we have Ruth St. may have guessed that it's possible to combine all So for instance, maybe you have people entering out a form on your web page. So here I have Ruth and last name, because that's how I want to store And this is going to be a little complicated. But it, was it by first saying God has cell been nine, find the first space in that cell. And then trim that, I get Ruth. If I want just her last name, I it looks like this, we're going to do a the last name, but we have to do the length of the And then we trim the extra stuff at the end. So a little complicated, which is why I actually do in it. And I do this to rearrange the way they to me. And so I have to use all this stuff. But I worked out. But then I just copy it and drag spreadsheet. It's really nice. On the other hand, well, then you simply do a little bit of the trimming, you're simply switching what we had searching for the comma in this case And you're but trimming the spaces. And then the last one small modification here. And that is you we're going to get the left part. But you need to because you're doing from the comma, and then what you need. So all of these are different Variable View the function view. And now you up organizing, getting the information you need. and get it set up. So you can then process it and numbers and whatever else you need to suit in a spreadsheet like Google Sheets look at numbers, or even to select text, but to is sort of like doing a form fill on a letter. But want to show you a few different ways of combining But they give you different approaches to it. you might want to choose one or the other, I use fictional example of say, for instance, a and you're keeping track of attendance in the 26. On Tuesday, things drop off by 30, and they start showing up there on the weekend. those seven days. But let's find out how you to combine that into a report. So I'm And I'm going to paste in a little bit beginning of a sentence you had a total of Now this formula is simply it's just the sum is the same formulas down put the second part of a sentence, I'm going to You had a total of 134 visitors this a number that's derived from a we want to put them all together into a single The first one is with this. Now, here's You see, what I've done is I've simply said use this and sign the ampersand to get from one to the it doesn't put spaces in and so you need to add is by inserting two more parts here. You Take this first cell, add a space, add the second works. And that can be a useful way of combining the way you want to it looks like a proper you're actually doing some math to make is to actually include the formula in there that comes from appear. This one I'm including column. So there may be times when you want to do want to refer to the calculations that are done Another option is to use the sentences highlight this one. This time I'm typing you had Then I put the ampersand then I put the formula quote and include the space here and then visitors here is I'm inserting that sum that makes it And then there are two other ways that we can do when you use join, what it does is it lets you the thing you want to stick in between each cell. and then comma and say join this one in D two colon f2 to specify the range. But it's have a lot of things to put together, the join the and statement where you're using the Add sign And then finally, one other option is to for the sum right in here. So it's a self to this one joining with that joining with as long as you remember to put a space in by either one allows you to combine text, along with a lot in spreadsheets as a way of creating subject lines for emails to have boilerplate paste it into the subject, copy a second, paste on a whole series of calculations combining you extra flexibility and extra power to work fit with your particular need. formulas in Google or to select text, or to combine things like that, And what's really nice about this is you can use formats to highlight data bring your attention very well, very poorly, issues that need to be open cases. And let me just show you quickly how want to format. So for instance, I'm going to come do easily on my own. But if you had a very long highlight a particular teacher. And so what I do format and down to conditional formatting, that's And it's going to apply to this range, see 339. going to tell it, well, right now it says cell I'm going to say instead that the text of one of the teachers Emmanuelle. We have gonna leave this default, I can change the I don't need to I'm gonna hit Done. And now, if automatically gets highlighted. And if I were to would automatically inherit that, in fact, let's I got to spell it correctly. emanuelle ac, Next is what if I want to highlight not just that this is actually what I use, I use a assigning teachers to classes. And when a class row to highlight. And so I'm going to select this but also the attendance and the dates. I'm then I'm going to come over to conditional rule I'm going to add is a slightly funny one, come down here to custom formula. And what I want then highlight the entire row. And it goes counter dollar sign seeds, they always look at column row in the block. And then if that cell is I have to put it in quotes, then highlight it And you see how it's highlighted. And again, you see how the entire row inherits this is really useful for identifying important it's useful for identifying any number of And then finally, another good one is what's here where I have the information again, I'm And I'm going to select a new rule here. Now, doing so far, but a color scale. And what this that go from the minimum value through the the green to be the low and I'm going to switch it I'm going to pick this one. So it goes from values I'm going to hit Done. And what you the day that we had 31 people, the white set is 12. And so it can give you an impression of need to focus on, maybe you need to figure out figure out what you can do to increase the high situations with the color scale, with highlighting is a way of using formulas, again, not just but to manipulate the highlighting and drawing it makes it a lot easier to work with your data Congratulations, you've made it to the final what to do next? Well, I'm here to discuss In learning to work with data and The most important thing is to do it yourself You want to get some data and you just want do a little bit experimenting, a little fiddling out of it to serve your own purposes. Now, what Now chances are you already have some data where that does email marketing, you'll have the names maybe information about open rates and that's a great place to get data, you can You may have social media data, things like who's when they last interacted, what they said and how they connected and how they share things This is information that is also available social media host like if you're using buffer or putting it into Google Sheets and see what some other kind of interaction, you might know services are requesting, whether a first time or did they click on a thing and Instagram and get a lot of information that can be very helpful to start better understanding how people are If you have that data available to you download beyond what you can do with the built in analytics data. For instance, data.gov is one of the best can search for a lot of other different sources. in the Word Art and looking for data sets on art. you just click on this little CSV, which stands a spreadsheet that you can open up in Google You can also get data from Google Trends. And over time, the relative popularity of different deflator mouse and Rosenkavalier. And you can see back in May of 2017. But the first one has been data by clicking on this button right here, and analysis. Finally, there's Google correlate one the popular search terms over time, like we had state by state comparisons, where it gives you deviations of each state in terms of the relative One of my favorite ones here is the search for you can download it right here by clicking this state that is head and shoulders above in terms of searches for modern dance, is right shocking things in terms of data driven insights. I suggest that if you start here with Google more things. So for instance, here at data lab cc our courses on data principles, I've been showing work the tools, but the concepts, what does it have a standard deviation, I'm going to talk I also have sets of courses on the other Suite. So that's things like Google docs for presentations, Google Forms for gathering new there's the Microsoft Office complement of In addition to those, if you decide that easily for you, you might want to try a new and not very well known but immensely upload your CSV, and start doing high quality source is it based on our, but it operates with Also, SPSS is a common choice in a lot of social sciences. We have courses on SPSS, and if try to get your data into that and see what kind And then, of course, if you want to go beyond in languages like R and Python, we have our first soon follow. And in any of these, you're going Google Sheets, the the insight that you've gone, statistical modeling, more predictive analytics, it's time to get moving, get some data, get here at data lab.cc. I hope this has been an eye get working with your data to find ways that you own personal projects more effectively and more