been too obedient since you were a child, right ? I would like to express my gratitude to your majesty . Before our princess leaves, my emperor has a few words that I must convey to your majesty. I hope that your country can treat our princess well so that we can form a century-old peace treaty between the two countries. That is of course The princess is the envoy of peace between Linqi and Linqi. She should be a distinguished guest of this country , and she will marry my son. How can there be any reason for neglect? His Highness King Li is a bastard and he still doesn't stand up for me. Don't worry, you can't be rude. The princess is Linqi and two countries. Messenger of peace , I have prepared the wedding robe for you. You can change it as soon as possible . We will make a marriage agreement in the hall today and get married as soon as possible. When did I say that we will get married ? This marriage has been decided. It is inevitable whether you agree or not . Come here. Dressing King Li, Your Majesty, you really want to use strong methods. If you insist on not agreeing , I can also find someone to do the marriage ceremony for you . Wuyu , my father, since I can find someone to do the wedding ceremony for you, why not just do it for me at the bridal chamber as well? What are you talking about? I will not marry her. If Your Majesty still insists on marrying and forming an alliance with Xiqi, please choose someone else. I dare not say. But I have so many princes in the north. You are the one chosen by Emperor Qi. The marriage certificate between the two countries is still there. How can we change it? Your Majesty, could you please let Rongle say a few words? Princess, please tell me . When Rongle came to Beilin, he had been thinking about what my future husband would be like. I thought that even if he was not perfect , at least he would not be like this . In the marriage contract, His Royal Highness Prince Li was described as being polite, wise, courageous, and resourceful. But the Prince Li I saw was not polite, only arrogant and rude, not intelligent and courageous, only arrogant, not clever, only willful and reckless, just like a The little grown-up child acts coquettishly in public. Rongle also understands that marriage requires your love. I wish Rongle also wants to marry the person he likes. He also wants to live a happy and beautiful life, and he doesn't want to say goodbye to his family and marry thousands of miles away. But for the sake of the country's interests, Rongle still decides. I came to your country without any hesitation. How could a female figure named Rongle be like this ? Your Highness, a handsome man, could not resist it . Doesn't His Highness have a little bit of national justice in his heart ? In the end, you have to rely on me to decide. That's not necessarily the case. Rongle hopes that Your Highness can give me a mutual understanding. Chances are, if you still don't change your mind after half a year , then I will choose someone else to marry you as you said without any complaints. The princess said it righteously, but according to me, the country is strong and never relies on the marriage of children. Only the weak will rely on a woman's skirt to cover up. My own incompetence. Of course, the princess's spirit of self-sacrifice today is touching. But I, Zongzheng Wuyou, will never trade my marriage for benefits. The princess's half-year appointment has no interest. Is it no interest or no confidence? Your Highness recommends it. Tang escaped , but he was afraid of losing to Rong Leji. King Fa Li was too strong to dare to accept this bet . It seems that His Royal Highness King Li, who is famous all over the world, is just like this. He will retire from the court within six months as the princess said. Seventh Brother , I see your wishful thinking. I'm afraid I'm going to fail. This Princess Rongle is not that simple. What if she forces you to marry her in half a year ? Who can force me to do something I don't want to do ? Although it is rumored that she is ugly , she has a nice voice and a nice mouth. It 's okay to keep bickering at home. Seventh brother, just marry her. Since you appreciate her so much , marry her. Do n't stop. She's so powerful. I can't afford the courtesy of your two highnesses. Your Majesty summoned His Highness Li Zhu. I don't have time. See him. You don't have time to see me. Is it okay for me to come to see you? My father, the emperor, and my sons have resigned first . I know that you have been brooding about the past. In these years, you have not asked about political affairs and have not gone to court. Even I don't want to see me. That's why. You're welcome, but today's matter is related to the national plan. You must not act arbitrarily. In the last battle against the captain, the prince made a mistake with his troops and was defeated. He was forced by the captain to throw down his armor. It was such a shame and humiliation. I, Beilin, must get it back. So, It is imperative to conquer the Wei , and the marriage with Xiqi can stabilize our northern border. How important it is for me to go to the north. The battle with the Wei is the prince's fault. What does it have to do with me? I have made an exception and offered suggestions to resolve the danger in the southern border. What else do you want from me ? I am also very happy to take action to relieve the difficulties in the southern border. It can be seen that in your heart, you are not careless about the country. If you can forget the past and let go of your prejudice and resentment towards me, with your intelligence and wisdom, you will definitely achieve great things in the future. If I forget the past, it is impossible to hope. It will never be possible for me to marry the Princess of Xiqi in half a year. Your Majesty was obsessed with using women to consolidate the imperial power. As for what I want, I will only obtain it openly and with my own ability. Wuyou, my health has not been as good as before recently, and I feel retired . Linjiangshan is in need of a capable and reliable heir. Your Majesty has been in his prime years and has so many women and sons. It has nothing to do with me that Your Majesty , Princess, the princess is awake . Your Majesty, even if you don't want to get married, you should not escape from the palace privately. Now that you are injured and suffering, are you satisfied? Who are you and where are you? Your Majesty, Ruile , Doctor Liu's worries may have come true. Your Highness, Princess, maybe. I hurt my head so much that I lost my memory . Princess , princess , amnesia. I don't understand what you are talking about. This is the Xiqi Palace. I am the Lord of Xiqi, and you are my royal sister. Princess Rongle of Xiqi. I am Rongle of Xiqi. Princess , Your Majesty, the soup has been boiled. You don't have to worry too much. The imperial doctor said that as long as you take the medicine on time and remember it, you can slowly resume drinking the medicine. It doesn't matter if I don't drink it or not . You just woke up and maybe you are still feeling unwell . Take a good rest and wait for you. Drink it when you want to drink it, Xiao Xunzi. Brother Rongle, I promise you that I will do everything possible to help you recover your memory. Just be quiet and take care of your body . Please step back and let the princess have a good rest . Princess Nuo Rongle and my dear brother, the emperor Rongle , have lost their memory. Why can't I remember anything ? Who am I ? See the princess. Princess, you should take medicine. Leng Yue , do you think this poem was written by me? Yes, it was written by the princess. I saw it written by the princess. Okay, princess, come here. Hurry up and drink the medicine. I'll drink it later. The Queen Mother is here . Princess , hurry up and kneel down. What are you doing? Let me go . Why do you want to arrest me? I have to go and take him away to see His Majesty. The queen mother is angry. Rui Le has lost her memory and has messed up the rules. Even if she has lost her memory, she has to go to the north to be with her biological mother. The road is far away and we have to leave home and never come back. Rongle is injured and sick and cannot accept it. It is justifiable. I think it is better to get married . It is temporarily suspended , but now the Chen State's army is pressing down on our territory. The civil strife in Daqi has not been settled , and we are unable to respond to the enemy. We will face the disaster of overthrow . If we can form an alliance with Beilin, the Chen State will be able to take the initiative to retreat when it is attacked from both sides . The Aijia cannot understand why Your Majesty has been unable to make up his mind to fight against the Chen State . I will try to solve it , but now that Rongle is injured and has lost his memory , I still need to think carefully about the marriage . It's all for her. Back then, the Ai family could spare your life and make you a princess. Now, the Ai family can let you die without a burial place, mother queen. The wedding day will be in seven days. Today, the Aijia ordered people to put the wine in the hall. Queen Mother , why are you bothering? Your Majesty, let her sit on the sedan chair in the north. Or will you make your own choice when you see the Aijia's body in seven days? Now the world is in chaos. The war is rising and we are in great qi. The land is barren and the troops are insufficient. Years of war have left the national treasury empty. It should be a time to recuperate and recuperate. But now look at the old, weak, sick and disabled new army your Majesty has just recruited. Their morale is low. If they are allowed to face the tigers and wolves of Chen Wei and other countries, Your Majesty is simply asking them to die and fight without getting married. If you can really watch them die with peace of mind, and then watch His Majesty dragging his wounded body and working hard for the country, he will inevitably have his head chopped off by the enemy and hung in the sky. On the city wall, I hope that one day you will still be alive to see all this. 8888 Why do you have to come back ? Now it is difficult to take medicine if you want to leave the palace . Your Majesty, the military is now in place and farming is blocked. The people are already at the end of their rope. All I need is to agree to Beilin's marriage. But to resolve the urgent need, your majesty and beilin are the best solution. If your majesty is not willing to sacrifice the princess, I am willing to let my daughter go to beilin for the princess and get married. You must not shut up . The stability of Daqi actually depends on a woman. In exchange, Your Majesty is willing to let his daughter replace the princess and his ministers for the sake of Daqi's safety . You all, please don't forget that I am the princess of Daqi . If you want to get married, it's me who wants to go . Brother , I heard that the north is strong and the country is rich and rich in products . I am Instead of listening to the civil and military complaints here and looking at the Queen Mother's face, why don't I marry and go to Beilin, maybe there will be another world ? Brother, I just made tea for you , come and taste it , come and drink it, come and taste it, is it so fragrant ? Thank you for the medicine, your majesty . Princess Rongle , Imperial Physician Rongle, has ordered you to drink this medicine on time every month. It will be very helpful for you to recover your memory. Please see the princess . Princess, look at how beautiful this wedding dress is. The fabric and the material. Princess, I know you are wrong. I originally thought that the princess cares about your majesty, so I said some happy things so that you will not be troubled by the current situation . Princess, please don't be angry. I know I made a mistake and went to Beilin this time . I don't know when I can come back. Wait for us to be strong in the west. Can't you go home now? But this slave has been alone since he was a child, so it's the same as being a slave anywhere. Leng Yue, you don't have to be my slave here from now on. I have decreed to show my Lord's holy will. I wish you to be with Beilin forever. In order to make good friends, the eldest princess Rongle was specially sent to the north to visit the king of Li Zongzheng Wuyou. Together with me, the eldest princess Ronngle harmoniously wrote a beautiful story. I am here to express my gratitude to your majesty . This is the jade pendant I have carried with me since I was a child. Please take it with you. On your body, it will protect you on my behalf. Brother, don't worry too much. Brother, please take care of yourself. Xiao Sha is here from today on , you will be the princess's personal bodyguard. Listen to her orders and protect her. The subordinates swore to protect Princess Rongle to the death. Farewell to the imperial brother Rongle. I heard that the princess's marriage partner this time is His Royal Highness Prince Li of Beilin. The Emperor of Beilin loves this son the most, and he has a handsome appearance. The jade tree faces the wind and he has a lotus heart. You think this is His Royal Highness Prince Li? If it's so good, then why haven't you gotten married yet ? I don't know. Prince Zongzheng Wuyou of Li in Beilin lives in seclusion and rarely participates in court affairs. However, according to our secret agent Zhi Yuan in Beilin, His Royal Highness Prince Li is full of secrets and strategies. Previously , Fu Zhao, the general from the north, used 30,000 troops to quell the mutiny of more than 100,000 troops in the southern border of his country. This Zhenyu strategy of using less to win more came from this His Royal Highness King Li, and maybe he married him as well. It 's a good choice. You can't take off the princess mask casually when you put it on . Otherwise, it will be unlucky. The car of Princess Rongle has arrived. I asked Yang Wei to see Princess Rongle. Why didn't His Royal Highness Prince Li greet the princess in person? Please wait a moment. After a while, Princess Daqi came all the way, but you turned the princess away. It is clear that I, Daqi, are not taken seriously, which makes people very doubtful about your sincerity in Beilin's marriage to Daqi. Princess, please do not misunderstand that Your Highness has a temporary relationship. Feng Jia, who had important things to do, was delayed in welcoming the princess. He also hoped that Princess Hai would greet Chen Wang Jia when he arrived. There was no need to be polite in the car. However, His Royal Highness Princess Xiqi, Rongle, had seen His Highness King Chen. She heard that the princess had an ugly appearance and a weird personality, so she arrived. I 'm not married yet, but I didn't expect the princess's voice to be extremely pleasant. Your Highness, Prince Chen , Lian Xin, praised Rongle. Only this voice is acceptable . Rumors say that the princess is unruly, willful , and has lost all her virtues. In my opinion, that's not necessarily the case. At least, princess, you still have it. The most basic etiquette and the slightest bit of self-awareness. Your Highness, the old minister, has received the princess's escort. I also hope that His Highness King Li will leave the city as soon as possible to greet the princess. My seventh brother, if you don't want to welcome the princess , no one's advice is useless. I advise you, you should go back quickly. My seventh brother You also know my brother's temper. If you piss him off, I ca n't 's said that His Majesty ordered Princess Rong Le to enter the palace to meet your heir is the crown prince. The princess is indeed as unruly and willful as the rumors say. The arrogant King Li also suffered at times. He relies on His Majesty's favor for him and never takes this palace seriously. The princess is. This palace is angry, and I think that the marriage between King Li and Princess Heqin will be very disadvantageous for His Highness . If King Li really marries Princess Daqi, King Li 's position will be threatened sooner or later. His Highness Yu Shangshu worried too much about his father's early years. Before the country was restored, I, as the eldest son , accompanied my father to fight in all directions . I was far more popular than Zongzheng Wuyou who ignored the government. Even though I lost the battle against Wei, my father never wavered in my position. As for this King of Li , you Do you think this marriage can be possible in today's situation ? Your Highness is wise and clever in chess . Your Highness, Princess Rongle, has arrived safely in Beilin and successfully entered the palace to see Emperor Lin. I asked you to release the kite sent to look for the miracle doctor. People have been sent to it. Snow mountain and the place where the miracle doctor once haunted. Searching for the Queen Mother . When the Queen Mother arrives, please step aside. Please leave your sons and ministers to see the Queen . Get up. Thank you, Queen Mother. The Ai family has repeatedly reminded Your Majesty that if you want to achieve great things, you must be able to give up. If you give up, it will be cut off. Short-term pain is better than long-term pain. Thank you, Queen Mother, for teaching you. Didn't the Queen Mother know that those people who assassinated you during the palace were all wiped out ? Zongzheng Wuyou, the king of Beilin Li, was the only disciple of Qin Yong, the former prime minister of Beilin, who was the most talented man in the world , so he was very likely to get it . The true biography of the Mountains and Rivers Chronicles written by Qin Yong is good . The Mountains and Rivers Chronicles record the mountains, rivers, topography , city dangers , the most detailed astronomical, geographical and weather conditions, and the most convenient way to win in all countries in the world. Therefore, it is said that only those who have the ambitions of mountains and rivers can win the world. If I find Shanhe Zhi within half a year, I can return to Brother Xiqi as soon as possible. Have you found it? It's at Yuanyue Tower. Okay, I have to go out. The princess is alone. The princess mansion is closely monitoring her when she goes out. I have to find a way to trouble my aunt. Distribute these to everyone and ask your aunt to tell the kitchen to prepare more meals in the evening. The princess will have a banquet for everyone. Thank you princess. Everyone has it. Don't grab it for your seventh brother. You don't have to fight with your father every time you see him. In fact, The one who hurts the most in my father's heart is you. Okay, okay, I won't talk about this anymore. Seventh brother, look at what I brought you. Take a look. This tea is good . Of course it's good. This tea set is not extraordinary . This is what I came from in Yuanyue Tower. The treasure found in the Vipshop . It is said that the Vipshop has a collection of rich clothes and rare treasures from all over the world. These are the teas and tea sets that I asked the shopkeeper to part with. Brother Qi, I know you like to drink them. For tea, if we can go to Yipin Tea in the Yueyue Tower, we can stop by Vipshop and have a look at the Yueyue Tower, right? Yes, yes, you can come with me. This tea is indeed good, but I always feel that the taste is not too pure or pure. Ah Brother Qi, I can't lie to you. Can you fool me? It's okay if you can't. For the sake of tea , I'll go with you. Why are you like this? You just ran away after bumping into someone. You're finally here. We've been at Shaodong's house. I'm waiting for you. Although the journey is long , it's going smoothly. I see that your tea house is prospering and doing well . The tea trees are well planted in the mountains and the tea soup is boiled . The owner has great ambitions. How can it not be prosperous? Although the business is doing well , I heard that You are a little carried away, just like the paper kite flying higher and higher without paying attention to us. What did the young master say? No matter how high the paper kite flies, isn't the rope still tightly in the master's hand? Now, the master master, you are here in person. All matters, big and small , are decided by the Young Master. It seems that you are the shopkeeper. Longyue is the slave family. Please greet the Young Master. The Young Master, please greet the princess. No courtesy . If there is no princess here, just call me the Young Master. I must have started rumors throughout Zhongshan. The ugly face of the princess is the work of Nuanyue and Zhiyuan. The young master is indeed very smart. Your Majesty knows that you are not willing , but I want to try my best to buy you as much time as possible. I also know the emperor's painstaking efforts. I will make plans for this matter in half a year. I believe Luanyue also knows. The whereabouts of Shanhe Zhi are still being traced. Can you tell me more about Shanhe Zhi? Please sit down. Sixteen years ago, several major events happened in Beilin. For example, Yuan died in a fire. Yuan Fu Yuan belonged to the former Emperor Chen. Before the emperor returned to the country, the Yaonv had sought refuge in the Chen Kingdom and met and fell in love with Fu Yuan. Later, Yuan did not hesitate to leave the country and finally married the emperor . Linhuang was thrown into the cold palace and died in an unexpected fire. So the fire was related to Shanhe Zhi. It is not clear how it was related. However, in the same year, several major events happened in Beilin . Linhuang's most beloved Concubine Yun Guifei suddenly died suddenly. The two women were at odds with each other but died unexpectedly one after the other. Not long after, the former Prime Minister Qin Yong of Beilin was also executed by his entire family. It is said that it was also related to the death of Concubine Yun Gui. From then on, the emperor issued a ban on everything about Qin Yong, including Mountains and rivers have become a taboo in Beilin. No one dares to mention it again. Then there is no news? Even though Qin Yong is dead , there are still many old men still alive in Shinu's house. We started here, but we really found someone. Her Royal Highness, the dinner party is ready for Lian Xin. Girl, please tell me when the banquet will start. Princess, she hasn't had much rest these days. She hasn't woken up from nap. When the princess wakes up , I will enjoy her reward. Her slave resigned and Lingyue left. Princess, why hasn't she come back? I'll pick up the princess. You guys stay here carefully. Seven Brother, we are here Here in Zhongshan, if you want to drink tea, everyone will think of me, Yuanyue Tower. But if you want to listen to music and drink wine, everyone will think of going to Xianghun Tower. The courtesan of Xianghun Tower, Miss Chen Yu , is really Chen Yu Luo Yan, closing the moon and shy flowers, but her true identity But no one knows about it, so the Nu family is not sure if there is any definite information about this girl Shen Yu's story about mountains and rivers. But what is certain is that her convicted father is Qin Yong's old subordinate . The key to this person's identity is that you need to do more research . Is anyone else paying attention to her? Shen Yu, a beautiful girl, is indispensable for attracting bees and butterflies. Many princes and nobles in the capital want to kiss her. Recently, I heard that King Chen often visits Hao . I know that you will be here from today on. The daughter of the owner of Yuelou is named Mantian. She has been traveling around various countries with her father to do business. She recently came to Zhongshan to take over the teahouse. On the surface, Yuelou is open to the public . The Vipshop in the building also collects silk and satin. In fact, it is to collect intelligence and hide it from others . All the actions taken to protect Zhiyuan turned out to be Zhiyuan's headquarters. The store was used as a cover. Indeed, all the identity documents of Young Master Zhizhi were prepared to ensure that everything was seamless. the princess . Can you please stop following me? The last time the princess asked her to go to the lake, she didn't go. The princess invited the princess to enjoy the flowers. The princess also said she was not interested . Princess, you look down on me . I just don't want to follow you. Can you stop pestering me? Princess, please stop . Who is reporting back to the princess ? It is Prince Qinghe and Zhao Your Highness , Princess Yun, doesn't know anything. Princess Zhaoyun has had no father, mother, or brothers and sisters since she was a child , so she is now living in her uncle's house. What do you have to show off? You are just an orphan who depends on others. It is your blessing that this prince sees you. I'm warning you, if you let me go , I won't let you go . I will tell brother Wuyou and he will come to deal with you. Bring King Li to pressure me. But King Li will never attend such a banquet. You can't see him anymore. How dare you push me? Stop, sister, save me. Your Highness , this is Princess Rongle from Xiqi. Go away. Who do I think she is? It turns out to be the ugly princess from Xiqi. No wonder you dare to meddle in my business. I heard that King Li doesn't want you, so you want to choose from us. It's not a good idea to marry you alone . I tell you, I, Prince Qinghe, will never marry an ugly woman who has been abandoned. I thought there was only one King Li in Beilin. I didn't expect Prince Qinghe to have such courage. I scolded you. What's wrong with you? I want to take off your mask and see how ugly you really are. Princess, sister, he fought well. He just deserves a beating. Brother Wuyou, here you are, Your Highness, what did you say just now? What didn't you say ? I just said His Highness Li. I don't dare to marry a woman I don't like even if I beat her to death . Then if she is the woman my seventh brother likes, how dare you marry her? No , no, no , I don't mean that. What I mean is that I don't dare to marry whether King Li likes it or not. Now that you're home, I think you're fine . I won't get out. Someone take Nuo away. I came to the palace on the order of the queen . Get up. You can't take me away. You can't drive me away. The old man of Prince Qinghe has a son who has no respect for this prince. I pampered you so much that I was so lawless that you dared to act wild in this palace . I didn't know how to live or die . Fortunately, I met brother Wuyou today. Otherwise, even the princess sister would have been implicated by me. I said the same for you. You clearly know what his virtues are. You still provoke him, how can I provoke him ? He has been pestering me. If I had the martial arts of the princess sister , I would have beaten him to pieces. Princess Xiqi actually knows some martial arts. His Royal Highness, Prince Li, has two major taboos : avoid drinking. Second , if you don't touch women, who said that a princess can't be good at martial arts? If His Highness is willing to know more about me, you will find that I am not only good at martial arts but also other things . This time Your Highness came to attend the banquet, it shows that His Highness is not completely uninterested in Rongle. Why don't Your Highness go to the banquet with me ? The Empress will come to see the Empress without any gifts . Thank you, Empress, thank your mother. This palace has long heard that Princess Rongle is very smart. Today, when we see it , it really makes the Empress laugh. Prince Li is here today. Let's go to the banquet together. It just so happens that Yali also came into the palace today. Sun Yali, the daughter of the Zhongshu Supervisor, has met Princess Daqi and met King Li and King Chen. Princess Zhaoyun, I still have some things to do. I must take my leave first . The anniversary of the death of the imperial concubine is coming soon. My seventh brother wants to go to the palace to collect some of the imperial concubine's relics . He is such a filial person every year . Since King Li doesn't want to leave Wuyu behind, you can Let's attend for him. Let's raise a toast. 2 Princess N has come from afar . Your Majesty is afraid that the reception will not be good. You have specially asked me to hold this banquet. Everyone here is about the same age as the princess. I hope the princess will not be restrained. Thank you, your majesty. Thank you, queen . The princess is here for the first time. Are you living in the Princess' Mansion? You are still used to the mansion given by Your Majesty. It is naturally very good. But why are the servants in the mansion not serving you well? If so, I will immediately order a new batch of servants to satisfy the princess. Your Majesty has misunderstood the servants in the mansion . They are very thoughtful, but they are too thoughtful. Rongle wants to go out and see the beautiful scenery of the north of the capital, but it is difficult to do so. Why does anyone dare to stop the princess from letting you leave the mansion ? It is not that every time Rongle goes out, all the guards of the princess mansion must accompany him. Rongle was really uneasy about disturbing the people, so he didn't dare to leave the mansion. They were concerned about the safety of the princess . Rongle had a personal bodyguard beside him. The emperor's brother specially sent him to me before Rongle left the west. Well , then, I will I ordered someone to pass on the order. From now on, the princess can travel as she pleases. The guards in the palace don't have to accompany her. Thank you very much, princess. No need to be formal . Please have a meal. Princess , please . Why do you only care about your own food? Please take care of the princess. I'm not my seventh son. If Brother is Li Wang, I don't dare to hope , but if Chen Wang is here , I have some expectations . So what do you expect? I have heard that His Highness Chen is usually the most romantic and the most compassionate person. If Rongle can be taken care of by His Highness Chen, the days in Beilin will be It will definitely be a fun time , yes, King Chen is the best at taking care of girls. From now on, if the princess needs help with anything, she can go to him. He is the queen, you, the princess, sister Wuyu, that person is the most rude, I have no idea. Brother You is very good, please don't be deceived by the rumors . Princess , I don't know what your hobbies are on weekdays. If I go back to the empress, Rongle doesn't have any special hobbies on weekdays. He just likes drinking tea. I don't know what His Highness Prince Chen's hobbies are on weekdays. Well, I just like to visit the Flower House. By coincidence, Rongle has been to some places during Daqi , but he has never been to the Flower House. I wonder when His Highness, Prince Chen, can take Rongle to see if you are a woman . My purpose is not to visit the Flower House . I want to have more opportunities to get to know His Highness. I want to see what kind of women His Highness likes . My mother, the queen, and my son suddenly feel unwell . I have to leave first. This brat princess, you don't have to be polite. Please feel free , everyone. Your Highness , maybe it won't be long before His Majesty is going to grant a marriage to Princess Rongle and Prince Chen. Isn't it still half a year away? Even if the father has this intention and the princess insists on refusing, the father can still force the marriage. Your Highness doesn't know . At the banquet hosted by the Queen the day before yesterday, the princess openly expressed her affection for King Chen. King Chen and King Li do not distinguish between them. If King Chen marries the princess, it is equivalent to King Li marrying the princess. Your Highness must be on guard. How can Princess Xiqi shake this palace? Besides his status , Lao Jiu's temperament really made him marry that unruly princess. It would be a lot of fun to watch. Your Highness , did you know that King Li was secretly investigating the matter of selling officials ? Didn't you say that he did it very covertly? How did he know that there was an insider? Reporting secretly to the King of Li, but His Highness can rest assured that he is humble and has taken precautionary measures to eliminate the insider . However, this shows that the ambition of the King of Li is unreasonable . For our current plan, we must first stop King Li from expanding his power. The imperial edict on marriage has not yet been issued, and it is too late. What your Lord means is that His Highness already has a Crown Princess and cannot marry another princess. Unless Your Highness marries the Princess to one of our people, the Emperor will not agree. Unless you say that Princess Rongle is not only ugly, but her behavior is simply shocking. In front of the queen, she actually wants to go shopping with me in the flower house. Brother Qi, do you think there is such a woman in the world? Isn't that right? Sincerely, you will not only You can visit the flower house by yourself, and you can also take your princess with you to sing and sing together. Maybe it will become a good story. Brother Qi, please stop making fun of me. Don't you think there is something fishy about this? At this moment, I need to get to know you better . Why did you fall in love with me right away? If anything goes wrong, there must be a conspiracy . It must be a conspiracy. Since you know it is a conspiracy , why are you anxious about what to do? Although I am not as good-looking as Qi Ge, you are handsome and charming no matter what . Could it be that you really like me? Brother Qi, time flies so fast. We, Yali, have also reached the age where we should talk about marriage. By the way, your father is Wuyou's teacher. You and Wuyou's childhood sweetheart are a match made in heaven. It's a pity that Your Majesty, Yali, cannot reach the level of His Majesty, King Li , who is the master of this Xiqi Rongle. The princess has arrived in Beilin. Although they are not married , the engagement is still in your heart. What are your plans ? Yali is still young and just wants to accompany her father for a few more years. I don't want to think about it yet. Don't worry about it. I can't think about it. Your mother was alive. Sisters who share the same love with me, if you have someone you like in the future, you must tell me. I will make the decision for you . Thank you , Queen. You have