Not many people know this, but outside of information you could possibly imagine, I Specifically, I work on a marble game called Shocking, I know. There are a lot of interesting things that physics programming, and UI design -- but side of the game that made me wonder: How It sounds like a dumb question since you just know exactly where you spawn. In a game like Counter-Strike, understanding Your spawn location on any given round can a specific sightline before your enemy. This has led to many discussions about this this impact team strategy?&quot;, &quot;is this a good this mechanic in the future?&quot; Yet in Overwatch, it seems as though nobody It could be that spawn variance doesn't matter and cooldown management generally matter more a tactical shooter. Or it could be anyone who does care quickly on how spawn points actually work. So let's change that. What I thought was going to be a simple topic as I discovered some surprising things about But I'm getting ahead of myself. First, we should all be on the same page: Well, here's one! ...You can't see it because it's invisible. So let's visualize spawn points using a sphere a little pointy stick indicating your facing a color to display which team this spawn belongs and an ID number corresponding to this spawn A typical spawn layout looks like this: 6 in a line, sometimes in a rectangle, sometimes There are 6 spawn points because Overwatch spawns for each player to have their own spawn You can still allow 6 players to join each game types in Overwatch 2 are 5v5, leaving in. So the question is: What determines which How are spawn points chosen? To find out, I spawned some bots. For a few hours. Trust me, it was the only way to find a pattern. So, are spawn locations determined by role? Maybe players are spawned alphabetically by Or are they spawned alphabetically by their Perhaps it's done in order of player slot? No, of course not. It's completely random. Which was evident after about 5 minutes, but Actually there is one stipulation: when a for 3 seconds. During this time, it is ineligible to be used This is done to prevent players from spawning occur all the time at the start of the game. Though this can still happen by standing still which case the spawn point will no longer And if every spawn point is claimed at the becomes eligible as fail-safe. So if the game ever becomes 7v7, the 7th player there are only 6 spawn points. Random spawning does make sense, since it's the team an equal chance to spawn anywhere But with any RNG mechanic comes the question where things get interesting. Because while some maps have spawn point layouts are other maps where some spawn points are Does this difference in spawn position actually For unbalanced spawn layouts, it's easy to measure the distance between the front row of spawn points and We can use this distance to roughly evaluate in the front. Technically it would be better to measure doorway, but this requires a lot more precision that doing it the easy way is good enough For these spawn points on Junkertown, there and the &quot;bad&quot; spawns. But what does this translate to time-wise? Well, it depends on which hero you're playing. Movement speed in Overwatch is generally equal Ball rolls quickly at 10 meters per second, Tracer and Genji walk at 6 meters per second, movement speed of 5.5 meters per second. There are a few other abilities that allow boost or Junker Queen's commanding shout -- but meters per second, so I'll be using that speed This translates to a 0.32 second advantage -- or if you're a &quot;glass-half-empty&quot; kind of a second longer to leave spawn if you spawn Watchpoint: Gibraltar is a similar story; 0.3 seconds of walking out of spawn. And Route 66 is slightly less forgiving, adding row spawns. There are more maps with this staggered spawn the best and worst points usually fall within This margin is small enough to prevent this speaking it /is/ possible that it's enough Think about a time you hauled it from the trigger overtime, or the opposite where you line. Had you been randomly assigned to a different differently. Sure it may seem like a contrived scenario, happen more than once on this channel. It's like the infinite monkey theorem but But I don't believe this is common enough rooms; because while these spawn point layouts the main exit, a more &quot;fair&quot; layout would exits. And the game's been out for over 7 years and a success in my book. So love it or hate it, this random variance ...and originally the video was going to end But this is only half the story, because so spawn points within the same spawn room. What about the differences between each team's For asymmetrical maps, the pathing between inherently different due to level geometry very interesting. Symmetrical maps are where differences between since both teams do take the same path to But why would there be differences? These maps are mirrored, so shouldn't the Well...yes. Sometimes. Take Busan (Downtown), for example. Team 1's spawn room is a PC bang, while Team These spawn rooms have physically different identical across them both. To roughly evaluate the difference between each team's average spawn position and the This is once again a less-than-ideal method between the spawn room and the objective subverts because the objective's origin point is sometimes us with a very quick and consistent test to Given the difference in each spawn room's to reach the point is impressively equal. Team 1 spawns on average 94.60 meters from so slightly further at 94.85 meters. These distances are close enough where I wouldn't the other. On New Queen Street, Team 1 spawns in a curling Once again, each team's spawns are roughly imbalance. So far, this bodes well! Most other symmetrical maps use the same level airships used in Control maps. Since these maps are perfectly mirrored, there different. This was one of the more surprising finds that spawn points would be grouped with the airship. But this isn't the case because airships are Each airship has the same orientation in the its doors open depending on which side it's becomes the exit door for Team 2, and vice The spawn points were then (presumably) hand-placed a slightly different layout from one another a completely unique spawn layout. These inconsistencies are harmless on their between both teams on the same map as well! The level editor for Overwatch has a mirror maps, so I'm uncertain why mirrored maps have Regardless, I went and checked every map to of the highlights. Ilios (Ruins) favors Team 2 by 0.95 meters, Busan (Meka Base) favors Team 1 by 0.87 meters, Lijiang Tower (Control Center) favors Team Now behold Colosseo, which favors Team 2 by This is because Team 2's spawn points are 1's spawn points. And you thought the glass was this map's biggest problem. [REMOVE THE GLASS!!!] This is probably the most egregious mistake the average spawn position being advantageous, better than the other team's. No matter how you slice it, players on Team for slightly faster re-engagements every fight. I'm really curious to see what the winrate You would expect symmetrical maps to be as it would be interesting to see if these spawn winrate for one team. Or maybe it doesn't matter. Speaking of balance, I'd like to give a shoutout most balanced maps in terms of spawn point The &quot;Sublevel&quot; stage spawns each team exactly meters. The &quot;Icebreaker&quot; stage spawns each team 107.79 And the &quot;Labs&quot; stage spawns each team...oh, to the control point. But why would that- Okay so Team 1 has 12 spawn points. The 6 spawn points in the back mirror Team placed further ahead. Since spawn selection is random, players on the objective than Team 2 -- and I mean MUCH the worst spawn point and the best spawn point, The only reason I don't consider this to be a chance that both teams will spawn fairly in the front row a single time. But then of course there are other matches It's all down to chance. Since this map has a strange number of spawn number of spawn points in each map. The majority of spawn rooms in Overwatch have Royal(e) are no exception -- except for this Horizon Lunar Colony -- if you can remember room. Blizzard World has 5 spawn points in the attacker Just kidding, there's 6. What a silly little guy. Midtown has the most missing spawns of any in the first attacker spawn. The empty space between spawn points suggests either accidentally deleted or moved into being exported. In any case, missing spawn points aren't a The only thing I would consider to be a real mirrored maps. Admittedly, some of these imbalances are pretty of many matches. But if the spawn points /can/ be mirrored, Especially for Colosseo and Antarctic Peninsula, I suspect these maps will be updated in the forward I made a workshop thing! All you do is paste in the code, select a all the spawn points are displayed. It even works on deathmatch maps, which I an entirely separate can of worms...but there Welcome to Workshop Island, a convenient place But behind its modest appearance lies something On the surface, everything looks fine; there in a 12-player deathmatch -- that neatly follow Well...they almost follow the grid. None of the spawn points are actually aligned random offset. Their heights are inconsistent as well -- most while spawn points 3, 4, 6, and 12 are 8 centimeters Speaking of which, what's going on with the Spawn points 1, 2, and 3 are in order, but What I think happened is these three spawn rotated, and pasted to create the remaining their order. Looking at the facing direction of each spawn 3, 4, 6, and 12 have rotational symmetry, but 1, 11, 10, and 8...don't? The corner spawn points inexplicably break On second thought, what's going on with all Most of the spawn points aren't pointing to you're facing somewhere to the left or right Well, with the exception of spawn point 3, Absolute king. But wait, if the spawn points were rotated, point the way 3 does? If you look closely, the average spawn position the spawn points weren't really rotated around this random arbitrary point, and it's REALLY