WeWork was founded Adam Neumann - a man Miguel McKelvey who there is not really any Adam made some big claims like that WeWork, elevate the world's consciousness, unleash on a WeOS - an operating system that makes - slogans... of WeWork is that it's shared office spaces twenty-two billion dollars with that description That's why Neumann - a man who was hardly tech company and claimed that WeWork was the Now, obviously the term "physical social but Venture Capital people love lines like numbers. These are - after all - the same Fried claimed while playing video games - that Banana procurement app. They are possibly so I won't make fun of them - because nice on this channel. would listen early on that his job was to big to fail" and he got pretty close to the president of the Boston Federal Reserve WeWork could lead to huge losses for banks WeWork raised twenty-two billion dollars from that never (not even once) turned a profit, deal in history. would not be making two sets of interest payments, kicks off a 30-day grace period that could have enough liquidity to actually make the in the coming weeks. grace period to negotiate with creditors. renegotiating nearly all of their leases, "substantial doubt" about their ability over soon for WeWork. default, the bonds WeWork skipped payments low as 9 cents on the dollar before the announcement. through a SPAC merger and since then the stock that at this point - as a worst-case scenario Let's look at the rise and fall of WeWork, and how Adam Neumann got so rich while losing discuss his new startup Flow. Before digging video sponsor Blinkist. Blinkist is an app ideas in over 6500 non-fiction books and podcasts read or play the books on your phone. The of the book it's put together in an interesting are really good at extracting the most important to a book called "The Cult Of We" this As regular viewers know, I read quite a lot, than I have time to read. With Blinkist I commuting and if I find one especially good it as a way to refresh my memory of a book They have a new feature called Blinkist Spaces or family, where you can recommend titles can access all titles in the Space--with Click the link in the description to get a Premium by using my promo link in the description Adam Neumann - the cofounder of WeWork moved military service in Israel. He enrolled in his entrepreneurial dream of making baby clothes Krawlers (spelled with a K) and to date it business venture. The clothes were difficult forced Adam to rent out half of his Brooklyn sparked the idea that led to WeWork which WeWorks core business is pretty easy to understand, landlords, divide them up into smaller offices basis to startups and other small businesses. flexibility and for organizing regular happy In the wake of the credit crunch when WeWork buildings in New York. There was also a newly a living through a startup or freelancing. time to launch a co-working office space. landlords, and to entrepreneurs who didn't and who were nervous about signing long term The team launched their first co-working spot boomed. The exposed brick aesthetic appealed casual style and the sense of community of you needed a lawyer or a graphic designer run into one at the coffee machine. involved in this type of business, it was model that always struggled in economic downturns their leases. Many of the landlords that Newmann in dealing with them, saying "why would to". Neumann and McKelvey didn't have but persisted. back then. In 2008 The New York Times had spaces were opening up all over the country and good coffee. Joel Schreiber - a real estate investor building to rent out to them. He wanted to - which at this point was just in the - idea throw out a big number and said $45 million the valuation and put in 15 million dollars a very big lesson that day, if you can boldly you just need one person with money to agree takes on real meaning. that they could lease and set about kitting out office by office while they were still prospective tenants about the gym that they across the road would be converted into a the park that they had promised never actually In a year the business doubled in size. And The first building was leased for a five-year they called members) on a month-by-month basis. more typical 15-year leases which of course Adam had married Rebekkah Paltrow - a cousin and he would pitch his scheme to them. By dollars from friends and family. But things $16.5 million dollar investment from a venture startups like eBay, snapchat, Instagram, Twitter $100 million dollars. real estate investors avoided because it was it went well you didn't make very much money, all of your tenants which could lead to bankruptcy. where Adam was coming from with his promises very little sense to real estate veterans, profitability fit very well with a Silicon customers by any means possible and figure Real estate is a very different business to with getting an additional customer to download use their personal cars as taxis. On top of to protect you against competitors, if you your business model. It would appear that the WeWork made more money per customer than without getting any revenue from their customers, He was a good talker and they felt that if building something great with it. So that The one difference between WeWork and all up all over the world at the time, was Adams to run profitable businesses, while Adam was because his investors cared more about growth Now that WeWork had VC funding, something set to work trying to make the business look business. This was no easy task for him as his head of IT at this 100 million dollar kid - nicknamed Joey Cables - who installed and who couldn't be contacted if there was WeWork quickly hired a team to develop all could somehow justify its tech stock valuation. so that WeWork members could connect to each LinkedIn already existed - why would you built software that was supposed to be like conference room usage and used sensors to the building. They experimented with face rooms that could track facial expressions tell members how interested their guests were the coffee machines revealed that lines get insights gleaned through this office-tech Impressive stuff. A particularly intrusive front desk to work out which of their tenants allowing WeWork to judge their tenant's While all of this tech development was going rent payments from their customers at many tech that possibly mattered the most wasn't In 2014 JP Morgan Asset Management invested of one and a half billion dollars, making States, a term that that had been invented with private valuations above a billion dollars. as companies used to IPO long before hitting By 2015, the five-year-old company had 23,000 for as little as $45 per month. It was added list. from a Chinese VC firm which valued the company potential investors at this point was that wanted, so long as the investor was willing growth rate and he would tell them how much Adam, who kept his office, apartment, Maybach of tequila was known to celebrate every minor A fight broke out in one of the buildings because he couldn't get any work done due because he was constantly giving speeches, When the tennant asked Adam to turn the music At a deal closing with a VC investor Adam in the meeting room and hosed down the visiting that to happen. They invested anyway. Masayoshi Son - the founder of SoftBank risky bet after risky bet, a number of which end of the end of the dot com bubble he had the world. He went on to lose 90% of his wealth Son has made some surprising investments, app and $375 million dollars into pizza making out. He secured the exclusive rights to sell away with cheap unlimited data plans to maximize He had invested in driverless cars, food delivery On the other hand, he put $20 million dollars went on to be worth more than $100 billion a win like that. Son tells the story that a certain sparkle in his eye. for his Vision fund, mostly from the Saudi when he met Adam Neumann and saw a similar was a tech company to Son explaining how his automatically adjusts to a member's height, smart lighting. This possibly sounded better with Adam but told him he was being too shortsighted. that it wasn't crazy enough. He said &quot;That's Son decided to invest 4 billion dollars into to date and is one of the largest venture out an iPad and both men signed a letter of signing the contract (which included a twelve-minute minutes. valuation of $20 billion dollars making WeWork States just behind Uber, Airbnb and SpaceX world at the time. additional 100 coworking spaces around the locations in Africa not as a growth opportunity of how WeWork affects GDP and employment. than Jack Dorsey. unprofitable, but Neumann diversified into rented out tiny apartments with communal spaces and suicide. The units had two murphy beds separated by a curtain. They suited New Yorkers already too spacious. gym called Rise by We and of course the WeWorld run by Neumann's wife Rebekkah (who had have studied under The Dali Lama and Mother WeGrow as New Yorks Most Obnoxious elementary every child's superpowers - well every dollars a year in tuition anyhow. I dunno... to come cheap - even with VC funding... We Cities were a when, not an if... He even was claiming that he would have colonies on building a WeWork co-working space on Mars. There's still a year to go. been clear enough about this - there was People in the real estate world could not for their confusion was that there was a UK known as Regus that was in the exact same of WeWork. People were looking at IWG which and wondering what was going on, what did On almost every metric like global square revenue, and profit IWG was either similar for valuation. competition in the office rental space, having who didn't worry about profits meant that their competitors. And maybe that was a moat leaflets at competing office spaces offering to entice small businesses to move to WeWork. real estate agents much higher fees than the best locations. They would pay one years rent new tenant's a years or more of free membership a new building could go two or three years Another problem they were running into was there to rent all of the office space they firms like JP Morgan, IBM and the Guardian estate and move into more flexible leases end up renting space to a number of big firms. goals and multiply them by ten, but it seemed available for WeWork to hit these new goals. for example, but the WeWork team found that up in the city, they still would not hit their Landlords were also aware of how much SoftBank wanted to move, and so pushed up their rents just pay the premium to keep growing. was flowing from VC's like Softbank into to all you can watch movie deals burning cash all identified as platform businesses as did When the Popular YouTuber - and NYU Professor Addressable Market was the $100 billion dollar VC's shot back arguing that it was instead was necessary to justify some of the crazy markets at the time. The tech unicorns themselves it might be more of a struggle to convince that any of this made sense. funding before taking Amazon public, Mark fundraising. WeWork had stayed private long round of financing. - a loss well beyond anything Amazon - the ever managed in its fastest growth phase. $2 billion dollars from SoftBank at a $47 investing as much as $16 billion at the time in financial markets and opposition from their In May 2019, Uber - another Softbank company It had been valued at 120 billion dollars Its IPO made history with the biggest first-day 7.6% on the first day of trading. Softbank's making it difficult for Son to deploy any similar but worse. VC money drying up, the company was going Uber's mistake had been to show fiscal restraint had slowed growth, which had spooked investors. wow investors with the shocking growth rate WeWork - which was now the most valuable to go public, as they were rapidly running in order and file an S1 document with the Rebekah - Adams wife - was now listed like that the documents were weighted down of dollars on hiring fashion photographers was included in the securities filing. (This selecting the paper the form would be printed Adam struggled to articulate in writing what firms like IWG. He was better able to convince extinguisher than with the company's accounts. are a community company committed to maximum the worlds consciousness." - That is not The document revealed that Adam had cashed of WeWork stock- far more than any other startup been putting money in, he had been taking the word We and sold it to the company for the number of desks being rented out which that Adam personally owned a number of buildings like a serious conflict of interest. Those future payments to Adam. news outlets reported that Adam smoked so that the crew had to wear oxygen masks to him back to the United States. to the S1 filing. They asked if WeWork could rate of 100% was reasonable. They said that Adjusted EBITDA which appeared in the document They asked for clarity on the meaning of the document which "did not appear to have a We work was receiving so much bad press and Google, who will help companies buy their press in search with paid ads. There was so even with Softbanks money, it was too expensive Softbank and JP Morgan - WeWorks biggest and asked Adam to postpone the IPO and to believed in the co-working business model with a competent CEO they could possibly turn The company appointed Sandeep Mathrani, a month before the global pandemic completely industry. due to the short-term nature of their contracts. cuts, staff were laid off and underperforming In October 2021 the company finally went public Down quite a bit from the 47-billion-dollar two years earlier. of the Cost Cutting the firm just needed to even, and this rate had been achieved pre dollars into the firm which would help with Jim Cramer the Mad Money host announced that Occupancy did grow in the wake of the pandemic reach 70% occupancy, they didn't achieve money. WeWork raised a cumulative $22 billion burned through almost every penny of it never cutting. really like Adam over the course of this story on hard times... Well don't worry about him. As I mentioned earlier, he managed to the bubble period, he also received a substantial of 2.2 billion dollars today. investment from the prominent Silicon Valley his new company Flow which plans to transform The investment which is the largest individual in a round of funding to a company, valued it even opened its doors. when announcing the deal that "It's often fundamentally redesigned the office experience in the process: Adam Neumann." some aspects of the United States housing for renters, and a new type of social interaction. new business goes on to be as successful as If you enjoyed this video you should watch forget to check out our sponsor Blinkist using great day and talk to you again soon. Bye.