Wherever you are today, whether the weather is name. Clap your hands, Elevation Church. all over the globe. The joy of the Lord is our 'Let us go to the house of the Lord.'&quot; house of the Lord. The house of We speak God's peace, protection, and whether in a prison or whether you just slept that by the time we're done today you're going to This word is just for you. Clap your hands I am continuing in my series called and I'm going to read 18 verses. I know so I've got to stack a few extra on for you. 2:1-18. Imagine with me the crushing pressure for the Holy Spirit to be poured out, which because Jesus promised it doesn't mean the In this predicament you find yourself it's not really that you doubt God, is it? It's strong? Can I do what's required?&quot; I guess, in and to doubt the product is to insult the you can make it. If God says you can do it, So, the Lord sends a word to confirm in going to do that for you today. The Bible says they were all together in one place. a violent wind came from heaven and filled the I talked about plot holes in our lives, things we don't understand and can't make but I used the word whole versus hole and how God Now look at what the Holy Spirit did. &quot;...filled saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit...&quot; not with the foolish opinions of this Not only were they filled with the Holy Spirit, but they began to speak in other tongues as the Jerusalem God-fearing Jews from every nation a crowd came together in bewilderment, because Utterly amazed, they asked: 'Aren't all these that each of us hears them in our native residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Egypt and the parts of Libya near Cyrene; visitors Cretans and Arabs--we hear them declaring Now watch this contradiction. Verse 12: &quot;Amazed &quot;God, I believe what you're doing, but Amazed and perplexed. Really blown away, wondering what's going on. &quot;Amazed and does this mean?' Some, however...&quot; You always have 'They have had too much wine.'&quot; &quot;You know Anytime God is moving, someone will be mocking. and your friends aren't inviting you to all of you're that little Christian kid. kid. You're that little virgin girl.&quot; and I'm getting ready for the next Their mocking will never stop your God from moving 14: &quot;Then Peter stood up with the Eleven, raised and all of you who live in Jerusalem, let me You're talking about it, but let me say something &quot;...listen carefully to what I say. These people in the morning!&quot; Peter had jokes. Peter had a his audience. &quot;Now, if you come back at 9:00 But it's too early for that.&quot; &quot;No, this 'In the last days, God says, I will Your sons and daughters will prophesy, your dream dreams. Even on my servants, both men and and they will prophesy.'&quot; Tell your &quot;And I prophesy over your life God Welcome to part 3 of Ghost Writer. is Source Material. Now tell your like New Kids on the Block said, &quot;I've Source Material. Week one: Page Turner. Week Source Material doesn't sound very sexy as kind of like, &quot;Ooh, yeah. New chapter. New New zip code. New network. My new network because it's a page turner. Open Then Plot Hole... Once you found out what that because you realized sometimes what you think twist to take your life in a different I'll need to break it down, even though you First of all, let me just write it. I do me while I write on this screen that God would Jesus healed blind eyes, but I don't know I certainly need that. If you're listening on a and I spelled them right. Praise the let's read the definition. I'm going to read documents, or records used as If you apply it across multiple disciplines, it your source material should be firsthand accounts, and things like that, so that when I read your that, because I felt like that was a little If you're a musician, you only have so many notes Whether a symphony or whether it's just a bop on Beethoven had 12 notes. What you do with those and melody is largely up to your talent and your From those 12 notes, millions of songs have been to write a movie, you might take a book but whatever you built that movie from, a musician might take a sample An author might take a historical account, new story out of source material. I thought book called Demon Copperhead, and she based it but she reset that story in a when she did it, it was a fresh story, This book that I brought up here and it was a New York Times best seller. by this book just before he went on vacation in really needed to disengage his mind. When I'm I don't pick a book this thick, but He walked past it and bought it, and The fact of the matter is I'm pretty sure... I but this particular individual never met him. I respect him. In the and I'm pretty sure I went into a bookstore when This book was such a big deal that but I did not look at this book and think, where I could recast the founding fathers as storm.&quot; The book, of course, is the biography and the person who picked it up is none other When Lin-Manuel Miranda walked by this book, he Now, if I picked up this book for vacation, the but about page 3, I'd be out. This book would For him, it captivated audiences. How many don't throw away your shot. Go see Hamilton at grossed in 2020, by that point, $650 million made on Disney+ and all of the merchandise Then I found out it won 11 Tony awards. I want to bring this into your life is... How and maybe even walked by it...? section I walk by in the bookstore, I'll Why did this book call out to him, and why did Tank and are like, &quot;I could have thought I did. I bought it this week. I didn't read skimmed it a little bit. Not once did I think, I could probably create something so wonderful of I was holding the book this week, and I which I have now seen eight times. Pray for I knew I would be seeing it again, and I watched up the book that he said inspired him to write of a hip-hop musical, here's the question Put the picture up. There's Lin-Manuel. musicals of all time started with something I will give this away after church bucket and I'll find you, because I'm not How was I in the same store, walking by the same He performed this in the White House. I'll be about these disciples that we're looking at in sincere, they are sincere, and they are sincere, They're in this small room, and they have a big they do not have the talent that is equal to the time that is equal to the task they have been these are the boys that only one of them It's the same team. When you hear about the He's replaced by a rookie named Matthias. and he was the one who was cursing I'm looking at them, and I know By the time you get to the end of the book of this upper room in Jerusalem, this small, the disciples were gathered, and it has spread. it spreads. The message of Jesus Christ spreads. society so that the poor might be lifted, but by if you ever read it cover to cover, you will see You will see the gospel from this little, small Roman Empire, the most powerful center of the day, are first called Christians; as it makes its way and trade; as it even sweeps through Corinth, What happened in Corinth stayed in Corinth, in Jerusalem. What happened in Jerusalem spread across dangerous seas. It spread past spread through government edicts. It spread It spread without YouTube. It spread without put its shoes on and made a lap around Wi-Fi wasn't even available, and Jesus didn't sent his Spirit, and they did it. You have How did it get all the way from Palestine did what they did having less than we to preach a series from. They were living to tell them, &quot;I can do all things because Paul was still in prison. They had none of this at the time, yet they did all of that. I bring it up because there may be a place in your life today but you're saying to yourself...&quot;How am I &quot;How am I supposed to do that? How am I even understand the world they're living in? How a broken family? How am I supposed to move when I don't even have the basic education that let alone the one that's ahead of me? How do I do Now, fortunately, there is a principle you and to take this with you into every situation in your that?&quot; &quot;All right, Preacher. You're telling me to be free, live for Jesus, do these things, I hear you. How am I supposed to do that when all talking about I don't have much of a template for, inserts itself in the place of my good intentions. time you say 'Amen' after one of these sermons. 'Praise him in the midnight hour.' How am I If you're supposed to do it, you will have God's support for it. Now, I know it doesn't feel like that right to do something in your life, you do not see the beginning of the whole Bible in Genesis source we should go to the source and see what The Bible says in Genesis, chapter 1, verse That's why I can move forward into the next God...&quot; What did he do? &quot;...created the heavens &quot;Now the earth was formless and empty, and the Spirit of God was hovering &quot;The Spirit of God was hovering over but there was still Spirit. There was darkness, no form yet. That means it hadn't taken shape there was still Spirit. There are some things There are some things in your dark, and dreary. Just because there's no yet. Just because there's no apparent the scene yet. The Bible says God hovered over that the Spirit was there. Now put up verse 3. because there was no light, and because there If you go all the way back to the fathers of the United States of America, past past the time you were addicted, past the time past the time you lost a child in a custody that, there are two things that were always God hovered, and he spoke. Verse 3: &quot;And was light,&quot; because God said it. Everything we the Spirit and the spoken Word of God. say that if you're supposed to do it, Here are our disciples, sitting in a we supposed to take the gospel to the ends of let alone a plane. How are we supposed to But as he does so many times in our lives, God had question to ask. Who is this for? God has already but he's already on the scene. Here's where it at first it looks like maybe God isn't I don't always know why people shout about stuff &quot;The day of Pentecost came...&quot; That was a Jewish was the end of the barley harvest and so you had to make a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. They would usually see about triple street was crowded. Everybody is there. those who honor and fear God, and they're bringing Lord, for this harvest. We believe you for the While they're celebrating the harvest, for the Holy Spirit to be given so they would reach to the ends of the earth. The they were all together in one place. Suddenly a When you read that in a church, everybody will will shout about the sound of a violent wind, this sounds exciting. What is a violent wind? the nice... &quot;Oh, the sound. Suddenly the sound of a That's not something we usually shout about; that's something that we usually Then look at the next thing that happened. and filled the whole house where they were to be tongues of fire...&quot; You say, &quot;Tongues tongues of fire.&quot; Have you ever put your eaten a jalapeno pepper? Why would you So, we shout about the storm, but let's be honest. If a wind is uncontrolled, in the right amount and you have a sail, A wind can also create a hurricane. A wind can destroy. So can a fire. A fire A fire can reduce to rubbish an entire village, time. So why are we shouting about a storm? you why. This is why you came to church. we're shouting about where it came from, One thing I know about my life... It's not that determines the result it will have in my the source of every storm we go through. through were not sent by the Enemy to destroy So, now I need to know a question. The storm the storm you're going through in your industry, things out that are happening at this age it come from the Enemy to destroy you or Better question: Does it really by the time the storm has to pass through you... I don't know why I'm screaming the whole because I hear the sound. It sounds and it will not destroy me; it will only develop I just want us to read the Bible like it's real. you're ducking under stuff. Here come tongues fire. Watch this. Read it really slowly. a violent wind. It seemed to be tongues I know it looked like it was the end for like. I know it looked like the reason they but it wasn't what it looked like. Oh, tell It looked like a dead end, but it was really a How many have a testimony? &quot;It came from from heaven.&quot; I hear the Holy Spirit blowing &quot;It wasn't what it looked like.&quot; It looked like Open your mouth and fill this atmosphere The Devil thought he had him. They put him in there to stay, but it wasn't what it let me preach on the Holy Ghost. I'm telling Isn't it interesting the Bible said it filled you sitting where you're supposed to be sitting? I the usher told me to sit. It's not my fault.&quot; Are See, I think some of you... I don't mean to be think some of you aren't getting what you should should be sitting. Okay. If the disciples the gospel all through the Roman Empire, what are What are the chances it makes it to Winston-Salem? What are the chances it makes it to Zimbabwe? your hospital room right there? What are about Jesus today if they tried Recently, in preaching, I had to adjust some my ability to preach. One of the things I decided plan and try to lean more into God and less into when I preach and more that he is the source Even in raising your kids, sometimes you have as a parent is you are trying to fill a role fill. All of the teenagers are like, &quot;Thank 13-year-olds waking up all around the church. You are supposed to be their guide, not what we're supposed to do. So, I want to ask are you out of strength because you are not even supposed to be doing, trying to Are you minding your own business or do you keep away stress you ingested in your own system by scrolling at 11:30 p.m.; you were supposed to supposed to be seeing because you were scrolling You were sitting somewhere you shouldn't getting what you could be getting because you're half Dr. Seuss today. I went to see a guy. voice,&quot; because I would preach a lot of times, I thought the guy... He is a voice coach. His &quot;Stop screaming so much.&quot; So, I came to him and to do, and I'm not going to do either one of Coke.' That's off the table. The Lord and I Secondly, you're going to tell me to stop &quot;You can drink Diet Coke. It's going to kill you, said, &quot;It's not? I thought you were going to tell They're trying to...&quot; He said, &quot;No, no, no. You can He said, &quot;I don't want you to stop screaming; this guy is expensive. I said, &quot;I paid you how &quot;Yeah. No wonder your voice hurts.&quot; I had had and I couldn't make it go away. I said, &quot;I know when you scream it's supposed to It's not supposed to hurt. Yeah, we go through need to sustain because of something as how much I just screamed at you? My voice I can scream if I breathe. If I breathe, I can scream or not, that's your business, &quot;Then Peter stood up with the Eleven, raised He didn't say it softly; he It says he stood up, and it says he raised only way you can really make a volume is if his voice. What the Bible does not say we have evidence that he took a deep That day, off of one sermon, he he preached about the resurrection of Jesus, he preached about the need for repentance pierced their hearts, and 3,000 of them became There was no public address system. How did his He had to breathe. I want to give you a Holy have to breathe. You're not breathing. in your life that aren't supposed to If you would get a breath from heaven you would feel the wind of God in your sail, You would have something blowing your sails to go. But you haven't been breathing. You've You've been running from one stressful from one hypothetical scenario to another, and lately and said, &quot;God, I need you for this. If you are trying to do something in your God's sovereignty, he will not support it. The the Lord orders. That means God will not help you to. God will not help you reach the goal of They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire. They my wisdom is knowing what I'm not supposed to something I'm not even supposed to be doing. so you will not have the strength to avoid the of your time with them, because you are not I am going to preach this word to help not supposed to hurt because you are sitting amazing revelation for us. The way the the way the gospel of Jesus Christ reached is all through this one little phrase. That means they breathed in the same Spirit 1. They breathed in the same Spirit that still chaos. That same Spirit does not hover over Breathe it in. Stop arguing with I feel like our whole problem sometimes but we ask to the wrong crowd. The Bible says nation under heaven. If you think I'm pronouncing The Bible says they were amazed and perplexed, hearing the gospel in their own language. there are different things that can mean. One unknown by others and spoken by the person who's This is they were speaking in one language, and to the listeners even though it was not previously &quot;How are we going to get the gospel to the the language?&quot; The Spirit will enable you. and know what to do?&quot; The Spirit will enable Christ when my life is such a mess?&quot; The Spirit fills emptiness. God comes to people who are open The Spirit enabled them. The Bible says that as &quot;Amazed and perplexed, they asked...&quot; That will always get you in trouble, trying your same level. That's why God Watch what Peter said. He stood up, raised his not coming from the crowd; it had to be given to crowd, &quot;Fellow Jews...&quot; Let me do it louder. &quot;Fellow all of you who live in Jerusalem, let me explain Stop asking one another. Stop looking for than you do about it. He raised his voice, listen to me. These people are not drunk, as you Here's what happened. The crowd and they thought, &quot;They must be is ridiculous. This makes no sense. &quot;I think they're drunk.&quot; &quot;What do you think they're doing?&quot; &quot;I think they're crazy.&quot; &quot;What do you think they're doing?&quot; As they're passing this around all through have already supposed. Have you noticed in supposed? So, if you supposed today that &quot;I heard it's a cult,&quot; because somebody told for a cult, do you know what you will find? You thought you were supposed to be the a witness. Even if you suppose somebody doesn't find every reason they don't. &quot;Did you see how &quot;Yeah, but it wasn't a full smile. It was that three-quarter smile? Eighty percent at the teeth? They don't like me. I told you they don't and then we support. I suppose so then I find the friends who will I'm never going to get out of this I suppose, so then I don't see anything. What you think something. You think something, you you believe something. You believe something, see something, so then you think something. You something, so you believe something, and then No, no, no. You saw something, you thought you became something, and then you say, &quot;See? I supposed and then supported. You supposed that God can't use someone like you. You supposed that Meanwhile, somebody else who's half your age age is still doing it, but you support what you have supposed is not coming from the right place. Greek because I really wanted to understand what as you suppose.&quot; The Greek word for suppose week at Elevation Church. Hupolambano. What You might recognize this verse because it is also getting ready to leave the earth. He's getting &quot;You will be my witnesses,&quot; and he was taken is hupolambano. The word suppose is hupolambano. Taken up. He was taken up from below. Where did conclusions? Hupolambano. They took it up from situation. This is not something you can take up So, here's the contradiction. I've got what to know is...Which one are you going to what you took up from the bottom or what you've been believing does not have its it will sabotage you, and it will lead you to This is not a &quot;take up from below&quot; moment in moment. Peter said, &quot;This is not a moment this is a moment for you to receive an &quot;You are looking up at the wrong thing.&quot; You are looking around at the wrong you cannot get it from below; it there were two things present at the creation of God. That's the source material. You have both One person will take this word where have I been looking around where I looking up at and giving my attention my feet and walk over the top of?&quot; One person How did he create that from this? He worked if you work it. How did the gospel go from a and me today? The source material, the Spirit Do you not realize we have the same gospel? same gospel that broke chains off Paul the Ethiopian eunuch pulled over and stopped I believe there is so much more inside of you. I see what seems to be tongues of fire. I hear the and God said... Everyone standing. We will pray nobody moving out of this room. Stay where you baby. You can't run if you don't don't breathe. You can't think Peter raised his voice. He breathed. The sound of coming to fill your lungs, fill your life. of the wind. It's the Spirit of God. It's and it's coming to you right now. Lift your &quot;I receive the Holy Spirit. I receive my life. I receive it.&quot; Tap into it. I'm breathing this week. For me to have the that created the world and not worship God... I'm Peter was able to walk on one word on the top of my life this week with one word from you. Almighty &quot;I worship you, God. I worship you, Lord. to come.&quot; His name is Jesus. He is the I worship you, Lord. I'm not drunk. I'm not Lord. Lord, now is your wind and your fire with your praise. We intend to accomplish lives this week. No, we're not one of the I commission these, your children, by your their waiting they will see manifestations I believe it because you've spoken it. We we came to look up and look in Now every person who receives this word, clap &quot;When the day of Pentecost came, they were life can change suddenly. Right now, there Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. It trying to do in your own strength what I want to invite you right now to receive Jesus here needs the same thing. We need the grace of if you will repent of your sin and believe wants to give their life to Jesus today, me. We'll all say it out loud together for Repeat after me. &quot;Heavenly Father, today is Christ is the Son of God and the Savior Lord of my life. I believe he died that I me life. I receive this new life. This is On the count of three, shoot your hand up if you new beginning upon you. We believe God for greater a fresh foundation. Let's praise God for what Clap those hands and give God praise in the name here. Church, let's celebrate the Lord who brought know who gave you breath. &quot;Let everything that has close us in prayer at Ballantyne. Y'all welcome and I said, &quot;That's a stage outfit. I I want you to pray for everybody today who We saw a woman who has been in a wheelchair for every day with chronic pain, and she said, &quot;There do this?'&quot; Well, if you're supposed to do it, I want you to pray, Holly, that God would show us would show us what we're walking past that he today that God wants to show you the source prayer. Would you join hands with the person on Holly Furtick: Father, we come to you now, and our hearts are so full. We're been spoken over our hearts today. Holy Spirit, Thank you, Holy Spirit, that every time the Word thank you. Seal this word on our hearts open up our eyes to see the support that is you are with us and that you are working Lord, give us the courage to move forward in one of us. Lord, thank you for our through him today. We receive it, God. and we thank you that we get to move in the strength for our calling, Lord. Steven: High-five three people and got the stuff! I dismiss you in the name of hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church know when we go live and post new content make to you today where you're watching from and like to support the ministry financially you can reaching people around the world for Jesus