GILBERT STRANG: OK, I today about power series. These are powers of x. I'm going to keep going. All powers, all those x to the they'll all come in too. And my idea is combine them, a function of x. So we're doing calculus, but a infinite series. So what do I mean I mean I'll multiply those Let me call those numbers a0. So this first guy will be add on an a1 x. I'm out of x. I'll add on some a2 x squared, So now I have a function. And that function, let So here's my starting Well, we've seen this Let me remember how e to the x that particular function. So here's the plan. I'm going to choose those let me put these words down. I'll match at x equals 0. The function, its derivative, derivative, and onwards. Each a, like a3, will be chosen side has the correct derivative, at x equals 0. So this Taylor series-- Taylor's name is associated everything's happening So in the case of e derivatives were the same. Still e to the x. And they all equal So I want that function derivative. That doesn't mean that the Why not? Because when I take the this guy, that x cubed, derivative, will be 3x squared. The next derivative 6x. The next derivative 6. That's the one I want. That third derivative, but it'll be 1/6 to give me the Let me write those So what we just did is the The n-th derivative. What's the n-th derivative We get to use our nice formula So the first derivative is The derivative of that will be lower power. Keep going, do it n times, You finally got down to the 0-th But what is that constant? It's n times n minus 1, so that from the first, n minus Keep multiply until you And of course, that's called enough to have its That name is n factorial. And it's written n with So that's n factorial and that's x to the n. So for the particular function its series, all the derivatives are all 1's. But what the powers of x gives The a's had better divide So let me recall the series for onto new functions. That's the point So we're getting e to the x in the original way, but e to the x at x equals 0 is 1. At the first derivative of e to 1 factorial. That's 1. But here I have to divide by 2 is 2 and I want those And here I divide by-- what do I divide by? 6 because the third And a typical term is I have because when I take n The n-th derivative of worked out is n factorial. So I divide by n factorial and come out 1. And that's correct So that's the plan, matching each power of x. And now I'm ready for And a nice choice is sine x. So now on this board, if I can different function. No longer e to the x. My function is going Well, I better figure out And they're nice, of course. Sine x, its derivative. Can I just list them all? These are the things that I'll plug in x equals 0. But let me first find The derivative of The derivative of cosine The derivative of minus the And then I'm back to sine again, That's a list of the derivatives This is my f of x here. This guy, first one. OK, now I plug in x equals derivatives at 0. The whole series is being point x equals 0. So at x equals 0, that's The sine is 0, the cosine is Minus the cosine is minus 1. The sine is 0. And repeat. 0, 1, 0, minus 1 forever. OK, so I know the derivatives Now can I construct the power OK, so that power series will what will it have? It starts with 0. The constant term is 0 because course, we want to get Then, the next term, the x, 1x. No x squared's in sine x. No x squared's. But now minus. Do I have minus 1x cubed? Not quite. Minus x cubed, but I have to take that three derivatives, So I have to divide by 6, That's really the number 3 times 2 times 1. 6. Now the fourth degree fourth is not there. x to the fifth is going to So there's a plus This is x to the 0, x to the fifth. And now what do I 5 factorial. 120. And then minus and so on. Minus an x to the seventh We have created the power series And let me remove that 1 because x minus x cubed. All odd powers and sine x is an odd function. If I change from x to minus x, What would happen if I plugged Suppose I took x equal pi in This infinite formula, Well, I would get pi minus pi fifth over 120. It would look ridiculous. But you and I know that the The correct sine of pi? 0. I don't plan to do it, OK, so that's the sine. That's the sine. And it's an odd series. Now OK, good example. Its twin has got to The cosine. What's the series These are the two series You notice here that slope of slope of sine x at x equals And that does have OK, what about the cosine? Well, now I have to plug in. All right, the cosine is Cosine minus sine Now my f of x is going And I need its derivatives. I'm going to have three lines just like these three lines. But they'll be for the cosine. So they start with a cosine. Its derivative is Its derivative is minus Its derivative is what? Plus sine and then cosine, and And let me plug in now This is our system. Find the derivatives, So find the derivative at 0. Well, the function itself, The first derivative is 0. The second derivative The third is 0. The fourth derivative is It's the same line as we have, Starting with the cosine. I know what derivatives I create my series for cosine x, One more time. Just match those numbers with originally called a0, a1, a2, OK, at x equals 0. So how does this series start? At x equals 0, the It starts with a 1. That's the constant term The coefficient of x, the Because the cosine has Then we come to something Minus. This will be-- now what This is the constant, the The second power minus But you know if I'm looking to make it b minus 1. Right now it's minus 2. Differentiating would give So I have to divide by that Now it's good. Now it matches the correct Then there's no third The fourth derivative fourth over 4 factorial. And then minus and so on, x to All even powers, so this The 0-th, second, fourth, So it's an even function. That means that the cosine of the cosine of x. We get a nice little insight for which the sine is the function and the cosine example of an even function. Well, there's so much here. What happens if I cut I just want to look at those what they represent. Suppose I stop here after What do I have? What is that x just by itself? It's really 0 plus x because constant term. That is the linear That gives me the equation equals x, slope 1. More interesting, cut Cut this one off here. That's a very important It's not the exact cosine got all these later guys. But don't forget and I should beginning, these n factorials that we're talking about, grow so fast and I'm dividing by I get a reasonable number. If I take x equaled pi, that's What do I get if I plug in the cosine series? So the cosine series, if I patience to go pretty far, my the cosine of pi. Which would be minus 1. I don't see minus Here is 1, minus 1/2 I don't know, that's around-- 1/2 pi squared might be But they knock each other off. They get very small and we OK, so those are two important you about Euler's It connects these three series But to make that connection imaginary number i. Is that OK? Just imagine a number i. And everybody knows what you're You're supposed to imagine that And we all know there The square of a real number is equal to 0. So let's just create a symbol understanding that any time we write minus 1. OK. So now, what is Euler's Euler's great formula, his in this e to the x series, Change x to ix. So make it an imaginary So can I just take Euler's, take maybe Euler's out of this letter e is his initial. Probably he did. So I guess that's why he found So if I take e to the ix and put in ix, just go for it. Let x be imaginary. OK, can I write out the instead of x I have ix. And then I have 1 over 2 And then I have 1 over And 1 over 4 factorial That's e to the ix. OK, you say, you just That's all I did. Now, here's the point. Now I'm going to look at this out the part that is real from I'm going to separate it into imaginary part. So what is real in this thing? I see one is certainly Do you see the other one, the It comes from this i squared. That i squared I can replace So it's minus from the i squared x squared is still there. The i squared was minus 1. That's all. And then would come something Because what is i It's i squared squared We'd be back to plus 1. So plus sign. Good. Now comes the part that has an to live with. So that i is multiplied by x. Now I have i cubed. How do I deal with i cubed? i cubed is i squared i squared times i is minus i. So I have a minus i. 1 over 3 factorial and the Do you see what we have? Do you see what this real It's the cosine. Right there, same thing. So I'm getting cosine x for the this series. And you can see what It's the sine series, x minus the fifth sine x. There is Euler's great formula oh, I better write it Maybe I'll just write I'm going to copy from this that e to the ix comes out to Imaginary part gives And I'll write that down. Now let me work here. e to the ix is cos And I want to draw a picture. OK, here's a picture. Actually, Euler often wrote his his formula because we're taking Somehow x isn't such-- those are angles. So it's more natural Now that we've showing up with natural to write a symbol an angle like theta. So you would more often I'm just changing letters from remembering that And now I'll draw it. So I have to draw that thing. OK, this is the real direction the imaginary direction. I just go that's I go cos theta across here. So let that be cos theta. And then I go upwards in the So across is the real part, Say sine theta I go up. That height is sine theta Fantastic. That's a picture of Well, that's the best that beautiful statement. And this is a picture We would say that's the complex have two parts, a real part Nothing so complex about that. Now, before I stop, we've done Can I mention two more, just two possibilities? One is the most important coefficients are all 1's. So the coefficients That's called the geometric Let me write its name here. That's a Taylor series. That's a power series. And the function it comes over 1 minus x. That's the function. And you will see why, if you x, I'll get 1 here. If you watch, everything will So that's it. Now, there's a significant and e to the x. The biggest difference is factorial anymore. And as a result, these terms and smaller and smaller. Unless x is below 1. So we're OK for x below 1. And x could be negative. I can even say absolute value of gets smaller. But at x equals 1 we're dead. At x equals 1 I have 1 All 1's. I'm getting infinity. And on the left side I'm At x equals 1 blows up. OK, one more series, One more. It's a neat one because it How am I going to get it? I'm going to start with this the geometric series. And I'm going to take the So if I integrate 1 I get x. If I integrate x I get If I integrate x squared x fourth over 4 and so on. Not 3 factorial, just 3. And if I integrate this, well, then we can take its derivative does give that. So the answer is minus. This minus sign shows up logarithm of 1 minus x. Because if I take the derivative logarithm always puts this bottom, and then the derivative function, the chain rule brings minus 1's go away, So just have a look at that The logarithm of 1 minus x. Again, we're matching At x equals 0, this In fact, at x equals 0, Logarithm of 1, which is 0, and Good. OK, what comments to make about This one was OK for But then it died This one, well, it's getting by 3 and 4 and 5. But that's puny help. That's no way compared to factorial, and so on, which So actually, this series out to x equals 1. At x equals 1, it fails again. At x equals 1, what do I have? When x is 1, I have the log I've got infinity At x equals 1, this is plus 1/4 plus 1/5. Getting smaller, but adding up to infinity. So there's a whole discussion. We could spend hours on that 1/3 plus a quarter and other I wanted to do calculus, took functions and series of to illustrate this. OK, good. Thanks. ANNOUNCER: This has been OpenCourseWare and Funding for this video was Foundation. To help OCW continue to provide to MIT courses, please ocw.mit.edu/donate.