Having high cholesterol is good for you, the higher your cholesterol the better. Look, I'll the lowest cholesterol levels have higher risk level comes down, the risk of death goes up. cholesterol, you want to keep it high so you avoid know any of this cuz they make money by keeping it in, they just want to sell you drugs. If I this stuff mechanically I'd be a billionaire. and mortality that is thrown around social media of different metrics. We see it with BMI for risk of dying. We see the lowest risk of death for also see this with blood pressure, people with the lowest risk of death is actually seen in the A1c, glycated hemoglobin, lowest risk of death all of those are published in scientific studies, an influencer told you to keep your blood pressure A1C high, be pre-diabetic to have lower risk of right? Why not though, we have the same curves, somebody told you to keep your blood pressure high of argument, you'd be immediately suspicious that person is probably not telling me the full story. people buy it hook, line and sinker. Most content made to be accurate or to be great science. Okay, influencers will tell you something about thing about other metrics even though we have the in the first place, high risk of death with with normal A1C, with normal BMI, what's going last phase of our life, as we start to get sicker, common. Old age and disease often also reduce our lose weight, our BMI drops, our blood pressure many of these physiological parameters which because people tend to be overfed in our society, certain chronic diseases, cancer, chronic we start to get malnourished, we start to get down, this is very common. In fact, in studies this effect, this pattern of the cholesterol curve the higher the risk of mortality they see. Even strange pattern go away of the high death with low because we're sick and we're approaching the end because we're prescribed a medication or we have higher mortality, in fact when we see a difference that over and over and over again. So having low your risk of dying, that's just a misunderstanding unfamiliar with this entire field to even suggest observational correlations, it's not a serious blood pressure, lower BMI, lower cholesterol in so no wonder they associate with risk of dying, low cholesterol that is not caused by malnutrition randomized trials confirm it, lowering cholesterol people with lower cholesterol have lower in the same direction. Don't get me wrong, disease risk, there are better metrics, we have a make this quick video to address this idea that cholesterol causes death based on these curves, important for all kinds of physiological functions so why would you want to lower something like our liver produces lots of cholesterol so how kinds of physiological functions throughout the makes glucose and yet we don't want the blood to eliminate all glucose from everywhere in the we just don't want the blood levels to be too same logic for cholesterol levels in the blood. these gotcha points on social media, this stuff physiological roles so why would you want to lower nobody with any grasp of medicine even at a this is routine in medicine, there are dozens yet you don't want them too high, they can be kill you if they're too high: sodium, potassium, literally dozens if not hundreds of examples, so gotcha points, this has no scientific substance. brain needs cholesterol, so why would you want to just going to harm your brain. The brain makes its the blood brain barrier, we want to keep the blood need the cholesterol from the blood. You want social media guys, this is not science. Wait, but Cholesterol is high everywhere so high cholesterol else. By this logic high glucose is not a problem, high glucose everywhere, arteries and veins, the high glucose can't be the problem, it's got to silly argument, plaque grows in arteries because can happen in veins if the veins are transplanted about the wall of the vein. Diabetes raises risk the places where the plaque can grow, which true for high cholesterol. You want to be really Get your guard up when you hear somebody talking like you're an idiot, you're not an idiot, demand everyone. Yes, including me. For questions about we have a whole video on that, check it out oxidized LDL, we got a whole video on