This old man is 80 years old. This old lady is 79 years old. You would think that living in a country house would be difficult, right? It has been 51 years since they got married. When the sun sets, they heat the bath. . This old lady is cooking dinner. This fish looks delicious. They eat fish once or twice a month. Is smoke not a problem? Smoke rises to the top. The smoke will just come out from somewhere. The ceiling is pitch black, and we used to light a fire every day. This is delicious. Autumn swordfish is delicious. This is delicious when eaten with grated radish. TAKENO Town, Kinosaki District, Hyogo Prefecture. This village is located at the end of a path along a valley that leads from the foot of the mountain. This village is shaped like a staircase. Therefore, this village was named DAN. This village receives northerly winds from JAPAN SEA. This village is covered in deep snow in winter. There were once 70 villagers. Currently, there are only four residents from three households. They are the only married couple in the village. YAMAZATO diary. Autumn for an 80 year old couple. In autumn, when the ears of rice begin to droop, they become busy. The size of the rice field is approximately 3000 square meters. It's small for a farm. But it takes them five days to harvest the rice. It's nice weather. The harvested ears of rice are immediately dried in the sun. Most of the rice on the market is dried mechanically. It is said that rice becomes more delicious if it is dried in the sun. Can this rice be raised to the top? This new rice will be on the table in three weeks. . Although they cannot be called livestock farmers, they have been raising cattle for a long time. It is his responsibility to take care of the cows. She is still afraid of cows. But when he's around, she can brush the cows. Please don't move. They have two cows. This cow is a 16 year old girl. Her name is DAIYON BOTAN. In human terms, this cow is about the same age as this old man. She can no longer bear children. This place is the origin of TAJIMA beef. Cattle pedigrees are important in this village. This cow once won a gold medal in a competition. This cow is their pride. In the past, calves have sold for more than 1 million yen. Cows have supported the couple's livelihood. This cow is 2 years old and her name is HUKUMUSUME. This cow is the 14th child born to DAIYON BOTAN. The old man did not sell the cow because she looked good. At first, I was thinking of naming her HUKUHIME. However, I wanted to give her a wild name, so I named her HUKUMUSUME. Because I pampered her too much, she became selfish. She is selfish. I loved her too much. On this day, they eat this year's new rice for the first time. Ears of rice are threshed after being dried in the sun. Pack this brown rice into a bag. They mill only the amount of rice they eat. The rice they harvest will support their diet for one year. They are concerned about the quality of new rice. I was worried that the rice would be hard. The rice is hard. He ate the rice without looking at the side dish. This is delicious. I am cutting down on my time working in the field. I work as much as I can. How many years can we continue this? We are 80 years old. We are 80 years old, so maybe 5 years? We'll still be working in five years. what are you saying? I can work with inertia. After that, I want to relax. Do you relax under the ground? I want to relax. You would do it under the ground. She was born in this village. He came to this village just after the war ended. He came to this village to work cutting down trees in the mountains. They had an arranged match and got married. They were involved in agriculture, sericulture, and charcoal burning. They went out to work and raised three children. Their children left the village on their own 20 years ago. They live on their own, relying on cattle and fields. Drinks are essential for him. Is this something you're looking forward to? This is something I'm looking forward to. I drink about 180cc of alcohol. Is it about 180cc? yes. Don't you want to eat? He likes to take a nap after drinking alcohol. The water isn't hot, right? The water is hot. When I take a bath, I don't feel like I've taken a bath unless I add a lot of hot water. He goes to the cow shed many times at night. DAIYON BOTAN, an old cow, is very weak. This cow has gas in her stomach. If she can't move, they won't be able to move this huge body. The old man thought. He always writes in his diary before going to bed. He writes in his diary about the weather, the fields, and the cows. DAIYON BOTAN will die in the shed. The best thing to do would be to put her up for auction while she can still walk. He consulted a veterinarian and came to this conclusion. It's the day they let go of DAIYON BOTAN. On the last night, he fed DAIYON BOTAN lots of his favorite food. Feed it to her along with the straw. Thank you for your good work. We are not letting her go to make money. She was quiet and a good cow. . I'm about to cry. At 6am, the agricultural cooperative came to pick up DAIYON BOTAN. The question is whether DAIYON BOTAN will follow him. DAIYON BOTAN followed him slowly down the slope. However, DAIYON BOTAN stopped moving at all in front of the pickup truck. Perhaps knowing where the truck was going, DAIYON BOTAN continued to resist. He did not cry in front of the camera, but wrote in his diary that day: Unlike my concerns, she walked out. I put DAIYON BOTAN in the car, and I said my heartfelt thanks and apologies to DAIYON BOTAN and said goodbye. I'm in tears. I wanted to cry out loud. It's November. They quickly planted onions. There is only a little work left in the field. These are the agricultural cooperative's seedlings. I can use either one. This is a very nice seedling. This is a fine seedling. We cannot grow such fine seedlings. It's wonderful to be able to grow such good seedlings. My lower back hurts. My lower back hurts. Don't you fight with your husband? fight? When I get angry, I ask my husband to shut up. Is that for both of you? He knows it's better not to say anything. Is that something you usually do? yes. Sometimes he says something when he drinks. My wife is the boss at home. My wife clearly says what she wants to say. Do you stay silent when you fight with your wife? I don't accept her fights. Should I line up with my husband? You look like you're right next to me. Apparently I look like I'm on par with him. As autumn approaches, they go into the bushes in search of large crops. If you want to dig this, dig it. We can immediately make this into yam paste and eat it. Their target is a wild mountain potato called Japanese yam. On this day, they spent an hour digging more than a meter deep. The wild yam broke at the right place. The wild yam broke at the right place. The wild yam is buried deep in the soil. Some wild yams can sell for more than 10,000 yen each, but he only digs enough for them to eat. This mortar is a little small. How do I put this in? My husband is not good at putting Japanese yam in a bowl. Is this too sticky? This is just right. This is just right. Do you like this? Yes, I find this delicious. This is a good potato. I don't think I'm desperately trying to make money. I wish I could continue in my current state. What do you work for every day? I don't know why. To put it bluntly, my hobby is work. My son's hobby is fishing. I'm looking forward to working as a farmer at home. Nowadays, I rarely have the opportunity to wear a tie. You don't do a good job of wearing a tie. Where do you go from now? I'm now going to the TOYOOKA Civic Center. I wore a suit, but not enough. Would you like to go to TOYOOKA with your husband? If I were healthy I would go there, but I have back pain so I can't go there. Are you not interested in manzai or rokyoku? I don't like rokyoku. Why? I like singing. Once a year, it is a day to appreciate performing arts hosted by the agricultural cooperative. He got on the bus that picked him up and left for TOYOOKA city, a 30-minute journey. She was a little irritated because he never came home. Why is my husband coming home so late? FUKUMUSUME is pregnant and planning to give birth next spring. When the wind blows from the Sea of Japan and climbs up the valley, the sky changes in an instant. The blue autumn sky turns into a gray rainy sky in just 5 minutes. They believe that if it rains, it will be Sunday. People are saying that the economy is bad right now, but do you ever feel that way? No, we've never cared about that. We don't even think about the economy. We are comfortable living a normal life here. We live like mountain animals. We are like raccoons and foxes. If you live here, you have no idea what the economy is like or what's going on in the world. We live freely. The SOBA they sowed in the summer is bearing fruit. The cultivation of SOBA has been popular around this village for a long time. Shipping is not the goal, but each family has their own taste of SOBA. Have you ever eaten SOBA at a restaurant? No, I have never eaten SOBA at a restaurant. The SOBA I make is the most delicious. After the harvested SOBA is dried in the sun for a while, it is sent to a mill to be turned into powder, and they make SOBA. As December approaches, the north wind is getting colder. The cow shed is covered with thin boards until spring. FUKUMUSUME will soon be spending her second winter in this hut. He is replacing the corrugated iron on the small roof. Old corrugated iron accumulates rust and dust, and even when snow accumulates, the snow does not slide off. In addition to farming and raising cattle, he also does his own carpentry work to preserve the old house. He will reupholster the corrugated iron for the first time in over 10 years. This is a difficult job for an 80-year-old man. It's slippery here. That's dangerous. You used to slip up here a lot. It was about 10 years ago that a road was built to the entrance of the village. In the past, he used to walk down the mountain and travel three hours to TOYOOKA. He now takes the 45-minute bike ride down once a month. The bigger the hospital, the safer he feels. He has regular check-ups at the town hospital for urological tests. You come again in three months. I'll take your reservation. He buys a lot of food on the way home from the hospital. He buys chicken, his favorite food, dried fish that can be preserved, and chikuwa to feed his cat. Then he buys milk and sweets. His wife likes chocolate. what is this? is this chocolate? There are two refrigerators here. I predict it's 900g. How much rice do you cook in a day? We cook 750g of rice in one day. We eat 750g of rice. you eat a lot. That's true? Chicken and pork are good for you. There's a pot here. Are you looking for mirin? I added too much mirin. It's no good once the time has passed. This chili pepper has changed color. . I'm going to bake this. With a small pension and money from selling calves, their annual income is about 1.5 million yen. However, their pensions still remain. They are no longer interested in luxuries. It's December. It's the day she makes soba for the first time this year. If it's available in large quantities, I'll eat it. She uses a lot of wild yams that she preserves in the soil. . . How many of these should I use? Yam is an essential ingredient for soba. The old man claims that the quality of the yam affects the taste of the soba. I want to sit in the kotatsu and relax. They use 300g of sweet potatoes for 1kg of refined buckwheat flour. I'll take off your watch, since it's getting in the way. I like to bring out the flavor of soba. I am determined to put effort into bringing out the flavor of the soba. His son goes home the day before New Year's Eve, so he continues to make soba all day long. I use one of these. Do not put it before boiling. Put it all out there. This is well cut. This is soft. Does this soup stock have a strong water smell? What food can we still put in here? This has a weak soba flavor. Your nose is failing. No matter how many times you do it, you will never get the same thing. They must quickly prepare for wintering before the snow falls. Look at this potato bud. That's big issue. This one has grown too well. Potatoes are a valuable winter food. They took care of them all one by one and removed the buds. They store their potatoes in a dark barn on the second floor of the main house until spring. The pampas grass that grows around their homes is essential to their lives. The thatched roof is renovated every spring. They cut down the pampas grass before it gets crushed by snow. The old man heard the weather forecast predicting cold waves, so he started preparing the snow fence. Full-scale snowfall exceeds 1 meter. They can't go outside unless they prepare the snow fence. The old man hurriedly erected pillars and made preparations to build a wall with boards. I will spend the rest of my life here until I die. This is a quiet place. When a young man calls you, you have to go. I'm not leaving here. You don't have to live here. Aren't you lonely? I don't feel lonely. Having chickens and cats makes me feel less lonely. What would you do if you were the only person in this village? I'm getting out of here. I can't stay here. I'm going to my son's place. It's scary to be alone in this house. It's scary here at night. There's a big boar here and it's scary. I can endure it because my husband is with me. Are you cold? It looks like it's going to snow. Where do radishes grow? I'll eat it if I have it. The last task left was to harvest radish. To make takuan, they have to dry daikon radish. Normally, that task would be completed in November, but this year it was delayed. They stopped work without being able to dry the radish. the next day. Cold rain mixed with sleet turned to snow in the afternoon. This is the first snow. The snow that had begun to fall was carried by the wind up the valley and fell towards the village. It was a harsh first snowfall, regardless of sentiment or atmosphere. What do you do when it snows? I'm playing. Is it in the house? I don't work or do anything, I just play at home. Thank you for your hard work in the snow. Will you lose your job if it snows? In that case, my work stops. How long will your work stop? That is the period until the spring snow disappears. Winter came suddenly. The snowfall exceeded their expectations. The first snowfall reached an unprecedented 30cm. At the end of the day, the old man prepares dinner. As usual, the old woman begins to light a fire in the seven wheels. ``In the spring, we will have work.'' As they said this, they went on a long winter vacation.