In May 1940, Nazi Germany attacks in the West. and the Netherlands have more men, guns, French army is considered the best in the shock the world and smash the Allies. So how When Germany invaded Poland in 1939, But the Western Allies do little as the and German Chancellor Adolf Hitler is al-ready since his alliance of convenience with the USSR ready for war . On September 27, Hitler tells month. Nearly all German generals, like "The French will not be surprised. They know must do so through Belgium. So [the French] be great [...] an attack on France cannot it will be arduous and very costly." (Leeb 184) them to start planning an offensive to capture enough of northern France to be able to strike at Chief of the Army General Staff Franz Halder main German advance through central "This is just the old Schlieffen Plan Atlantic coast - one cannot get away with such The back-and-forth between army during which time the of-fensive is delayed idea of concentrating the relatively few German through the thickly-forested Ardennes region, they enter Belgium. Army brass think it's too von Manstein also favours the Ardennes route for sickle cut plan but the army command throttles it. "Taifun" carrying the plan crashes in Belgium, Finally, on February 24, 1940, the final plan of a double pincer from north and south : Army while the southern Army Group A will cross the Meuse river at Sedan, and race for the sea. This is a risky plan, with precious armour and advancing with long vulnerable flanks. Bock tells Halder the plan is dangerous: Maginot Line with the flank of your breakthrough cramming the mass of the tank units together into as if there were no such thing as air power! And as far as the coast with an open southern of the French Army?" (Frieser Cambridge Meanwhile, the French and British are making make things difficult. French and British planners Germans will attack through neutral Belgium and refuse to make detailed plans for Franco-British their armies in the hopes of not provoking the of the Allies' Plan D. The best French units into the Low Countries if the Germans attack, and Canal and forts like Eben Emael. Plan D is also they will be advancing into the teeth of an the Ar-dennes, remains thinly defended since they French intelligence reports point to the Ardennes, no strategic reserve since the 7th French Army useful but militarily questionable. have 2.8 million men, 7500 guns, 4000 planes, and Front. But only 16 of 157 German divisions are Dutch and Belgians, have 3.7 million men, So with the Germans hoping the Allies plan an uncertain advance the Germans launch Case Yellow, a campaign that The Germans pour across the border into the Low their main strike is in the Netherlands, and they by surprise. German paradrops at Dutch airports in general, the Dutch offer little resistance. Rotterdam to terrify the Dutch into surrendering, (though in the chaos the Dutch government thinks the city in ruins - the Dutch government Belgian troops also pull back quickly, though a and manage to hold up German tanks for several confusion. When Franco-British troops belatedly slow on roads choked with fleeing refugees. The the Germans, but despite the Belgians giving fight, the attackers prevail on May 11. the Germans advance but encounter problems. The blocks, and form massive traffic jams up to 250km the scale of the attack in the Ardennes. Local but none came . Now, French Commander in Chief help. Some Allied commanders fear their ar-mies Gamelin expects it will take the horse-drawn and that it's too late to shift major forces rages at Hannut in which 630 German tanks defeat farther south. General Erwin Rommel's 7th Corps both prepare to cross. In an ominous sign, fight. Many German tanks are the relatively arrived en masse with the element of surprise. French some prisoners: "The French are per-forming war with us, prisoners say 'Because Eng-land war is being waged with us.' Their eyes glow were never this bad before." (Tagebuch Black) cross the Meuse at Dinant and Sedan. The French as one captured French general frankly admits: It's everything." (Frieser 278) Even before troops that the Germans are already behind German success is due not only to the but also air power. The Luftwaffe consistently very heavy on both sides. Aircraft like the on the Meuse before ground troops get across. but have taken losses - some units are down French forces prepare to counterattack the still half of the Allied troops - and their best, The crisis at the front is being felt Prime Minster Neville Chamberlain resigns and is French Premier Paul Reynaud recalls General of the army, and ap-points Charles De Gaulle First World War hero Philippe Petain to be deputy lost and blames Britain for starting it. Reynaud squadrons be sent to France. Churchill wants to home defence and only agrees to 4. Some in London Gamelin ad-mits he has no strategic reserve. bridgeheads and advance up to 65km by and orders Allied troops in Belgium to retreat. B's advantage in Belgium, but Army High Command Army Groups stop for three days, to keep the pocket and so infantry can catch up to protect the a problem Manstein's version of the plan don't take advantage. When a French general admits British General Henry Pownall loses his so temperamental a race." (Jackson 86) village of Stonne shows what French armour is Captain Pierre Billotte's Char B1 bis destroys 11 one of the most remarkable single tank actions of on May 20, the 2nd Panzer Division reaches the unprepared, or in shock from contin-uous marvels at the destruction: "[The streets French army. Shot up vehicles, pierced a neverending chain of destruction." (Beevor 114) are trapped north of the Somme, and The Allies desperately organize a double but it's not clear who is in command of the cut Anglo-French forces do manage an effective Matilda tanks, but the hard-pressed Germans retreat to the port of Dunkirk for evacuation - Germans are worried about more counterattacks to pause the advance on Dunkirk, and on May 24 Later in the war, Hitler will try to cover up this Brit-ain in view of peace talks. After the war, but this is a lie - in reality, von Rundstedt the order came from Hitler so they will obey. Dunkirk? He wants his tanks to prepare for an infantry to have time to move up to the Somme line Panzer commander von Kleist thinks the area he wants 4th Army to secure Arras before Hitler and the Navy high command all think a This means there's no need to waste precious be used against the French in the south - The Germans ex-pect the artillery and Luftwaffe Army can then mop up. But the German pause is not British troops capture a German staff vehicle the next Ger-man attacks. Lord Gort promptly from cutting off most British forces from Operation Dynamo, the evacuation of the BEF and the BBC's call for private boats to help follows there is chaos as German aircraft pound the is among the wounded: "I got on a boat just after an air raid came in. The ship got struck and I about 30 of us in the water. I could only but I trod water, and got myself back on the Around the town, British and French units the Germans at bay. The last men escape on June vessels of all types manage to evacuate 193,000 French troops defending the evacuation route are sink 20 Allied warships and damage dozens more. given the sudden surrender of the Belgian army French. King Leopold controversially decides to though the Allies do not plan to evacuate calls King Leopold a pig, and former British actions "[a] sample of perfidy and poltroonery." tensions in London and Paris. Weygand and Petain Germany, but he refuses. British Foreign Minis-ter but Churchill won't hear of it: "Even if than if we stop fighting now. We must avoid being With the BEF and best French units either captured, the Germans now turned their South of the Allied disaster at Dunkirk, the and the Germans already have several bridgeheads. ports which the 2nd BEF needs for supply. to France despite the risks, to, as he says, give Alan Brooke is not impressed: "It's impossible French army is in fact dead." (Beevor 143) On May 27, the French 7th Army attacks that includes units of Charles de Gaulle's tanks cause some German units to panic, but used in a ground role stop the piecemeal Allied The Germans launch Case Red on June 5. Their and quickly drive south to break the French army three armies will advance to the Seine, Oise and B will strike the main blow east of Paris towards start the third phase by breaking the Maginot phase by crossing the Rhine at Colmar. divisions as the Allies. Weygand calls on French since the fate of France depends on the coming tactic to defeat deep penetrations of German or Hedgehogs - fortified village and forest to hold up German infantry, while Allied tanks are At first, the Hedgehogs work, as Luftwaffe "What looked this morning like a success, turned They've forti-fied all villages. Our tanks drive when our infantry tries to follow the tanks. The just drive on without them. [...] [The infantry] of the villages. That's how everything On June 5 and 6, there's heavy fighting south of fight to the death. In some places, the Germans they've surrendered - overall in the campaign, French African and nearly 200 British and French like at Vinkt and Oignies . (Scheck, S. 11, 63, a German officer explains his actions to does not deserve to fight such a civilizing On June 6 though, the Germans break through along cross the Somme in two places. Allied units Bresle. Again, the German tanks are too fast, nightfall. On the 7th, General Hermann Hoth's a move that splits the French 10th Army in two. and Rouen, but his superiors are nervous about Germa-ny infantry . Rommel, however, orders waiting for permission - not the only time German The French blow the Rouen bridges in time, but damages Allied morale. The Germans note that even problems avoid engagements, like at Haute Epine: which retreated as soon as fired upon. Some themselves." (Bericht der 1. Kavallerie-Division On June 9 the second phase of Case Red begins. hard - Army Group A reports mention effective But other parts of the French army are "A stunned and haggard herd, complete mixture so much a question of morale [...] these what's happening to them. The sight of an Soon, the Germans break through everywhere. into the French rear, Manstein's infantry cross which they cross the next day. The British decide the 200,000 men of the 2nd BEF. Weygand declares but Reynaud tells him to fight on: "You are who took Al-sace-Lorraine from us, and that was The Germans enter Paris on June 14, the same day begin. Verdun, symbol of French resistance and the Ger-mans reach the river Loire and the Politically, the news is all bad for the and Norway surrenders. By the 16th, most and Petain threatens to resign if Reynaud doesn't Rey-naud asks President Roosevelt for help, but and Britain unite as one state to continue the take French colonies and calls it a marriage to a Com-munist uprising. Reynaud resigns, Petain day. Some Frenchmen do want to resist - like de calling on his countrymen to continue the fight. While armistice negotiations begin, victory before the war ends. On June 21, but just 6 French divisions don't let them the Germans send air and ground forces to hit the in the mountains June 23 and 24. Finally, on The Battle of France lasts 46 days and 12,500 British, and 59,000 French, 45,000 German, Dutch, and Belgian civilians die, while 8 and Belgian soldiers become prisoners of war. of the German victory: The Germans the Germans lose 839 tanks and the Allies 3300. German victory was so fast and so complete. soldiers, De Gaulle says that the army was was spiritually weak. Officer, historian, and the incompetence of the High Command. field because they could not react to the speed they underestimated the effects of tactical actions to exploit German errors; and suffered The German victory shocks Allied governments which recon-siders its global security - and comes cele-brates the triumph as a Blitzkrieg by the though the infantry did most the fighting. abilities and military strength, and peak few will question him from now on. like exposing their flanks and lacking ammunition France is lost, but the war is not as are De Gaulle's Free French. Germany has England fill with German aircraft, and planners Not even 5 years after the Battle of France, the American, British and Free French troops were Rhine River while the Red Army was about to Berlin where Hitler holds out in his bunker. the Second World War - which don't always get they deserve - we produced two series with a covers the last set piece battle in the West, the eventual crossing of the Rhine. 16 Days in Berlin the dramatic climax of World War 2 in Europe. feature expert interviews and were filmed we can't upload these documentaries to YouTube Second World War. So where can you watch 16 Days Resolution? On Nebula, a streaming service we are don't have to worry about YouTube's algorithm or original documentaries like the Battle of Britain it if you are curious about the next phase of not all, on Nebula you can also watch all our it works in your browser, smartphone or Smart you can get 40% off an annual subscription for As usual you can find all the sources for If you are watching this video on Nebula or we couldn't do it without you. I am Jesse Time History, the only history channel that