It's the summer of 1978. A woman with horrific hospital isolation bed in severe pain. Doctors they being the only people in the sight in one eye and losing her mind, she dies. funeral, but no one was allowed to attend. That's long since been wiped out in England. The answer is a lab leak. As you'll see today, world, including the deadly anthrax leak That is one utterly terrifying story and we'll But first. lonely death was named Janet Parker, and she was In fact, she was the last in the entire world. Parker was a medical photographer working with researchers worked with smallpox down in the labs, The disease might have been eradicated in the That's why when she started feeling she didn't even consider it being smallpox. and then when he looked her over, he saw that His first thought was chickenpox. but Parker had actually been vaccinated But when her muscles started aching and now covering the soles of her feet, her legs, She was whisked off to the hospital, after which which is the worst type of smallpox. contagious disease, and Parker had been near First, her parents went into quarantine, but about 500 people had been close to her. They while health specialists fumigated One of those people was her mother, she also got the disease. Thankfully, The pain of seeing your daughter in agony hospital quarantine. It was thought attack just after seeing his daughter on done because of the risk of him having But the question on everyone's mind was how Surely if she had gotten it, there had to be As officials were pondering this question, She went blind in one eye, and then one day, she tried to clamber out of bed and rip out This was so serious that no one could attend the loneliest kind of death. But such strict the disease is thought to have but as it's an ancient disease, God knows Where did smallpox come from? but it's thought to go back around 3,000 years. In the recent past when there was an outbreak, died. Even if victims survived, they were So, when it made an appearance in 1978 when it was you can be sure people in England and As one professor later remarked, "Very, very appeared- this was a major worldwide issue." lab where it came from wrote a letter saying, "I of my friends and colleagues have placed in me and But was it his fault? Investigations said it had definitely leaked from hypothesis was that it could have come through touched, or from an actual contaminated person. this happened, but suffice to say, the news was turned out alright except for that one tragedy, a beloved. In 1980, the WHO announced that the We added the "maybe". smallpox lab leak happened in 1971, when scores of in the Soviet Union where biological weapons as the "1971 Aral smallpox incident." "On Vozrozhdeniya Island in the Aral Sea, the Suddenly I was informed that there were He said that a young scientist had been aboard then somehow got the virus. No one knows she still got ill. She also took the virus She recovered, but out of nine One of them was her little brother. 50,000 and many people had to go into quarantine. we may never know, but even though strange things have happened in What was the implication of The BBC reported that tons of dead fish once fishermen were found dead in their boat. Even more scary, one day 50,000 dropped down dead. All of them This place has also been dubbed "Over the years the site flourished smallpox and the plague hung in great clouds over brucellosis, and typhus rained down How the Ebola Virus neary sneaked out straight out of a horror movie, but first. much as the dreaded Ebola virus. That's something Well, it has in the past. it doesn't make people look like zombies as many But when you hear that it kills human cells havoc on the immune system and making people without the fake news. This is why people work But sometimes things go wrong. Handling viruses, around with a bunch of Lego bricks. a woman working at Bernard Nocht Institute with ebola by accident. The good news is and she was ok except for having a high fever. hey, it's not cool to have your name associated with the virus when she pricked herself with a What happens when you catch the Ebola Virus? to 90 percent chance of biting the dust. have to hope their immune system kicks into Unfortunately, that didn't happen to a pricked herself with a needle back in 2004. was made to save her life, but those efforts save her of course had to wear protective What are the chances of another lab leak occuring? that will never happen to me. Others might be The answer to that still remains a mystery, has a story doing the rounds with the title, The article said when someone works in protocols are incredibly strict. This is how "He carefully dons a pair of gloves, puts on the adds yet another pair of gloves. After a hose from -- 'you inflate like the Michelin Man,' he said -- But, errors can happen and if they do happen, the outcome could be incredibly bleak. It's Take for example the incident that happened at syndrome (SARS) escaped not once but twice in "We suspect two people, a 26-year-old female male postdoc, were both infected, How did this happen? isn't telling, but we do know that the incidents worrying because foreigners had worked in the same In the end, hundreds of people but it seems that it still infected another which was fortunate seeing as the fatality rate But the question remains, how did it leak? expert said, "The lab might have all the For example, notebooks are not supposed to A virus doesn't jump on people!" there have been six different lab leaks, although We did find at least one fatality, though. doesn't happen much more. It's almost always leak that happened in a Taiwanese lab was down It only takes one mistake, though, and if it is well, just look at the havoc that Do you remember the Anthrax Virus? are dying to hear the anthrax story. One time that First of all, the reason why that place we talked was because vast amounts of the stuff was put talking about up to 200 tons of it. This is not The Nenets tribe in Russia knows all about infected with anthrax near where they lived in What were the implications of Anthrax exposure? was only one human death as well as many was said to be down to global warming and was in animal bones that had been buried for when unusually warm temperatures caused a thaw. like this: "Inflammation of the membranes leading to massive bleeding A closer look at the Anthrax Virus fatality rates differ for each one. Those the lungs (inhalation), and the digestive system percent fatality rate if treated and 20 percent if 60 percent, and the third a 75 percent fatality Biological Warfare animals. But another reason for getting anthrax That's what happened in 1979 in an event The Soviet Union at the time was developing in the city of Sverdlovsk. This and when the leak happened the Soviet authorities That was a huge lie, a lie about At first, doctors saw that there was a sudden was no good reason for it. Within The cover up Russia at the time and word got back to the US, Their answer to the riddle was that those That's how the story stayed for about a The 66 people that died had met their end It was discovered that scientists had been working the "special zone" when the wind blew the anthrax Russian researchers later said there was a defect to the exhaust and then outside. a ceramics factory near the lab. One day "Why is it that your hands are blue?" That was She was rushed to the hospital, where By the time she came round, 18 of her friends at Protecting Mother Russia was well enough to sit up, the KGB visited her in serious trouble if she talked about the Soviet scientists of course knew that this being the way they were, they didn't exactly "The task was to defend the honor of the country." trying to create a vaccine-resistant "that doesn't mean it wasn't nasty. It was The New York Times did a story on this not long from. The article also said that this anthrax leak suppress the truth for quite a long time, and if Now you really need to watch "Diseases listen to some very strange stories