Okay, okay, what a green flower. Look, I'm looking for you all over the place. You are hiding in the big market in Huangjia Town. You think there are too many people and I can't find you. Let's go. Let's go. Why don't I go away ? Let's go, I can't help you . Let's go, let's go. You arrogant man, what do you want to do? I don't want to do anything. But if Fourth Master wants to do anything, then I can do it. Let's go, go, go, go. Let me go , help me, let me go, look at you guys, you are just idiots. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. Collect the money, collect the money, collect the money and do n't leave. You haven't given me the money yet. Brother, what do you think of this world? Ah, this is all, just watch the excitement without giving me money. You just want to support someone without money as you said. I don't believe what kind of work you are doing is more exciting than my golden gun stabbing the throat. I have to go see my brother. Can you help me? I'm looking at the stall, Erzi, come with me, let go, help, help, let go, hold your legs, look at you guys, you guys are stupid, it's shameless to bully the less, who is so careless, robbing in broad daylight? People, do you still have a king's law? Is there a king's law anymore? Who is it? Come on, stand up. Why don't you say anything? I heard you clearly. Do you know me? I don't know you. I am the Jia family of Longtan Street. He is scarred Si'er, that's him. I told you, right? This little girl stole my master's ancestral treasure. I didn't steal it. I didn't steal it. If I did, she stole it from me. I've been looking for her for several days. Let me tell you, old and young men, don't worry about going to the market. All the vegetable sellers have left. He framed a good person. Why didn't I steal? Why didn't I steal? Then I couldn't steal. It's not up to you to steal. Hurry up. It doesn't matter what she said. You have the final say. Your home is a county government office. You little bastard. If you keep yelling at me , I'll blow your mouth off. Go away, help, help, let me go, help Cuihua, let me go, mother, mother, Cuihua, are you okay, mother, Cuihua, are you okay, Cuihua , fourth master, please, please? Don't embarrass us orphans and widowed mothers. Please tell me that you, old woman, are the instigators here. I am so kind to Cuihua. You said that you and your mother have enough to eat and drink at my master's house . What are you doing when the wind doesn't blow the rain or the sun doesn't shine? What are you doing when you bring Cuihua out? You bring her out to beg for food. You are a [ __ ], right? What are you doing, Fourth Master? Yeah, please, please, please let my daughter go. Old and young men, please say something. Look at me, the orphan and the widowed mother. Yes, that's right. It's too shameful. Please. You old and young men are so unreasonable. This is such an immoral thing. How can I do this? It's so immoral that it's worse than a beast. You say it's too bullying. Is this what humans do? It's too much. How can you do this? You are such a beast. It's outrageous, it's so hateful. This is not what human beings do. Mother, mother-in-law, mother-in- law, the old man is looking for death. Mother-in-law, mother-in-law, she's watching what she's doing. Take her away and want to leave. Let me go. Kill someone. Scar's fourth child kills someone. Scar's fourth child kills someone. Scared Si'er killed someone and didn't let him go. You want to die, right? The old lady is so pitiful and you can be ruthless. You can do whatever you want. Whose crotch is not covered, kid, and you are exposed? Didn't you see the fourth master here? I saw the light and saw you bullying people here. Brother, beat him and I tell you, boy, the Jia family on Longtan Street have heard about the Jia family's affairs. Don't worry about what I said. You are from the Jia family. How can that thing that comes out of your crotch be so unreasonable ? Your family will always be responsible for this. You are so full that you really want to die, right? Are you bragging? We people from Ning'an Village, you dare to hit me. Look, you are. You kid, you're tired of talking back to the King of Hell, aren't you? Ning'an Village, isn't it the place where thieves come from? Now they're done with Ning'an Village, right? Okay, kid, I'm going to give Ning'an Village some face today , so get out of my way. It's okay. I'm about to kick the person to death. Is he okay? This matter is not your business. I saw it and now it has something to do with me. So what do you want to do? Let the person go. He should go to the doctor. He should pay money and compensation. He should apologize. Just apologize, I really gave you face. Okay, good fight, good, good fight. Fourth brother, are you okay? Good fourth brother, good fight. Good fight, good fourth brother. Fourth brother, fourth brother, are you okay? Okay, Brother Four, come together. Okay, okay, hurry up and hit the white-eyed wolf. The white-eyed wolf is coming. Hurry and hide to the side. What's going on? What's going on, master? He bullies people , he even scolds people when he hits them. He also asked the bastard next to him to whip me with the soles of his shoes. You all were beaten by him. Master, he scolded us as monkeys wearing hats to imitate the human form. He said well, stop talking. Come on, I have never been this kind of coward. Just stop talking. Where are you from? What's the name of Ning'an Village? Liang Yongsheng. These brothers under my command were all beaten by you. But you dare to do it and take responsibility. Liang Yongsheng. It seems that you are tired of living and are looking for death. Ah, go to hell, go to hell, what should I do? He even got the guy. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, come on, use it, and I will give you back later. What are you doing with my stick? Brother, take the stick , hit hard , hit, Hit hard, hit, hit, hit hard, hit, hit, hit hard, hit hard, hit hard, hit, kill, kill, kill, run, kill, run, master, I'm killing, The people in Ning'an Village are killing people, master, master, master are killing people, the people in Ning'an Village are killing people, reporting to the officials, reporting to the officials, killing people, run quickly, run quickly, master, master, master, there are murderers, close the stalls and go separately, Good mother, master, master, master, wake up, master, master, master, master, gun, master, Dazhuan, master is running away, master is chasing me, I will close the stall, you hurry back to Ning'an Village and call people, go quickly, stop, hurry up, go, stop. You two, go over there. I'll lead them away. Come on, sir. Where is he? Go after him and kill him. Come back. Come back, sir , Cuihua. Today's matter has nothing to do with Yang Cuihua . Kill Liang Yongsheng. You stinky mother-in-law, why don't we take a break or let's go. If the white-eyed wolf comes up in a moment, we two will be dead. Let's go, mother, mother, mother-in-law, come here. Master, stop and give me as many eyes as you want. Watch them all. Liang Yongsheng, I will let you live for a while. After leaving, he stood and took the master. This is not the way back to Longtan Street. What are you doing? Our Huangjia Town's market has already dispersed. What are you doing? I asked Huang Shanyou to borrow a gun. What? Liang Yongsheng and I have formed a relationship. Isn't it Ning'an Village? Isn't it just those unruly people? I don't believe that they all have nine lives. Master, what are you doing? Master, let's go to Ning'an Village. Master, let's just wait outside Ning'an Village. We're not afraid that this turtle grandson won't come out. As soon as he comes out, he can shoot him with one shot. Then we won't be able to poke a hornet's nest in Ning'an Village. It's not difficult to kill Liang Yongsheng. Si'er, you know that I am a face-saving person. But at the big party, Liang Yongsheng made me look disgraced, so I quietly killed him. Where can I put my face? Where can I put this face? How come you are here ? My mother, my mother, is about to die. Liang Yongsheng came to see us. My benefactor, aunt, don't say that to your child. I'm afraid. What if you can't live? I'll take you to find a doctor. Why don't you leave? You are a kind-hearted child. Auntie has something to ask of you. As long as it is Cuihua that I can do, you are a miserable child who has been dead since he was born. When Dad was eight or nine years old, he asked traffickers to abduct you. You also asked traffickers to abduct you. What is your name? My name is Cuihua. You should go first. You little bastard wants to run away. Come here quickly, run quickly, run quickly. Pull it faster, pull it down quickly, little bastard, he still wants to run. Where are you going? Run, run, little bastard, don't let him run away. What's your name? My name is Cuihua Yang Cuihua. Run. I will definitely come back to save you, right? My name is Yang Cuihua. How did you know that there was a small stone when you were abducted? Do you remember? I remember that it was me. You are really a stone. Of course I remember. I remember. Look, I have kept this piece of cloth. God, my mother, has also opened her eyes. Let us poor people get together again. My child, I can't bear it any longer. After I die, the most worrying thing is my Cuihua. Mother, I want to entrust her to you. Don't keep thinking about death. Don't worry. I will definitely treat her like a real sister. If she is not a real sister, you are a kind child. I want to betroth Cuihua to you . The others behind you should hurry up. That's right, Commander. There is no movement inside. I don't even bark the dog. Is there a scam? Yes, you are right to remind me. I see that if you bring a group of people, go in from the right. Liu Er, you bring a group of people in from the left. I will go to the middle this time. We must completely wipe out this gang of unruly people in Ning'an Village and kill the four of them. Leave a few brothers behind and guard the gate to prevent their remaining soldiers from jumping over the wall in a panic. Okay, sir, I understand. Come on your side and follow me. Keep me alert when walking. If you run, there will be ambushes. If there are ambushes, it's lime powder. Don't shoot the lime powder. Don't shoot. Don't hurt your own people. Don't shoot. Don't hurt your own people. Liu Er's chili powder, it's chili powder. You two, look over here and I still feel like something is wrong. Boss, there is no one in there. No one. Please look for me and be careful. Fortunately, my brother is not safe over there. There is a fight. Stay vigilant. Boss, help. Oh , save me, boss, help, save me, boss, help, save me, boss, help, save me, boss, boss, boss, help, gentle, gentle, gentle. Open it for me, open it for me. Open it, tap it , tap it, tap it, lift me up, where is Kuairen, find someone for me, let's come out and talk about something, Ming people don't do secret things , let's come out and talk about it, it's urine, this thing I'm ambushed in such a coquettish way. Come on, why don't you go? Come on, what's going on? Master, I did it to them. Come back, I'll cut off your ears. Biao, I'll chop you to death. I'll chop you to death, Ziyanlang. Today I'll let you You have come and gone, you look like a wolf, I will let you come and go today | Ghost is worried, I see that you are a man with no future together with those poor ghosts, and I see that I will keep your popular and spicy way. , thank you for not working together , thank you for the white-eyed wolf's toast. If you don't eat, I will drink fine wine. I'll kill you today. Please open it for me. Slow down, second master, what's going on? What's going on? Ask your mother and run away. Master, withdraw. Master, take off your protection. Master, go quickly, come on, go quickly, catch up with them and catch them. Okay, don't chase them. Brother, I'll go up and chop him . Who are you hitting? Come back, brother, why don't you take advantage of this? This opportunity, what kind of opportunity, how could there be any chance? It would be nice if you could get rid of it. What else do you want? Look at what you are holding. Brother, this is a bone-chopping knife. What kind of bone can I cut? What kind of knife is it? Look at what other people are holding. What kind of gun are you chasing? If I turn around and give you a black gun, you will be honest. Brother Yongsheng, this white-eyed wolf will definitely not take advantage of the loss before it is over this time. Let's join the team in Ning'an Village. We should have done this a long time ago. You are the best in the world. The name of the sword is not in vain. It can also convince the public. Let's start a team according to this sign. Dad, brother, brother, brother, hurry up, brother. We have been listening outside the door for a long time. Brother , when are we going to say hello? Anyway, today Everyone is here, brother, what is the name of our team today? Let's call it Ning'an Village, Ningjin County, Dezhou District, Shandong Province, the Republic of China. The national hero, the most invincible sword in the world, Liang Yongsheng, how about the sword team? Okay, so long. Who remembers? When my brother was fighting in Qingdao, his name was Tiger Blade. How about we call him Tigers? How about Tigers? The name Tigers is impressive. Dad, Tigers. If you think it works, just call it Tigers. Mr. Zhong, Mr. Zhong, why are you still waiting here? You are worrying me so much, Mr. Zhong, listen to me. Don't wait any longer. Liang Yongsheng is not coming. He is scared. Isn't he scared? Listen to me. Let me tell you, today there was a fight between the people of Ning'an Village and the gang of Counselor Jia. The fight was so dark that many people died. The blood dyed the entire river red. How miserable was Liang Yongsheng? I came here to tell you, I'm afraid you're worried about Liang Yongsheng. He's not dead, but he's hurt badly. It seems like there are three breaths left out of ten. Why is this happening? My fourth brother, Brother Guan, Councilor Jia, blames Guan Chong for his incompetence. I can't follow Councilor Jia today. When I recover from my injury, I will definitely vent this bad breath for you, dear brother. I understand your thoughts. What did the doctor say about your injury? The doctor said that I am in good health and the injury is no longer serious. Consultant Jia, I will definitely take it with me next time I go out. Although I can't fight in front of the battle, I can still block open knives and hidden spears for you. Good brother, please sit down and pinch me with your hand. Yes, pinch me with my hand. What's the matter, two brothers? Get out of the way, get out of the way. Brothers, my legs are lame. Brother, don't curse when you talk to the commander. Please clean your mouth. I'm just talking like this. It's none of your business. You can't talk like this. You think you are. Who is it? Yes, I am the one invited by the commander. Yes, you are a fool to fight a wolf. What do you think you are ? Let me tell you, if you are capable, you can still be chopped into a [ __ ]. Yes, come on, chop it at Grandpa. You are capable, right? Come on, come on, come on, brother, be gentle, be gentle, brother. He has never suffered such a big loss since we both debuted. Be gentle, be gentle. My brother, can he not be angry? If you dare to talk nonsense again, I will chop you two pigs with one knife. Guan Daxia, Guan Daxia, put away the knife, put away the knife and calm down. , get up, you shut me down, heroes, calm down, please sit down. I don't blame your brothers for being angry. It's all because of my carelessness, but please don't worry. Your brothers who have suffered a loss should be looked at, and those who should be treated should be treated. I can't give out the money to make my brothers sad. I'm so generous. Commander, I'm not going to blame you. I'm just angry. But we have guns and cannons and were beaten like this. I feel aggrieved. Commander, yes, please. Brother, don't worry, don't take revenge for this. From now on, I won't stand and pee. My mother embroidered it. Tiger Team Knife Team Knife Team. You've finished reading it . My mother made the wrong embroidery. Your mother's illness is still not cured. It's almost better if you let her do this. My feet were injured, but I still have my hands. When my mother heard that it was you who was leading the team, she immediately became energetic and told me , &quot;[ __ ] with your brother well.&quot; I said, &quot;Hey, this lady has really good hands. Look at this flag embroidery.&quot; You have already caught up with the tailors. If you think it looks good, you can embroider it for my brother. I can't be a girl. You are so handy. You can make it for Brother Yongsheng. Why did your mother think of doing this? Brother Yongsheng, we have this idea. A big flag will make you more powerful. Okay, are the wolf-eyed people coming back to capture the guy? Let's gather Yuru at the intersection. Why don't we put the flag here first? Ring the bell. Brother Yongsheng, look at a group of people coming outside. They all carry their backs. Uncle with the gun, this is Huang Shanren. Mr. Huang, why are you here? Mr. Men, you are always nice, come here, put everything here. Mr. Men, let me introduce you first. This is Mr. Li Xiangshenmen. Hello, Mr. Li. Hello, this is the rich man Wang. Hello, Mr. Men. Hello, the rich man. This is the shopkeeper Liu of our store. Mr. Men, these are all my servants. They all joined the Tigers with their guns. I ca n't compare to Huang Dashan. Donate 100 yuan to Liang Yongsheng's Tigers . Mr. Haomen, I have no guns and no people here. But I will send ten loads of food to Mr. Liang Daxiamen. I am in the trafficking business. I do n't have anything else, but as long as there are many cars and horses. I'll go all out if Mr. Liang can be used, okay, okay