If we think about that scaling continuously you can get to a place where, AI is fundamentally doing everything Thinking of it in the short term how do you see it philosophically Philosophically, to be a part of something that advances technology Now, 100 years, 500 years from now, this guy, you know, Brad Smith, He didn't he didn't have the vision a new species I don't want to replace humanity. This is what Mao with Trevor Noah. And Brad Smith. Welcome to the podcast. It's great, as always, This is really a fascinating and fun experience for me like most of my favorite things I plan to being here with you, you know, at the CEO That's why I'm wearing a suit. This is not my usual attire. But when I knew I was going I thought to myself, man, I'd love to have on the podcast, it's somebody I'll often have the most And that's Brad Smith, and president of Microsoft, I really appreciate you And you and I have been for how many years has been tho since Yeah. Look at that. 2016. Wow, what a different time that was. yeah. Well, we've we've known each other and you've been gracious enough, you know, to take me around And I've loved it, not even in Just as like a lover of tech. You love tech, I love the world. And I thought, to speak about everything You know, AI, geopolitics, elections, really everything that affects everyb is unique to have one person And I think that's what you do So thank you for taking the time. Thank you for being my my gosh. You and I have had so many Now you help invent among many other things. Know what? I haven't patented something I mean, the one thing I can tell you, you can't get a new patent So that's the That's exactly the hardest part. So, you know, to situate you, I was trying to explain this I said, I'm going to be having And he's like, Brad Pitt's. I said, no, Brad Smith, Brad Smith. I said, no, Brad I said, the vice chair And he said, well, I thought Satya No, Satya, as the CEO, I love that you have the title president of Microsoft, you have the job that many presidents you travel around, How many days a year? I'll probably 120. I would 120 like that's given to me That's a lot. 120 days a year. You're on the road, you have the role that many world is trying to grow the organization whilst also trying to add value As a leader, how are you stitching together fall apart What do you think it is and dealmaking that maybe some world I think you really hit the nail The key to permission to invest in a way that genuinely benefits Yeah, and not just superficially And when I just think about I'm just so struck by two things. One is what never happened electricity is like, without a massive investment And I just think it's a really sobering thing It's literally 142 years plant lit up, And this morning there are still 700 million people in the world 43% of the people who live in Africa. And I often look at that and go, What happened? And, you know, the answer is it was enormously expensive. Capital didn't flow around the world. Ironically, became colonial powers, mineral wealth from these places, that would genuinely create the basis So to have a company that is prepared to spend the money no one ever did, Now, the flip side, people don't necessarily Last year and literally in France, We were talking and he said, I am worried And I said, well, just remember, we're going to build these We're not building them on wheels. So once they're built, and they will be subject of French, We have to win your trust, and we have to show that And it's a new equation in a world and geopolitics and politics in general is a zero in that field. You seem to be building bridges. You seem to be creating diplomatic ties It feels like Europe is on the edge. It feels like many parts of Africa You know, you see how many coups or, The Middle East is on the edge. You're in a position where you are who themselves do not necessarily with the country and you have to make a deal and you have to agree with them, What do you think some of our leaders might be missing right now in the way Like we don't seem to be very good You know, it seems like we were very quick and maybe I have confirmation But I remember as a child watching the news, and there were always these summits, and there was these peace talks People always had tables. What is it that seems to be lost There are some real serious won't. I'll never go as far as to say They just have misunderstandings. And at the same time, I think that if people don't sit down they may miss the opportunities One of the interesting things is if there is a unifying idea, it's around artificial intelligence. No country that I have found wants to see humans no military leader. I met wants to see a machine And the thing of is on a daily basis, it's so easy to focus on what makes you different And if you look at, like, the history discord disagreement and then all of a sudden it was attacked at Pearl Harbor I don't think we should think about but the fact that it's different for us to remember, you know what We all have these things in common. Maybe we should spend a little bit whether we live in a single community let's remember, when you get down to it, you know, so but you do need and you need to show them something that's different from themselves You know, it's funny, though, I also think it's interesting eyed on what they perceive, good or bad, to be when it comes So if you say to people, They go, well, you know, the thing But if you say, should a machine be allowed to start a war, It's amazing when you take it away from the human, okay, kind of kind of robot, and who doesn't, then you're like, Then yeah, but then why should a person decide And I don't know, for me personally, is illuminating You know, on the podcast, for instance, and this was right after And that was the whole debacle that affected Microsoft But, you know, Sam speaks about Sam thinks about the long term future of this idea of what it can And I think, you know, that's it's who's building it. You know, in your book Tools that you coauthored the fact And I really appreciate because many people will say But what you argue is like dynamite that was used to clear paths and then also used to blow up, you know, people's homes All technology is a weapon Why is it important for us to think about AI as a weapon Well, I think it is because any tech, one of the examples we use in like you can use a broom You can use a broom to hit My mom did both. Yeah. And so sobering when you see that humans are just as ingenious and creative and using technology Yeah. And this does go, the tech sector is playing better than it did five years ago substantially better, hey, we need to worry about Let's let's be excited And I am fundamentally an optimist about all the good things But oh my gosh, if you don't build in guardrails, to defend against the abuses That is what happened with social not that Facebook did not weaponize Right? Okay. And because people in the West were so idealistic that they didn't we were not prepared as an industry. What I find fascinating is, I think societies are fundamentally There is the government there is business and there is the non profit or NGO There's three legs absolutely That's their job. It's where NGOs need to be keeping us by criticizing us But the more powerful the technology, Yeah. and we got to think about both people in business Powerful people in government or the nonprofit community And unfortunately, politically astute sometimes work for the Russian government, and they spend trying to sow the dissensions But let's talk a little bit Right before the war I remember Microsoft a warning to the world to say, hey, we think Russia's about to invade and you base this on a wide Help me understand this. You know, you are seeing so dissent in the world or create and disseminate, disseminate And from a US perspective, So this is what Russia's doing. But then in many parts of Africa there's a very different opinion They go, well, well, Russia's trying to help us grow with our power plant technology, or Russia's and the rest of the Western world Is is that split real, or are we just perceiving the same I think most of Europe is united because they've seen, you know, and Russian the sovereign territory, I think what the Russians have also they do run, what we call a cyber a disinformation, The key to misleading the public is to tell a story if it's too fanciful, because people will listen to it No, that's crazy. You need to understand the people and you then need to be creative. if you will. That is just plausible enough. And then you use technology Now with deepfakes, And then you use social media you know, if you will, that I remember was somebody who had talked you know, in Germany for a time they're not trying to persuade people They're trying to persuade people there's one thing I want to go back in the social media space, Tik Tok is on everybody's lips right now. I speak to a lot of young Why is Tik Tok being banned? And I know there's who say, like, It seems like a space There's niche as well, which which is novel for for a social media And then there are people this technology and the Chinese government needs to You've Like I remember it was reported that, you know, Microsoft that was sort of when it was in the Trump So how do you look at this situation? Because it seems a lot more complicated you know? And then also, can continue to exist or is it even existing in a negative way, Well, I first of all, if TikTok were to go away. anything that, you know, 1 or 200 Americans decide to use, basic ability to keep doing something I think it would be a shame because there would be less What I would say is, in a way that To be honest. The fundamental issue today is not comfortable For the Chinese, consuming public. That's why you don't see Facebook, in China, you don't see Instagram, you barely even see LinkedIn. The US government has now taken It is not comfortable with Chinese technology to such a large part of the the thing that is different is whereas the Chinese, in my opinion, has took action as soon as they saw Yeah, the US government was slower, extremely popular. And you know, even the law that the president signed, you know, banning it could happen. But really, what they're trying to do Now, then which is, should governments What I've found, and I've always is that the debate started around relatively feasible data, even when the services But the risk of use disinformation, cyber And yeah, that's where I think that that it's just not comfortable So many people so quickly, determine what people see next become So what is the answer? you know, we'll let the courts you know, but I think ultimately, if TikTok, you know, needs to be sold, you know, probably companies that would enable the service in all the ways And it could address the concern that emerged in the United States At the same time, we're going to right after the short break. And you're in a unique position, you know, as as this giant company technology, observing information, in a space that sort of doesn't exist You are also based everywhere and one of the complexities with many companies, where does the loyalty Because I think it applies Yeah, but I think honestly, it's and maybe even many countries to start thinking about, and that is how do we find the balance and wrong and what somebody else When we are in their domain, I think It really, in my view, especially on these issues and that's fundamentally with these cyber attacks Yeah, I mean, one is we work We don't engage You know, there are other companies I respect that, but that's not us. I don't think it works to do what we do and be engaged Second, maybe most importantly, we believe I mean, It's a universal principle. It was one of the most important The whole world came together was called the fourth version And I feel very comfortable saying that, you know, whether they're, you know, French or, or South African or Kenyan or, And, I think through that principle are ways that we can you know, the role when you when you talk America is getting ready in fact, this year, elections And some of the biggest elections you know, the United States, we're and we don't know which way and how those plates will affect But this is a consensus. People agree that social media to shift or shape how people think or without them willingly knowing When you talk to social media about this, We don't have that much of an impact. And it's also not that the Russians aren't really doing much But when you talk to Microsoft, Why do you think there's how you're seeing the problem and social media companies, I'll just say most people get up in the morning and they feel good So when there's a suggestion that what they're doing hard to get your mind around it. I think that's that's an easy, problem for any of us. I think that, you know, the concerns around social media have grown over time. In a way, it's almost startling when people thought it was going It was going to bring information Everyone would be a publisher. Yeah, yeah, we were almost euphoric. And it's worth remembering you can start up being so euphoric that technology may be creating. you know, as time has gone by, especially the last two years, there's been this interesting because I see a lot of people, and they say, we are not going to make the same We are going to regulate AI. And I'm like, I get that. But if we made mistakes are we going to go fix them or are we Because I think these issues I do think that the real solution that people have about, say, social and governments and nonprofits We need to be willing to work And yeah, some of the debates It seems to be a little bit harder And I think that's something Getting people in the same room and an idea And ironically, we in a world with technologies How do you look at that? On a on a philosophical level? Well, and an important aspect Yeah, there's two ways one can look at social media One is that it fans you know, unhealthy comparisons But the second is doing things other than interacting including in the same room. And I think both of these things that makes some of our challenges But the other thing this has been the story For 100 years, the automobile You could drive 15 miles frankly, before the automobile, But the moment people could leave the ties within the town People didn't spend as much time And, you know, with each successive the telephone did the same thing when I was a kid you know, in the 1970s, me and my sister too much time in the evening We had to argue over who you know, you know? But, you know, that was time Now, to me, the iconic image of call it life in most of the world the last ten years is three family members absorbed with their own screen So we have to pull each other away to get each other in the room, But then there's a second aspect. Social media has made it so easy to find people you agree with that makes it a little bit harder spending time with others Yeah. And and yet if you can't sit down I think fundamentally your worldview You don't build solve big problems So yeah, having spent 31 years at Microsoft, And it's why I've always been to like, listen to each other And it's okay that people may say Just have a little thick skin. Don't What now? After this? So let's let's talk about AI. It's interesting to me how, like, is looking at this giant orb But the orb is there. It is floating ominously So let's start Let's start with the the scary side. The side that keeps you up at night. What are some of the biggest things for as we embark on By by various accounts, in, you know, hundreds of years, I think the two problems that I worry about the most in sort of real world our number one, you know, people who are doing horrible things today will use AI to do them And then the second is just it could, exacerbates You think about a bully in a middle school. Yeah. You know, a 12 year old, trying to defraud You think about people elections They will and even are using AI to do all of those things. Unfortunately, what you have is if you want to fight you got to think like a criminal And then you put in place to use legitimate tools, but and as much as possible, defeat it. And you know, even though the conversation in 2024 you know, it's only a matter of time you read a story somewhere you know, 75 year old grandparent because they got a call and Yeah. I mean, I think there was one There was one. Yeah. There's you're already seeing Yeah. And, you know, And but that's this So we need to, to combat But is there a way to combat it like, you know, for for someone listening, if it's a video that's a voice that sounds like Isn't the genie out of the bottle? I will always argue not with 100% success, That's But if you are prepared to invest people and defending from these kinds of abuses, And so already which is why we use AI to detect AI. And yeah, and that's key. And you do a lot of public education. If you get an email telling you that if you send them your bank account details, the Most people are like, I'm not doing that. And then fundamentally just because it's on the internet Yeah. But then the other side of things the divides that it can widen. and the biggest divide it can widen is just the division between you know, we still live in a world roughly 3 billion people that don't People even say in a single country where if you're underprivileged or underprivileged in a rural community, you may not You may not have access if you don't have access it's going to be hard to use AI, If you worry about a problem, your actually likely to do at least It's when you don't think you'll do nothing to help address it. When you look at the upside, And maybe it's It seems like the potential is You know, in health care, in education, and in And it seems like I is deflationary, that can be diffused in a way Is is this how you see it as well? And what what what have you seen that makes you most excited Well, And then you have to keep in mind that there are so many people today Yeah, yeah. This is just so important so many health care related advances. It will, you know, so I think that is just one of the kinds of examples where Yeah. I think there's a second thing, The barrier to entry for people and doing hard And it's true for almost everybody I mean, I, you know, or writing, well, with AI you can ask for help. You can actually get to a point where if you can conceive of it, do it without having to know And I think that's going to be just making it possible for people And, you know, you, even more than so many interesting, in so many walks of life, And I sometimes think to myself, most often in people And I think it's curiosity, I agree, and so I think AI is is the best thing invented And hopefully it will help When you look at it philosophically, AI has the opportunity to fundamentally shift what and how humans perceive their value, their purpose, You know, and it's interesting, when you're talking about doctors it stands to reason it will be doing but we'll still need people to be doing the physical parts maybe gets to the point with more accuracy So then the question becomes, as somebody who thinks quite a lot, Well, you know, I've for two decades the senior ranks, at Microsoft, who didn't get a degree in engineering I came from, And so philosophically, wanted it to be a part of something that advance says to make people better and to make humanity more successful. our whole mission it's not about technology for its own It's know, create technology that empowers so they can do something That's the philosophy. I don't want to create a future dream new ideas I mean, and I'm not I'm not fundamentally worried about it think that a machine can do everything that a person can, I think And that spark of creativity, that, that people can have, is, so that's that's where I will probably always be I want to be part of that's creating doesn't replace people, doesn't except go to the beach. Because I appreciate that But yeah, when you're on day 700 I just can't believe it's I think that's true for everything. I think that's true for everything. Well, Brad, Oftentimes I do, but there's a president somewhere No, I doubt that where you are. This is true. So, to whichever president but, thank you I appreciate the way you think. I highly recommend, I do think it's an even handed Look at how we see the world So thank you so much What now with Trevor Noah is produced in partnership with Day The show is executive produced by Trevor Noah, Ben Again, Marina Hankie is our producer, music Thank you so much for listening. Join me next Thursday