[mellow acoustic guitar plays] [water gently splashing] [Peter] Good morning, guys. Here on the shores of beautiful But today isn't about Vermont. It's about getting over the lake Now for many, Upstate is pretty much Which is a massive region. This part of Upstate is very special. Home to the largest park in the country Old mining towns, old forts, even home to the Olympics So today we're gonna go over the lake, get lost on some of these back roads, and get a better understanding Let's do this. [Peter] So once we cross we'll end up at this really fascinating It was built by the British And I grew up not far from here and as a kid, whatever I was told usually did the opposite. And now as an adult I can make and say this is amazing. I love this now. It's fascinating. This is what's left of the fort, Initially built by the French. You can see we just came Over into New York. Very strategic important place controlled what went through there and that's what it looked like. Pentagon shape. The had the guns here in the corners. You know, you can see the ring around here where it's built up, and then the barracks And I just talked to one of the park guys. Unfortunately he can't be on camera. Full of history but just 20 miles So this is in it's original state, But Fort Ticonderoga's They have reenactments there. He said both are very interesting. Both were equally as important but this was the battle The French-Indian War, where basically it was with Indians on both sides. Some sided with the French, and the Brits won out here. That's why we have a border north of here at the north end of Lake Champlain And once you get over that border All right guys, the super quick Canada, the French came down. Samuel D. Champlain, who the lake is named after, they came down all the way down here. The Dutch came up here. Eventually the British controlled this, This area here, Currently there are locks but in the day some of these points because and eventually Benedict Arnold, and Ethan Allen conquered this. Beat out the Brits. Their armies took this into American hands and since then it has stayed. The Ethan Allen Boys, worth looking into. If you're in this area This could be We gotta push through today So little sprinkles of what happened. Definitely worth checking out [seagulls squawk] All right, so once we entered New York we entered the Adirondack State Park. 6.1 million acres, making it But it's a bit different. It's not like your national park There are 130,000 people. So take the park status There are, I'm sure, some regulations but as you can see there are houses here. Again, it's not like you're in but it is cool and we're getting into it. [mellow acoustic guitar plays] Here we are, Port Henry. As you saw coming into town, And Champ is this mythical creature that supposedly lives in Lake Champlain. From my understanding based off But you can see here Robert Hughes saw this in 1981. Joseph Pratt in the '40s. Look at all these sightings. Now we stop at '89. What happened then? The fall of the Berlin Wall I don't know. I would love to hear your theories. -[Peter] How you doing? This is beautiful. What do you guys have here? -So she found a heart. -Oh, that's cool. So you guys are just -Yeah. -[girls] We found a snake! [excited chatter] That is some cool parenting. Letting the kids out there, Yeah, shouldn't be on train tracks. Well I grew up walking down train tracks. You sort of get out of the way a Sort of like crossing a street. You'll be surprised not to be anywhere near train tracks. But hey, if you can't have well what do you want? The kids inside on a screen taking in neon light? That is cool. Welp, it's not really happening anymore. Some people in there What's going on out here? -So the story with that is That's the story we were told anyway. -You guys all want it in town? We do. Yeah, yeah. The other trouble is it's hard -'Cause there's no taxi service. But that's another good thing too because they also volunteer Sometimes they'll give them -Oh, that's cool. Are you from Port Henry? I am, yes. -Okay, so what's going on in town? Unfortunately not a whole lot. A lot of new businesses come in and it's such a small town, -Okay. So what's going on in the train station? -I run the nutrition site. They come, and sit, and socialize, and... That's cool. So that's for people or just wanna be social, or both? -A little bit of both. Yep. [Peter] And so this is -Mm-hmm. -This old wood and old feel. -High ceilings. And I think I'm gonna get into that -A lot of beautiful buildings. A lot of the original architecture Which is really great especially -So this is the plan, huh? -Yep. -Fort Ticonderoga, but Ticonderoga here is amazing. -Yeah, definitely have to check that out. -The Capital. All the way to New York City, Yes, and we actually get a lot of people that are from New York -Sweet. -Cool there are people like you in town. -Not a lot, but. -[woman] How is everything. -[man] Let you know in a couple hours. [Morgan] Wonderful. [Peter] They tell it like it is, Morgan. -[laughter] -Take care. Nice meeting you. [Peter] All right guys, Looks like there's And we start to see all of the money So much of America was built off of-- Was built off of mining, timber, And then built up in grandeur like this. And just imagine this... I don't know... 80 years ago. Thriving, the church busy. But look at that architecture, I don't know if that comes through Wonder if they'll bring it back. [man] Actually I'm hoping -You hope somebody restores it? It's beautiful, I love it. -So when you were a kid that was in use? How many years ago? -I'm 37 now. -And you came back? -If you go up the hill up here... There's a big old castle -No way. -One of the first This town, Mineville, they all used to be -So that's the money -Pretty much and now there's... There's nothing here anymore. -No jobs? There's jobs. There's Dollar General, and that's pretty much it. [laughs] Pretty much it. Unless you want to travel -Okay, all the best. Thank you. [Peter] &quot;Sherman Free Library&quot;. Wow, so cool. Look at a that. The wood just curves up. [man] Hello, how are you? -I'm doing better now. This style is beautiful -It is. -That sounds right. This is just a pet theory but there were a lot of small boat and I'm guessing they said, come on up and let's build a ceiling.&quot; -That's my guess. -So Greater Witherbee, these were all Yeah, so Port Henry was and the center of society but they were small company towns We still have places and Mr. George Riley Sherman, one of the operators of the Witherbees gave us this library. The first part was constructed in 1887. -Which was just the front room. He donated the land, the building, to the people of Port Henry they decided to add on -Okay. -As that was happening there was unfortunately -There's always a fire. There's always... If you have a building Especially when you have workmen while they do their work. But the building was saved The story goes, and we do have contemporaneous He liked to play on Church Street and he would look through the mail slot, He alerted the fire brigade and they saved the bones of the building. -So what were the years and when did that all go away? Yeah, essentially through into the 20th century. By the stock market crash The US government then dumped and into Republic Steel to ramp up the operations again Then once that's completed really the early 1970s, late 1960s and then everything -So how is it now would you say? Now we're in a post-industrial landscape. Post industrial lifestyle. There really has not been a for the mining operation. Prisons were a big industry in the area. Those have been slowly shut down So the entire Adirondack Region is in to more of a recreational and that's a struggle A lot of our waterfront So it's a long transition period. -We haven't quite made it there yet. -So it's in flux? -Do you love it? I like it here. You've got large lake recreating and large mountain recreating -There's nothing to not like. [Peter] &quot;Miners remembered. of the miners and their For their bravery and hard work, And there is a pride that goes with work, and beautiful buildings, and I think it's very tough and that's what's happened These industry towns and when that industry leaves so does the energy But let's check out Looks like a local joint. -How you doing? Good. -Oh, this is cool. This is where people eat is gonna be a thrift shop -You can come back. This is gonna be a gallery -Oh, cool. -There's like these old lanterns. -Oh, nice. Look at this cool floor. All pennies. [woman] So there is only a couple hundred in the United States. -Okay. -So how's Port Henry these days? -It's Port Henry. -What does that mean Port Henry's very small. It used to be very big -Before you were born? It's more of a tourist town in the summer, -Nobody? -Just regulars. They used to make old Western movies -Cool. There's also an ice cave in Witherbee. So if you're driving down the road And you sit there and you can feel -Feels like winter. Okay, I'm going there. As soon as you turn on the road -Cool. I'm so there. Back in the day when there was somebody and the ice caps that he killed people, and put them in there, I think when I was... No, my grandmother was little. -The Garrow Killer? -How many people did he kill? And put 'em on ice? And put them in the mine. He used to live up at... -He used to live up on Barton Hill Road. -Yep. Is there some-- -The house is still there -Is there some haunted energy around here? -No, none of that. -None of that? No, I would say up at 80 Barton Hill I used to live there. So it's creepy. And there's a mine and a cave If you go like this on the ground -I don't think anyone in the modern world has been so excited for Mineville [ladies laugh] -Have fun. -If I don't come back -Have fun. -Thank you so much. &quot;Treasures From the Past Open&quot;? Open, not closed. -[woman laughs] -All right, so if people are in Port Henry come here for some -Go inside, you'll see a lot. Very cool. You from Port Henry? I'm not from here, my husband is. We moved up from Connecticut. -How do you like it? If you get broken down or... No one's rude, no one's obnoxious. In Connecticut if you break down they blow the horn, -Up here people are kind? So you break down winter night, -When I broke down once and I was scared My husband said, &quot;Oh, don't worry. I didn't know that 'cause and someone knocks on your window, But up here everyone's friendly. -So totally different culture? It's all nice and relaxed. No one's in a hurry to go anywhere. You go to a store, you'll end up there to someone you don't even know. -So most people from the outside when they think of New York, -Correct. -This is like out there. So they took you in well? Yes, they did. [Peter] So this must be the castle Maybe this was an owner of or maybe it was a resort. I'm not sure. And guys, with a lot of this discovery I'm coming into it Sorry I can't tell you what this is. Someone from here I'm sure can. That's what keeps and the trees are blocking looked over the whole lake The whole Champlain Valley. Hello, sir. Where are these ice caves? They're up Mineville. You're gonna come to -Okay. -It's just a little road. -Yeah, I've been here all my life. -Yeah. But we need a little less government. What do you mean by that? Taxes are too high -Okay. It ain't like we get our -Okay, so you pay in, you don't feel like -No. -New York's all about New York City, Well I don't know about the county what they ought to do with New York City is saw it off, [laughter] -That's what they outta do. No, make a separate state of it. Let them have their own damn problems. -New York City? You guys basically want to be left alone Yeah. -But you guys got logging now, right? It's petering out pretty fast. -Mining's gone? What's holding it together? -Not a whole lot. Lotta welfare. Lot of welfare, lot of retired people -Social Security money? There's some jobs I'm still working, 67 years old -Driving a truck? Okay. And it was a great way to live. But the price of milk got so low -Is it... the dairy farmers that Oh yeah, they are. No. It's unfortunate If you're not milking 1,500 cows today There's only two dairy farms left... -Okay. Used to be 14 just in this little town. Nothing anymore. -Are the young people staying, If they can find decent work here -Oh, you allow four-wheelers I'm not sure that's allowed, but... -Take care. -Take care. -Nice four-wheeler, buddy. -That thing's huge. I'm making a YouTube video -Sure! -These are your buddies? What's it like out here? It's pretty awesome. -You guys rip around on the four-wheelers? -Go where you want? -People get mad. -We get yelled at all the time. [engine revving] Not everyone that I run into is on-camera. You only see the ones that are obviously. I was told to go up Oh yeah, there they are. The old homes. The old stone employee homes And one thing that was by some European viewers is they said, &quot;Wow, Americans are so open. You can just go up and that is something special It's not like it's the only place on the planet where if you just want to ask how they're doing, Most likely they're gonna engage with you, and let you know their thoughts, That's not everywhere. A lot of Americans A lot of countries, Like weird, &quot;Why are you asking me this? I've realized doing this work that we all Yeah, people travel, but when you really start digging deep the scope of this country, is insane. And I do this full-time for a living and I'm constantly amazed It actually gets bigger. The more I get into it Like, where am I? This is wild. Look at that, and then this massive lodge of sorts. A missile. Yeah, try putting a label on New York. &quot;New York is like this.&quot;, I mean Manhattan is in the same state. When's the last time you saw Looks like it's still in operation We've got a missile over here. You don't see so much of that When I lived in the Former Soviet Union, you'd see stuff like this Just a random missile monument. [woman] I know one where of 'em is -Yeah, I was told the ice mines were -There's... basically it's right where -It's that first black one? -Okay. -Beyond the fence? -Is it cool up there, literally? -[woman] It's really deep. Oh, yeah. My buddy lives and they say they don't use AC. they just pop the windows open -If you go you can to get closer to the mine and look in it. -I like your style. -What's your name? -Peter. -So you grew up here? Break it down. What's it like? -I mean there was a lot of and walking through just doing There's a huge difference -Where I'm going next? Just in the way of like here you have and then you got to Keene Like very vast difference, Totally different. -Same county? Keene Valley, that my friend graduated 'cause there's just -It's older snowbird types? You know, rich people who come in Beautiful, beautiful. -Is there a... There's a bit of a tension where they're the locals -Yeah. -Is it the same here? and Lake Placid for sure. Here we don't have it too badly 'cause no one wants to move here. -Nobody's moving in, huh? There's not really too much There's no job opportunities other than like we have the mill. The pencil mill in Ticonderoga and that's really it. [laughs] -Do people still use pencils? I guess so. [laughs] -Appreciate it. -It was good meeting you. -I'm gonna check this out now. All right. [whispers] Oh, this is interesting. Just got super cold back here. Literally 20, 25 degree reduction in temperature. Okay, before we get there for those of you who have seen you're probably like, &quot;Hey, Peter, where's the black shirt? You've worn that the last, and so the time finally came. I came out with some new merch. Seek the Truth. It's one of the missions of the channel. Nobody fully has it. Okay, there are objective or someone stealing your money. But with this human philosophical stuff, getting into story. Well, it's a little bit harder to find. The goal is always listen as much as you can, try to see things No one's a master. I try. Don't always get it right. But my goal is and ask the questions where... Well, it brings us all So we got this shirt. We have, &quot;Look Below the Surface&quot;. Which, well, that's what we're doing here And then &quot;American Stories&quot;. The US map with characters If you've watched the channel before So it's a great way I don't want to sell you guys junk. As in products you don't need. I say no to that all the time because that's not how I would only promote an ad or would be useful. We got sweatshirts, long-sleeve, hats. So if you want to support us in that way we would love you Wear it in style. And just so you know... we're getting really in here. But just so you know The quality of the merch, per shirt to get better quality. So you're not gonna wash it three times and it's all peeled up, and shrunken, So you're getting a good quality product and guys, seems to be fenced-off. But okay, the point of the story here is it's freezing back here. I went through some warm pockets, and... [laughs] Maybe a bit anti-climatic. We're seeking the truth though. The truth is it's colder back here Maybe in my younger days but that ship's sailed. There's another one up there and believe it or not, that had two Olympics. Can you believe that? Not far from here. So I don't want to get But that I guess is the pit right there 'cause it is the coldest right here. Like freezing cold. So interesting how that works. [mellow acoustic guitar plays] All right guys, the high peaks Mount Marcy, tops at 5,300 feet. Which for West-Coasters but on the East-Coast And we're going under 87 the other way to Montreal. Starting the High Peak Scenic Byway. So a lot of tourists coming up are gonna go this way in. This is where the hiking is Unfortunately it's cloudy Vermont, the Green Mountain State, the highest Peak there, Mount Mansfield, So the mountains are bigger here. They're a little more rugged. They're younger than the Green Mountains as in more space. All right guys, Berkshire Hathaway We're in Keene Valley. Little bit of a different vibe over here. Looks to be a bit better off economically. Lot of tourism, second homes, And a world away. And maple syrup is serious business or more so pride in this part of the country. I don't think you'll see drinking New York maple syrup or vice-versa, Every state pretty much thinks But look at this. You gotta love something like this. Where you just walk in Here are the prices. You can leave your name Put the cash in. The cash stays. How crazy is that? That is so cool. We're in a society here where Okay, there are cameras. So we're in the modern world When's the last time you did this? Okay. Half pint. Seven dollars. I don't have change so I'll leave 10. Here's my New York maple syrup, grade A. And this is how 8$ per bundle, $20, half a row. So basically half of this. &quot;Leave money inside the passenger window&quot;. So you just got like... You just put it through the slot there. That's awesome. [mellow acoustic guitar plays] Coming up on Lake Placid soon. We got some mega ski jumps there. Let's see if we can [Peter] You bought an old cop car here? [man] I did. State Police auction. -So it's all modified, goes fast? Oh, yeah. 350 with the interceptor in it. -People think you're a cop? Undercover with that big antennae, -How much did you get her for? -You got this for $500? The white one I paid $400 for. -And it ran? The other one my girlfriend drives. -Nobody else wanted it? -Nobody bid on it. -Do you live around here? -Lake Placid? How is it? Little expensive but it's all right. At the time my kid's mom, -Oh, okay. -Packed up and moved to Utah, She said move out here, try it out here, It was worse. -With what? -In Utah, worse than here? -Huh. My kids haven't seen their mom in months. -So this is nice up here? -Well nice car. Yeah, I'm making a video -Are you? I really want to give cred -I'm Rob Colby. How you doing? That's my son, Connor. -Connor? He's the one that caught -Connor, is your dad pretty cool? -He's fun? Takes you fishing, can't beat that, -And we motorcycle ride. Don't we, bud? -We scare people on that bike don't we? -Yes we do. That's cool. It is. They call it God's country. People don't know I talk on a CB all the time. Big President Washington 80 foot high and my call numbers are triple 6, They call me triple 6, They said they never heard... I got a notebook probably -Just for fun? -You talk with people all over the world. -About what? Where I'm from, what do I do, I keep a log of everybody I talk to. -It's like CB or what is that? -So that's old school, right? It's all peaked and tuned. It came out of the shop at 3.5 watts I got a big power mic -So you just get into a frequency Yeah, I got upper and lower sideband I got a 40 channel CB, I go between channels, I talk on FCC, I'm not licensed for it. I talk on FCC channels. I talk to Talk all around the world. I was living in a house, guys garage door would open and shut. That's how much power -It's just for companionship? -I'm a single dad of four. I got seven kids. I got one that's 48. -What'd you have him at 15? Single dad of all of 'em. -Wow. -I got Connor's 10. My daughter at home is 13. A seven year old -How's that going? Just to work, Wouldn't change it for the world. -You wouldn't? Okay. My oldest son, when he was two My daughter was born, She was in Montreal, I got done work and flipped a coin if I was going to Montreal In the meantime I was 'cause she was just Got home, my house was emptied out. Light bulbs gone, everything. My wife left me said, I said, &quot;Wow, really?&quot;, didn't have towel to shower with. So those are my first... -Well good you didn't run. -That'd be very weak. Exactly. I got four of 'em now -It's a grind though, right? Everyday. You notice the inflation? Yeah, they just raised my rent $100 today. -What do you do for work? I do maintenance for -Okay. -So you're plenty busy? Guys like you are hard to find. -That's what everybody tells me, but there's a place up Yes there is. -So with that job I do the best I can. Can I support them? I do. I go without a lot for my kids. I'd take my last piece of bread Wouldn't I? -What? [chuckling] It was hard during COVID. I had three computers, It was tough. Running back and forth, bedroom We got through it though. They all moved onto the next grade. -Good work. -Peter, it was nice to meet you. -Thanks. [Peter] Wow, what a great guy. We're getting rained out here I believe these are the skating rinks and for those of you who remember Miracle on Ice. The US college team beat the Soviets. Huge upset. The Soviets were much better. At that time I don't know why but we couldn't play and so it was a college team at a time when let's just say It sort of could have gone either way. America wasn't at its best moment. Hyper-inflation, and it was a huge win for the country. Not only for hockey but for the country. And here we're coming up on a main street. You know, this is one of those or dormant. I believe tourism's just come Here's what the prices look like. Million dollars, four beds, three baths. That's what you're gonna get here. Another million dollar home, So depending on where you're from Where we started today, definitely super steep. I am absolutely freezing. So we're gonna have to do one of these. Lake Placid tourist sweatshirt. [laughter] Okay, so you're from [laughter] -Okay, you're working for the summer? She's working for the summer -Okay. -So a lot of international people here? -A lot of us. Around 300 Bosnian students this year. -This summer, work and travel program. It's awesome. We have two, three jobs, -You just work, save up money, go home? -Yes. Yeah. -Cool. -Take a picture. Let's do it. Let's get in there, guys. All right. What have you learned? -Hindi. [speaking Hindi and laughing] I'm means, &quot;How are you? I'm good.&quot; And I've learned that you can Nowhere, yeah. Even Lake Placid. Lake Placid is a... -It's removed. -How so? I mean what happens in Lake Placid -Oh, wow. The best memories. This is one of my best friends. -It just happened. Yeah, first day. -You gotta go visit him in India. I told her the same thing. -India will blow your mind. -I have a lot of Indian friends and he has a lot of But mostly Bosnians. We take over, -American dream. -See you, guys. So cool. So we have the J-1 Visa workers. For those that don't know Usually it's for university students. They come over, and that program I think during the pandemic But good to see it back. I met a lot of J-1 visa people at a resort when I was that age It was cool to meet people So here we go. This is, as you can see, a hotel, And thriving. [doors open] Look at that, 1932. That was the look and the style. Look at the guys Roosevelt here in 1932. This is the main street. with all the stores &quot;80 Herb Brooks Arena&quot;. Miracle on Ice. That was the coach for the team [announcer] ...good save, [shouts] [crowd cheering] The countdown going on right now. Do you believe in miracles? Yes! -[crowd cheering] [Peter] I'm getting goosebumps as a hockey lover Miracle on Ice. One of the coolest documentaries, It wasn't just a game. It was moment of pride and that's the beauty of sports. Even though they should be Athletes have nothing to do I believe they should all compete. It has something to do And right down there on the ice beating the Soviet Union. Who was a much better team if it was pro to pro. It was the college team and Herb Brooks, &quot;Don't be scared of these guys. Belittle them.&quot; And the psychology of his coaching Beautiful Lake Placid. Look at those homes around the lake and there is so much more to see up here. Unfortunately we got rained out but did the best I could. Moral of this story... Okay, the main thing is don't easily label a place. So you can say New York is one thing, Even in this broad Upstate category. Upstate New York, this is one part of it. Which is totally different and even within that you can be and see many different realities, socioeconomic statuses, and basic values. Good and bad people all over the place. But always keep that in mind because the world, is way more granular than you think. Thanks for coming along Until the next one. [mellow acoustic guitar plays]