- You have a ruler? Zero five, so the apple, Zero five by zero five, ah? You're here. They tell me we're crazy. It's big, no? So it's zero eight, ah? Perfection doesn't exist. We are always reaching for perfection. If you think one of in my opinion there's so we always try to make it better. And Mr. Robuchon as well. There's always something he told us. You reach for perfection but there's something wrong. It was a dream for me, you know? Coming to France, United States. Work for Mr Robuchon. And be one day the Chef of his restaurant is such an honor. And you know the pressure is like I say to please our guests everyday and to make sure we maintain the quality and the level of excellence. We have a really busy weekend ahead of us. We had the white truffle coming in. We have to work on the duck. We received the fish from France. Caviar is coming as well. Lotta stuff going on. Thank you guys, let's go. 11:30 to five o'clock is the go time. It's where for me it's the If we messed up the consomme it's too late, 6:30 is too late, you know? It's not gonna happen. It's gotta be perfect at 4:00pm. You know Mr. Robuchon when respect for who he is and If me or Ronnie miss one, we've And it's a lot of work, you know? Almost. This one is, we can get it back. But sometimes you have I was noticing when we You can tell right away. I always tell the cooks to practice or it's fine. But when you put on an actual plate, there's no more mistake possible. Everything we do here is just Bring after another one. Everything is to be in place in a dish without the guest noticing. Like I said, it's just an obsession and it just feels good It's the best feeling. The fish, the meat flies The town here in Las Vegas, know we're in the middle of nowhere. For me it's really important with a supplier. Ay ay ay ay ay, it's too small. Here we have a little issue and this is not the right size. We're gonna see if, we're maybe somebody has some or we gonna ask all our friend This is the only way we can The big challenge we deal here or something doesn't show up. There is no plan B. If my fish today doesn't there's no way I can get another fish, I need to wait a few days. The peas we're gonna have But tomorrow we decide to change the dish. With my supplier it's seven Always have my phone with me. They call me and they know in less than five minutes. This batch is specially made in Las Vegas. This is exclusivity right there. This is, we are the only one who has this. So this is a perfect This is only the best caviar in the world. - Thank you chef. - This one is shipment - Monday. - Monday. So this is our caviar We have a bed of creme fraiche and now we putting some parsley dots. The most important is consistency If one step on the mise en it's not cooked properly or it can really give us a Everything we do right now, is for me, for me is the most important. Today we're gonna receive I don't expect a really The quality is decent, but The white truffle is in the restaurant. The white truffle season, I The white truffle is you know, special. That's what we're looking for, the pink. It's a really rare piece. When you cut it you have this it just brings your dish to another level. I know that another chef doesn't want it, that's why I want it. This season, the white truffle starting next week. I wanted to try this dish the seasoning before So right now we're prepping the potato. And we have some white bit of Fleur de sel, So the frais curls, just freshly cut. It's important to when we put ourself as a guest. It doesn't matter if it's for a guest if it's for us to taste, it's gotta be perfect. This is the final touch, a sherry vinegar just to bring Okay, let's try. Just disappear, uh? Try this, it's too weak. This we go on next week. This white truffle is not good enough. The weather needs to go Right now it's going down, it's like 15 degrees today in Italy. So next week the aroma, the size, everything should be better. So I'm not surprised, I knew, But we gotta go through this It's still good though. So this is a dish that we've been working, for right now about a week. We've been having some struggle it's the right day. We stuff it with some and we gonna season it with a secret mix. It's gonna be roasting We've been working on this new dish. He's probably doing three ducks a day. And I'm sure he's dreaming We gonna try it but I'm confident. We've been working on it for two weeks now and they finally masterized it so I'm really happy with the result. - Feels really good. Feels good accomplishment, correct too so really happy. Everything you're gonna do if it's the sauce if it's it doesn't matter. It just has to be perfect. Every single new cooks we they learn with Gizae, because she will give you There are some dishes we'll The mash potato, it's the every guest will be served with the main course. Mr. Robuchon's been known more than 30 years now. The recipes been the same, the butter's been the same. You what it's so good and mashed potato after If you wanna make it right, You have to peel it while it's still hot. Otherwise the potato gets So that's why there is and Jonathan has an easy job. All night we take turns, which one is gonna do So you see I won every night Right now next on the line is Steven. - My money's on Steve - So I definitely won because but I'm the judge at the same time. - I think it's a tie honestly. But, Chef won. Chef always wins. - 5:30 the service starts and of prep service should be extremely easy. I mean nothing is easy but. Right now everybody is The mise en place for tonight (sizzling food cooking) We're waiting right now The symphony starts now, the music. At the restaurant we trying I think it's something It was really important for and he wanted to make sure that it was less noise than possible. At the beginning to be honest for me, I wasn't expecting that at all. And a lot of guests when they actually don't expect But we're not, it's just always like that. Everybody's more focused Everybody knows what Why you talking? - It's a good environment you screaming and throwing pans and what not. Which I have worked with - Order in three, three My goal is protecting That's my main goal. Keep growing as a Chef as well.