So, I was binging Game of Thrones as you do, and what stood out to was how much lore gets brushed under the rug. I asked myself, just how many plot but ultimately abandoned? To answer these questions, I did what any sane person of my life to compiling a And hey, if I missed something, please let me know and I'll be happy to If you like what you see, by liking, commenting and... - Get on with it. This is every abandoned From murdering Jon Arryn, to pitting the Starks to killing Joffrey, without Littlefinger, Something people is that Peter Baelish he was also very much a player, with a bid for the Iron Throne - And what do you want? - Oh, everything, my dear. What do you want? When I close my eyes, of me on the iron throne, and you by my side. Of course, what people do remember is his groundbreaking theory but by season 6, that's out the window too, as Littlefinger subjects creating no chaos, just enjoying his place at court like the good little lady - You will marry a lord one day and rule his castle. Now, had he at least had before seeing it snatched that would have been not this. - Sansa, I beg you. His disappointing end undermines a lot of the tension the no less his and Olenna's plot to kill Joffrey, a secret which, if it came out, would set half the realm against him. - Together, we killed a king. And I promise you, Lord Baelish, that if anything should I will have nothing to hide. But that didn't happen. And when Baelish dies, it doesn't leave anywhere near the sort [thud] After their ancient purpose from what lies beyond the Wall the Night's Watch is still - There's still a Night's Watch? The show even comments on Why is it still a thing? What are they protecting that the White Walkers are destroyed, the Wildlings are friends, and the ice-spiders not - Grumpkins and snarks. Oh yeah. Can't wait for Snow season 1. [thud] When it comes to the some speculate that and the line is a sword, symbolizing the sacrifice Notice also how the pin and Sansa's necklace in later seasons have the same shape. Coincidence!? ...I mean, I guess. Then we've got this spiral, the same pattern as can be seen made by which is obviously a cool connection, seeing as the Children were the ones to but it kind of stops there. Presumably, the symbolism is but apart from the tragedy of Hodor, that doesn't really affect the story, and we're left asking would go out of their way - It's a message. No history is ever repeated, Was it a warning? Was it an expression of childhood Well, either way... One cool turn of events the eternal rivalry between the Three-Eyed Raven and the maybe by one hive-mind - I'm sorry I wasn't there when you needed me. You were exactly where Burn them all! For the watch. Burn them all! Hold the door! Burn them all! But that wasn't the case, so... When Mirri Maz Dur said that - When the sun rises in the west, and the mountains blow ...It sounded like a fancy But when Jon brings it up again in season 7, I have to wonder why the show reopened this plotline I can never have children. Who told you that? The witch who murdered my husband. Have you considered that she might not be a reliable [sexy music starts playing] Like, if Jon had made Daenerys pregnant, cheesy as it would be, then at least we're in business, but this obviously doesn't happen, [thud] Jon Snow... - His name is Aegon Targaryen. Right, Aegon Targaryen, the - I don't want it. The long-standing mystery and heritage is one of the great plotlines, and plot-twists, of our time. And it being thrown right out the window, has got to be up there with in television history. - Careful. Oh, don't worry, Not only did they abandon but also an entire social seeing as he's King in the North, and dating his aunt. The northern lords should, quite literally, especially with so many of them Robert's rebellion against not two decades prior. But hey, who wants to see - EVERYONE! [thud] So if not Jon, then who is Azor Ahai, the Prince That Was Promised, AKA the title of the book series Stannis was not the Prince who was Promised, but someone has to be. (I don't want it) The prophecy was first brought up in season 2, with Stannis, flaming swords and all... - Stannis Baratheon, warrior of light. Then it was Daenerys... - Daenerys Stormborn is the one who is promised. Then it was Jon... - You serve Jon Snow now? He is the Prince that was Promised. Then it became a contemporary - That noun has no gender in High Valyrian, so the proper translation of that prophecy would And by the time the White Walkers rolled by... (screams) - Kind of forgot. [thud] Ok, this is kind of the big one guys. Balancing the act of evil Prince Jaime is asked the real - Who are you, and what do you want? - When you hear them whispering "Kingslayer" If you precious Renly commanded you to while thousands of men, women and children Is that what you tell yourself at night? But, despite the super-satisfying trajectory the writers abandoned all a romance nobody asked for, only to go back If anything, his trajectory suggested wrap his hands around Cersei's coming full circle as the Kingslayer by standing up for the people by killing Alas. 8 seasons of build up straight down the drain. - Thousands of men, women - To be honest I've never cared much for them... innocent or otherwise. (vomits) [thud] Tyrion's kind nature is tested the establishment and pretty much everyone else, which eventually sees him snap in season 4, setting him on a path of hate and revenge. I wish I had enough poison I would gladly give my life In season 5, however, Tyrion immediately goes In fact, all we get from is a series of uncharacteristically bad decisions, shunning what could have been the Oh, and cock jokes. Don't forget the cock jokes. At least your balls don't freeze off. Because you have no [__]. If I lost my [__], I'd drink all the time. It's better luck to suck a dwarf's [__]. Because I have balls, and you don't. [thud] A big part of Game of Thrones the ancient hive-mind that with tinted windows to take over yeah, we don't really know, and therein lies the problem. - You'll never walk again, but you will fly. Like most people, I thought this meant but the show was content to keep We never learn the true motivations and the nature of its rivalry with the Night King. Was it really so shallow What about restoring and reintegrating Or, I don't know, something more meaningful Also, is there a connection between the Are they opposing deities, seeing as and the other supposedly means to destroy them? Or, are they one and the same, showing visions in flames to some people, Guess we'll never know. [thud] Another big introduction was the ability to - Father! Hold the door! In the books, it is hinted that the the sound that alerts Cersei to which, after seeing how the young implies that the same could all in order to set Bran on his but this is, of course, Having this could have also given but hey what do I know, I'm [thud] The realm, my lord. Ah, yes... or does he? - The absence of desire leaves Varys' true motivations were quietly a but after skipping town with Tyrion, Varys ceases to be active in the story, apart from teleporting around when he isn't acting as ballplank - Because you have no cock. His U-turn from supporting claim to the throne could have been the but uh... what's the line again? She's... my queen. [thud] When Brandon the Curious sneaks off to the Night King touches him and leaves a mark screw with him as he eventually wargs into and and that this being how the White Walkers ...but that didn't happen. So, the mark is ultimately just leads the White Walkers to the three-eyed cave, and cutting Bran's training short. I'll be covering this, and much more, in an so subscribe for that ya nerds! [thud] For the longest time, the people north of the and when Jon attempts to change this by making - For the Watch. It goes that deep. But after Jon's resurrection, the only wildlings south of the Wall, To the traitor and bastard Jon Snow. You allowed thousands of wildlings past the Wall. You have betrayed your own kind, One might have thought this would especially amongst the Night's but this political issue simply disappears [thud] The very first thing we learn about Arya, not shoe-horned into a life - You'll marry a lord and rule his castle. No, that's not me. She also cares deeply for her family, and while her journey is one of a lone wolf she makes a tonne of unlikely allies on the way. - When the snows fall and the white winds blow, the lone wolf dies, but the pack survives. But, by season 7, she's changed beyond recognition who eventually leaves her family and And let's not forget, Arya never uses two seasons acquiring to do anything useful, other than getting the Freys [thud] Speaking of face-shifting! It is often mentioned how the renowned exclusive bunch you do not want to mess with... Which means desertion is not allowed. - What you just did is punishable by death. ...but they her to escape with - I'm going home. Then go! The least they could have done would have been Night and have them call it water under the Oh well. There's also no explanation I've seen people speculate that it has to but if she's supposed to be no one, such cravings would never be - You promised me that when the time [thud] In season 4, the dragons start getting unruly, and Daenerys eventually locks two of them up, which only seems to make them more angry, while Drogon continues to wreak havoc, but in season 6, they've all and are impressively tame and coordinated, as if the initial problems never existed. As seen in House of the Dragon, dragons require training and And even then, you're never fully in control. - Vhagar, no! Their increase in size a problem that was also soon abandoned. While I made sure our stores I didn't account for Unsullied, Dothraki and two full grown dragons. What do dragons eat, anyway? Whatever they want. [thud] In season 6, we were all very excited, or at least I was, about the introduction of who is brought in by Tyrion to propagate - Daenerys Stormborn is the one who is promised. building kinda seizes to be a if there ever were any, are confined to the illustrious realms off-screen. - I will summon my most eloquent Priests, they will spread the word. Kinvara, nor her eloquent briests... I mean breasts... I mean priests, are ever seen or heard of again. [thud] The Lannisters are one of, if not thanks to a few decades of clever as well as, you know, their literal gold mines... - Ever heard the term "as rich as a Lannister"? But, we also hear about the gold mines implying that the Lannisters are Summer has ended, hard days lie ahead... Our last working mine ran dry three years ago. If he were so clever, why didn't he take And when Tywin dies, this should spell Alas, this ground-breaking event never it ought to crush them like a tonne of bricks. [thud] On the topic of money. - The Iron Bank will have its due, We all live in its shadow, We owe the Iron Bank of Braavos The Iron Bank of Braavos... We owe them tens of millions. I'm not worried about the Iron Bank. We both know you're smarter than that. If we fail to repay these You can't run from them, you can't cheat One way or another, they These conversations would lead you to believe that the Iron Bank will come down but this never happens to anyone. After Stannis dies, nobody seeks out Davos, or goes to Dragonstone to collect. [thud] And when Bran takes the Crown, there's no clarification as to the exorbitant - Are you telling me the Crown I'm telling you the Crown is six million in debt. How could you let this happen? With Tyrion as head of House Lannister, he inherits the Crown's debt of over - Counting coppers, he calls it. A significant amount was also owed to the Tyrells, but that went away when And, upon sacking Highgarden, Cersei repaid rookie mistake by the way, and then immediately took another loan to pay for Now, it could be argued that on the wrong elephant in that conflict... - I wanted those elephants. ...but the Crown of Westeros is still so a significant amount would - Ser Bronn of the Blackwater, lord of Highgarden, (How could you let this happen?) [thud] Hey, who remembers Illyrio Mopatis? - The North kinda forgot. Being a day-one, and Varys' best mate, Illyrio - If one hand can die, why not a second? The way these two talk, it seemed like they were playing the realm like their but after season 1, he is not even when Tyrion crashes [thud] Set up from day one, the upcoming winter was - Fear is for the long night. - There's a war coming, Ned. I don't know when, - Winter is coming. Eight seasons, nearly a decade in the making... but, in the end, the long night was really few weeks at best. Regardless, it would appear that, with their the White Walkers would have but that is also never revealed beyond For example, there are the and Sam in season 2 being intentionally Let me know if you agree with this or not, but this smacks of an elaborate plan to bait No, not sending half the cast on a suicide but... something. [thud] In his first speech as president of - And across the sea, there is a person who hates ...and promises to go to Mereen impressive manhood. Along with my big cock! But, like a true politician, his it's time to allocate public resources Where are my niece and nephew? Let's go murder them. And he soon finds himself courting another queen, which none of his voters [thud] Quaithe, the mysterious - Qarth. is only ever seen by Daenerys in the books, but in the show, Jorah meets her too, Who are you? I am no one. It is widely speculated that Quaith, a Targaryen bastard and lover of which, if true, could explain her but this is something the Dare I say it would have been wiser being some half-assed Deus Ex-Machina [thud] Speak of the devils! When they kept coming after Daenerys in season 3, it seemed like the warlocks The warlocks. ...But they totally weren't. [thud] Craster's baby being carried into an awesome ice castle that I'm dying to know more but since the show went out I'm kinda left asking, did these Do they train in the yard with a master of... ice, and a proud Night King watching over them? And more to the point, are these distinguished... generals, or whatever they are, Craster's sons? What would Gilly do if she found out Guess we'll never know. [thud] As I pointed out in Every Error Ironborn culture is quite thoroughly abandoned as Yara and Theon strike a deal - The Iron Islands have never had a queen before? No more than Westeros. - No man gives me a crown. I pay the iron price. That is who we have always been. As if Balon weren't rolling the same thing happens when Euron sets favor instead of taking what he came for by force. - We are Ironborn. We take what is ours. Oh, and it gets worse. The deal Yara makes with Daenerys is also despite independence being - The North will remain an independent kingdom. [thud] After taking back Riverrun from the Blackfish, Jaime installs Edmure as his loyal vassal, but shouldn't his loyalty at least be tested when Jon and Sansa look The Tullys were sworn to Rob, so where are they when Jon And where were they when every sword in the If the North indeed remembers, I feel like Sansa ought to have uncle Edmure at the council in [thud] As we know from season 1, Dothraki bloodriders - It is known. In the event of their Khal being defeated, they would avenge him, and then join him in the afterlife by suicide. Oh, and they hate witches with a passion. It is known. Now, let's not forget that Daenerys made every and, after failing to conquer the world, not only did she fail the prophecy of the but no one in her khalasar so much as mentions it, or the fact that they're all honorbound Realistically, with so much power up for grabs, not all would go through with but there should at least be fighting most likely resulting in out based on previous hierarchies This should also, at least in theory, be somewhat but since they all conveniently just pack up and Dothraki culture was officially abandoned too. [thud] George R.R. Martin has explicitly said including the Lord of Light etc, but what we do know is that... - Only death can pay for life. And while the lives of at the rather straightforward exchange Beric Dondarrion's multiple and no explanation is ever provided. - Thoros, how many times have you brought me back? Five, I think. No, this makes six. It could be argued that his resurrections usually but this is clearly not the case - Lord, cast your light on this servant... [thud] Also, even though Jon's resurrection we're left to speculate and without the show actually ever suggesting it. [thud] Ok now this is a super Everytime I come back, I'm a bit less. Pieces of you get chipped away. But even that is abandoned, as Jon never so much as reflects on the not even when directly asked about it. - How did you survive a knife to the heart? I didn't? (yaaay!) In season 2, the people's resentment an attack on the king by a mob of hungry peasants, and in season 5, the people's own - You are the few, and we are the many. But after Cersei blows up the Sept of Baelor, none of this seems to matter to anyone anymore. The good people of King's Landing, suddenly don't give a damn about their and that their supreme house of worship was just [thud] This also ends the plotline of the High Was he as power-hungry and or was he indeed the humble Your guess is as good as mine! Also, who leads the Faith of the Seven Shouldn't grassroots factions spring up, similar to the Sparrows, or something? [thud] At the end of the show, with and with more than a few notable houses destroyed, Westeros must surely be riddled with problems. Like, who occupies castles like Storm's End, and will they simply submit a bastard who was legitimized and And what about the politics a sellsword, who doesn't even know how loans work, - I never borrowed money before. Not clear on the rules. Who takes over the Twins Does Sansa appoint someone of her choosing? Does Bran? Does Edmure?? There is land in the Reach, good land. The people that used to live there are gone. Where did those people go? Did they flee, or die? Who manages Horn Hill, and lands and incomes that make the country go around? [thud] In season 3, Warging was made out What's wrong with him? What, you've never met a warg? But after Orell's death at Hardhome, no Wildlings are ever seen to warg again, so they either forgot about the remaining wargs, or chose not to mention how the even though that should be a big deal, at least to someone like Tormund. [thud] To quote one of you guys, "Sansa went from the most to a sympathetic character who to the most obnoxious character in TV." And I couldn't agree more. Starting out as an annoying little Sansa soon realizes that all and in season 4, when faced with the the bus, she makes the pivotal turning victimhood into agency. But, after being married off to Ramsey she comes out the other side... - The smartest person I've ever met. No, that's not it. Anyway, by season 7, Sansa is only now she's enjoying the which I guess we're supposed to The point is, her arc of going from a likable young woman is well and truly abandoned. [thud] Sansa's marriage to Tyrion was marriage to Ramsay is certainly questionable. So when Ramsey dies, the natural question Does this mean Tyrion is In any event, regardless of what I think, some lord or another should with all this before she gets to [thud] After falling victim of being a character the Rickon Stark neither gets the funeral nor [thud] When it's time to invade the homeland, Daenerys leaves Mereen in the capable hands but this is the last we ever hear of and we never get so much as a status update. - Piss on that, send a raven! Alas, Daenerys also doesn't or experiences from the seasons she spent there, leaving the chronicles of Mereen inconclusive and I mean, sure, they ended slavery, imposing but what's to say slavery didn't return Or are we supposed to believe that the quelled by Tyrion's threat to Yezzan - Remind them what happened here when Daenerys (Ooh!) In the books, Prince Doran of Dorne the Lannisters for murdering his while his brother Oberyn attempted (screaming) In the show though, Doran is a docile pussycat, whose plot for revenge is and Doran is eventually killed by Ellaria, who in turn is killed by Cersei... Or is she? While Tyene was poisoned, Ellaria was purposefully kept alive What's to say she wasn't still (crash) Yes, ok, but it's not like people Also, after the Dornish army is the inevitable power vacuum that All we get is Dorney McDorneface over here, and although he's pretty hot or whatever, I'm not convinced! [thud] Last, but definitely not least, what did Podrick do to those girls? Just kidding. Again, not all magic has to be explained. (thud) Thanks for watching this video. I hope you enjoyed me going back Stick around and get notified whenever I post, there will be more Game of Thrones content coming out as we delve into How Game Look forward to that! Special thanks to all my supporters you guys are the best sh** in the Seven Kingdoms. Have a great day and I'll see you again soon!