Hey, Guys! Welcome back again to Ken Tamplin be in the singing. and at least my experience of what that is seen on the internet. And I've seen some here and there, but a lot of it is really really seen a practical application of how So, the very first thing I want to talk about okay? Now, your larynx for guys is your Adam's it kind of goes up and down and, you know, one recent vocal coach, you know, talks about position, a raised laryngeal position, and stuff and I want to say that it's not quite And let me explain why: to have someone's, but to say, you know, you don't want to position: AAAAAHHH, here's a neutral laryngeal position: AAAHHH. Right? So we have these that's not really a good healthy way to has been and if this could be help to you, this. canto means opera and appoggio, it's the sort of the gold standard to really understand fun of, you know, tenors that have been doing make that... you know, mock them in that kind I don't know that would be... I don't and let me explain why. doing this a long time... 35 years. So I've close to a thousand songs or even more, maybe and TV. Internet Movie Database, just check I've got over 40 records out and I've that than that. out and they say this stuff, that's textbook they may even at the end of the video give listen to their actual voice and ask yourself any students that do this and you really like that's important: it took me a long time this isn't... been in process and by the control this over time, it's not like once continue the process. coaches and I'd love to tell you who they so I'm not going to talk about it but what and if this helps you, is that if we first helps you understand what open throat technique something I want to put it put out there to Canto... opera is that in the early stages talk about guys and we could talk about you up etc. in a minute... is that a lower laryngeal throat open first, it doesn't mean we're position, in fact, that's silly. In fact, especially SLS vocal coaches, say you should is that? The larynx moves up and down all doing and if you're at one position in a go up to a mid-voice register that neutralizes, position you go up like this you, inhibit not able to go up really high. vocal cords are about half the size of men, details of this now, but I'm just talking Now what I've learned and I hope you'll guys this is golden information if you're odd years, not some guy that sits behind a parroting something from a textbook, look - I'll explain this to you: when you train to open up your throat and, you know, what blah blah... your throat is your throat, guys, ah-la-ah, just look at the back of the throat. jaw first, okay? We want the back of the throat the uvula approach and soft palate (palette) actually. And it matters even more the higher as you go and the soft pallete rises higher do that we actually pinch off and choke off ourselves to get... instead of having a lot important, so what is... what I learned, again you want with this information, in the ah all vowels in a second, the [a] vowel is the most difficult to train, that's why all open up that vowel. and hopefully I'll remember to get to this if we can train that ah-vowel open first to now, what you're gonna do is you're goon mirror and I want you to just simply go "la-ah-ah-aaaAAAaaa", tongue and you're gonna see that your tongue right? or get a hand-held mirror and watch yourself box down LaaaAAAAAaaa. You're gonna find to hold the larynx down, this is really important. an anchor for your ability to control the build your voice on. because we talk about a lowered laryngeal a lower laryngeal position. Okay? Let me say this!" In fact, I'm gonna insert something named Bob so, Bob, when you can, if you can position songs, one of them is Low Rider, in a minute and another one is Johnny Cash position through the whole song, okay, but gonna get back to why this is important in Bob, if you play the clip now, let's do Low rider don't use no gas now Take a little trip, take a little trip Take a little trip, take a little trip And low rider don't drive too fast now larynx position, this a drop larynx position, sort of combined, I'm gonna drop it even keep going, Nick, here we go: Went down down down And it burns, burns, burns The ring of fire a different between a lower larynx position a lowering... of taking the pharynx keeping your whole larynx and lowering it so it's is la, - completely taking the entire larynx floor. of that clip to show you a lowered laryngeal shows that I can maintain a lower laryngeal can sing in this position but then sing AAAAAAAAAHHHaaaaaa and release to a neutral position, I never would be this laaaaAAAAA and you're caught, Now, I know there's a lot of pop artists do... you know, Britney and all these people people that can do it and do it well. In fact, think about you I think about love..." or fruit of another..." he's gonna use it they go up "heeEEEY" they open up the So, to say that you're gonna sing only in only in that position is kind of ludicrous I'm just trying to give you a good quality Let's get back to a lowered limit... oh about a neutral position. Bob, if you don't Steelheart, for example, where I shift between as I go through passaggio and then I have up really high. Check out this clip. Forgive me, girl My heart belongs to you For all I've done to you? Okay, now, there's other times you can do use Fortunate Son, where you sing in a in Picket which we just did a whole thing here where I use a lowered position and then I Fortunate Son clip: Ooh, they're red, white and blue Ooh, they point the cannon at you, Lord I ain't no senator's son, son I ain't no fortunate one, no, no we learn and we train the voice in a lowered the voice, when we can hold this down then position. When we're in a neutral position the default or what most people do is, as a raised position and then, all of a sudden, there are great artists that do this, like Glenn Hughes is like... he's got this great, - we just talked about this in another video. because I've heard Glenn do this without is, again, - first, we train first the lower that and we get the feeling of it... what... In bel canto when kids are being raised to laryngeal positions they cannot touch an aria, four years, I want you to think about this: laryngeal positions, think about that, kay? that if you train a lowered position first where you understand when you relax the position it to an upper, you know, to a raised learned you have total command, total control of this have to do it in four years you can do it it every day, about an hour... hour and a for those who didn't want to take the quick that it ain'y gonna happen that way because and this is what we have to do. all throughout the spectrum of the voice but big ones the first one is is remember I just the LA-ah and it was a real open sound, well the pharynx which is just the mouth, right? the sound closes down. So if I haven't trained no way of really identifying how that really closes down as the pharynx is spread. This sing only one vowel [a] and we sing many different as we go through raising the... going up in have to change this laryngeal positon and which our glottal stops are things that close Now, what do I mean by that? I mean that we Phrase Singing. Continuous Phrase Singing long as we can without closing it down with is extremely important because every time back of the throat it wants to shoot air up terms for all the stupid stuff, not stupid love complicating stuff and you find yourself understand... going into the nose and so as "Hey, hey man what's wrong with you? Do you want this to come out of the nose? Could So, what we want to do contiguous phrase singing Steve Perry and Sam Cooke, I just did a vocal I'm gonna air all this stuff but if you Cooke and he goes "I was born by the river..." Because every time I close down a consonant get back to that placement that I had depending you think that's tough and you think that or raised laryngeal position or lowered positon Now again, I'm gonna say this again: check do they sing great not just sing, do they them? And do they display students that sing sit there and then I could be some guy that stuff and... and regurgitate this stuff to put my heart on the line and actually demonstrate So as we go up and down a scale if we only position, as we ascend there's a 95... doing trained default to a raised position, so aaaaAAAAAAHHH If you train a lower position first, this a lower position first and then you relax soundboard, how to move that soundboard first doesn't mean you're sentencing yourself just means you understand it. SINGING CLIPS 18:53-26:18 'til I'm dyin' on the way Feel like makin' love Feel like makin' love My baby moves at midnight My woman takes me higher What you doin' on your back yeah You should be dancing, yeah ~~~ I find I spend my time How can I tell you, babe I need you by my side 'Cos I don't think I can take anymore Is this the love, that I've been searching Is this love or I'm dreaming, 'Cos it's really got a hold on me, ~~~~ In a town without a name, in a heavy downpour door in the rain Now he needs to keep rockin' Gotta keep on rockin' And be a juke box hero, got stars in his eyes Yeah, juke box hero, got stars in his eyes Come alive tonight I know that I must do what's right the Serengeti Frightened of this thing that I've become you could ever do Gonna take some time to do those things we ~~~~ Here I am, baby, come and take me Take me by the hand Here I am, baby, yeah For a helpin' hand But it don't take much for me, no All this love's inside of me babe I can do, no hurry You won't ever have to worry now, no You just can't trust everybody You'll find yourself lost and alone On a darkened street Here I am, baby, come and take me When I hold her in my arms, Oooh, when my baby kisses me, When she wraps her lovin' arms around me, Yeah, when my baby kisses me, My baby, she's alright, Don't you know that she is ... she's some ~~~ Free on my own, that's the way I used to be on me (Fooled around and fell in love) whoo, it's (Fooled around and fell in love) it's got (Fooled around and fell in love) I can't stop (Fooled around and fell in love) yeah Dream on, dream on Dream on, dream on As you've seen some of these different positions of different ways. Now, here's where this the vowels themselves, with the vowels If spread vowel that we have "eeeeEEEEE e e But if you've trained a lowered laryngeal maintain the "a" vowel or a different I don't get caught in the throat. this. I have a singing course called How To this in the course. If you guys want to check is beneficial to you and I'm sure we'll so thank you for joining me, Ken Tamplin Vocal Peace. Out. like and subscribe to my channel and if you video come out you need to go to my channel will actually notify you every time I have