I gave professional Minecraft all the way to $10,000 Up first, this dirt house Oh, it's so cute. For $1, this is fire. I'm gonna say it. Look, there's a basement. - There's a basement. They didn't have to do all that. This might be the best What would you rate this I'll give it a five. It's the best dirt house I've ever They blew my expectations I'm going to give this one a seven which gives this build But let's see how to a $100 modern mansion. It's on top of like a mountain. It's got nice views of the river. These stairs Keep in mind, we paid 100 times I don't know if it's 100 times It's starting to look less Like, why would you just have water It comes with a sports car and a garage. The front door I'm taking points off for that. I'm sorry. Some areas like right here, it's How willing would you be What would you rate it? I'm ultimately deciding on a six. I'm going to give this one a four. I'm gonna give this one a six, which actually Yes, dirt house. And whichever build scores will get a $1,000 tip, But will the dirt house This is so much cooler. This is way cooler. There's a dragon in the sky. This dragon is awesome, dude. They built mountains and trees Karl, Come here. Look, he's stuck in the cage. He's been in here for 30 years. This poor man. - Wait, guys? - The door is boarded up. If there's no interior, All right, let's see. You know what? They kind of won me back. They kind of won me back. Do the houses have interiors, No, no they don't. Oh, the lack of interiors, dude. I feel like this one could Purpled, what do you think? I'm gonna give this an eight. No interiors for an eight is wild. I'm going to give this one a five, just a half of a point worse than the dirt house How is the dirt house winning? Okay, time for the $1,000 build. Here it is. $1,000 medieval castle. Oh my gosh. Wait, what? This is everything that This build is actually insane. Within five seconds, it's I love that it's all in this valley. I like the caves and the waterfalls. You just feel like you got spawned in here and you're in the middle Look at this dragon. You thought the last dragon was cool? - This one's blowing out fire. The dragon wants to attack this hot Cause it's burning up. What the heck? That is so cool. Look away. Hey! What is this? This is the type of stuff Now I'm docking points Guys, we have something very important Oh no. - Come to the front door. The closed doors aren't a good sign. - No. They knew that we'd judge them What is that? Okay, I'm gonna be honest. If you guys had the time to build this face thing, What are you doing? You know what, though? I feel like this build is so cool it almost makes me forgive no interiors. Be honest with me. You feel stupid for rating that - Maybe a little bit. Look at the dragon. Look at the castle. Look at the village. Look at the ship. - What would you rate this one, Purpled? I just have to give this a ten. Really? - The first ten of the video. Wally, what do you think? I'm leaving this build with an eight. I'm going to give this one a 7.5. That puts this one very much officially taking over the spot Salute to the dirt house. Up next, a $5,000 flying city. What the heck? A fantasy wonderland. That's a whale, I think. What the heck? The entire main island is a giant whale. - Oh my gosh. Wait, the whale has interior, guys. This is crazy. I haven't been to the city yet, dude. Oh my gosh. This looks like it came out of an anime. Like, this is beautiful. Oh, there's like a giant factory. You can't deny that they put This is so cool. This map is so gigantic I actually kind of just want to walk Look how cool this is, dude. Oh my gosh. This is beautiful. While we're walking through here, all of these builds were made Look at this castle, dude. Oh my gosh. Look, it's me sitting on a golden throne! Oh, there's a downstairs. Oh, it leads to the exit of the castle. They could have only built like, and I still would have been impressed. I think it's so cool. This is a Karl berry tree. This looks absolutely delicious. I haven't even seen this part yet. It just keeps going. Yeah, this is crazy. Look, it's like treasure chest down here. This is a point reduction to me. For me, this is a point addition. You guys just won't let this die. This one blimp right here than the $100 build. We almost completely missed this. This is so cool. And wait, there's, like, a statue. No way. &quot;Build made in ten days?&quot; &quot;Thank you for the trust and opportunity.&quot; No, thank you, man. Holy cow. It took less than a week and a half! It's time to rate it. Keep in mind, They did it in ten days. But $5,000? You can buy cars for $5,000. What do you guys think? I'm going to give this an 8.5. I feel like this build is like 20% city, so I'll dock just one point for that, I'll give it a nine. I'm going to give this one a nine. The only critique I have is some places it feels That with this build which puts this currently in the lead. For the final build, I spent $10,000 Oh my gosh. Holy cow. Keep in mind when looking at this build that it cost more than This one is a behemoth. I'm flying in a direction It looks like it's meant to live Oh my god, look at this. Holy cow. Dude, fly outside Oh my gosh, this is where This is sick. It says &quot;GOAT&quot; on it. There's so much to explore I'm loading stuff in and I'm lagging. Wally's computer's literally going I'm at this, like, Oh, it's a hologram of the rocket. You guys see the rocket earlier outside? Oh, there's another one over here! And there's a Ferris wheel. It's a little boardwalk. This is insane. This is actually so awesome. Wait, there's an aquarium. Oh, no. The whale guy is going to be mad. I just don't understand how a Give me five years I couldn't even build, like, It's time to unveil the craziest Night time. Yes! All the neon is so neon. Dude, all the lights look so nice. The stadium is the best thing Oh, my gosh, I see it. They went all out on this build. All of these signs, Oh my gosh, this is awesome. Guys, guys guys, we've had our fun. It is time to rate it. And don't forget They made this. Keep in mind the current leader is and whoever wins is getting a $1,000 tip. I will give this build a 9.5. Purp. Every inch of it is I don't know, I feel like A ten! Keep in mind it's $10,000 for this build. For the money, I think the whale I gave the last one a nine. Beating the $5,000 build, the $10,000 build has officially This one will be winning the $1,000 tip. Thank you so much to all the builders And I'll see you guys in the next one. Thank you to whoever built the dirt house.