(upbeat music) - Today we're gonna talk I'm gonna cover what you, and enjoys great coffee, needs or maybe even wants to know, about what is a fascinating process. There's a lot to cover today. We'll start with the basics of how the roasting process impacts taste and then we'll go deeper going on inside the coffee We'll cover what roasters when they use 'light', 'medium', We'll get into the that specialty coffee companies And we'll also talk go through to keep it tasting Before we get into that, this whole journey begins with raw coffee. So this is raw coffee. This is the seeds, the dried And right now it smells and It doesn't smell of much at all. It smells kind of like, [Sniffs] well plant seeds a little All of the flavor happens in that process of transformation inside and it is an astonishing You would never think looking at these, potentially tasting these, that they were capable of so much flavor and so much complexity. But as we're gonna explore Now, it's the roasting process of familiar coffee And when we talk about we often simplify it down to three characteristics that change in the process, as we roast the coffee. And the first one is bitterness. The longer we roast the coffee, the darker the color of it will be. And a little bit like caramel, a darker caramel will also So there's an increase in bitterness during the roasting process. The second characteristic we Now that actually increases initially, and then has a little bit of a bell curve, and then begins to decrease For this reason, a lot of people prefer darker roasted coffee. It doesn't have the acidity that they don't particularly enjoy. However, it's rare to in the specialty coffee world. And that's because of the third characteristic which is difficult to talk about, without sounding a little bit pretentious. And that is origin characteristics. Where you grow coffee, be it soil type, climate, altitude, or even how you process well, all of that will have an impact on the kind of chemistry inside the seed. And when you roast it, well, different coffees will We'll call this origin characteristic. And initially when you roast a coffee, you do create those flavors. You can only create them but there's a process Then, however, the longer the less of those distinct unique characteristics that belong to that particular coffee remain. And you get more and more of what we call a kind Put another way, darker up tasting much more similar. And because specialty in unique characteristics, that's why you tend to see lighter roasts that also happen to have But this is a simplification Let's go a layer deeper. What we'll do now is we'll just follow along the roasting process, from raw all the way through So what we're gonna show you is a couple of angles of the roasting machine running and what we'll also do is or so initially for the and then every 30 seconds after that, as the roast progresses, so that we can see the Now, initially, not a lot happens. You'll see that the green for a little while. Green coffee has quite and what the roasting is essentially dry it out. It's really hard to have take place with moisture present. It kind of limits your temperatures. Once that coffee has gotten dried out, you'll see the color changes from green, it gets kind of paler, and then relatively quickly And we're at the very beginnings of those kind of browning flavors. Now, this roasting does some really interesting stuff. Firstly, all of that water that hasn't escaped is turning to steam and is building up pressure. And then other roasting chemistry is causing gases to form, gases like CO2. But we'll see a lot more of that later. And you build up pressure inside the coffee bean, and a really key moment in the roasting process because at some point relatively early on, that pressure becomes too from the coffee bean and you can literally see those cracks. But more interestingly, you can hear them, it sounds a little bit like popcorn. (machine whirring) But it isn't like popcorn. It doesn't swell in size. It just lets the gas out. As a roaster, you're paying attention to when this happens in And from this point onwards, the browning reactions are really underway and those are so complex and from now on where you are really Those color changes are relatively minor, but the flavor changes happening now are actually surprisingly large. Historically, roasters just looked at the color of the coffee beans. We'll talk about why they But ultimately these but they are big changes in flavor. Big changes in acidity and sweetness and bitterness are happening right now. At this point, you could out and drink it and enjoy it, depending on your vision as a roaster, on how you like coffee to taste. The coffee may roast a little bit longer. This point, everything So as the roast progresses, those beans will begin to They'll also get a little less wrinkly and a little bit more even looking. As they get darker, But as we continue to progress, well we get towards dark roasts and what'll happen is of gases later on and Here you you'll see that the a much darker brown and the beginnings of oil on the surface of the bean, that's happening because inside the bean forcing And the coffee bean itself It's actually swelling and growing in volume, Now, you can keep roasting and you can keep roasting, You'll generate more and At this point, acidity Origin characteristics and bitterness is going up and up and up. You might also see an increase in texture and kind of body and mouth But after, in this case, I we're gonna call it a day here, However, people do roast darker than this. For me though, this was dark enough to show you what I wanted to show you. So what we've done is we've laid out some of the coffee from each of so we can talk about roast Now we'll talk about specialty first, because I would say, the the kind of categorization is a little different between Specialty would start, I would say around here, and it would run probably to around here. So anything within this, could be classified as a light roast. Medium would run from this point up until maybe here. The minute I see any sort of I would say you've And from here onwards it's a dark roast. It's rare for special to be but it's not unusual to see Commercial's a little bit different. I would say the light but probably runs a little bit further in. Then medium would start here and run again a little bit further in. And then after that, dark roasted. They'll also roast darker I don't think it tastes great from a specialty perspective, but some people still do enjoy At some point, it just turns to carbon I don't recommend that. But darker roasts are certainly possible, but the color alone does To understand that a bit more deeply, we need to talk about what's Now, if you wanted to you could certainly get a sheet tray and pour out some raw coffee on it, pop it in an oven at 200 degrees Celsius and it will roast in If you look at the roast profile, you'll see that the temperature of the coffee would increase the closer it gets to When you take it out though, that's not going to be for a couple of different reasons. Firstly, where the coffee beans have been touching the metal the whole time, well they'll have had a lot and they're probably gonna around those spots. And secondly, you don't one constant temperature that What we've learned through you wanna vary the amount of heat coming into the roaster and change at which the coffee is turning brown. So this brings us to about when they talk about Now, machines themselves They can be sometimes very new. Regardless, they're all probes positioned around and feed it into some What that's ultimately gonna track, is the temperature of the bean probe. That's our closest of the beans themselves during the roast. Now, the journey of the beans in terms of how quickly they get hot, on the coffee and what It might be that this phase here in the middle is it's heating or if it heats up slower. Well that would change the flavor and through a period of trial and error, and ultimately then knowledge within the industry, you learn for a particular coffee, So it's not something you can take from one person's roaster and apply to another person's roaster, Now here on the screen you on and quite a lot of data, and for most people it's But ultimately, this probe here is the beam temperature probe and you can see the journey that it goes through and you'll see, that generally it's heating It slows and continues to slow and towards the end slows even more. That's not absolutely universal, And during the roast, roasters to the amount of heat coming out of the burner or in some cases the amount, of air flowing through the drum, to change how much heat to the coffee itself. And that's how you create a roast profile. Roasters aren't aiming but they are aiming for And I wanna talk just briefly Now, the first most obvious thing to do is to taste the coffee that you roast. And most roasters will that they roast, but there is a problem. Modern expectations say that the consumer wants bagged and shipped the same day, so that it is as fresh as possible. And this means really functional before the coffee goes out the door. So they're looking for other ways, other checks that the the to make sure that what is tasting the way that they want it to. There's really three ways and the first way we've that's the roast profile. The coffee should have during the roast in order But some roasters will than others there. And there are still other ways to check if things have gone as planned. Another common thing is Now when you roast You might start with 10 kilos of coffee and anywhere from 23% of it may be lost Most of that is water, but the more stuff breaks down and disappears. It doesn't tell you that much. But if you're expecting 14.5% that should be a red gone as expected. And the third one that, again, is very common is color testing. This is using some sort of measures brownness, how Most roasters will grind of every single batch and of a variety of meters that do this. The most popular one or the most commonly talked And sometimes you'll even see companies publishing the Agtron to give you some indication I'm not sure that's very useful. It's really a good solid As we talked about with roast profiling, the color alone doesn't but it's definitely gonna be a problem if that color is too dark or too light. And again, roasters some allowance within a kind of window of tasty. Those are the primary ways Now one thing I wanna talk about here is what roasters mean when they talk about a coffee being or having the word implying that it's roasted in a way that should Espresso is difficult brew method, it doesn't use much water. It's very intense. It's very quick and and and do is roast the coffee in a way that it's easier to extract. That might be they roasted It might be that the whole profile takes a little bit longer. They slow the roast down and But that's what espresso It it's typically a more for a filter coffee, 'cause it's easier to properly brew coffee when you brew You've got a lot more got a lot more water to do Now, you don't have to brew in an espresso machine. You can brew it in a moka pot, you could make it in a pourover but that's what roasters with that language on the label. Let's talk now about how these roasting machines actually work. So first up, I wanna talk about a type of machine called a drum because in the middle of this It's like a kind of giant tumble dryer. Now the way that these underneath here a heat source, typically it's a gas burner and that's gonna heat two things. By proximity, it's actually gonna heat the big metal drum but primarily it's gonna heat air. Now that air is being of the drum through the coffee and out, and it'll run from here through this fan that's doing all of that work. And it'll be pushed out typically in larger roasters to be burnt, to get rid of any smoke in Drum roasters are interesting. They're probably the most common type of roaster used in And they heat coffee slightly differently. They heat coffee three ways. Primarily it's convection, it's the hot air flowing But because the drum is hot, a little bit like a steak in a frying pan. That that touch of the bean onto a hot surface does In addition, because that drum is hot, there's also radiant from the metal into the coffee. But primarily it's gonna be the convection of the air going through it. It does produce a conventional wisdom says, but I don't know how true There's a lot of different and you can get a lot of very Now the roaster operating paying a lot of attention from it to decide when to to the burners, but at a a combination of time, the coffee very quickly and to be cooled down and pretty much every of cooling tray. Now, when the coffee leaves it's often in excess And I dunno what that is in Fahrenheit, but it's very hot and we to room temperature as possible, as quickly as possible to Now, most machines will The coffee will tumble into a tray like this one, arms will stir it, and mix it as a very large fan pulls air from the room down through it, Now, larger machines or machines with slightly smaller cooling trays, sometimes need to use a different Here, a very, very small amount of water is sprayed onto the coffee beans. That water instantly evaporates and the evaporative cools the beans down. Now, there's no real except that that coffee will before cooling and it will But quenching does not impact the quality of the coffee whatsoever. Cooling done. Let's talk about a different There is another type of roasting machine. It's called a hot air roaster, a little bit different to a drum machine. Here you've got a big heat to the machine and it vast amounts of hot air and the hot air is not only but it's gonna do all of So when you look inside these, you can see the coffee churned and moved just by the volume of air flowing through it. That means there's no real The way there are inside a drum roaster. but just the same, you're gonna vary the but here you can also vary the volume of air flowing through it. There's no better roaster out there in the world than any other. There's simply a tool for a roaster to create the And for some roasters, of coffee you get from an air roaster, that is a little bit And then there's a third type of roaster, a kind of hybrid air roaster. Here, you still have a drum that rotates to tumble the coffee, but like an air roaster the So it's really just heating the air. The drum itself does not get hot. Some people say these can Others like the fact that of have any conduction Again, roasters are just tools to make the coffee that you wanna make. And that is the basics of coffee roasting. And now I want to hear from What aspect of this do should we go deeper into in the future? Has this been helpful in Has it been eye-opening? Let me know your thoughts. I'd really appreciate it. Now, I will say, some of and that question is, when of videos about roasting coffee at home? I don't know. But I will tell you that I definitely, definitely want to make those videos. They are in the master plan, the big what we will do in the future. I just don't know when. All right, enough caveats from me. I'll say thank you so much for watching and I hope