Some bitter Van Halen fans used to accuse he earned a Grammy nomination with Given that his father was one of rock's come as a surprise that Wolfgang Van Halen began It may be a surprise, though, that his first Instagram of himself as a toddler sitting at &quot;Sneaking in a quick jam sesh on Uggs and drumsticks that are Wolfgang told The Washington Post that when magazines on a table and instructed him to bang &quot;If you can do this in time, Soon, Wolfgang grew serious and graduated from &quot;I started playing drums when I was dad actually sat down to teach me. So once he It's a testament to the parenting of Eddie Wolfgang Van Halen grew up unaware of their &quot;My mom did a really good job at felt completely normal. It Wolfgang told Guitar World that the that people acted differently around back from a trip and were besieged &quot;I just remember a bunch paparazzi were following us. That's the Wolfgang told Ultimate Classic Rock when Eddie Van Halen was remastering &quot;I found a box of all of them, and I saw my 'Dad, what's this?' and he said, 'Oh, yeah, uh... this is what I do.' And he As he got older, Wolfgang began developing his father didn't really teach him how &quot;My dad wasn't the best teacher. but he would just proceed to be Eddie 'Do that.' To which I would laugh and reply "He's like, 'Well do this.' And it's As a result, Wolfgang mostly taught himself how self-taught, he wanted to develop his own guitar &quot;It was important that I develop my helped me or else you'd be listening By 2006, Wolfgang Van Halen's skills had him into Van Halen as the band's new bass player, While naming his son as a full-fledged member of nepotism, Eddie Van Halen insisted that it was on Wolfgang accepted, but only under the condition While the decision initially generated skepticism, band's '07-'08 reunion tour with original some old-school Van Halen fans felt he was a &quot;It was tough. It was something I didn't know By 2013, Wolfgang had become a Van Halen with the band. That year, he announced hard rockers Tremonti. Speaking with he was taking his role with Tremonti as &quot;Van Halen is definitely the priority, but I treat this as another band I'm legitimately in.&quot; Wolfgang told Rock Street Journal that his as he'd been a friend of Creed guitarist recalled, he happened to be in New at the same time they were in dire need &quot;So I went over one night at midnight and learned In 2001, Eddie Van Halen confirmed that he was He subsequently revealed that he'd beaten the 2002. Sadly, his cancer returned, and in 2020 Wolfgang had been close to his father, and the elder Van Halen's death hit him &quot;It's really tough. Some days are better than ever really gonna go away. You just kinda &quot;How are you doing, man?&quot; &quot;I'm terrible. I'm trying While the world lost a rock icon, Wolfgang &quot;He was still my dad -- and he was incredibly Wolfgang told People that his father the grave, compelling him to push past &quot;What really helps me keep going is and stopped and crawled in a hole, I know he'd be really pissed off at me. When he wasn't on the road with Van Halen or recording studio, working on the tracks that &quot;Mammoth WVH.&quot; The album represented every instrument and painstakingly &quot;It's 100% all me, playing everything, writing but it's also much more creatively freeing.&quot; When he first began to work on the album, become. Modeling his efforts on the first Foo similarly played all the instruments -- he was far A year after the album's release, Wolfgang took to social media to reveal how monumental &quot;It was the culmination of years of work, trial began a new chapter in my life that I'm not sure With the release of his first album, the next to live audiences, so Wolfgang formed his band: moniker of a three-piece group that his dad led &quot;I always loved that name whenever he told myself that when I grew up, I'd Being the lead singer of his own rock band was an appearance on the &quot;Walking The Floor With Chris to imitate David Lee Roth or any of the other &quot;I'm very much myself, to a certain but I'm just being unabashedly myself, and I Wolfgang Van Halen's debut album garnered earning a nod in the best rock song Wolfgang commemorated the moment on with his mother, Valerie Bertinelli, and &quot;We came, we saw, but we did NOT conquer and the first song I ever released on my looked up to my entire life. I don't He also pointed out that his dad, Eddie Van was nominated, so he was just following in his &quot;Could I be more proud of my boy?&quot; Wolfgang opened up about his feelings even &quot;I just think, taking away from that, to songwriting, I think that was enough of a win for alongside people I've looked up to my whole life Wolfgang and Allsop, a photographer, met online 2015. Eight years later to the day, the couple Angeles home. According to People magazine, they &quot;Our goal was just to bring all of our closest create this wedding as a celebration but a celebration for the people we love.&quot; Wolfgang honored his late father by having that the guitarist wrote for his son -- Bertinelli was simply thrilled that her son had found &quot;the one&quot; with which he could &quot;They really 'get' one another. Their humor they know how to give each other space With his own album, a successful concert Wolfgang Van Halen's profile was on the rise of 2023's biggest movie: &quot;Barbie.&quot; In fact, he musical number in the film, &quot;I'm Just Ken,&quot; &quot;Right when Ryan Gosling whips out his abs, there's a guitar tapping solo Wolfgang and Slash reunited to back up 2024 Oscars for a worldwide television &quot;It was very crazy but an exciting thing to to hang around in or operate from, so I Looking back on the experience, he to resonate with audiences, but had no &quot;To have a small part in something like that was a really cool thing. I loved playing Shortly after the release of &quot;Barbie,&quot; in August &quot;Mammoth II.&quot; Like his debut, he playing all the instruments on each song. While comparisons to Eddie Wolfang has been heartened as appreciation for his abilities as an artist &quot;Luckily, and thankfully, it's starting music first and then only then realizing, Halen's son]. [...] It's really flattering &quot;He was super proud, and I just wish I could show