A list of the most influential people of all time Newton's laws are tied to almost everything we cars work, how baseballs move, how anything moves. scientist which will become clear by the end invented calculus. Not bad for the son of an who died three months before his birth on of Woolsthorpe Manor in the county of Lincolnshire. told he could fit inside a quart mug. He barely and moved to a nearby village to live with a care of his grandparents. That abandonment scarred recalling an outburst from childhood: &quot;Threatening house over them.&quot; He was a curious child - more He carved this sundial as a nine-year-old. When His signature can still be seen by a After the death of his stepdad, his mother be a farmer - a prospect that he dreaded. Luckily, him back to class where he gained the knowledge in 1661, paying his way by working as a valet. Greek philosophers, he questioned their &quot;Plato is my friend, Aristotle is my friend, but truth through rigorous scientific experimentation. extraordinary circumstances that happened next Shortly after receiving his Bachelor's degree would take the lives of an estimated The pandemic forced Newton to work from and would lead to his most amazing breakthroughs. and sunlight is made up of The widely held belief at the time was Aristotle's To prove his theory, Newton built a reflecting leading to a more accurate image. That's a whole into his eye socket to figure out if altering his Outside the family home was also an apple tree. The sitting beneath a tree when an apple bonked him on force that brings things down. There's no evidence but he did ask the question that helped unlock our reach all the way to the moon? He reasoned that around Earth rather than wandering off and he our planets in the solar system. The mathematics at the motion of these objects so Newton invented over who actually invented calculus. When German paper on calculus in 1684, Newton claimed he'd is, Newton was so secretive that he hadn't actually the scrutiny of his work. When Leibniz appealed influence as the scientific academy's president to the two discovered calculus independently. In 1667, University to continue his research as a fellow. Just two years later while still in his mid-twenties, posts in the world. The Lucasian Professor then Stephen Hawking. Yet he was indifferent to his he is said to have lectured to an empty room. His his masterpiece: the Mathematical Principles of Principia - one of the most important works ever It was here that he laid out his law of universal The first describes how an object acts when no still until a force is applied to it. The second the more force it'll take to move it. A larger The final law states that for every action there gases that flow through the rear of the rocket. In rocket skywards. Newton may be considered one of yet he actually contributed more words to theology. natural world and by carefully studying the Holy apocalypse would happen in the year 2060 with the its ending sooner.&quot; He foresaw a period marked by of Christ and the beginning of a new, divine era. His all the way until 1936, when Sotheby's auctioned the hands of a Jewish scholar before being given own handwriting. He did hold unorthodox views of in the father, son, and the holy spirit. And also catholicize the universities which got him elected brief terms. Apparently, the only thing he said on Newton also had another unknown side to him. He search for a method to turn common metals into down a recipe thought to be a step toward now popularized in the Harry Potter series. achieve immortality. Unfortunately, Newton may have in the laboratory. Examinations of his hair after which scholars believe could explain his mental He wrote letters accusing the few friends he insomnia and oppression. The personal crisis ended his 30-year career at Cambridge. In 1696, Britain's finances were in ruins because of the Counterfeiting was also an issue. Newton used a coinmaking as Warden and then Master of the Mint. some of whom ended up hanging from the gallows. His reputation and sometimes that meant trying Another ugly dispute involved a brilliant he was the one who gave Newton the notion that In response, Newton is accused of using his to get rid of the only known portrait of Hooke. getting the legacy he wanted. In 1705, Queen Anne the University of Cambridge, making him Sir Isaac yet desperately wanted to be remembered. Who threw and never married. Who was a man of science and March 20, 1727 and was buried at Westminster Abbey. lies that which was mortal of Isaac Newton. His The English poet Alexander Pope was so moved epitaph: Nature and nature's laws lay hid in For Newsthink, I'm Cindy Pom.