that student and that teacher who had no time for a picnic. The student said: Teacher, Can you arrange for a picnic? He said: Yes, where we can go to a picnic. And yet they could not have one day One year, and two years, and three years and they never had a chance One day, they were walking together in a city and there was a funeral procession. The teacher asked the student: And the student said: They are having a picnic. The only picnic they have, when they die. A bomb may explode today. And we have our picnic. I have lived through a war, two wars in Vietnam. And I know what is the war. What is a war. You don't know whether you can be alive There is fear, there is anger, there is despair. If you don't know how to manage, you cannot survive. You are just waiting for your picnic. You are not ready for your picnic. That is why our practice is to have the picnic And don't have to wait. That is why we want very much for you as a picnic I think that it is possible because we have the experience of doing picnic. Picnics. A picnic can happen right now, We are sitting here. Are we there to do something? We have nothing to do. We just enjoy our sitting. With no worries. Because sitting is a pleasure. Sitting and listening to someone speaking You don't need to learn anything, you don't need You just sit there and enjoy breathing in and out and listening to someone It is not our intention You have got Our intention is to be peace. Right in the here and the now. To be peace in the here and the now. Not to talk about peace. This is possible. Because peace In your feelings. In your perceptions. In your consciousness. You have your body. Your body may not be in peace. We learn how to bring peace to our body right in the now. [body] We know that our body suffers. There is tension, there is stress, there is pressure, there is pain within our body. We have worked our body too hard. Our body has been exposed We don't feel good There are many conflicts The way we handle our body has made our body suffer so much. There is no real peace in our body. What to do in order to This is what we try to do. We don't need a lot of time to do it. To allow your body to rest, to allow your body to have a chance that is something possible. And after one, two hours We are not We are bringing peace to it. And we have our feelings. [feelings] We may feel sad, we may feel painful, we may feel excited, there are a lot of feelings A river of feelings. There are unpleasant feelings, There are exciting feelings and so on. And there is no peace in our feelings. We have to learn And this can be done now. You don't need a lot of theory. We can enjoy doing it, bringing peace Our time together is very precious. We don't talk about peace, we try to make peace a reality right here, right now, within our body, We have also our emotions. [emotions] Like anger, like fear, like despair. We don't know how to handle. Every time anger comes up, every time fear overwhelms us, every time despair overwhelms us we suffer. in order to be free from them. Being here in Plum Village together with other friends who know how to handle we learn how to handle With 15 minutes we begin to know how to handle our despair, and how to handle our anger. This is very important. If you cannot handle you cannot talk about peace. If you don't know how you cannot talk about peace. Because to handle them well will bring peace, harmony, into your body, Then, we have our perceptions. [perceptions] Our perceptions and they bring forth We perceive things. But because we are not calm, we are not lucid. We are overwhelmed That is why we do not perceive We have wrong perceptions. A wrong perception And of what is the world. We have a wrong perception concerning them These wrong perceptions for all actions that will bring and fear and anger. That is why we should be able To see whether that perception or a right perception. Most of our sufferings That is why we should have the time to consider, to look deeply into the nature of our perceptions in order not to be caught Because perceptions emotions, afflictions, and so on. The fact is that in our daily life free of these feelings and perceptions We are rarely ourselves. We are victims of our feelings, of our perceptions, We are like a leaf The waves push us. We don't have our own sovereignty We allow ourselves pulled away by our feelings, and our mental formations, our wrong perceptions. That is why it is very important and master the situation and be the masters of ourselves. We do not live our own life. We allow our life to be lived We have been victims We can really be ourselves and become master of the situation. Therefore it is very important and take the situation in hand. We have to be of our emotions, of our perceptions and not to become - not to continue to be This is the basic practice of peace. If we have some peace in our body, in our feelings, we can help the other to have peace in his or her emotions, perceptions We have to begin with ourselves. And this is possible with a retreat, with the presence and who support us in the practice, so we can be an instrument of peace. You cannot become if you have no peace within yourself. To become an instrument of peace you become of the ultimate reality. You are acting in the name of God, in the name of the ultimate reality, And this is possible, We can do it. Sometimes we feel we have no more energy, The situation is so difficult. We feel that we cannot do anything. We are only a victim. We want to seek a place We want to take refuge. We want to take refuge in God, in the Buddha, in Allah. It is like a wave on the ocean. Imagine a wave on the surface of the ocean. Very tired I would like to seek refuge. There is a refuge for the wave. And that is water. If the wave recognizes then she seeks refuge in the water. And she no longer is afraid of But it is very important She does not have to You may like to seek refuge in God, in the Buddha, in Allah, This is something possible. I remember in the month of August this year, we had a retreat for - we had a retreat and other law enforcement people, like prison guards, and so on. The retreat took place in Green Lake, in the state of Wisconsin, You know that police officers in that state peace agents. Peace keepers. Police officers don't feel How could they keep peace, offer peace? That is why they needed a retreat in order for them to have a chance so that they can offer peace in their families and so on. On the third or fourth day like: I have arrived, I am home. Present moment, wonderful moment. And people liked to hang in their house to remember the practice One person came to me and asked: Thay, could you write for me the calligraphy Resting in God? Resting in God. [resting in God] You are a wave. You are so tired of going up, going down. You are afraid of You feel that you are a victim. You want to look for something solid, something safe, something long lasting. Imagine we are waves The most interesting thing is that you don't have to look for water if you are waves. Because you are water God is not something The ultimate, our refuge, is not something It is right inside of us. Resting in God means I take refuge in the ultimate. That ultimate you can call Buddhahood, or God, or Allah. But you need it. You need the ultimate. You are tired. You feel tired as a wave you hope that But in fact water is in you, is you. Resting in God you don't have to run. You have to go home to yourself. If the wave continues to run she will never see and meet water. The only way for the wave to meet the water is to go home to herself. (Bell)