Beneath the surface of the oceans exist A frozen world, perpetually where there are tremendous pressures. These are the abyss. The largest habitat Yet animals which, like us, and suckle their young, spend most of their day They are marine mammals. It fascinates scientists. The more we study the more we realize Accidentally, the researchers come descend to unheard-of depths Thanks to advances in telemetry, they are able to reconstruct marine mammals, and shed light on their exploits. The ocean is the cradle Marine mammals. Animals which, like their ancestors, And are hot-blooded. These bottlenose dolphins are one of the representatives A family of 129 species The biggest animals A family so large that some than in the 21st century. Which of these giants does he accomplish? Scientists didn't know From the shallowest to the deepest this film presents the incredible several hundred meters away. Several kilometers below the surface. The great sperm whale is the ideal suitor It is simply the greatest It feeds mainly of abyssal squids. To feed his body, and reach almost 20 meters. It consumes nearly 500 kilos You only know the animal by its Yet he spends more than half and without light from the great depths. To find one's way in the dark, the sperm whale, does not use his eyes, It is said to echolocate, by nasal bellows. It emits clicks from which it receives Even in total darkness, his vast brain is thus informed and the presence of prey. nobody ever had it The deep layers of the ocean Until April 2015, when a team of scientists had an extraordinary encounter This abyssal rendezvous was unexpected. A simple coincidence. Occurred as scientists to map the seabed. But he brings than the sperm whale Today there is no seeking to prove the records But some technological innovations, accidentally allow to discover, the dizzying depths On the volcanic island of El Hierro, in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean, the foothills of Volcan Island, plunge straight into the abyss. This is where a species lives the Blainville beaked whale. general appearance this toothed cetacean with a curved beak, spends most of his time The male is recognizable and growing under the skin Until the end of the 20th century, he was only known by At the beginning of the 2000's, discover that many usually residing offshore, frequent sheltered bays An undeniable advantage to study them. She thus cataloged and named, more than fifty people. Natasha Aguilar is interested in the impact and military activities on the behavior She equips them with ditag, The ditag is a tag and accompanies them This tool allows us to understand to find food, how they communicate with each other, and even the energy they expend These revolutionary beacons the abyssal adventures But how to put them Natasha has developed Relayed by lookouts ashore, they scrutinize the brief passage - Chloe? - I have a group of animals. - What do you see ? - All right, two Blainvilles. - Two adults. - Red. - Yes, I receive. - Ok. Natasha, we have a group Alright, here we go. Once spotted, has less than five minutes Victoire ! An evil has been marked. When she bursts the surface the beacon reports its position who follows his movements day and night After 26 hours, the beacon unhooked, and drift until Thanks to valuable data Natasha can quickly whale dives Before a deep dive, Blainville's beaked whale remains and oxygenates his body and his muscles. She sinks and sinks And that's when she in search of its prey. A world first. The ditag allows him to record and shed light on this dark world. When she meets it increases It thus goes from acoustic photography which gives it better accuracy She comes back up when she's eaten enough, or when she no longer has When she stays on the surface before diving to start a series 200 meters deep. A rest at 200 meters deep. This is how this apnea champion, take several naps before attacking the next dive During his hunts, this male has made dives It's already 375 meters more, than the sperm whale observed But around the same volcanic island, Natasha noticed the presence quite similar in appearance. Cuvier's beaked whale. She differs from her cousin and a more pronounced melon. As part of its study on the impact Natasha also attempts to pose Problems, after taking them Cuvier's beaked whales, disappear between 30 minutes and 2 h 30. This suggests abilities The ditag would be able to reveal them. You still have to be able to put it down. She's there. Here in El hierro, we manage to score but on Cuvier's beaked whale, because his skin The beacon cannot For now, the whale the maximum depth of his apneas. But their record times are shared the sperm whale. He too can dive for up to 2 hours. How is it ? His anatomy is cut With each breath, the sperm whale 90% of the air in his lungs. While we humans Another asset, its muscle cells oxygen carriers. They contain ten times But that is not enough. To save this precious oxygen The sperm whale must also and concentrate his blood his heart and his brain. And to resist the pressure, where our shores the rib cage of the sperm whale Finally, to help him dive, the sperm whale still has a valuable tool. Its enormous skull, which occupies houses a reserve While diving, the sperm whale cuts which cools and solidifies. This mass acts which drags him down to the depths. Going up, heats up his spermaceti stash therefore lighter than water. And to avoid accidents admirable networks allow him while bringing oxygen to the brain. The sperm whale can stay But the maximum depths are still controversial. To know them, we must also But as the sperm whales renew suction cup tags, fail to join. So it's far from El Hierro, that researchers are trying to figure out and study these movements. In the Indian Ocean, the scientists watch for the appearance of sperm whales. Their method: anchoring tags By doubling his markings with a biopsy, They will be able to identify For a comprehensive study, they should Luckily, calm waters have become a gathering place Thus, by coupling geographic data they can assess the depths To lay their beacons, scientists seek to exploit well known to whalers. A limited field of vision The reason is simple, the eyes of a sperm whale cannot Thus, they do not detect the boat which allows scientists Problem, now the others A tactical war begins. These beacons placed on six sperm whales, worked between 20 and 48 days. They revealed that some and dove in the area Current studies seek to prove that to the south. Especially towards the Crozet Islands. The land of the Albatross. And perpetual storms Several thousand meters separate these Only males are found In this no man's land, he seems attracted who venture during These groups of males are waiting for called longlines. On the ascent, they are lined with a A deep-sea fish. Toothfish. In adulthood, this fish lives between 800 and almost 4000 meters. Fishermen suspect sperm whales on their line laid between 800 Chilean sailors designed a Despite this, the sperm whales manage Toothfish fishermen estimate of their capture for the benefit of sperm whales. But they could never take them Cursed sperm whales! The problem is global. French fishermen collaborate who embarks for a 3-month tide Using the longlines as support, we will be able to deploy devices We have a recorder This device will allow us to record What interests us is above all When the animal is going to produce a click, and in particular on a hydrophone, Knowing the distance sound travels through water, we will then be able to relocate compared to our device. Gaetan's hydrophones reveal curious facts. Although the lines are dropped sperm whales never dive very But why do they appear from the moment the fishermen To find out, Gaetan places just before the hook. These devices detect and record A great tension could betray By coupling accelerometer data we manage to reconstruct the mode As an opportunistic predator, and dives the least On the ascent, he grabs the mainline and slides slowly along the line that he will then pick up He does not venture on the abyssal floor, than to eat on the lines He is then able to plant to unhook the toothfish. Curiously, he rarely steals fish For good reason. Near the surface, it undergoes competition the orca. Cursed orcs! These large cetaceans are considered like their earthly cousins, orcs act in packs they would have learned to subtilize How they would act it is possible to surprise them, thanks to an associated camera The result is unambiguous. The killer whales to this new resource on the high seas. However, until recently, as coastal predators. Thus, in Norway, to come hunt together But since the early 2000s, scientists and fishermen, report the presence around the longliners. This type of killer whale, identifiable by has never been observed near the coast. Like sperm whales, they can by recorders Scientists and fishermen were at shallow depths around ships, betrayed their habits But since then, another longliner Canadian scientist Jared Towers, deposited in 2015 on a female killer whale, a tag similar to a ditag. He showed that she was capable of 1100 meters. like sperm whales, killer whales are opportunistic, when they come to fly Like many predators, they prefer prey But Jared's tags prove more than a kilometer below the surface, when they have to hunt on their own. How can their body 110 times higher Thanks in particular On the one hand, a network of veins, which acts as a mattress swelling with blood, it protects On the other hand, their large mass to store oxygen So that, paradoxically, the orcs descend, Bad news for fishermen, black knives can both near the surface, only on the merits. Cursed orcs, Records are meant to be broken. Just a few days after installation Jared Towers planted in the bacon of a large male sperm whale, and confirmed its extraordinary For 17 days of recording, this concentrate of technology has revealed close to a longliner to carry out a few hundred Then he walked away His apneas led him Better, six months later, in Norway, Natasha Aguilar's team, placed specially designed ditags Their dives took them The record so far. While watching this movie, and hunt the giant squid close But the developments and deployments allowed a species of seal, to steal their title of diver 1300 km southeast of the Crozet Islands, the Kerguelen Islands have been serving for 50 years, basic operational At certain times, these islands who come ashore Scientists hope to transform wanderers into oceanographers. They are considering They particularly matter who hoists himself to the ground at each Over 100,000 animals. The largest seals in the world First arrived, the males, recognizable by their trunk Then come the females, For these barrels of grease weighing They come ashore to A 34 kilo baby covered unsuitable for water, but very effective, to protect it from the cold Among the brown skuas, he swallows the milk for a month 14 times fatter than that of a cow. It thus begins to form and therefore of energy which will be essential After 23 days of breastfeeding, the little one multiplies his weight Thus, during the short season the little ones get fat, and the males fight. These ritualized combats establish the but they are a problem Their violent blows of canines, prohibit any beaconing He prefers females to them, In the short window of a few of the baby of the departure of the mother, he spots a candidate they go The ceremony follows an immutable protocol. Preparation of a tranquilizer. Injection using a blowgun. Departure of the female Provision of a specially designed stretcher Weighing and taking measurements. Fat layer measurement Preparation of glue cocktails. Pose of the tiara, stuffed with electronics. And finally blood test for In less than 2 hours top time, here it is After a few hours, she finds her Just like many she leaves for an odyssey that will last During this time, she will furrow difficult to access With its multiple GPS sensors, but also salinity, pressure, she and several other individuals Are the oceans changing? She disappears from the radar, because these data are not Elephant seals are never Where are they going ? Mystery. Until the invention of recorders we didn't know the elephant seals To know the tribulations It will be necessary to wait She then returns to the island of Kerguelen and deliver its valuable data. The impeachment of a crowned head Blowpipe anesthesia, waiting for side effects, putting on a hood, blood test for hormones, lays down the precious electronic tiara, and finally the weighing. By combining multiple scientists trace She walks around It moves in a straight line but She is able to dive Finally, she sleeps between two waters, a few hundred 1200 meters for a seal is already But other studies on the high seas By deploying cameras on the lines north of Antarctica, australian scientists at 1660 meters depth. A young male. The animal could also feed but he seems more interested in These observations suggest dive deeper and on other To verify this hypothesis, the scientists then tagged where they rarely fight, during the molting season. For better beacon adhesion, they preferably choose an area What they were going male elephant seals to the limit traveling 4000 km in four months. And above all, they perform to pick up down to the depth of 2388 meters. These extreme dives many pinnipeds, perform short dives, trapping as much air as possible On the contrary, the elephant seal emptying part It thus avoids compressing when the pressure of the abyss reaches In addition, their lungs are lined that we find This surfactant called surfactant, makes it possible to prevent when the lungs These adaptations remain unique and offers the elephant seal in pinnipeds. deep dives also surpass that of cetaceans. The Blainville beaked whale Killer whales at 1100 meters, the sperm whales at 1862 meters, and elephant seals at 2388 meters. These extraordinary dives only after recovery dives of preparation. Like master yogis, and also the whale In weightlessness, in silence, several hundred meters away. But why achieve such Many scientists agree help avoid detection, by the mortal enemy the orca. True, she seldom descends Orcas have been but certainly to hunt and small in size like toothfish. Deep Capture ask the orc for an expense therefore impossible to sustain Thanks to these ditags, Natasha Aguilar even discovered all build to avoid being When she goes down, a Blainville beaked whale remains Then, she begins to echo locate, to locate its prey. On the ascent, it rattles and don't go back She begins a discreet ascent, with an angle of about 55 degrees, to reduce the risk of bad We have just discovered that also uses the same strategy. On the other side of the world, the work of Natasha Aguilar was prosecuted off California. Greg Schorr and Erwin Falcone, also works on the impact oceans on cetaceans. But their tools differ their beacon, were designed not to slip Here is one of our beacons already screwed in a sterilized tube. This dart will be attached to an arrow. We will then remove it which will allow us These darts stick in the bacon of In addition, these revolutionary beacons This beacon is equipped It allows us to record and above all, it transmits in real time Another advantage is that it can be deployed Yes we got your message Erin and Greg don't use but rely on the many boats to detect whales. Observations possible at 1000 meters. For more than a month, the whale When she comes to the surface, she tells us What we discovered with the beacons, is that these whales spray both in duration and in depth. In our study area, and the deepest approach precisely 2992 meters. Thus, Cuvier's beaked whale She can dive to depths of the Eiffel Tower. This amazing whale But she comes to get her food and maybe even beyond. Scientists expect Can other mammals I do not think so. These animals are perfectly And the more we study marine mammals, the more we realize Every time we place a beacon, that dives deeper But in my opinion, beaked whales Marine mammals are now by international conventions. To manage our cohabitation many organizations fund a number For beaked whales, Their strength, their ability are also their greatest weakness. They pushed to the limit air-breathing animals. They are vulnerable which would unbalance their organism. Especially military sonars and compel them, it seems, By multiplying the poses and that of other marine mammals, no doubt we will discover