I build the filament dry box of the future, element, which dries the air using electrolysis. In this video, I'll show you how these elements AMS, and how the performance of these modules Let's find out more. Guten Tag everybody, I'm Stefan and welcome This video is sponsored by Squarespace. Everyone can create a professional website Start a free trial and get 10% off your first These are solid-state dehumidifiers. They consist of a housing with two electric in the middle. The membrane is very matte black on the one other side. This membrane is the heart of a solid-state Other than more common dehumidification devices then drain it away, this method works with The membrane is a sandwich of two electrodes Humidity gets attracted by the internal electrode. By applying a voltage between the two electrodes, into oxygen and hydrogen. The oxygen stays on the dehumidifying side, the membrane and combine with oxygen on the So, if you add this element to the side of from the inside. This makes a maintenance-free dry box that condensation-based dehumidifiers and no consumables I saw these devices years ago on Big Clive's could use them to create the 3D printing filament Moisture in 3D printing filament is probably comes to print quality and printer reliability. Most polymers are hygroscopic, which means Some more than others and if you have ever and bubbly these prints are if you haven't Yet even materials like ABS, ASA, PETG or your printing results. This is why it's not only important to dry them dry while storing and even avoid moisture This is mostly done with dry boxes. These dry boxes usually contain bags of silica stays really dry. But is it really dry? Even though silica gel can absorb quite a struggles more and more to take up moisture Once it has picked up a certain amount of to get to low humidity levels that are necessary Indicating-desiccant or a hygrometer in the Unfortunately, indicating desiccant is to if you rely on hygrometers, they can be unreliable If you're by the way interested how different subscribed, because there is a video coming and molecular sives! So, could solid-state dehumidifiers be the make a reliable, maintenance-free dry box At the end of last year, I reached out to of these devices, which are actually made a sample for a test. They were super kind and sent over three different I regularly print materials like Nylon or the AMS. To keep the inside of the AMS dry, I've containers that sit in the front of the machine These do their job very well, but as said the right moment for changing the desiccant Nylon quickly picks up moisture even inside So I thought it might be a great test to install boxes and compare their performance to the The electrolytic dehumidifiers come in different removal that's necessary. The intended use for them is in enclosed electronics, of an enclosure stays dry so no condensation camera or your sensitive electronics. Depending on the size of the membrane, they per day, yet larger ones are able to transfer This still isn't a lot if you compare them several liters of moisture from your humid only require milliwatts to single-digit watts Since I know that a roll of filament can contain the biggest unit that I had into my AMS. The lid of the AMS has two flat sides and a drying element. I started by taking some dimensions and then The enclosure has two different tasks. It needs to protect the fragile membrane from a TPU-printed gasket and onto the lid of the Rohsal also sent me a precision and stable I also designed a housing to avoid electrification. I printed the parts from PETG on my Voron I first removed the lid from the AMS and then four screws. I also needed to get power to the unit, for I drilled the holes, yet adding the rectangular I also used a drill for the corners and then The result wasn't super clean because the good enough for my purpose, and nothing cracked. Then, it was time to install everything. Before I assembled it, I hooked up the power element. The dehumidifier needs a precise and stable operation. Since we might have some voltage drop in the meter directly at the terminals and adjusted requirements. Once the electrical system was set up, I installed the dehumidifier again, and added the gasket. Once everything was in place, I added the The final step was to add the lid again to One of the things I enjoy most about this to work with technology I would have otherwise It's the same with these electrolytic dehumidifiers I've spent a lot of time on their website just reading up stuff. Unfortunately, their website is really hard and is just not able to highlight what cool And I unfortunately see this way to often. Your website is the first impression customers needs to be professional! Squarespace, who is today's video sponsor, They are The All-In-One Platform To Build Their professional temples make it easy to to your needs. Add a blog to write about your creations and products. Find out how simple it is to use with a free an additional 10% off on your first purchase I've been using Squarespace myself for several creating and especially maintaining a website sure that it looks great on any device your And if you're ever stuck somewhere, they all of your questions. Create the website you've always wanted hated by going to squarespace.com/cnckitchen if you use code CNCKITCHEN on checkout. Thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this Now, it was time for testing, and I was really performed compared to the desiccant solution. I had three AMS units. Two of them had the big 200 g desiccant containers The hygrometers still usually showed 15-25% They were used but still at a point where I thought it would be interesting to know compared to new desiccant, so I only replaced I added a proper temperature and humidity locked the lids and also switched on the membrane The first run was empty, without any filament After a good day, I checked the data, which The used silica was able to reduce the humidity for PLA in a humid summer but probably not The new silica was able to reduce the humidity significantly lower level. After 27h we ended up at 9% relative humidity Yet the big question is, how did the solid-state The initial moisture level dropped a tiny Yet, once the desiccant started struggling overtook it and ended up at 8% humidity after I was seriously impressed with the results a serious amount of desiccant. The other reason why I was impressed and also year, I did a small pre-test and installed a single spool dry box, which took a whole Yet there was one big difference. Whereas we now tested empty AMS units, in filament. You might think that the filament spool reduced the box even faster, but there is a point The desiccant, or our solid-state dehumidifier, and the spool of filament are in kind of an When the air gets dryer, moisture from the the air. So over time we don't only dry the air, Yet, I need to make clear, that the amount than with a heat-based drying system. So if you want to make your Nylon ready for then put it into a drybox. Yet don't dry materials too long or too In order to put some numbers behind my claims, that has been sitting in my 50% humidity office of Prusament PLA, that was in the drybox for checked the weights. The roll that was stored outside lost 3.7g Interestingly, almost 2 g of that comes just the cardboard roll in the middle. And these 3.7g are 100 times more moisture which explains why the moisture level on the We didn't only dry the air, but also slowly This is also confirmed by the fact that the dry box, only lost 0.6 g of weight, so most When I put this dried roll of PLA back into right away because there wasn't any moisture Lesson learned here. If you want to store filaments in a dry box, that will help the desiccant last longer and in there. The point I wanted to make here is that the might have been nice to see, yet the humidity what the spools of filament potentially contain. So I made a second test run and added similar cardboard spool of PLA that were all previously three AMS units together with the three hygrometers. I regularly checked the readings and noticed dropping way slower than before. I let the test run for 6 days in total and The AMS, with the previously used desiccant up at 31%. This is just another sign that I should have The box with the fresh silica performed significantly relative humidity I had in the studio to around The electric solid-state dehumidifier, performed Not only did the humidity drop the fastest, The variations in humidity are by the way Every time it got warmer, the humidity in this helped to draw water out of the polymer. One last interesting observation I had was was always half a degree warmer than the other The power consumption of the dehumidifiers The dryer the air, the less power they use. On average I saw around 4 W of consumption the temperature within the enclosure. My tests showed that these membrane dehumidifiers filament. Initial drying is still something that should afte ra long time in a dry box, you wont't polymer. Yet for storing solutions, they are compact, and only produce a minimum amount of heat So why don't we see them already used in Well, there is probably one main reason. The big unit right here is 169EUR, not even The smaller ones are cheaper, yet the one bucks. Of course, these are prices for small quantities but they are still more expensive in the short desiccant or even heat. Long term, this might look different because desiccant, it doesn't damage your materials minimum power. If I would let this thing run 24/7 it would EUR on my annual power bill. Drying the two PLA spools alone used more Yet the even more important point is reliability. With desiccant, you always have the guesswork With the solid-state dehumidifier, the dry If you just think about how much money in material could cost, where the spool wasn't itself quickly. Still, the membrane dehumidifiers are also about their long term performance, but they when certain materials are close and they are not powered. And I also have to mention that there is a due to the electrolysis, which isn't only even affect the filament. I also noticed that you need a bit of convection they seemed to be a bit choked when I directly to it, so I either need to leave this one for a bit of air circulation. I don't have high hopes that we'll see hobby equipment soon due to their price, but for filament, I'd definitely look into this I, for my part, will definitely put one of keep larger quantities of filament dry and But what about you? How important is drying filament and also you think about this interesting technology? Leave a comment below! Thanks for watching, everyone! I hope you found this video interesting! If you want to support my work, consider becoming Also check out the other videos in my library! I hope to see you in the next one! Auf wiedersehen and goodbye!