Hey there, guys, Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we're gonna be looking at the induction motor. Specifically the three The induction motor. And the induction motor is the most common type of motor used in the industry and it's used in pretty much everything from elevators, fans, conveyor belts, etc., etc. Anything that needs to be moved within a building is probably going to be using one of these motors. And they are very popular because they are relatively cheap. They are pretty efficient. They are easy to install and control. They're low maintenance and they'll work for many years to come. And even if they do break you can usually replace with another one from the manufacturer or And you can see two So we've got an induction motor here. A belt driven one which is driving a fan. And then they head to, and then there's another motor here. Obviously a much older one which is directly coupled and that is pushing water So if you're engineering or you're looking to go into engineering, then you're gonna be coming across these motors a lot. So it's a good idea to If we took a typical induction motor and pulled it apart, these are the main components that So, first of all, we've which is this part here, and this part is bolted or onto a frame, which you can see here. These are bolted down. You will see the main frame is where everything is So this is the central reference point. It's also the housing for the stator. So the stator fits inside there and the stator is called the Inside the stator, you and they will be wrapped around all these grooves inside the stator and we'll have a closer but the coils are wrapped all around its inner circumference and the electricity will which will be used to and that's what's gonna But we'll have a look at that in more detail in just a second. Just look inside a real We've got the stator here, all these bars running around and these are the coils making their way around Then, running through the coils, is the rotor. This is the shaft over the inductor attached; this part here. The inductor is effected and that will cause it to spin. When it spins, it spins the shaft which it's mechanically attached to and this provides the mechanical power that we use to move things. We're gonna look at that also in a second. Now this is the photo of a real rotor. So you can see the inductors here, and this is the shaft running and we've also got a set and this is connected onto the shaft and these fit inside the end shield. Now, the bearings, they just ensure that the shaft rotates smoothly Obviously the shaft is gonna spin at a very high angle of velocity. Then on each end we're and these will be bolted onto the frame and that's where the bearings sit inside. And these just protect the inside of the motor from particles entering and they also hold everything in place to make sure that the rotor, when it's spinning stays where it should and it doesn't fly off and start to hit some of the stators and coils, Then at the back, we've got this fan here and that is bolted directly onto the end of the shaft there. So that, obviously, when the And the faster the shaft spins, Now this is an important So the fan is gonna pull and we'll bring it into the fan blades and then force that across taking some of that heat away and these fins which were sticking out all conduct some of the heat So these will actually the outside surface area of the casing. And that will draw some of the heat out and allow more air to pass through and give it more opportunity I'm gonna just show you an example there from a thermal imaging camera. So that air is being sucked and then that's being and pushed on the outside of the casing to take some of that heat away. You can see here, it's much cooler where the air is first entering and you can see it's making There is a bit of a hot But the rest of the case is warmer where, just from the heat from And then, lastly, at the very back we've got this fan guard here, and that is really just to protect the fan and also protect you and stop you from cutting So if we just have a this type of rotor is known and that's referring to which run along its length and just because it looks you know, a cage you'd keep a squirrel in. So, back in the day, they just decided to But anyway, the squirrel cage frame has these conductor bars which run from one end to another. They're typically made and they will have these end rings attached to either end of them and these will short and that will allow the induced current to flow through it. Now this creates its own in these inductors here and the magnetic field will be repelled by the and that's what's gonna push Now, sandwiched in between these end rings are these very thin These are maybe half a millimeter and these are there to and they also reduce the Eddy currents. We might also notice are not straight, they're actually skewed, and this is just designed like this because it increases the torque. So there is obviously a maximum skew that you can put on these and the angle of that skew will depend on the design of the motor. So, how does it actually work? Well, when you pass an AC the current alternates between flowing backwards and forwards, that's why it's called an The amount of times it is known as this frequency, So, you can see here, on each cycle it's passing between the which changes its direction. Then when you pass an electrical we know that it also produces It's also changed direction as you can see here. And the strength of that magnet field is also going to change with a current, as they alternate between its So, as it reaches here, we hit the peak and it's maximum there, and then it passes through the zero line, that's its minimum, and then it maximizes it Now when you add multiple wires together, connected to the same phase it creates a much stronger magnetic field and it amplifies this magnetic field. So if we loop a bunch of wires together and then pass a current through them, all the magnetic fields add together so you've got a really So if we took the motor and we made two coils, and we placed them opposite and we connected them together and passed the current through them then this will create a pole. So you've got a north and a south here and this will flip between the two coils as that passes through each So if we then took a three phase supply and connected each coil and placed them at different angles around the inside of the stator then each one of these coils would receive their maximum power at a and you can see here, from the, so, on each of the waves here that the red received its peak first, then the yellow, and then the blue phases or line one, two, and three. And that will cause a So, as each one of these coils receives its maximum peak value that pole is going to move and produce a rotating magnetic field. And that's very useful because we can then and use that magnetic field of the stator to drive the rotor. And notice how the are now polar opposite of the rotating magnetic And that's repelling it. They're repelling each other so this is gonna spin around as its magnetic field moves around. So the rotation of the is what gives us that mechanical drive which we can then connect And use that to spin these plant items. And just to help you visualize there, so, obviously, if the magnetic then this would cause and on the end here is what we I don't know why that's but, anyway, you get the idea. But, anyway, that is it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. Please don't forget to And if you have any questions, please leave them in the and I'll try to answer Also, don't forget to TheEngineeringMindset.com and, once again, thank you