Okay, I am really excited about today's guest. leading medical expert on how life experiences body to its best state of health through her board-certified medical physician in preventative Master's in Biochemistry and a Master's in Public she's also a certified functional medicine specifically in neuro autoimmunity, nutrition, and behavioral disorders. She also is certified certifications. And her personal experiences body and how to release it. So today we're going how to rewire the nervous system and restore Dr. Aimie on the show today. And please forgive but I really wanted to talk to her. So she's [Music] Hey, everyone, real quick: when I think about the first skills that I always want people to how to understand both that flight/flight/freeze of parasympathetic response. So I have a free 30,000 people have taken this course, and And it teaches you about 15 practical skills to your nervous system. So if you would like to how to calm your nervous system, then take a let's get back to the video. I am really excited so thank you for being here. Thank you, Emma. It's a lot of areas but especially in trauma. Can we Can you tell us about that? Yeah, and I'm so glad through my medical training and even then started trying to work on stuff, it was still always this something that that your brain responds to and is and I even started noticing more of the patients and I started to realize, like, no, like, that trauma is becoming their biology, which then and even their diagnoses. So what happened actually became significant enough that months. And and so realizing that there is this when we understand that the body has a trauma trauma gets stored, and the body will continue to looking at a past event for trauma; we're looking a daily basis, right now in the present moment?&quot; someone have stored trauma in their body?&quot; is I'm Do I see your body going into that trauma response this biology of trauma that then will become your Yeah. I think that's so important to understand as being just in your brain or in your mind they work. Right? &quot;Oh, you just need to change how you I was told. Yeah. And that's kind of how - which right? Like a body-based treatment is not at the you know, the ACEs study - I'm sure you're research showed how how people who experienced have a lot more likelihood of developing diabetes, autoimmune disorders, or other chronic that's just because they need to fix their any sense. Right? It doesn't it doesn't make no, like there's an actual mechanism that we can be confusing or this mystery of how trauma becomes and the keys are all in what we we call the we have the central nervous system, which is the trauma, which is where we then developed like I will just say that even in my medical school medical school trainings, and then even as let's be trauma-informed healthcare practitioners, &quot;Let's refer our patients to therapy and to medical field, Emma! And so like here we are even as, you know, early as Hippocrates is like that element. And that's, I think, the element there is this whole biology component to trauma, therapies and whatever therapies that a person so somatic work or internal family systems up in the body. But when we bring in the biology the actual therapy, it's like we can accelerate trauma has changed our biology, and so now, Emma, response. Oh yeah, yeah. So tell us about the the autonomic nervous system. Uh what is going try to talk as much as possible so that you don't You'll do all the heavy lifting today. Uh so with are different branches of our nervous system. never knowing that I would need to apply the central nervous system, which is our brain and then we have these nerves that go out into we have these cranial nerves, they come out from is one that comes out from that brain stem, and it it controls our diaphragm and so our breathing, system and controls our digestive system. And They are things that we don't have to think about, life and know that our kidneys are filtering we just need to go pee when we need to pee. We that's partly why it's called the autonomic of keeping us alive happen automatically. But this autonomic nervous system, which is that but it's telling it how to stay alive, meaning not it how fast to beat or how slow to beat. It's right now?&quot; or &quot;We're going to shut down and monster doesn't even see us or hear us breathing.&quot; nervous system that actually guide how our body is it is where the trauma gets stored. And so when to a very sequential process, and it always starts if you've been watching a squirrel or a chipmunk a nut and then all of a sudden it'll perk up, That's the our version of a startle response, of kind of brings my awareness to there might be a our attention on that so that I can assess that the stress response. And with the stress response later, but we get that initial rush of adrenaline, And so this is where the firefighter will be he's never been able to do that while he's been a car off of her child. Has she ever been able to car again? No. But in that moment the adrenaline the important thing for people to know about the And the moment that we stop taking action, the there are different reasons for that. There's and that would be something that feels or we've had too little of something &quot;I can't do this anymore. I just, I'm done.&quot; And we have all this adrenaline that's telling us to this problem, climb this mountain. And we're like, where our body goes into this trauma response, and if you know your anatomy you know that the and so out of those nerve cells it sends all And then all of a sudden - and this happens in &quot;I don't think I'm can make this. I don't think enough. I don't think I'm smart enough. I don't face this problem.&quot; And what it does is that trauma response is is communicated through the that the vagus nerve communicates. One would be social engagement, so our ability to relate. And lot of it is through our eyes. Some of it through our eyes and those muscles around our eyes, even communication, and that is how the trauma response &quot;Not going to take action,&quot; that communication everything down, Emma. And it shuts our breathing our digestive system down through that enteric our heart rate. It shuts everything down So if people have metabolism problems or they body might be in a chronic trauma response because this is not the time to have a fast metabolism. I hold on to things because we don't know how else downstream problems, including brain inflammation, shuts down our detoxification system so that we're toxins and can't clear those out. And so there's trauma response. But that is the body's trauma has nothing to do with the thought process in our an event, an experience. And two people one as a stress, the other as a trauma because of to that. Ooh, that's so interesting. I love how about it when people can explain this trauma you expressed, and I wanted you to clarify for make us go from that alert, activated mode, that And remind me again what those two were? One of is too overwhelming. Is that right? It is. It's gonna throw you a ball, if I were gonna throw you catch it, but what if even before you caught that one, and then another one, another one, and one, maybe two, but now things are just coming at modern-day lifestyles, right? Like it's just bombarding me, whether it's email or text messages or - like it's just too much. And so too much too stress response. And really what's happening is that our body is not able to be in action, and now can't even, I can't even see all of them coming let them hit me. Tthe other way that we could So if we were holding up a rock or a really heavy got a heavy weight above us, and as long as we're like, &quot;Yeah, I got this,&quot; you know. Like look at trigger, too little for too long. And so how long Has it been decades? Did you have attachment And your body just is like, &quot;Look, I'd love but you haven't paid attention to me, you haven't of water, I haven't had touch, I haven't had a like I just don't have what it takes.&quot; So too and we go from being able to hold up the rock that life is crushing us is when a person feels that's so interesting. That's so interesting. So is how much people have stored emotions and then we can even talk about how those emotions, there are specific conditions that are most And so - and even grief, right? Like there's grief, just holding grief in. I run a whole grief and gut health are so connected, which means and haven't been able to move through that, which bodies get stuck in that trauma response and it is that we develop gut problems. And now we're doctor to this doctor to this doctor for the people start to heal their gut - and whether the candida or the small intestinal bacterial issues are - when they start feeling better with And so they think that, &quot;Wait, why why is grief up right now.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;Well, it's because and your gut is now feeling safer, and so when it feels safe and when you finally have It's fascinating. That is so interesting to normal outcomes when someone's grieving in they have a hard time sleeping, right? But I'm physical side effects you see with anger? Like, This is an interesting one, Emma, because so there is this desire, this natural desire when we don't move to action and yet we had that's running underneath and that we haven't is how we discharge the adrenaline. And when tissues and it causes damage. So this is where we start to see the chronic fatigue. This In the Chinese medicine and elements it's which then is your detoxification system and out and have healthy digestion. So what we see is taking action becomes tissue damage that result in people feeling chronically tired in their body. that your body goes into this trauma response are It doesn't feel light. It doesn't feel like, yeah, drink extra caffeine to get through my day, or day, or if I don't get that exercise, if I don't then I'm noticing that I just kind of fall into trauma response or their or their freeze response through caffeine and procrastination, exercise, underlying exhaustion but trying to stay above Yeah, that's so interesting. So in your is this because they have this in, this drive to repressing it, and that's kind of bottled up like, &quot;Oh, I've bottled up and stored tension so It's gonna be both, Emma. And so when we look in their 20s and their 30s, and that's where that biology of trauma finally catch up with them, earlier, and one of the one of the trends is that earlier in people, even in teenagers now, Emma, strongly associated with this trauma response. And and I think this is the perhaps the accumulation, biology. But we can see that a person will point. And that certain point reaches because chronic depletion. And so as we are developing in things like magnesium. We're becoming depleted oxidative stress, which then consumes so many of living in a state of chronic deficiency. but if you're accumulating that deficiency, it's So it's going to be both. It's going to be, &quot;I I want to say, I'm going to call it the where that the trauma response was actually our because we couldn't run away, we couldn't walk Like we're just, we're just babies. Yeah, yeah. was to disconnect from our body that felt this habit, and this habit of the disconnect is And so that becomes this now pattern. It becomes a guess what? We automatically go to that place of, I definitely don't know enough about this, or I the combination of having learned to not take and because I've gone to this trauma now it's accumulated deficiencies in Mm-hmm. Yeah. And and so you'll and you'll have more fatigue or you'll which we see are so common in like people who've All of that. I mean, you're gonna see the sleep you're going to see the anxiety, the depression health, but yes, you're going to to start to health issues are ones that may not be a diagnosed Our goal is to be able to catch them before they are that far it's harder to shift that biology even the earlier that we can catch autoimmunity of developing an autoimmunity because we can take had, we can take a look at, how is your nervous Do we see this chronic functional freeze and this you are kind of set up for something happening, we can get you off that path. Because then again, also when we can help accelerate their trauma their trauma healing journey it, for people a lot on somatic work, somatic experiencing, internal family systems and the parts work. And we can make so much more happen because when we your tank with magnesium, or we decrease that and and now finally you're able to think the decision fatigue. Now you're able to do more whereas before it's like your window of I can only do a little bit, and then it becomes and then it becomes too much. I can only do a too much and my nervous system gets tired and like on the medical side of things there's so many can help us actually make a person's healing like they're trudging through mud and constantly like they're, you know, climbing over walls to Sounds good. Okay. So um I like, basically yes. it's so interesting, and um all the somatic practitioners don't know how to do it, don't trained in somatic work at all in my programs, and workshops and programs and certifications. But can do somewhat on their own. So would you like ingredients to trauma healing. Is that something for an entire 'nother session. No, I'm happy to, ones that I've that I've mentioned around the back to somatic work, where we're working with show up in the body so that I can create the felt into deeper, spontaneous breaths. And in fact, working with the nervous system, is whether we're we're not forcing the breath, but we're actually sense of safety and then felt sense of support and work with the body for it to then move into deep - some of that is also realizing how long I ignored body, Emma, right? Like I was one of those that No, I'm clearly connected to my body.&quot; Uh but it's part of going through medical school, right? so much in order to learn that much and be able to that's that's all I knew. And so to actually then where I'm allowing the body sensations to tell able to respond to them and and follow the body's I call the somatic work. It's not just do breath but it's being able to connect with the body right? And then we have what I call parts work. us, and these parts have different stories, they the same thing over and over again because that's know how to help us. And so being able to work parts is that I integrate that with the somatic body, and I can support them, I can provide them body and that way still be able to do that process into my brain and just being back in my brain in this biology piece, so looking at the three for those people who have stored trauma in their at your gut health and the downstream effects of in your biology that are contributing to your body the three essential elements. And how a person it may be, &quot;I'm going to do somatic experiencing,&quot; to do neuroaffective touch or some other form of elements that I have found a person needs, every healing journey to reach their greatest potential. And I like how you describe integrating creating somatic work because it's interesting in therapy cognitive work and back to body work. But it's a lot of time in academia or maybe likes that to get stuck in that intellectualizing that takes me back to my days, Emma, where I Give me something to study, give me something to me anything to feel. Right? Like give me something days. Right? I know that I'm not alone in that. like meditation for people who are in a chronic the types of meditation, but can actually just their brain, and that's not what we need to do. the mind and the body, and this is what that &quot;Hey, you guys, the education is important. Understanding is important. However, there does and analyzing it more is not actually going to because that is what changes us. And I and I know been a huge fan of yours for years, but it's it's not the education. We can know something, change how we react to it. We still react in the like I have all these triggers from my childhood, all of those triggers, and yet when we go home still see ourselves reacting in the same way that and understand. What changes us is our ability Because our autonomic nervous system adapts to place and this biology-of-trauma place because we alone, and we felt unsupported and unsafe. And of safety, of support, of manageable, of I'm going I expand my capacity. I'm not going to sit here my capacity. But the way in which I do it now is where I was like, &quot;Feel the fear and jump anyway.&quot; and and titrate that fear.&quot; Yeah. Yeah. Like going learning about something. There comes a point to just do. And this is where it's helpful to will help us know how to take that first step, how that's what I do why I do - because it, we are &quot;Well, that sounds great, but I've never done this for myself before, so I don't even know how to like and what the benefits will be. But it's still Yeah. So speaking of, is there an exercise or So like let's - and you could come up with a is someone is, like they have some experience or of them, something uncomfortable. Maybe they you know, angry or something, some emotion and they're they're like far enough along in this my nervous system activation.&quot; And they're far &quot;Okay, I must immediately suppress it.&quot; They're you suggest? Any - I mean, I know this is like a and actually what I'm thinking that I will from my 21-day Journey because that's that's - Journey is very short, simple exercises so that can jump to a tool and not have to think about of the meaning that they create around why they're I'm gonna do is - since, as you were describing and and wanting to create space for this emotion is. So that's the exercise that I'll lead you Creating Space, and so it feels like a natural I make sure that my feet are up against something sure that my feet are well grounded because what something really heavy. So again, in order to push something. So if I'm sitting down I make sure that or I have them up on something so that they can Now, what I'm going to imagine and what I would there's a huge boulder in front of us. Huge. and we're gonna need to push this away. So boulder. Like it's so tall and big you can't Like this is a thick boulder. Oh, I don't I But what we're going to do is we're going to all the way up against your shoulder, as close you're like - right? This is what we do. We get we bit so that one foot is slightly behind the other, And what we do is I'm going to spread my fingers and I'm going to start as close to my shoulders But as I push away, Emma, I am going so slow. yet because that's how slow I am going. But then all of my muscles in my arms engaged, and and I'm because my my arms should be stronger than this.&quot; so so slow and I'm putting all my strength into helping in this process of pushing away, and I'm And if you're doing this and your arms are getting reach that point of full extension. And when you rest your arms there. Leave them there all the ready, they feel complete, and then you can just And there's a deep spontaneous breath for what are you noticing in your body, uh-huh. You know, I felt the initial tension and kind of like a kind of warming-up feeling and I I literally felt like I was kind of and then I felt it push through past my the way out. Like it felt really nice to have them I'm like, put them down. And so you feel that a little bit of tension you're holding that you and then completing it and releasing it. Yeah. that you said there that's that's uh so important don't have time to go all into the science of a response. And this is where most people go response. We don't complete an activation. We when it gets stored in our body. And so just and I'm like, you know, right here right now I way out with that full extension and feel what that starts to rewire our nervous system and form can discharge things. And I can move things. And I to breathe. Now I have space to think.&quot; Yeah. I I think that's so so true. So like going back this video where I like had some problem and I and I was emotional and then things happened - I I felt great. But the people watching it only saw action to complete that stress response, like call someone some love. And if they they didn't engage of my energy right there. Yeah, and and stuck in up for them, that they - That's right; their how to complete, and that's, I think, what what our younger generations and our kids now, is that modeling how to be overwhelmed. We're modeling modeling how to complete, how to complete things. mean, we could go into, like, kids these days, but I mean, a hundred years ago there um but people's problems were more physical. so I will go dig in my field.&quot; And they were more it's right here, right now, and I will - like it from my neighbor. We're gonna take action to action. Where now it's like we can hear about any to do a physical action to help. And so that that activation gets stuck. And so many kids these days this all day. But you know you've seen, have you mow lawns and they watch other people clean stuff? Yes. and I think that one of the um - again, trauma response, one of the things that has really this this TV, and so what are we doing? We're all of this news, this threat from all over the sitting and not being able to take action and move complete it. And so the more inaction that we are, and this like, oh my goodness, here's a threat it's on the other side of the world, but that a response in us. And so we're just accumulating Mm-hmm. And and this is this is one of the media influencer, technically. I don't have about how and when I check the news. I do stay but I choose to do it very carefully. And if I okay, here's a new story, and then here's those two because it's like people feel right? That immobilization, that overwhelm. response is actually pretty pretty adaptive Yeah. So, Emma, it sounds like you and I, we Right. Let's do it. Well, that'd be so hard. It would need to be intermixed with people who are doing great things around And to be honest, like - yes, absolutely. And back when I had Instagram on my phone I made sure and I made sure to follow like good news and like positive stories. Because otherwise your brain is gonna notice or highlight threats just to keep But there's a lot more good than there is all abounds. And we can choose what we want And I think that that's one of the most important trauma response is immobilization, and yet we how to complete our responses and start to come We get to make more choices about our environment way that supports us and supports our movement and not to be disengaged from the world but to we're not overwhelmed by it, but we can stay in that place of immobilization, it doesn't matter flipping through social media and watching, but being in that state of immobilization is what body, keeping us stuck there. And as we move, as have more choices about being the architect of And this is where I will add, in terms of the not just our external environment. But creating the biology of safety so that even on our insides informed we're safe, we're good, which means that things, to go into your creativeness, because Yes. I love it. I believe it. I've seen with you. Oh my goodness. There's so much so you tell people where they can find you Yeah, so they can find me over at can find more information about the body's are so they can be more educated. And so for experience a 26% decrease in daily physical pain, a 30% decrease in anxiety and depression. This is starts to change our biology. So that's the through this essential sequence of a felt sense of teaching them the somatic exercises that there is a live component to this course. So but also their daily video exercises where they Sounds amazing. Okay. We'll make sure the notes so people can find that. And yeah, thank fascinating. I just want to ask you like a do this again sometime. Sounds great, Emma. Thank