- Today in the Test Kitchen, we're gonna make Chili Colorado. (upbeat music) This recipe is really all So we're gonna get right Here I've got some ancho You can also use New Mexico chiles, or any other chile that's nothing too spicy. So I'm gonna get right because this takes a little bit of time, but it's really worth the effort. So these peppers, they're a dried pepper, so to really get the it's nice to have this because it does intensify, with these guys, they're pretty pliable, they're not hard, and So I got an example of one kinda sounds like a maraca, that means it's a little over-dried. One thing that I really like is the aromas and the The reason these are still kinda pliable is they've got some oils in them, and those oils not only so by toasting a little bit, you'll wake up those oils a little bit. The chile sauce is really what It's not really about it comes from the term colored red, because this is a red chile sauce, and as this stuff cooks down, the flavors kind of intensify, and it becomes this really So I'm setting this to medium-high, 'cause right here, I just I'm not trying to cook 'em too much, but just get a little toast on 'em, that way, wake 'em up a little bit. And you don't wanna burn 'em either. They will burn kind of So I just wanna kinda move I can already smell them, but it's not hot, you just get that aroma. And I'm starting to just see So over this, I'm gonna go in (stock sizzles) So now that this is just we'll just put a lid on it, after we get a nice little simmer going, and then, honestly, I'll just and we'll save that for later. It takes a little while to rehydrate, to really get so they can become nice and smooth. Now we'll move on to the beef. So here I have, this is some beef chuck, this is actually a shoulder, that chuck tends to have, which but it's not like a chuck it's a little harder for We're going for one-inch cubes on this, so I'll take the roast, before I start cubing, it than working with a big piece. Now we'll get that, cut it in some strips, and then we'll cut it against there, and we'll get our pieces. And this is a braise dish, so but by having it in the smaller pieces, it makes it cook a little quicker, it's really nice and even. I really love using this chuck shoulder. There's no beans in this recipe, there's no ground beef in this recipe. This is a Chili Colorado, this is a stew, think of it that way. Any slow-cooking cut'll my favorite cut for this recipe. And I'm cutting it into than stew meat typically to put this in a taco, So I'm gonna get this searing because we wanna get a nice brown on this. And the way to get this nice and brown is gonna be high heat, off of a medium heat or a low heat. That's where you develop a lot of flavor. This is on two things, right, it's on the chiles and it's on the beef. You're gonna get beef and you're gonna get the chile flavor out of the toasting, the So I think these are two of So I'm gonna use some salt and a little bit of pepper, while I get my oil heating up. We're gonna be working in batches. The important thing is the heat is gonna be even. When you add too much meat the pan drops in temperature. So when it drops in The meat doesn't sear It doesn't really get the So already, because I got you can see some of There is more flavor in around the edge of the meat, than there is in that whole piece of beef. So now that we've started to we're gonna get these with our next round of beef here. You're seeing that actual it's not steamed, it's So, searing, important. This being well marbled, but it's marbled but it doesn't that means that fat's not rendering, and so you're not getting a in your pan, which means a touch more oil just to All right, so now we'll go off with this, and I'll get my other aromatics going. Now you wanna keep that than it was before, because some vegetables, so I'm gonna put this at more of like a medium, medium-high, 'cause the pan's pretty hot. So we got the onions and I'm gonna add some dried And then I'm just gonna Basically, I'm just trying to sweat out some of that flavor from the onion, trying to coax out some of those juices, so that when it's braising, some of that onion liquid Not really trying to just soften them a little bit, and so I'm gonna add in the And there's two important One, by adding this beef stock, you're gonna help bring up that fond that we created on the bottom of the pan, and two great things about One great thing is it tastes awesome and really improves the depth The second thing is, you've already done half the work cleaning your pan. You wanna bring this stock to a simmer. If the stock was to go along with room temperature beef, it's gonna take that much It could take an hour to because a crock-pot is a gentle heat. All right, so we're gonna get the beef right into the crock-pot, along with everything that's in that pan. Make sure all those juices go in. Okay, then we'll get So we got a lot of that fond that came up, all those onions, garlic, spices, so I'm gonna set this guy up. Now we can already get it warming, because it's not gonna that we're gonna mess with these chiles. So now, when we get these in, they're gonna blend up a lot easier. So since we're doing this recipe, it's all about beef and chiles, why not use beef stock to to again just bump up that beefy flavor. So we'll get this guy going, down low, we'll kick it to high. (blender whirs) And that's all it takes. Get right on in here with this one, right? - That's a beautiful color It's like a picante milkshake. Now we'll get this guy into here, right? So now we'll stir all that puree in, we just wanna kinda evenly disperse it, mix it all together, and then and let it simmer for about an hour, then we'll pull the lid off, is let that evaporate a little bit, let it reduce, but you just to make sure that and then the reduction So this has been cooking it's nicely reduced, but you can smell that it's and got a nice texture to it. So, you know, Michael was and trying to try a piece of just meat that had salt and pepper and seared off. He didn't even get to try so I'm gonna get him in here. - You need to try it-- - Now that it's actually well flavored, slow-cooked. - So I do have some tortillas, that I just warmed up here. - So you can-- aren't you? Oh yeah, why don't you, here, why don't you go ahead-- - Yeah, I don't wanna spill-- - Chili on you. you feel like, huh? - Yeah. - What do you put on your taco? - So I like-- - I mean beyond the - Like to eat it just as is. - Oh, man, these look delicious, brother. - All right, taco cheers? - Taco cheers. - All right. - Thank you, Gavin, appreciate it. Delicious. - I'm gonna take this to - All right, there you have it, some really nice Chili Colorado. So if you like this comment, and share on social media, and join us next time, as we're gonna make Cowboy Skillet Pie here (upbeat music)