This is a cheap pre-built PC that I It's a pretty average looking an AMD Ryzen CPU, 250 gig SSD, So, why am I even talking about it? Well, for 230 euros you're Two M.2 slots, One full size PCIe slot Support for ECC memory And get this - the entire Wait, what? I thought Ryzen CPUs were supposed to Well, it's a long story... So strap in, and let's get into why this system is probably the perfect base But first, I would like to tell you If you want to learn math, computer Brilliant has got you covered, with And personally, I think the With Brilliant, you don't just sit there a lecture, but also get to apply what And in my personal opinion, this And with very clear and straightforward track your progress, celebrate And if math and computer science is not quite your computational biology, quantum So go to brilliant.org/wolfgang, The first 200 people to sign up with the link So thank you Brilliant for sponsoring this So, remember how I said that Well, that was a lie. This is actually a Ryzen APU, a 4650G Pro. APU basically means that it comes with integrated And yes, the fourth generation Ryzen APUs are based on the same Zen 2 architecture Even though the fifth gen APUs are Except of course, some fifth gen Anyway The Zen 2 part is critical. With this generation, AMD finally fixed the C-State issue on Linux which This bug would make Ryzen systems run The solution to that was disabling which also pretty much ruined The 4650G performs very similarly to But somehow, it is also way more power efficient. At idle, the 4650G draws 5 watts less, the gap only widens. During the CPU-Z single the 4650G draws 22W less than the 3600, And that's a huge difference. So, what is that dark magic? Well, it turns out that despite the 3600 and the 4650G are, The 3600 uses a chiplet design, which puts the I/O and the CPU Whereas the 4650G is a monolith, And by the way, huge shoutout to Freiheraus... ...Should I pronounce it as Will I bullied for my German again? ...And by the way, huge shoutout to He's the one who tested both Freiheraus speculates that it's exactly this difference in design that makes As well as your choice of motherboard, of course. As an added bonus, just like the Pro-series APUs also if that's something you care about. Unlike the non-APU models though, since the non-Pro APUs don't actually support ECC. Okay, so the Zen 2 Pro APUs don't power draw issues as their non-APU brothers, they have full support for they come with integrated GPUs which you can use and they're actually pretty powerful. So what's the catch? Well, you can't buy them. That's right, AMD has decided So as of now, Renoir and Cezanne APUs So, OEMs, system builders, and so on. Which means that if you want to let's say, a 4650G Pro, your options are: a.) buy it from a reseller on eBay or or b.) get a used prebuilt office And spoiler alert, the latter Now as I already mentioned in I got this Terra system for Which is like a German version of Craigslist, This machine came with 8Gb of dual-channel RAM (wow, they finally learned!) a 250 gig Samsung SSD, an ASUS and a 350W non-modular power supply. It also came with an optical drive, The case itself is a typical midtower, with very limited options for At the same time, it does have two 5.25&quot; bays, and you can get one of these hard There are also only three SATA but you can also add more by getting a safe You'll notice that the wires on this adapter instead of going directly If you see an adapter like this one, where Don't buy it, it's not safe to use, and these kind of adapters can Now let's talk about the motherboard. It's a fairly typical b550 mATX board, with one full size PCIe x16 slot, Since it's a fairly cheap but that's probably not a big You also only get 1 Gbit unlike some more expensive boards which Honestly though, for that You can still have 4 HDDs and 2 SSDs for cache, and if you're building a server on The system came pre-installed with Windows 11, the total idle power draw at the Windows desktop After that, I decided to and look at the C-states in powertop. Surprisingly, powertop reported that whereas on Windows, the HWInfo reported C6. I did some research, and it turns out that Ryzen C0, C1 and C6, so the system must be going and powertop is just not showing it correctly. After unplugging the display and the power consumption went but mostly stayed at around 16W But that's with no devices connected to it. In a typical home server scenario, a couple of SSDs, and maybe So I took my current home server build and PCIe devices into this pre-build system. For comparison, my current build, based on a B150i motherboard and draws around 15.5W at idle, with all If the phrase "Chinese mutant laptop Xeon CPU" makes you wonder if you've Check out this video where I install and I've also used an M.2 SATA but rest assured, it uses the same chipset if not less. That being said, there's obviously so I kinda just put them in the case randomly. And now, moment of truth. How much will it draw? Well, after executing powertop --auto-tune, the total system power draw at idle, 30W. Not great, not terrible. So, I thought hey, maybe down a few watts by using some software tweaks. I enabled the AMD Pstate EPP I enabled ASPM for all the PCIe devices I made sure that the C6 state And as you can see from my later measurements with a more power efficient PSU But alas, with the stock PSU, And looking at the unit, it's really It doesn't seem to have any kind efficiency So it's safe to assume that it's even less And if you thought you'd be able And sell this one to get Well, on eBay, this unit So, in this case, you're kind At the same time, 30W is still pretty good. It's nowhere near my Xeon system, but that system also costed me Nevertheless, let's see if down a bit by swapping some of the components. First thing I did was replacing the FSP with a Corsair RM550x. This reduced the power consumption But also costed me 139EUR extra, which is Corsair RM550x is pretty much the most efficient at least when it comes to lower load efficiency. But as a lot of you guys pointed out it's also been out of stock So even if you wanted buy it for a system Thanks, Corsair. Another, cheaper and more easily available option would be a PicoPSU paired This 160W unit can be found for as little as 20EUR, and I've personally used it for a few You'll also need a generic laptop Those are pretty common and come with a and if you're someone who tinkers with hardware If you don't, you can also buy One more thing I want to point out is that if I'd personally recommend going Even though your system will probably the initial spike on boot, with might be as much as 80 to 100W. One big downside of those power supplies is the fact that they only have one That can be solved by using like the one I showed earlier. I've personally powered 4 7200RPM hard and it has never skipped a beat. So at 40EUR extra, 20 for the PSU it's a way more budget-friendly And if that seems too janky for you, a friendly reminder that the original has no efficiency rating and But the real question is - Provided you're running this system at the energy price of 40 cents per killowatt, Which means that it'll take you around Whether it's worth it for you - well, you're planning to keep this system Another thing we could do to save some more power, is replacing our B550 motherboard It's no secret that your motherboard and chipset can have a massive influence on So I decided to see if we can save some more power by going with a small form This is an Asrock A520M-ITX, It has one M.2 slot, one PCIe So, after swapping out the motherboard we got an impressive saving of... ...around 2 watts, bringing us At the price of 86EUR, and the power savings of 2W, I think it's fair to say that replacing When it comes to actual performance, The 4650G has a PassMark score of around 16300, which puts it close to CPUs like Docker containers are not a even my i3-6100 can do that. What my i3-6100 can't do though is compile I mean, that's as good a benchmark as any, right? And sure, in reality you probably won't be compiling Linux kernels on but I'm kind of struggling to pick since none of my use cases are So if there's a particular benchmark let me know down in the comments That being said, this system should handle any Game servers, home automation, media With 12 threads and support for things this build also works really well as a hypervisor, One area in which this system is hardware video transcoding. The 4650G has an integrated Vega So you will be able to use hardware But when it comes to the actual performance, I'm getting around 30 FPS while Which is just enough to play For comparison, my 5-year-old Xeon E-2176 is Now if you don't do hardware transcoding at all, But if you do - just keep in mind that the performance is not gonna be So, what do I think about this system? Well, for EUR230, this pre-built is honestly It's not particularly pretty, but it's also cheap, powerful, And can be easily extended And the best part is that it's or a once in a lifetime Here in Germany, I regularly see these 4650G And as companies upgrade to newer systems, we'll probably start seeing more The only catch is that if you want to build from scratch instead of a buying a pre-built, Despite AM4 being a legacy platform, miniITX AM4 boards are still B550 boards from Gigabyte and Even used! That's honestly outrageous. And even though i got my A520 board for 80 euros, Most of the time, those boards So realistically, if you want a compact build, you're looking at somewhere between 330 to Which means that for compact builds that my last build with Topton N5105 That motherboard also has four 2.5 Gbit ethernet including IOMMU and PCIe passthrough. Speaking of low power I'm currently working on a video that features an Alder Lake-N So make sure to subscribe, if