(electronic chiming) - [Falcon] Every gamer and dislikes, preferences, et cetera. But there are DEFCON 5 Hi folks, it's Falcon, 10 nightmares of every gamer. Starting off at number Now, it does not get much worse than this. You know exactly how it goes. You're playing a game, and suddenly something happens, you hit some kind of random bug, the game shuts down suddenly. You turn it back on, but, your save file is just gone. It just sucks so much. You lose hours of progress or outside power failure, whatever. And you know what? In the days before auto-save, some people just saved in a single slot. Didn't save a backup. I did that for a while way back when, that's when Because if you didn't save a backup, you would lose the entire game file. If you've been gaming long enough, you've experienced this You're playing a long RPG or something like 30, 50, 100 hours plus. Like I said, I learned this back in the early '90s. And you're right before the you've done just a ton of work, your safe out gets deleted All that time totally wasted. Now, it does provide a decent excuse to use all of the knowledge you've accumulated through the experience, but it's not enough. It doesn't make it feel justifiable. It didn't matter 100 hours worth, did it? No, it did not. The worst part is there's only so much you can really do to prevent this sort of thing from happening. Sure, you can back up your saves and upload them to the cloud, take every precaution possible, Technology is imperfect and there is no perfect human. And yeah, it doesn't always but it's still a nightmare having to replay a long section of game just because of a bug or At number nine is broken controllers. Now, compared to losing potentially hundreds of hours of it doesn't sound that serious, does it? But one major thing to take into account is that if a save file goes bad, you can start the game over again. But if a controller then you got two options, sending it back to the or buying a new one. And whew, controllers are not cheap. There's probably nothing more frustrating than having to buy a new controller. And there's no guarantee I mean, it should work. It's new. There's a good chance it will work. But I don't think has never bought a brand new controller that didn't work right. Even in some minor way, that So, then you're back to option number one, sending a bag to the manufacturer, and that is a nightmare all of itself. Yeah, in many situations controllers get repaired free of charge, but wow, does it ever take a long time. It's kind of damned if you do, damned if you don't kind of situation. If you end up having to send you gotta wait weeks on end just to get the controller and it's not guaranteed to work even then. Remember what I said about technology being as imperfect as whoever made it? That's where we are with this. I have seen so many horror stories of people sending their having it gone for weeks, and even getting a and it having Joy-Con drift. All you really can do and hope you win the lottery this time. And the controller you get back, whether it's the one they that it finally actually works. Worst thing about this is that Video game controllers are complex, delicate pieces of equipment that just like all things in They will inevitably start to break down. There is wear, there is tear. So, we're always going to have to deal with broken controllers at some point, and getting them fixed sometimes is worse than just giving up and buying a new one. It's expensive but, like I said, there's a good chance it will work. At number eight is game-breaking bugs, which nobody likes, obviously. In fact, bugs at the general Sometimes they are very funny. Most of the time they're pretty benign. But that's not what We're talking about the ones but pretty much ruin the experience. The most common game-breakers kind of involve broken whether it's event scripting They make it impossible to progress. Sometimes there's a in a Bethesda game like where bugs are very common, but more often in games, about the bug but just like and avoid it, which is not And also, sometimes it's Like the infamous, my alibi where it's very easy to at a location in the main story. All you have to do is make the mistake of fully exploring this club If you get hit with the You're trapped in the club forever and the only recourse is The other infuriating are a little less obvious. Like sometimes the final boss in the original &quot;Crysis&quot; is invincible. You might just think you're but, no, the game's You basically just have to reset and hope the fight works correctly. Another really bad example where the game just seems to stop at 27%. The NPCs you need to talk That's that. They were like, &quot;Oh, I don't &quot;Forget this.&quot; At least with save file corruption you basically know what's With game-breaking bugs, there's so many ways a game can screw up that it's hard to even tell if you're in an unwinnable situation and it can make you feel At number seven is unreadable This is less of an issue with modern games where a lot of games aren't But if they're printed those discs are a lot more sturdy than the old-school CD-ROMs. But again, you're probably If you go back to the Xbox you're pretty much gonna have to deal with what are kind of easy to mess up discs. It's another one of those issues where the actual cause of the problem can be hard to pin down. Sometimes the disc is dirty. Sometimes the problem is Or if you're in a particularly But playing older games like yes, Saturn has games that I've done it a number of times myself. Until they re-released &quot;Nights,&quot; that was the only way to play it. And holy hell, do they need to release a with the two main lines and the RPG. But if you go back to that Blu-rays are better than DVDs, and CDs were a nightmare. Any little imperfection can and introduce these weird And sometimes no matter how perfectly you follow disc cleaning guides or how perfectly well you've it's not enough. These things are not good It's annoying when but it really sucks if and you start noticing problems in games you used to be able to play. Disc rot happens. And depending on how you it's possible they're already As somebody who really loved I listed the &quot;Panzer Dragoons,&quot; and again, unless they remake all of them, the only one I can really go back to easily right now is the first. There's just a little thought that all of those types of games are just gonna eventually That's a nightmare unto itself. And at number six is Depending on the type of gamer you are, this point might be your Everything we do in games nowadays is dependent on a few different accounts. Your identity as a gamer is or a PSN, Xbox, whatever account. And if one of those things gets taken, it can be bad, like, really bad. If you can't access your account you pretty much lose everything. All the purchases, the games, the friends, it's all compromised, and you're pretty much stuck at the mercy of whatever support system you have to use to get your account back. Sometimes regaining your but in my experience, it's usually not. It's frustrating and confusing It's bad when you lose your but losing something like an if only because of the personal People get attached to and losing them can really be devastating. Depending on who you are, can also be more financially damaging than having your house broken into. At number five, game bugs but your PC. Some games manage to go of breaking your game and making it worse. They don't just damage your they could actually damage your PC. These are pretty rare ones but when they pop up, they One of the more famous the developers of &quot;Halo.&quot; In 1998, they released which could delete your entire if you installed the if you think that was only a because the original release of &quot;DELTARUNE: Chapter 1&quot; where the uninstaller would just like &quot;Myth II.&quot; And if you installed it that deletes everything, So, from that point, it's pretty difficult to Of course, it's possible to so the computer's not totally ruined, but everything you had on it's gone. Not the worst thing a game can do though. Allegedly, some of them can During the beta of the there was this widely circulated story that the game was frying Normally this isn't supposed to happen. There should be certain fail-safes that are meant to protect the but for whatever reason, they didn't work, and certain, very Looking back, I'm not sure if the game was actually responsible or if it was some kind of The actual cause seems relatively unclear, but either way, I can't think than managing to get a high-end GPU in the middle of one of the worst chip shortages of all time and having it die from playing &quot;New World. What is &quot;New World&quot;? I'm kidding. I know what &quot;New World&quot; is. I'm just dunking on that And number four, failing school or getting fired from your job, Now, I don't think this is one that a lot of people experience. Most people play games responsibly. We don't usually let gaming get in the way of things like school, work, relationships, but it can be tough to So, it can actually be kind of scary. This point's more of a literal because I think a lot of Like they get deep into something and maybe get outta touch with some people for a period of time where their grades go down a little bit, but it doesn't actually If you look around people often post about where people are not prepared for a test because they were up all night gaming, and that is a scary thought. Gaming's supposed to be fun, it shouldn't take over your life. No matter how many games expect you to treat playing them like I don't wanna linger because video game addiction is a real thing that does happen. And it's certainly not They build in addictive and certain people are to that type of media coming in. But for the most part, it's a scary thought and nothing more. At number three, when your You never know how long a game's actually gonna stick around these days, and there's nothing worse because the publisher doesn't Now, sometimes this is that has active communities, sometimes is a gacha game, where players devote a lot but it gets shut down with little fanfare. But when a developer stops usually no big deal, 'cause at least you can But when they give up nine times outta 10 that Unless the community is big and going through the trouble of reverse-engineering the game, they're usually functionally unplayable. Not that that never happens. If you've been playing this is probably something Games get closed down all the time. And while it sucks that it happens, if a game is online-only or you're basically outta luck. That game is gonna be dead when &quot;City of Heroes,&quot; &quot;Star Wars Galaxies&quot; are the exceptions to And number two, the red ring of death and/or the blue screen of death. Dealing with bugs, losing but that's all a big load of nothing compared to one of these things. If you were around for you know the red ring of death, the three flashing lights that indicated there was some internal problem with the system. If you saw the red ring, and all you could do is Now, there are lucky few that never had to deal but it was such a big problem, over a billion dollars to Now, they did it for free, thankfully, but it was also never certain a console would 100% I sent in an Xbox three times in a row, every time it got back, it The Xbox 360 was hardly the only console that saw hardware failure. The PS3 has its fair like the flashing red light And of course, the common PC error screen, the blue screen of death, the BSOD, for the old farts The problem with that is how vague it is. At least with the red ring, you knew your Xbox was just done. But who knows what's going on when you get the PC blue screens? Could be anything from to a minor game bug and Actually, finding out the cause can be a painfully complex process. In the end, doesn't really they all suck in their own ways. And finally, at number one, having no idea what you did In terms of anxiety, there may be nothing else out as miserable of an experience and running into some Building a PC's pretty It used to be that you almost required but these days there's step by step guides that basically anybody can follow. In many ways, it's easier now than it ever has been to make a custom PC, but there's still a lot of First, everyone makes mistakes. But the issue is that you're The components for this thing are costly and that makes a mistake PCs are not cheap, especially if you're building with some massive graphics cards in it. These kind of builds easily and that's not a small So, it really can suck when you take the time turn on a power end and nothing happens, or it runs super slow. You gotta diagnose a problem, that involves checking every and slowly peeling back to find the point of failure. And that can just take Even if you do find the problem, oftentimes you have to to replace something that is But the worst version is not being able to figure Like you go online, you find and contradictory answer Nothing you try works and you have no idea what the problem is. Basically, you spent all that money and the thing is just wasted. You have a big brick sitting on your desk as a trophy, I guess. That's a pretty extreme scenario. A lot of people do get past this. But there are horror stories from people trying to build a PC that make that result It can be a lot of fun but it can also be an absolute nightmare. That's all for today. Leave us a comment. Let If you liked this video click like. If you're not subscribed We upload brand new videos Best way to see them first is, so click subscribe. Don't forget to enable notifications. And as always, we thank you very much for watching this video. I'm Falcon. You can follow We'll see you next time,