Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe Also, please like and leave a comment, and of videos. Thanks for your help. In this video we will take a look at two dynamic the exam topics list, RIP and EIGRP. So, why am I covering these two topics even topics list? Well, the main reason is that you might still the exam, so it's best to be prepared. Cisco's exam topics list states this: 'The the content likely to be included on the exam. However, other related topics may also appear So, don't think that just because something have to know anything about it. Of course, we won't study RIP and EIGRP OSPF, which is explicitly listed on the exam give an overview of both of RIP and EIGRP. I will show some basic configurations for an understanding of how they work, you don't A lot of the things you learn in this video make things easier when I introduce OSPF in So, what exactly will we cover today? Just as I said, RIP, the Routing Information Gateway Routing Protocol. Stick around to the end of today's quiz CCNA, a set of practice exams for the CCNA These are the practice exams I used to prepare very popular among people getting ready to If you're planning to take your CCNA soon ready, ExSim is in my opinion the best tool If you want to get Boson ExSim, follow the So let's get right into RIP. Some of this stuff I already talked about RIP stands for Routing Information Protocol, Cisco proprietary. It is a distance vector interior gateway protocol, learn and share routes. Watch day 24 again if you want a review of RIP uses hop count as its metric, each router 'hop', and the bandwidth is irrelevant. A 10 gigabit connection counts as one hop, one hop. And something I didn't mention last video, Anything more than that is considered unreachable, routing table. So, clearly RIP cannot be used for very large Actually, RIP is almost never used in real networks, and also in lab environments, as up. RIP has three versions, RIP version 1 and There is also RIPng, RIP Next Generation, cover in this course. RIP uses two message types to learn and share The first is the Request message, which asks routing table. The second is the response message, which table to neighboring routers. By default, RIP-enabled routers will share This can cause problems in networks with lots up the network. Next up, let's compare RIPv1 and RIPv2. RIPv1 is a very old protocol. Basically, if you're going to use RIP, don't RIPv1 only advertises classful addresses, you about classful addressing because it's the concept is no longer used. Because version 1 only supports classful addresses, CIDR, which I covered in my subnetting videos. In fact, when RIPv1 advertises a network to subnet mask information in the advertisement. If the advertised network is in the class It it's in the class B range, it's assumed If it's in the class C range, it's assumed Here are some examples of subnets, and how networks. 10.1.1.0/24 will become 10.0.0.0, a class 172.16.192.0/18 will become 172.16.0.0, a And 192.168.1.4/30 will become 192.168.1.0, This is simply not acceptable in modern networks and have been replaced with CIDR and VLSM. We need the ability to use subnets, not just Okay, one more thing about RIPv1, its messages so all routers on the local segment will receive Next up, let's look at RIP version 2, which First of all, it supports VLSM and CIDR, it 1. To support this, it includes subnet mask information A /30 network will advertised as /30, for Another difference is that RIPv2 messages 224.0.0.9. This address is in the class D range, which What exactly is multicast? You don't need to know the details at the Broadcast messages are delivered to all devices times in this course. Multicast messages, on the other hand, are that specific multicast group. Just know that basic difference between broadcast It's only at the CCIE level that you need Okay, so now I'm going to introduce you Although RIP configuration is not actually couple reasons. First, RIP configuration is very simple, so routing configuration. Second, some of the mechanics are similar make it easier when we go in depth on OSPF So, assuming all of the other routers have configure R1. Here is the basic setup. First, enter RIP configuration mode with the You can see under that the prompt now says Next, configure the router to use RIP version This isn't necessary, but you should always Classful IPv4 addressing is a thing of the to use things like VLSM and CIDR. Then, use the command NO AUTO-SUMMARY. Auto-summary is on by default, and it automatically to classful networks. For example, using classful logic, the 172.16.1.0/28 so it would be advertised as 172.16.0.0/16. Always use these two commands when you configure Next up we have to use the NETWORK command. First I used NETWORK 10.0.0.0. Now, I have to explain some things about it. The command itself is classful, it will automatically For example, even if you enter the command 10.0.0.0. 10.0.12.0 falls in the class A range, so a So, after the first 8 bits, all of the other Because of this behavior, there is no need Okay, so what effect does this command actually R1's G0/0 interface is 10.0.12.0/30, and I just entered the command NETWORK 10.0.0.0. Let's look at exactly how the NETWORK command The NETWORK command tells the router to look in the specified range, that is the range Then it will activate RIP on the interface It will form adjacencies with other connected prefix of the interface. This is not necessarily the prefix you specified This is also how the EIGRP and OSPF NETWORK differences. So, let me walk through it step-by-step here, OSPF later. So, we've just entered the network 10.0.0.0 Because the NETWORK command is classful, 10.0.0.0 R1 will look for any interfaces with an IP /8 means that only the first 8 bits need needs to be the same. 10.0.12.1 and 10.0.13.1 both match, they both So, RIP is activated on G0/0 and G1/0. R1 then forms adjacencies with its neighbors R1 will send and receive route information Here's the important part, R1 advertises prefixes of its G0/0 and G1/0 interfaces, Even though we used the NETWORK 10.0.0.0 command, The NETWORK command doesn't tell the router It tells the router which interfaces to activate the network prefix of those interfaces. Okay, we also configured the NETWORK 172.16.0.0 Let's run through this as well. Because the network command is classful, 172.16.0.0 R1 will look for any interfaces with an IP 172.16.1.14 matches, so R1 will activate RIP This time there are no RIP neighbors connected However, R1 advertises 172.16.1.0/28 (NOT One more important point: Although there are continuously send RIP advertisements out of This is unnecessary traffic, so G2/0 should Let's see how to do that. I used the command PASSIVE-INTERFACE G2/0. This configures G2/0 as a passive interface. Note that the command is done from RIP configuration That's why you need to specify the interface The passive-interface command tells the router the specified interface, which is G2/0 in However, the router will continue to advertise is 172.16.1.0/28, to its RIP neighbors, R2 It is recommended that you always use this RIP neighbors. EIGRP and OSPF both have the same passive To demonstrate one more function of RIP I G3/0 interface. Then I configured a default route pointing So, any packets that don't match any of will be sent to the Internet. Here you can see it in the routing table. Gateway of last resort is 203.0.113.2 to network Under it you can see the configured static Now, I want to use RIP to tell R2, R3, and reach the Internet as well. The command to share this default route into the command is done from RIP configuration Now that I have entered this command, R1 will will then advertise it to R4. Let's just check the routing table of R4. Notice it says 'Gateway of last resort is that you can see two routes, one via F2/0 Only one is actually stated up top as being of these routes have the same hop-count, R4 I'm repeating myself, but RIP treats all the connection via R3 is a slower fastethernet faster gigabit ethernet connection via R2. OSPF also has the same DEFAULT-INFORMATION default route with neighbors. We'll take a look at it again when we learn Now let's take a look at a very useful SHOW This command can be used for RIP, EIGRP, and We'll just run through a few of the things First up, this part here identifies the protocol These are some timers that RIP uses to operate, but will go in depth when we study OSPF. Here is some information about the version we configured. Automatic network summarization is not in command earlier. Maximum paths is 4, this refers to ECMP load-balancing. By default, RIP will insert up to 4 paths if they have the same metric. However, this can be changed. Here is the command, MAXIMUM-PATHS, followed This is done from RIP configuration mode. I put in 8 for example. This command is the same for EIGRP and OSPF Next up, this section here shows the networks Once again, these aren't the actual networks identifies which interfaces to activate RIP Here you can see any passive interfaces listed, Under 'routing information sources' you is R2 and 10.0.13.2 which is R3. Finally, distance states the administrative of 120. This can be changed with this command from by a number, 1 to 255. For example, if you want to make RIP routes you could set it to 85 like I just did, to 90. The DISTANCE command is the same for EIGRP Okay, that's all for RIP. Let's move on to EIGRP, you'll see a lot EIGRP stands for Enhanced Interior Gateway It is an improved version of the older IGRP, EIGRP was Cisco proprietary, but Cisco has implement it on their equipment. However, my understanding is that Cisco didn't Cisco-proprietary, and I don't think many So, practically speaking, it's still considered It's considered an 'advanced' or 'hybrid' It improves on the very basic operations of It's much faster than RIP in reacting to It doesn't have the 15 'hop-count' limit It sends messages using the multicast address Remember, RIPv1 broadcasts messages, and RIPv2 EIGRP multicasts them to 224.0.0.10. Try to remember these multicast addresses, Finally, one unique feature of EIGRP, EIGRP load-balancing. By default it performs ECMP load-balancing it to load-balance over multiple paths that EIGRP will even load-balance them in proportion So, more traffic will be sent over paths with less traffic will be sent over paths with paths. EIGRP is a great protocol, but because its it's not used nearly as much as OSPF is. That's why Cisco made OSPF the main focus protocols. Okay, let's look at the basic configurations Here's the same network as before. I've removed the RIP configurations, although the same time. But that would just be a waste of resources be one IGP running on a router. So, enter EIGRP configuration mode with this autonomous system, number. I used 1. The AS number must match between routers or route information. I already configured the same AS number of same here on R1. Next I disabled auto-summary. It functions the same as in RIP, it will advertise prefix configured on its interfaces. Auto-summary might be enabled or disabled If it's enabled, disable it. Actually on the version I'm using here it wanted to show you that EIGRP also has the should make sure it's turned off. Then I used the same passive-interface command Next up I used the NETWORK 10.0.0.0 command You can use a mask with EIGRP's NETWORK address if you don't specify the mask. So, NETWORK 10.0.0.0 is assumed to be 10.0.0.0/8. This network command functions like RIP's. You aren't actually telling the router to You are telling it to activate EIGRP on interfaces range, so any IP address that begins with That includes G0/0 and G1/0, so EIGRP is activated If you specify the mask, it looks like this. This command here, NETWORK 172.16.1.0 0.0.0.15 If this is your first time learning this, now. What's 0.0.0.15? Isn't the subnet mask for a /28 prefix 255.255.255.240? Well, yes it is. But EIGRP uses a 'wildcard mask' instead Let me explain what exactly that means. A wildcard mask is basically an 'inverted' All 1s in the subnet mask are 0 in the equivalent are 1 in the equivalent wildcard mask. Let's take a look. Here's a subnet mask in binary. 255.255.255.0 in dotted decimal. If you invert all of the bits, you get this. 0.0.0.255 in dotted decimal. So, that's the wildcard mask equivalent Notice all of the 1s in the subnet mask have become 1. Here's another example. 255.255.0.0 becomes 0.0.255.255. This is the wildcard mask equivalent of /16. And here's another, 255.0.0.0 becomes 0.255.255.255. This is the wildcard mask equivalent of /8. Okay, so those are easy, now let's look In our network, R1's G2/0 interface has as a normal subnet mask in dotted decimal. If you invert the bits, you get this. If you write that out in dotted decimal, you So, that's how you write a /28 prefix length Let's do a few more practice questions. Pause the video now and convert this into Okay, here's the answer, 0.0.0.127, that's Let's try another. Pause the video now and convert this subnet Okay, here's the answer. 0.3.255.255. That's how you write a /14 prefix length Let's do one more for now. Pause the video now and convert this subnet Okay, here's the answer. 0.0.31.255, which is a /19 prefix length written Although I think it's always important to a good shorcut is to subtract each octet of So, with this subnet mask, for example, 255 255 minus 255 equals 0. 255 minus 248 equals 7. and 255 minus 0 equals So, this /21 subnet mask becomes 0.0.7.255 To finish up with wildcard masks, I'll explain A '0' in the wildcard mask means the bits and the EIGRP network command. A '1' in the wildcard mask means the bits So, the IP address on R1's G2/0 is 172.16.1.14. I used the EIGRP network command 172.16.1.0, This means that the first 28 bits must match. Do they? Yes they do. So, we have a match, and EIGRP will be activated Let's try another one, see if it will match. With the same IP address, I used this network Network 172.16.1.0, with a wildcard mask of So, this means the first 29 bits must match. Do they? Actually, they don't. This bit here doesn't match between R1's So, no match, and EIGRP will not be activated Okay, try to figure this out on your own. With the command NETWORK 172.16.1.8 0.0.0.7, Pause the video now to find the answer. Okay, let's check. We're using the same wildcard mask as last Do they match this time? Yes they do, the first 29 bits of 172.16.1.14 So, we have a match and EIGRP will be activated Okay, one last practice question for wildcard The network command is NETWORK 168.0.0.0 7.255.255.255. In this case, would EIGRP be activated on Pause the video now to find the answer. Okay, let's check. With this wildcard mask, only the first 5 address and the EIGRP network command. The first five bits of the IP address are network command are 1 0 1 0 1 as well, so be activated on the interface. So, in this case I used a /28 wildcard mask, is connected to, but as I just demonstrated activate EIGRP on the interface. However, usually you'll just keep it simple itself, like I did here. Or maybe use a /32 wildcard mask and specify How would you write a /32 wildcard mask? Well, as you know the subnet mask is 255.255.255.255, Anyway, OSPF uses wildcard masks also so we'll Just remember, this command only specifies EIGRP on. R1 will then advertise the network prefix Let's take a look at the SHOW IP PROTOCOLS 'Routing protocol is EIGRP 1', 1 being Remember what I said in the previous video It uses interface bandwidth and delay by default, that are set to 1 here. The bandwidth of the SLOWEST link in the path, links in the path, are used to calculate the The other k-values, K2, K4, and K5 are set metric, however that can be changed with configuration. Next up is the router-ID. In EIGRP and OSPF, the router has a unique Notice that the default on R1 is 172.16.1.14. Why is that? Well, the router ID is determined like this. First up, if the router ID is manually configured, If the router ID isn't manually configured, loopback interfaces will be the router ID. Loopback interfaces are virtual interfaces more in the OSPF videos. Finally, if there are no loopback interfaces IP address on any of the router's physical So, G2/0's 172.16.1.14 became the router Note that the router ID isn't actually an like a dotted-decimal IP address, and you Here's how to configure the EIGRP router-ID. From EIGRP configuration mode, use the command you want to configure, in this case I used Now you can see that the router ID changes highest priority. Okay, next two fields we saw when learning Automatic summarization is disabled, as it over a maximum of 4 paths by default, like Routing for networks 10.0.0.0 and 172.16.1.0/28. These are the two NETWORK commands we entered G2/0 is configured as a passive interface, has two separate AD values, 90 for internal Remember both numbers. Internal routes are normal EIGRP routes, but which are then inserted into EIGRP, but that's Finally I want to show you how EIGRP looks First, notice that EIGRP routes are indicated the metric costs. 3072, 3328, 28416, these costs are much higher a very small network. In large networks, these numbers can get much That's perhaps a downside of EIGRP, the Okay, that's all we'll cover about RIP Before moving on to today's quiz, let's First, we covered the basics of RIP and its Then we did the same for EIGRP. Again, these aren't listed on the exam topics need to know anything about them. Also, the things you learned in this video much easier. There is one more thing about EIGRP I want but I will cover that in the lab video. So be sure to watch that video, it's coming Also make sure to stick around until the end Boson ExSim, the best practice exams for the Follow the link in the description to get it's the single best tool to make sure you're Okay, let's move on to question 1 of the R1 and R2 both use RIP to share routes. R1 has a default route to the Internet that Which command should you use? A, from config-router mode on R1, DEFAULT-INFORMATION B, from config-router mode on R1, NETWORK C, from global config mode on R2, IP ROUTE D, from config-router mode on R2, DEFAULT-INFORMATION Pause the video to think about the answer. The answer is A, default-information originate This command is used to advertise R1's default B, the NETWORK command, is used to activate route. C, the IP ROUTE command, configures a default advertise a default route to R2. Finally, D is incorrect because we want to not from R2 to R1. Let's go to question 2. R1's G1/0 interface has an IP address of IP address of 172.26.20.12. Which of the following network commands will I'll put up the four network commands here. A, B, C, and D. Pause the video and find the Okay, the answer is A, network 128.0.0.0 127.255.255.255. I won't explain all of them, but let's So, I have written the IP addresses of G1/0 command, which is NETWORK 128.0.0.0 127.255.255.255. Only the first bit of the wildcard mask is As you can see, the first bit is 1 in the so this command will activate EIGRP on both Let's go to question 3. What is the correct order of priority when A, highest loopback interface address, highest B, highest physical interface address, highest C, manual configuration, highest physical Or D, manual configuration, highest loopback address. Pause the video to think about your answer. The answer is D, manual configuration takes If the router ID isn't manually configured, will become the EIGRP router ID. Finally, if there are no loopback interfaces, will become the EIGRP router ID. Okay, let's move on to take a look at a Okay, for today's Boson ExSim practice question So let's get right into it. In which of the following situations does selection? Select the best answer. Okay, pause the video here to take a look correct answer. Okay, hopefully you found it. So let's go through each of them one by one. First up, A. When multiple routes to different of these routes is received from a different So, I think A is incorrect. Why is that? That's because each of the routes is to a So the router doesn't have to choose between in the routing table, because they are to So I think A is incorrect. How about B? When multiple routes to the same destination are received from the same routing protocol. So B is also incorrect. So, all of the routes are to the same destination choose which one to put in the routing table. However all of the routes are from the same AD to determine which route, because they Instead it will use the metric value. Okay, how about C? When multiple routes to different destination are received from the same routing protocol. So, different destination networks again, Because once again, just like in A, the router table because they are to different destinations. So let's see if D is correct. When multiple routes to the same destination the router will have to choose which one to And each of these routes is received from Okay, so different routing protocol, to the Because the routing protocol is different each routing protocol uses a totally different So, instead the router will compare the AD So I think D is the correct answer, let's There we go, it is. And here is Boson's explanation, including protocols and types of routes. I covered these in day 24, directly connected, I mentioned that one. eBGP, and others. Okay, so if you want further reading on top reference here, Cisco: Route Selection in So this is a link to free Cisco documentation Okay, so that's today's Boson ExSim practice I highly recommend picking up a copy of Boson I used it myself to study for my CCNA and exams on the first try. So if you want to get a copy of Boson ExSim, There are supplementary materials for this There is a flashcard deck to use with the There will also be a packet tracer practice That will be in the next video. I especially recommend watching today's EIGRP I only briefly mentioned in this video, Sign up for my mailing list via the link in the flashcards and packet tracer lab files Before finishing today's video I want to Thank you to Ed, Tillman, Value, Magrathea, Tibi, Vikram, Joyce, Marek, Velvijaykum, C Software, the makers of ExSim, Sidi, Devin, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, One of you is still displaying as Channel me know and I'll see if YouTube can fix This is the list of JCNP-level members at 2020, if you signed up recently and your name in future videos. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links I'm also a Brave verified publisher and accept Brave browser. That's all for now.