- Interesterified and calcium propionate, cellulose gum. Blah, blah, blah, blah. Hey, everyone. It's Natasha of natashaskitchen.com. I'm gonna show you to make homemade flour tortillas with just flour, butter, Let's get started. Also, let me know if you can spot Sharky We'll start by whisking That's flour, salt, and baking powder. Now add your softened butter and use your hands to Work the butter in until you have a sandy and fine crumb mixture. Now you'll need one cup of hot water. Carefully add that a little bit at a time, mixing as you go. Remember that water is hot, so avoid getting it on your hands. You can also use a firm wooden spatula but your hands are really the best tools for making tortillas. You'll know you've added enough water when a sticky ball forms that pulls away from The dough will feel pretty You can use a flexible food then transfer to a clean work surface and knead for five minutes. - [Narrator] Five minutes later. - [Natasha] The dough will and it should be soft and elastic. (Natasha giggles) Now, pinch off balls of dough. They should be about golf ball sized. Cup your hand around the dough and roll it on the countertop until a smooth ball forms. Repeat that process with You can make your dough depending on the size We're gonna make 10 eight to Now we need to let that dough rest. Lightly oil a baking sheet or a platter. Now arrange your dough just so they're not touching. Cover those with an oiled Oiling the plastic wrap ensures that it doesn't stick to the dough. Let those rest at room temperature for 20 to 30 minutes. - [Narrator] 20 minutes later. - Before you start rolling, preheat a large non-stick 12 inch pan, or a comal if you have one, over medium high heat. You wanna get that to I'll link to this gray and all the tools I'm using in this recipe in the recipe notes. Before you start rolling out the dough, dust the work surface with flour. Set the dough down and gently pat over the top. Here's the process for Start by rolling in one direction, then rotate the tortilla and roll again. Rotate the tortilla again, and as it gets larger, you can start rolling up and down, continuing to rotate the tortilla. As it gets larger, you also wanna flip the tortilla over. This'll ensure that it Continue rolling until 10 inch diameter round. You wanna keep rolling until it starts looking transparent and you can start to see the counter through the tortilla. Transfer that to your and let that cook for 20 to 30 seconds. Once you see some bubbling on top and some golden brown flip the tortilla and continue to cook You wanna make sure your skillet is fully preheated every time to ensure those beautiful bubbles form. As you pull the hot you wanna stack them Repeat this process with The actual cooking process for So if you can enlist an assistant, it's definitely more fun So the keys to making perfect are making sure you let that dough rest, following the correct process and cooking on a very hot skillet. And make sure it's a non-stick skillet. If your tortillas are sticking to the pan, they won't puff up as nicely. And don't be afraid to Trapping the heat in the towel ensures they stay soft and moist. Oh yeah. And you know, honestly, this is even more fun when you do this with two people. Teamwork makes the dream work. Am I right? (Natasha chuckles) All right, and I just am ready You do wanna let them sit covered until they're room temperature. Then you can store them in a zip container or some kind of airtight container and just keep them at room temperature. These are so good for days and I wanna show you Check this out, just how pliable they are. Just amazing. These are perfect for burritos, for quesadillas, anything that you could tacos, of course, my favorite. Or even sprinkle some and have like a churro tortilla. That's right. Look at how soft these are. And I've tried making I've tried with oil, I've tried with lard. Butter is just my go-to. It smells great. It tastes so good. And honestly, homemade tortillas taste so much better than store bought. They're pretty epic. And I love when they bubble like this because they get so soft afterwards. Look at how tender. I'm just gonna go right into this. Oh, something so satisfying Oh. Mm. If you haven't tried a you're missing out. I wanna know what is your favorite way to use flour tortillas? And let me know in the comments if you spotted Sharky. I'm just gonna go make It's like 2:00 PM. The craving strikes, okay? All right, we'll see