Hyundai Alcazar We have already brought a detailed review on this car But you said that we should make a comparison video So today we have brought a big comparison Where we didn't leave any car XUV700, Tata Safari Innova Hycross and MG Hector Plus MG didn't have a car We had only one subscriber So we have got that car now So today you are going to get a detailed video on this car Without wasting time We will get into it Today you will get 60 plus tests Which you will get to see only on MotorOctane We will keep talking from other channels We will do this, we will do that No one is doing anything, just talking If you want to see the real test Then come only on MotorOctane So without wasting time, let's go So here we don't talk about the design Because you know all these aspects Let's start with the tests So the first one is the headlight test No one will do this for you Hyundai Alcazar It has LED lights in the top model Its throw is good, spread is okay But the intensity of its light Could have been better If we go there on XUV700 Its light's throw Spread, intensity is very good Spread could have been a little better But as soon as you cross 80 You get auto booster lights Because of which You get an extra set of lights And no one is giving you this Next is Innova Hycross Its light's throw is good, intensity is good Spread again could be a little bit more better Now let's go to Tata Safari Its throw is good Intensity is decent Spread is very good And if we see the throw of Hector Plus And intensity It is decent enough But its spread is actually good So in overall lights Its the XUV700 clearly Now if we see the keys of these cars In Alcazar you get Lock, unlock, boot open and remote start feature In XUV700 you get Lock, unlock, boot open and flip key In Innova Hycross you get Lock, unlock and boot open In Tata Safari you get Lock, unlock, boot open and headlight feature And in MG Hector you get Lock, unlock and boot open By the way, if you see the wipers You get regular wipers And you get more expensive premium wipers Premium wipers are Frameless wipers So the frameless wipers you get in Tata, Mahindra and MG In these three models Rest in both the cars cost is cut In terms of wipers Now let me ask you a question, you won't mind Do you do as much research for car loan As you do to buy a car? No right? Because today Apart from competitive interest rate You also get other benefits Take advantage of these benefits So today I am going to recommend you a car loan Which is valid for all types of people So you are salaried, self-employed Agriculturalist, do your own business Everyone has these options And their network is in most cities and major dealerships And it has a very good feature Step-up EMI So start with less EMI And as your income increases You can increase your EMI outflow And it is very easy to finance your car And if you are a Kotak customer Like me Then you will also have a pre-approved loan option If I talk about the tyres of all the cars Then you get 18 inch wheels In all the top-end models There is only Safari In which instead of 18, you get 19 inch Top-end wheels By the way, if you go to see spare tyres Alcazar has 17 inch spare 7W has full 18 inch But it is a very thin tyre In Hycross you have 16 inch And Safari Despite having 19 inch wheels It has 16 inch spare Hector gets a 17 inch spare wheel In Alcazar you have 200mm ground clearance And 700 continues with the same 200mm Hycross gets 185mm Safari gets 200mm Hector gets 192mm In the boot space test, we noticed When all the seats are raised In Alcazar, a medium and small size bag sits And a small backpack sits When all the seats are folded Then all the bags sit easily You have lots of space to keep extra stuff In fact, we have placed 3 backpacks Quite easily In XUV700, a medium and small size bag sits When all the seats are folded Then a large, medium and small bag sits With a backpack There is more space to keep stuff So XUV700 being wider It has a lot more boot space Hycross has the biggest boot When all the seats are raised A large, medium and two backpacks Sit easily Without causing inconvenience And when all the seats are folded This is the biggest boot Here you can carry a lot of stuff Without any hurdle This car has the biggest boot in the category No doubt about it Alright, when all the seats are raised Then it is difficult for the backpacks to fit Otherwise, if you see here A large, medium and small bag sits And a backpack sits This is not the widest car Inside the cabin In the third row So because of this, there is a little less space If I talk about XUV700 or Hycross Hycross has the best boot in the category Now we noticed in Hector Plus That a medium and two backpacks Can sit here But when we fold the seats That's when you notice that space increases You get large, medium and small All three sit comfortably Apart from that, I still feel there is No need to fold the car to add luggage Without any problem Now when we tested the paint thickness Of all the cars So we realized that Alcazar has a thickness of 220 XUV700 has a thickness of 162 Hycross has a thickness of 226 Tata Safari has a thickness of 181 And MG Hector has a thickness of 159.5 Now getting in and out Alcazar is the easiest to get in and out Because of a simple fact That the height of the car is not very high So you can easily slide in and out of the vehicle XUV700 is comparatively a little taller So if you are older Or if you have pain in your knees Or if you are short Then you may find it difficult to get in and out Both front and rear But Hycross is not like that Hycross is more of an MPV So it is very easy to get in and out In both front and rear It is pretty much easy to get in and out And even if you are older You won't find it difficult to get in and out Tata Safari is a little taller So you may find it difficult to get in and out For a simple fact that the car is tall So that is the same story Even in MG Hector Despite being a big car It is not difficult to get in and out So MG has done a lot of work here Full points to MG on this front and rear Let's start with Hyundai Alcazar's interiors You get black and brown color interiors But here you get majorly hard plastics But touch and feel of material is good And the color combination makes it look nice and premium Now the front seats They are wide and decent The support is also good So if you are doing a 3-4 hour trip You are going to be very comfortable If you go more than that That is when you start feeling a bit uncomfortable Now Alcazar also has some unique features For example, in all three rows You get a Type C charging port In the second row, the focus is on the backseat And here, the adjustable headrest Has become a winged headrest Which is also available in Safari Ventilated seats are also available But one thing is unique That the thigh support can be increased Which adds on to the comfort I am quite surprised to share That our own XUV700 Is 2.5 years old But still, in its interiors The aging factor is not visible Yes, it looks a bit beige You know, it's become a little darker And apart from that, there are some scratches Especially the piano black finish There are more scratches There is a scratch here But apart from that I don't see any scratches in the car Or anything else That makes the car look aged Everything is perfect right now So this is a very good thing about this car Now if I talk about the front seats This car is quite wide and supportive If you are going on a long journey You are not going to get tired very easily The seats are very comfortable So if you are going on a road trip 700 is one of the most comfortable cars to be in Now 700 is the oldest car in this category But still, it had a lot of unique features The first is all wheel drive Second being 3D surround sound This is the only car in this category That gives 3D surround sound Everyone else gives branded speakers But 3D surround sound is fantastic Third and final is auto booster lights These lights are amazing Once you experience this You will not want to use any other car headlights I am sharing this from the point of view of an owner If you look at the high cross interiors You will feel that this is a very simplistic interior It doesn't look very premium Hard plastics are given here And that is quite true for a vehicle like this Toyota could have made the interiors very premium But it seems like they didn't want to And generally Toyota cars last a long time I mean in terms of quality, finish Which remains the same Even after 4-5 years But on the hycross Maybe because this car has been abused a lot So this car has been abused a lot So this car has been abused a lot Maybe because this car has been abused a lot By journalists who use this car So there are some signs of ageing Whereas this car has only covered 20,000 kms But overall These small things On the Toyota I have never noticed this before If I talk about the front seats They are wide and supportive They provide good comfort However, I feel the overall lumbar That could have been given an adjustment option Because if that was available It would have been much more comfortable A lot of people who have back pain Or they want that extra support At the lower back You don't get that here If you are putting it in a 30-35 lakh car You should get that easily There are a few unique features. So for example, you get hybrid technology, second you get ottoman seats on the top end which gives you more comfort and third you get roof mounted A.C. which generally makes the cabin cooler despite having panoramic sunroof. Tata Safari's interior is the freshest and looks very premium. Here we have a beige and brown colour interior option which looks very unique. I like the overall styling of this interior and it looks very expensive. The fit finish is decent enough, there are a lot of soft touch elements and the front seats are wide and supportive. So if you are going on a long journey, the chances of getting tired are less. What I really like is the quality of the leather it uses. And by the way, you get lumbar support in this car which gives extra support to your lower back. Earlier Safari had a lot of unique features but now there are not a lot of things. First, you get a 45W Type-C charging port and second is the fact that you get ambient light inside the sunroof. Third, I would say the rear A.C. vents are very strong and they come straight on to your face. Rest of the cars have side facing vents. These are three critical points. If you look at the interior of Hector Plus, you get black and brown colour interiors. This is not a top end model. In top end, you get black and brown and in Hector, you get black and beige colour interiors. Now, Hector's fit finish is good. The quality of materials can be a little better or premium. It seems average in its overall look. Okay, let me tell you one more thing. Earlier, Hector's seats were very comfortable. But post facelift, the seat comfort of this car, that is where I feel there is a difference. Especially, the lumbar support can be improved. So if you are going on a long journey, then you will actually start feeling tired. Now, Hector also has some unique features. I don't know how much of these are useful to you. First, you get a big screen and second, you get a Bluetooth key. No other brand is giving this in today's date. And third, if I turn my steering wheel left or right, then your indicator starts automatically. Which, according to me, is not a great feature. And you should take the option of switching it off. Because for me, it is not working well. In Alcazar, the steering adjustment is available for both height and reach. In XUV700, the steering wheel is available for both height and reach. Whereas, in Innova Hycross, if you look at it, you get both height and reach. So mostly you expect that in most of the cars. And Tata Safari also gives you this. Now, if you look at MG Hector, then here your steering wheel can be adjusted for height and reach too. So, telescopic steering wheel is a standard in this category. In all the five cars, the driver's seat is electrically adjustable. Only in MG Hector, you don't have a memory function. The touchscreen of Hyundai Alcazar is very good to use. It's quite easy to use. Its UI is very simple. Whereas, it is also very easy to operate in 7W. The UI of Hycross is very basic. It fails a little in terms of premium. I feel, it could have been done a little more premium. I think Tata Safari's screen quality and usability is very good. It still hangs a little in some cars. But overall, its premiumness is very high. In MG Hector too, you have a very good screen. Biggest in the category. The UI is a little complicated. But I feel, its icons are not premium. It feels a little basic. Now, Alcazar's 360-degree camera is very good. It is very easy to use. And the best part is, when you use it at night, you won't feel too grainy. The overall camera quality of XUV700 is decent enough. There is no major complaint. And if you use it at night, you will feel a little grainy. If we look at the 360-degree camera of High Cross, it is decent enough. There is no problem in using it. And it feels nice to use too. By the way, if you look at the camera of Hycross at night, it is okay in terms of quality. Tata Safari has one of the best cameras. The screen resolution is also good. And when you use it at night, you will have no complaints with it. MG Hector 360-degree camera, not the best in the category. MG has made it HD, but it doesn't feel the most clearest one. And when you use it at night, you will realize that it doesn't seem to be very nice in terms of overall usage. Tata Safari 360-degree camera, not the best in the category. MG has made it HD, but it doesn't seem to be very nice in terms of overall usage. Alright, in the storage spaces, there is a 1-litre bottle in the Alcazar front door pad. 2 cup holders are also provided here. There is a place to keep the phone. The glove box is also quite big, so 2-3 bottles will fit in it. And in the rear, you have storage spaces to keep phones at multiple points. And there is a 1-litre bottle in the back door pad as well. There is also a place to keep the phone. So the storage spaces are quite good here. In the Alcazar front door pad, there is good storage space in the armrest to keep stuff. There is a 1-litre bottle in the door pad of XUV700. There are 2 cup holders in the front. There is an armrest as well, but it's not the deepest of all. can easily fit in it. There is a 1-litre bottle in the rear door pad as well. Plus, you have an armrest as well. And there are storage spaces here to keep your smartphone at the back as well. In the third row, there is a cup holder as well. There is a 1-litre bottle in the front door pad of Hi-Cross. There are 2 cup holders as well. The armrest is also quite big. There is enough space in the glove box as well. And there is good storage space at the top as well to keep your smartphone as well. Plus, you get cup holders too. There is a 1-litre bottle in the rear door pad. There are 2 cup holders in the centre as well. Despite the fact that this is a captain seated car, you have space for phone storage as well. There are additional hooks in the car as well. There is cup holder space in the third row. There is a dedicated slot to keep your phone as well. There is a 1-litre bottle in the front door pad of Safari. The armrest is decent enough. There are 2 cup holders in the front as well. You also get a good enough glove box. The glove box is the biggest in the category if you ask me. There is space in the second row door pad of Safari as well. There is space in the rear as well to keep your phone. There is space in the rear door as well. There is extra storage space in the third row as well. You can keep your stuff in the cup. Or you can place your phone there as well. There is a 1-litre bottle in the front door pad of Hector. The glove box is decent enough. It is not the biggest in the category. There are cup holders in the front. The armrest is also quite big. There is a 1-litre bottle in the front door pad of Safari. There are 2 cup holders. There is phone storage in the second row. There is decent enough storage in the third row as well. You can also keep your smartphone there. Alcazar has a Type C 12V USB charging port. You also get a wireless charging pad. There are 2 Type C charging ports in the second row. There is a wireless charging pad as well. There is a Type C charging port in the third row as well. There are 2 USB and 1 wireless charging pad in 700. There is Type C in the second row. There is a Type C 12V charging port in the third row. Innova Hycross has a 12V charger in the front. There is also a USB and Type C charger. There are 2 Type C in the back. There is a 12V charger in the third row for the passengers as well. Safari has a 45W Type C charger. There is also a USB and a wireless charging pad. It also has more Type C USB and 12V charging points. There is a Type C and USB charger in the second row. There is a Type C and USB charger in the third row. Hector has a USB wireless charging port in the front. There is a USB charging port in the second row. Alcazar was a 6-seater. That's why we have put a 2nd row test of Creta. For you to understand how 3 people can sit. There is enough space for 3 people. Overall, there is no complaint with it. But if you compare Alcazar with other cars, it does not have the highest knee room in the category. The thigh support of this car can be increased on the captain seats. That's why you have good thigh support. Headroom is decent enough here. 3 people can sit comfortably in the XUV700. There is no complaint. Even if you look at the minimum and maximum knee room, it is given decent enough. There is no complaint on that. Headroom is also decent enough here. Thigh support is pretty good too. We got the captain seats model in the Hycross. We have put a lower variant of the Hycross here. Just for your point. Overall, you have a very good shoulder support here. Overall, minimum and maximum knee room is very good in this car, so there's no complaint on that front. And because there are ottoman seats here, you don't have a lack of thigh support. Headroom is okay. Alright, the Tata Safari we got was a two-seater, so we're going to use Harrier's second row to show you overall width. So there won't be a problem in width in all cars, it is good enough. And overall, your minimum and maximum knee room is very good in this also. Thigh support is also good in this and the headroom is decent enough too. Alright, when three people were sitting in MG Hector, the overall shoulder room of the car is very good. So there's no complaint in this as well. Minimum and maximum knee room is also pretty neat on this car. We were expecting maximum and minimum knee room in this car, but actually it didn't happen that way. Headroom is okay, not too much, and thigh support could have been a little better here. If we talk about Alcazar in the third row, there's no shortage of shoulder room. But the knee room is not that much. So if you're more than 5 feet tall, you don't have knee room at all. And you don't have much thigh support either. You're going to have a struggle in terms of headroom as well. You were also given recline in the seat, but that does not help a tall passenger at all. Same story if we look at the 700. So overall, shoulder room in the third row is not a problem. But if we look at minimum and maximum knee room, then you're going to have a struggle. Because if you're more than 5 feet tall, you cannot sit there for too long. You don't have much thigh support and headroom is also not that much. You can recline the seat here as well, but that will not help you a lot. Toyota claims that three people can sit here in the third row. But that is not possible because the car is not that wide in the third row. Now here you have a good shoulder room. Minimum and maximum knee room is very good. And your thigh support is okay. Not bad, but best of all. And there is not much headroom. If you recline the seat, you will get some relief for sure. Now in the third row of Safari, the overall shoulder room is pretty good. But minimum and maximum knee room is okay. Actually, a tall passenger can sit 6 feet behind for some time. But there is not much thigh support. So comfort should be not that high. Headroom is okay. Not the best in the category. MG Hector Plus. This is a surprise package for us. Because when we look at the overall shoulder room of this car. So the shoulder room is good in everything. That has not been a complaint. But you have got an average in this. Minimum knee room and maximum knee room of this car is okay. Not the best. By the way, the thigh support here is equal to none. That is what took us to a surprise. And overall headroom is okay. While starting, driving the Hyundai Alcazar. Start the car. Put it in the drive mode. And here we go. Now you have two engine options in this. 1.5 liter turbo petrol. And 1.5 liter turbo diesel engine. Both have manual and automatic gearboxes. Petrol has 7 speed. Diesel has 6 speed automatic. Now the specialty of Alcazar is that the power of this car is decent enough for your city driving. You will not have any concern in the city. And if you take its petrol. Specifically. So it has more than sufficient power to go at 120, 140, 150. There is no problem. It pulls easily. Whereas the diesel engine. It starts struggling a little after 100, 120. For that extra power. Especially if your car is completely loaded. Now in Alcazar you get a 1.5 liter engine. Whereas all the cars give you a 2.0 or 2.2 liter engine. Except Hector which has a 1.5 turbo. So the advantage of this car is that it gives you good performance. Because its body weight is also less. And its mileage will also be better than everybody else. If I just talk about petrol. So this thing clearly goes in its favor. Now Alcazar drives almost like a car than a SUV. There is a lot of normal driving in it. Like you can see the bonnet edges. You are not sitting too high here. And that is where things go in its favor. That this car is very convenient to drive. So before that if you drive a small car. This car will be easy to drive. Alcazar is very easy to drive in the city. Even in tighter lanes specifically. One thing you will notice. That this car has good visibility. Mirror sizes are also actually big for the size of the vehicle. So overall driving. There will not be much inconvenience factor. Yes, you will definitely come across such people in the city. But then it's not that difficult to turn this car around. And apart from that. Because it's quite light in most conditions. So it's easy to drive this car. Okay, I would like to say one point. When you drive this car at very low speeds. Then its steering becomes very heavy. Which can be something that Hyundai should not do on their cars. That steering should not be too light at very low speeds. Now it's time to drive the XUV700. Let's start the car. Put it in drive mode. And here we are ready to go. XUV700 comes with two engine options. 2 liter turbo petrol and 2.2 liter diesel engine option. Overall these two engines give you the best of all performance. And it's not just on paper. Even in real life. Like I press the accelerator. This car pulls quite smoothly. And the fact is that. You will notice that my car which I am driving is 2.5 years old. All wheel driver. Still this is a lot more quicker than other cars. At any given point of time. So this shows that Mahindra is always trying to give you one of the best in class performance. Now if you drive this car. Then you can see the edges of the bonnet to a large extent. Mirror size is quite big enough. And if you drive it daily. You will not be concerned. Yes its pillar is a little thick. But when you drive on tight spots. Then you may face some visibility problems. Otherwise it's absolutely fine. In terms of daily driving. The car is very good. The steering wheel is light. So when you start driving this car. You won't feel that I am driving a heavy or big car. At any given point of time. And it is also given a sporty nature. So if I talk about changing my lane. So the effort I have to put to change the lane on the steering wheel. That is less than other cars. In terms of steering effort. Like safari or high cross. If I have to change lane in either of these. Then I have to put a lot of effort on steering. Here it's like I touched it a little. So the sensitivity of the steering is more. Because of which if you want to change lane quickly. So this is the car for you. Driving this car is very easy. And convenient on a daily basis. If I talk about its ride quality. Then the ride quality is good on low speeds. And you get a little noise in the car. Especially from the front suspension. That it makes a sound. But that has been solved in the newer cars. That problem is there in my car. Because my car is quite old comparatively. And this was the problem in the initial batches. Mahindra has accepted that there were some problems in this. Like they didn't change the sound insulation. And a few small things of tightening the entire system. So all those things that were wrong. That is now fixed on the car. Next is if you see its handling. It is fantastic. You push this car. You will enjoy driving this car at any given point of time. In fact, even its high speed stability is fantastic. When we drive the XUV700 in the city. Then you will notice that there is generally no problem in visibility. Now because I am driving a little early. So in that case, there will be no problem in turning. Because generally there is no problem if a car is parked. Otherwise, if a car is parked here. Because of that, turning becomes a little tight. But because the steering is light. You can easily drive it. So there will be no such problem. But yes, all these cars are of such a large size. So you may be a little concerned about turning in tighter lanes. Now it's time to drive the Toyota Hycross. You have two engine options in this. One is 2 liter petrol. And one is 2 liter petrol plus hybrid technology. Let's talk about petrol first. More than sufficient power for daily usage is more than enough. You also have a good gearbox. Silent engine. There is no problem in pickup. It's a very nice car to have if your driving is less. Because you will get a mileage of 5 to 7 km per liter. Now if we switch to the hybrid, the second engine option. So this is the same 2 liter engine. With a hybrid motor and a battery pack. Now a lot of people think that the battery pack will get spoiled. We calculate it from our smartphone or laptop. And say that this is a problem. So the batteries of electric cars and hybrid cars. They are made to last for much longer. But yes, if you look at markets like UAE. Middle East specifically. There are cars like Camry in the taxi market. This car runs in the taxi market. With this technology right now. So it can cover lakhs of kilometers in a few years. So because of that you will have to change the battery. But let me tell you that the battery pack of this car is very small. So even if you drive a lot of kilometers. Even then your cost will not be much. The size of the battery in an electric scooter. Even smaller than that comes in the battery pack. So in this way your cost will not be much. But yes, if your electric battery gets spoiled in this car. Then the mileage in your car will drop drastically. functionality. But when your electric car battery is running which is 99.9999% which is not a problem, then your car will give you a mileage between 16-18 in the city also in most conditions. Which is fantastic because if you buy a diesel car at this price point, then that will also give you an average of 10-12 and this is giving you an average of 16-18 easily. Which is amazing for a vehicle like this. Overall steering wheel is very light, visibility is also good, mirrors are pretty huge on this car. So chances of you getting a blind spot is very minimal in this car. Now see this is not a really fun or fast car to drive. So like I said, it's going to be very, I mean the idea is that you are taking your family somewhere. You don't feel sporty anywhere in this car. So the entire focus is on comfort. If you drive in the city of Hycross, then it can be a little difficult because you don't get to see the entire edges of the bonnet. And it's a long car, especially the back part of this car is quite long. So because of this, it can be a little difficult when you are driving in the city. And other than that, I don't think that there's any of a problem. You can easily drive the car in the city. And because of its length, there is always a struggle in this car. So the only option you have generally is to reverse in most situations. But because of the steering light, it's quite comfortable and convenient to drive. So then still you will not have a lot of concerns with it. Now let's start the car and put it in the drive mode. And here we are ready to go. Its AC automatically goes on loud. Let me just reduce that for you guys. So that you can hear my voice. Now in Safari, you have only one engine option, a 2-litre diesel engine. That's it. 6-speed manual, 6-speed automatic. If you drive Safari in daily usage, it's more than sufficient for your power. Its clutch is a little deep on the manual version, but I think automatic is a better suited vehicle if you want to drive in daily traffic or even if you're buying a big car. According to me, automatic makes a lot more sense for most people driving. Because the performance you want is not like it fades out automatically. So that is not going to be a concern at any given point of time. So its drive and ride quality is very good. If you want to overtake someone on the city highway, there won't be a problem. One thing you like in the Safari is the fact that it's very comfortable to drive this car. You're sitting in a very nice and comfortable place versus in most cars, you sit in a very sporty position. Only in Innova Hycross, you sit in a similar position. But the downside to this is that if you want to change lanes, you have to put in a lot more effort into the steering wheel if you want to change lanes versus, for example, 700, it's more direct. You put in a little effort and it just changes the lane quickly for you. So in quick driving, it's more helpful. One more thing I want to tell you about Safari is that overall, this car has one of the best ride qualities. In both low-speed and high-speed, this feels like one of the best planted cars and even the high-speed stability of the car is very good. Okay, if you drive the Tata Safari in city traffic or in the city, then in that case, it feels a little wide, although it's not that wide, but because of the seating position, the driving position, it feels a little wide comparatively. So when you drive in tighter spots, then you'll have to take a U-turn again and again because of the length also and the turning radius of the car, I feel, could be a little bit more better. Otherwise, it is easy to drive. Mirror size is decent enough. This pillar is a little thick. This could be a little lesser, which could enhance the visibility a little more, but not much to complain about because you can see the edges of the bonnet to a great extent. Now it's time to drive the MG Hector. Let's start the car. The first gear and here we go. Now in MG Hector, actually Hector Plus is the right term. Here you get two options. One is 1.5-litre turbo petrol and the other is 2-litre diesel. Now in diesel, you have only manual and in petrol, you have manual and CVT. Now 1.5-litre engine, small size engine, should give more mileage, should give less power. You're right about it, but should give more mileage is not going to work out here for the very simple reason that the weight of the car is too much and for that, you don't get high performance or more fuel efficiency. If you're driving in the city, you're driving it very comfortably, conveniently that you have to go from point A to point B, you don't have to go too fast, you don't have to go up, then in that case, it's a good car. But if you're going to push the car more, then in that case, you're not going to get fuel efficiency and you're not going to get performance. Look, if you look at the petrol engine in a car of this size, right, except Alcazar because it's lighter comparatively, all the other cars that are there, they're heavier, bigger, so if you put any size petrol engine in it, it's a little difficult to get more mileage, especially in the city. And this is the same story with the MG Hector Plus as well. So yes, if you look at the fuel efficiency, all the petrol cars like XUV700 Innova, Hycross, regular petrol engine, you will get the same mileage, but the power will be comparatively lesser. Now, this engine is quite refined, there is no problem in it. You can see the edges of the bonnet, the mirror size is also decent enough and the pillars are also not thick. So because of all these factors, your drivability increases a lot and you can drive this car comfortably for an entire day. Okay, let me tell you one thing, the ride of this car is very soft. So when you go from the pits or go at slow speeds from somewhere, then you will feel a lot of bounce in the car and second, you will feel a lot of body roll in its handling. Look, you will feel a little body roll in all the cars, but in this car, you feel a lot of body roll clearly because its suspension is very soft and its suspension travels a lot. So when the car turns, you feel that tilt etc. due to which you will feel more body roll. When we drive the Hector in the city, there is no problem in visibility and it is quite easy to drive and there should not be any problem in judging in most situations. Specifically, if you have driven a big car, then one thing that I find convenient in Hector is that its steering is very light, which makes your drive very easy. Driving it inside the city is actually not a problem. And if I look here, its turning radius is a little small, whereas we did not have any car in front of us, but it couldn't turn here. If you have seen Hector vs 700, then 700 actually turned in quite easily and this got stuck here, so its turning radius can be done a little better. Now if we talk specifically about braking, then the best braking was Hycross and 700 and the braking of both these cars was also quite confident. Now the brake pedal of Hycross is a little more squishy and the feedback that is required does not give so much confidence, but the braking is pretty solid. Safari's braking is quite good, but it is about a second more comparatively, more than 1.5 seconds. And Hector and Alcazar have similar timings in terms of braking. In the speed breaker test, we noticed that in Alcazar, the ride quality is actually decent enough. In 700, it is quite good. Hycross seems to be average because it is quite soft. On the other hand, Safari was clearly the best of all and Hector also felt quite bouncy. In the hill climb, we noticed that Alcazar climbs easily, there is no problem in the petrol engine. In diesel, if you are driving manually, then you have to be in the correct gear. Versus 700, you can climb any petrol or diesel, there will be no problem. Even in Hycross, you can climb any petrol or diesel, there will be no problem. It will climb very comfortably. Safari also climbs very conveniently. MG Hector Boss, you will have to work a little more, especially in the petrol engine, it will take some effort. And if you are starting from zero, then your effort increases a lot when the car is completely low. Now, how much noise is there in the car is what we have to check and that's what we checked. The least noise comes in the Hycross because it has an electric motor, so many a times the electric motor runs, so it's 45.2 decibels. Then Alcazar comes at 46.5. Hector also is there because it is a petrol engine, 46.7. 7W, which was diesel, was 50.6 and Safari also is only a diesel, so 51 is coming. Now, when we tested it at 60 kmph, we realized that Alcazar had 68.8 decibels, Toyota Hycross had 67.9, versus Tata Safari, despite being a diesel, was 64.6 and MG Hector was quite high at 70. That shows that overall in MG, sound insulation at low speeds is very less. At 60 kmph, we noticed that 700 cabin is the quietest of all. At 80 kmph, we noticed that Alcazar was 70.7, XUV 700 was 67, Hycross was 71.3, MG Hector continues to be at 70.9. Then Tata Safari 67.3, so it was quite close here. At 100 kmph, where maximum noise should be there, Alcazar was 69.9, which is actually lesser than 80. That means at 80, its engine noise will be at a higher rev. At the same time, XUV 700 was at 70, Hycross 72.8, which is quite high. 68.3 for Tata Safari and 72.8 for MG Hector. Alright, in 0-100 run, we noticed that Alcazar was the fastest on the petrol engine. Turbo petrol is very fast in 0-100 in 10.19 seconds. There is not much difference in Hycross and 700. 10.23 and 10.73 is their time. Tata Safari is 11.77 and Hector is 12.41. When we noticed the city overtaking, we realized that the fastest car here is the Tata Safari at 1.93 seconds. And if we talk about Hycross, Alcazar, 700 and even Hector, they are pretty good. If we talk about highway overtaking, 700 was the fastest. But it's not like the other cars were far behind. Alcazar, Hycross, Safari and even Hector were all within 0.5 seconds. If we talk about expressway or high speed overtaking, the fastest was the Hycross and the XUV 700 after that. There is a slight difference in the other cars. Alcazar was about half a second slower. Hector and Safari were also comparatively slower. When it comes to speedo error, we realized that the minimum speedo error is in Alcazar. Because at 45 kmph, it is 43.3 and 700 is 43.1. The rest of the cars like Hycross is 41.7, Safari is 40.8 and Hector is at 42.4. Even at 60 kmph, the speedo error is minimum on Alcazar, 58.3. Then 700 comes at 58. Then the rest of the cars like Hycross is at 56.5. Safari was 54.7 which is the highest and Hector is at 57.5. At 80 kmph, now the difference comes. 700 has the lowest speedo error because it used to show 78.1. Alcazar was 77.3. Surprisingly, MG Hector is better at higher speeds. There are lesser errors, 77.8 comes here. And then you have the Hycross at 75.7 and Safari at 73.4. Before we go to the verdict, I recommend that if you are looking to buy your car in finance, I am leaving the link in the description for you. You can directly apply for your car loan there. Or it's simple. Text C-Loan on 5676788. Before going to the verdict of these cars, I would like to share one thing with you. If you haven't seen all the 60 tests, then in that case, you won't get much benefit. So I will recommend that you see all the tests so that you can get complete clarity on what we are saying in this verdict. And if you haven't done it yet, then if you want to see the exact on-road pricing of all these cars, then download the Motor Octane app. Android version is already live. IOS might be live by the time this video goes live. But if it hasn't happened, it will be coming out very soon. So you should get the on-road pricing of all these cars there. Now, the final verdict. First, let's talk about MG Hector. What is its strength? Despite its size, it is available at a very good pricing. And there are good discounts available on this car right now. Maybe the buyers are less. Demand is less. But there are good discounts on this car right now in the market. So you can opt for one if you need. But the downside is that it doesn't have a lot of power in the petrol engine. Neither does it give mileage. Ride quality is very okay. Especially if you drive on bad roads. So this thing doesn't go in its favor clearly. So apart from that, if you're looking, you're okay with everything else. And if you want a big car at a low price with all the features, then you can definitely consider this. There, Tata Safari, again, it gives you all the features that you want in a car. There are features, performance, comfort, ride quality. It just lacks the petrol engine on this car. But this can also be a good choice for you. Yes, Tata Motors has a little struggle in electronics. And because of this, cars go to dealerships a lot for service. But yeah, it has a little concern in electronics. Especially in softwares. Which is a major flaw in this car today. Now if we move to Hyundai Alcazar. I think this is a perfect city car. If you drive in the city, sometimes 7 people sit in your car. They don't sit too often. Mostly city driving, I want better fuel efficiency, ease of driving. This becomes a great choice for you there. There are no two ways about it. It's a fantastic car. Yes, only if you take its diesel engine, you will be on the downside that you won't get a sunroof. And you will also not get a spare wheel. I don't know why Hyundai has omitted it. You know, you shouldn't omit these things. It's okay if the price is a little high. But at least offer sunroof on the car like this. Or at least give the spare wheel. One of the two or both is ideal. Now, XUV700 is the best-selling car in all these cars. Because it gives performance, space, features. And that's one reason why even I drive this car also. The best part in this is that it has petrol. It also has all-wheel drive in diesel. So wherever you feel downside, that SUV means all-wheel drive, you should get it here. And this is its biggest strong point. And now there is less waiting on this car because they have increased the production of the car. So this is a clear advantage of this car. Now last but not the least, Innova Hycross. I think this is a fantastic car. But for now, its deliveries are not happening. Waiting is going on. And dealerships are charging exorbitantly. From what we have been hearing from people, dealers want you to buy insurance or accessories from them. Only then they will give you the delivery of the car soon. So that is one thing on this car. But overall, I feel, this was my clear choice as a vehicle. But I have seen a few things that are not going clearly in its favour. Like there are some problems with the plastic qualities. Off lately, I have also heard problems in its suspension. I can't confirm it. But yes, the reason why this car is not really on top of the list is for a simple fact that there is more waiting on it. It's simple as that. Otherwise, this is a very good choice. Specifically, if you are sitting at the back. To drive. Take any of the other three cars. These three cars in the line. They will be fantastic. But it's a little boring to drive. It's more ideal if you want to sit at the back. I hope I have brought you complete clarity on all these cars. But if you feel that I still have doubts after all this. Then do this. Connect with us on a phone call and clarify all the doubts. Now look, I will not recommend. Talk to me. I will recommend. Talk to my team of experts. Because mostly I stay on travel. And that's the reason my calls are expensive. But if you want to get complete clarity. My team will guide you clearly. They have driven all the cars. And they will guide you. So that you end up with the right car. That too on a phone call. So to book your phone call. You will have to go to motoroctane.com/car-consultancy. There you will have to fill some details. And you will have to book a call time with an expert. And by the way. If you have not followed us yet. On behind the scenes on MotorOctane WhatsApp. So you go to WhatsApp. I mean just go to WhatsApp. Go to updates. Search MotorOctane. And follow us right away. That's all we have for right now guys. If you have not subscribed yet. Subscribe right away. We will meet again tomorrow with an all new video. Take care. Love you all. Bye.