- Welcome to the Huberman Lab podcast, where we discuss science for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, my guest is Dr. David Sinclair, professor of genetics at and co-director of the for the Biology of Aging. Dr. Sinclair's work is and how to slow or reverse by focusing on the cellular that exist in all cells of those cells over time from By elucidating the biology of Dr. Sinclair's group has by which any of us indeed, all of us, can slow or reverse the effects of aging. What is unique about his work is that it focuses on nutritional interventions, and prescription drug age more slowly and reverse in all tissues of the body. Dr. Sinclair holds a unique of the aging process, which is that aging is not the normal and natural consequence that we all will suffer. But rather that aging is a disease that can be slowed or halted. Dr. Sinclair continually publishes original research articles and competitive scientific journals. In addition to that, he's that was a New York Times bestseller. The title of that book, is 'Lifespan: Why We Age And Why We Don't Have To.' He is also very active to educate people on the biology of aging and slowing the aging process. Dr. Sinclair, and I and excitement in public And so I'm thrilled to share And Dr. David Sinclair the lifespan podcast, which is all about the to intervene in the aging process. That podcast will launch You can find it at the to this episode today as well. You can subscribe to that or Spotify, or anywhere Again, the lifespan podcast Claire begins Wednesday, be sure to check it out. You're going to learn a and you're going to learn behind aging, the reversing the aging that you can apply in your everyday life. In today's episode, Dr. Sinclair and I talk about the biology of aging and tools to intervene in that process. And so you might view today's episode as a primer for the lifespan podcast, because we delve deep nutritional aspects, of the biology of aging. We also talk about David's of the sirtuins, particular components that influence what is And if you don't know you will soon learn in today's episode. Coming away from today's episode, you will have in-depth knowledge at the cellular, molecular, and what we call the circuit level, meaning how the different age independently, and how they influence the aging of each other. Today's episode gets into discussion about many aspects of aging and tools to combat aging that have not been discussed or in the book lifespan. Before we begin, I'd like to is separate from my teaching It is however part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer and science related tools In keeping with that theme, of today's podcast. Our first sponsor is ROKA. ROKA makes eyeglasses and sunglasses that are the absolute highest quality. I've spent a lifetime And I can tell you that the visual system has to contend with a number such as when you move to an area where there are shadows, you have to adjust a number of so that you can still see things clearly. One problem with a lot of is they don't take that And you have to take off your depending on how bright or With ROKA eyeglasses and sunglasses, you always see things In addition, they're very lightweight and they won't slip off your face. In fact, they were designed to be worn while biking or running but they also have a terrific aesthetic, so you could wear them to dinner or work. I wear readers at night and when I drive and I wear the sunglasses If you'd like to try ROKA you can go to roka.com, that's roka.com and enter the code Huberman, to save 20% off your first order. Again, that's ROKA, roka.com at checkout. Today's episode is also InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in for the simple reason that impact your immediate can only be assessed from And now with the advent you can also get a clear picture of what your biological age is and compare that to And obviously your biological because it predicts how long you will live and it's the one that you can control. The great thing about InsideTracker is that compared to a and blood tests out there you don't just get your numbers back at the levels of various blood lipids, et cetera, but it also offers clear nutritional factors and in order to get the that are best for you and for your health. If you'd like to try InsideTracker, you can go to insidetracker.com/huberman any of InsideTracker's plans. Just use the code Huberman at checkout. Again, that's insidetracker.com/huberman any of InsideTracker's plans. Today's episode is also Magic Spoon is a zero sugar, grain-free, keto friendly cereal. Now I don't follow a What works best for me is to eat according to my desire to be alert and to be sleepy at other times of day. So for me, that means or 12 noon most days. And then my lunch is typically maybe a small piece of grass-fed meat, some salad, something of that sort. And then in the afternoon, that's also ketoish. And then at night is when which for me helps me with and allows me to get great deep sleep. That's what works for me. What that means is in the And the snack for me is Magic Spoon. What I do lately is I put Sometimes I just eat it straight. Each serving of Magic Spoon 13 to 14 grams of protein and only four grams of So it really matches that There's only 140 calories per serving, and they have a variety of flavors. Coco, fruity, peanut butter or frosted. I particularly like frosted I try not to eat donuts, And as I mentioned before, I lately mix it with yogurt I'm getting hungry just talking about it. Now, if you want to try Magic Spoon, you can go to magicspoon.com/huberman to grab a variety pack. Use the promo code Huberman at checkout, to get $5 off your order. Again, that's magicspoon.com/huberman and use the code Huberman to get $5 off. And now my conversation Thank you for coming. - Thanks for having me here. It's good to see you. - This is mate by the way, that Unlike other podcasts, we, so I'm boring that way. But truly, thanks for being here, I have a ton of questions for you. We go way back in some sense, but that doesn't mean that I don't have many, many questions about actionable protocols to increase how long we live, et cetera. And I just want to start off I'm not even sure there's an answer to, but what is the difference anti-aging and aging as a disease? Because I associate aging is a disease. - Right? Well, so longevity is we describe what we research. Anti-aging is kind of the same thing, but it's got a bad rap by a whole bunch of people that don't know what they're talking about. So I really don't like but aging is a disease and longevity are perfectly valid ways So let's talk about aging as a disease. When I started my research, disease here at Harvard Medical School, it was considered, if there's something and it's a rare thing, it has to be less than that's definitely a disease, and then people work their whole lives to try and cure that condition. And so I looked up, what's the definition of aging and it says, well, it's and sickness and you can die Something that sounds but the caveat is that if gets this condition, aging, Which is first of all, that's outrageous, 'cause it's just a But think about this, that we're ignoring the major Aging is 80 to 90% the cause If we didn't get old and we would not get those diseases. And actually what we're if you turn the clock back, in tissues, those diseases go away. So aging is the problem most of the last 200 years, we've been sticking band-aids on diseases that have already and then it's too late. So there are a couple of things. One is we want to slow aging down so we don't get those diseases don't just take a bandaid on, reverse the age of the body and then the diseases will go away. - That clarifies a lot for me, thank you. Can we point to one specific that underlies aging? - Yeah, well, that's contentious because scientists like to It's how they build their careers. But fortunately during the two thousands, we settled on eight or We call them hallmarks 'cause causes was a little bit too strong, but these eight or nine causes, at least for the first time and talk together. And we put them on a pizza so everyone got an equal But before that, by the way, we were trying to kill that was horrible. - Interesting that you guys work on aging and you're trying to kill each other. - Yeah, isn't it? Well kill each other's careers. Well I like to think but I was one of the kids and the old guard really We just came along in the 1990s and said, free radicals don't do much. They're actually genes And that caused a whole ruckus. And there was this competition which was a Nobel prize for this. And it just led to a lot of competition. I would go to meetings and and backstab, it was horrible. But then unfortunately we rallied around this new map of aging with these causes of hallmarks. But I think that there's that is way larger than the others. And we can get to that, but that's the information in the cell that we call the epigenome. - Well tell us a little bit frame it for us if you will, that one can adjust the - Yeah, so in science, what I like to do, a reductionist is to boil it down and I actually ended up boiling, aging down to an equation, which is the loss of It's a hard thing to overcome, That's fair, but this the fact that I think aging in the same way that a thousand times you'll or you try to copy a cassette tape. Or even if you send information some of it will get lost. That's what I think is aging. And there were two types There is the genetic ATCG the chemical letters of DNA, but there's this other part of that's just as important, and that's the systems are switched on and off in response to what we eat, et cetera. And it turns out that 80% of is controlled by the second part, the epigenetic information, I liken the DNA to the or a compact disc for the younger people. We used to use these things. - I recall. - Yeah, and then the epigenome okay, in this cell we need and in this other cell, we have to play a different set of songs. But over time, aging is the the CD and the DVD so that you, you're not playing the when they don't hear the right songs, they get messed up and And that is what I'm saying And these other hallmarks of that process. - Can we go a little deeper into what that these scratches are. Is it the way that the DNA Is it the way that they're spaced? What are the scratches - So DNA is six foot long. So if you join your chromosomes together, you get a six foot post-sale. So there's enough to go to in your body. And it has to be wrapped but it's not just wrapped up willy-nilly. It's not just a bundle of string, it's wrapped up very carefully in ways that dictates which genes And when we're developing in the embryo, the cell marks the DNA okay, this gene is for a nerve cell. Your cell will stay a nerve cell for the next a hundred Don't turn into a skin And those chemicals, there are many different but one's called methylation. Those little menthols will for the rest of your life. And there are other that change daily. But in total, what we're controls the genome through and then compact some parts don't read those genes and that should stay open. And that pattern of genes silent, open, is what the cells function. And then the scratches are So genes that were once it's a gene that is involved in skin. It's starting to come on in but we see this happen and vice versa, the gene might get shut Cells over time, lose these structures, lose their identity, they forget what they're supposed to do and we get diseases. We call that aging and In fact, we can measure it in such a way that we can predict when based on the changes in those chemicals. - Are these changes, the that underlie the outward of aging, that most of graying of the hair, drooping of the face. Walking around New York lately, it's amazing to me, that seem to walk looking because their spine is A hallmark, if you will, of aging, that most of us are familiar with. Are the same sorts of DNA Or are we talking about people that are potentially but simply live longer? - Well, it's actually, you if you want to generalize. So let's start with centenarian families. These are families that When they're 70, they So it is a good indicator. It's not perfect because you can like me and accelerate the aging of your skin. But in general, how you look, and no one's ever died from gray hair, but overall you can get a sense just from the ability of how thin it is, the number of wrinkles. A great paper just came out that said that an AI System looking at the face could very accurately - Very interesting. So I started off in So one of the things that I still believe wholeheartedly is that development doesn't that your entire life is So in thinking about different portions of that developmental arc, and especially puberty, seem of aging. And I know we normally and kids in puberty, and we they're so young. And yet the way you describe and the way you have leads me to ask are periods the same periods when we're aging faster. - Yes, yes. And this is something at least not publicly. So this is a really good question. So those chemicals we can measure, it's also known as the Horvath's clock. It's the biological clock, it's separate from your chronological age. So actually what I didn't mention is that when the AI looked they could predict their So your skin represents the And the people that look after themselves, we can talk about how to do that later. But there are some people than other people biologically and it turns out if you or even before birth, there's a massive increase early in life. So you're right, so that's that you have accelerated aging during the first few years of life, and then it goes linear But there's another interesting which is that we're finding that the genes that get messed up, that get scratched that are leading to aging are those early developmental genes. They come on late in life and they seem to be to those scratches. So what's causing the scratches? Well, we know of a couple we figured out. One is broken chromosomes, DNA damage, particularly cuts to the DNA breaks. So if you have an x-ray or a cosmic ray, or even if you go out in the sun and you'll get your broken chromosomes that accelerates the unwinding that I mentioned. We can actually do this to a mouse. We can accelerate that process 50% older, and it has it has gray hair, it's organs are old. So we now can control aging, The other thing that accelerates aging is massive cell damage or stress. So we pinched nerves and we was accelerated as well. - Incredible, this is more It is an anecdotal phenomenon, but at this experience going home for a summer and you come back and then high school in the US usually starts eighth or ninth grade, or grade eight or grade And then some of the kids, like they grew beards over the summer, or they completely matured Do you think there's any reason to believe that rates of entry can predict overall rates of aging? In other words, if a kid They basically acquire slowly over many years. Can we make some course prediction that they are going to live a long time versus a kid that goes home for the summer and comes back a completely or appearing to be a Like they basically age Does that mean they're - Well, yeah, I don't - Sure. - That there are studies that show that the slower you take to of having a longer, healthier life. And it may have something We know that growth hormone is pro-aging. Anyone who's taking growth - Just look at someone - Yeah. - They often will acquire these like improved a smoothness of skin, but their whole body shape changes often. - Yeah, I mean you'll feel better for a short amount of time. You'll build up muscle, you feel great, but it's like burning Ultimately, if you want to live longer, you want less of that. And the animals that have been generated and mutants that have low growth hormone, or sometimes these are dwarfs, A guy in my lab, Michael Bankowski, he had the longest lived mouse, a mouse typically lives He had a mouse that lived five years and he gave it chloric combined with one of low growth hormone, I You look at who lives the longest, it's the really small people. This is a bit anecdotal, but it sounds like it might be true, is that the people who in the Wizard of Oz, many into their nineties and beyond. - Really? - Yeah. - Huh, amazing. - And are there are some There are dwarf mutations in South America and they seem to be protected against many of the diseases of aging. You barely ever see heart disease or cancer in these families. - So I having owned a a bulldog Mastiff who lived 11 years, but there are 12, 16 years that are smaller dogs. Can we say that there's between body size and - Well, there is, but that to your early epigenome The good news is that Those loops and structures can be modified by how you live your life. And so if you're born tall and I wasn't, and I wished at the time I did grow, but no matter what size you are, you can have a bigger impact on your life than anything your genes give you. 80% is epigenetic not genetic. - So let's talk about some of And I've kind of batch rather than just diving right So the first one relates to This is something I hear a lot about, that fasting is good for us, but rarely do I hear why it's good for us. One of the reasons I'm is because I want to drill because I think will allow people to make better choices and not simply to just they're going to fast or not fast, or how long they're going to fast, I think should be dictated of the mechanism. So why is it that having glucose and insulin ages us more quickly and or why is it that having or perhaps longer can extend our lifespan? - Well, let's start with what was the idea that people We live in a world now where there's at least three meals a day, and then we've got companies in between. So the feeling of hunger, some people never experienced It's really, really bad for them. It was based, I believe that you don't want to and you try to keep insulin and not have this fluctuation. What we actually found, across this field of longevity is that when you look whether it's a dog or a mouse or a monkey, the ones that live the and stay healthy are the ones actually was first discovered back in the early 20th century, And then it was rediscovered in the 1930s, Claude McKay did Clark restriction. He put cellulose in the food of rats, so they couldn't get as many And those rats lived 30% longer, but then it went away in the 2000's in a big way, when a couple of things happened, one is that my lab and others showed that there were longevity that come on and protect The group of genes that I there's seven of them. And we show it in 2005 in a science paper, that if you have low levels of insulin and another molecule called those low levels turn One of them that's really But by having high levels being fed, means your longevity So you're falling apart, your that keeps your cells just degrades quick. Your clock is ticking Okay. The other thing that I by always having food around is that it's not allowing the and re-establish the epigenome. And so it also is accelerating There's plenty of other reasons as well, that are not as profound, such as having low levels will trigger your major to become more sensitive to insulin and suck the glucose which is very good. You don't want to have glucose and that will ward off type two diabetes. - So hunger of course is and low insulin. Do you think there's anything about the subjective that could be beneficial for longevity? - Yeah, I do, though you get used to so I'm kind of screwed that way. - It's like cold water, - You get used to it, unfortunately, but there are some studies at the National Institutes of Health that are able to simulate but still provide the calories. And it's looking like that's due to hunger, but most of it, actually, is because of not being fed and then the body turns on these defensive genes. There's a really interesting experiment that was published maybe by Rafael de Cabo down at the NIH. What he did was he took over 10,000 mice and gave them different combinations of fat, carbohydrate, protein. And he was trying to figure out what was the best combination. And then you also cleverly had a group. Well, two groups, one or ate as much as they wanted and the other group was only And it turns out they ate roughly the same amount of calories, 'cause of course in an hour It turns out it didn't matter it was only the group that that lived longer and dramatically longer. So my conclusion is, and mice are very similar I think that tells us that what you eat, it's when - What is the protocol that people can extrapolate from that? Or maybe I should just ask you, what is your protocol for when to eat and when to avoid food? Do you fast, do you ever What do you do? And what do you think is if people want to explore - Well, if there's one thing I could say, I would say definitely that's the best thing. - Does it matter which meal or they're essentially equivalent? - Well, as long as it's at the end or the beginning of the day, because then you add where you're hopefully not eating. - I think that that's an excellent point. I realized it's a simple one, but I think it's an excellent one 'cause I think one of struggle with the most to initiate this so-called And the middle of the day to the sleep cycle in the same way. So it's much harder as - Yeah, well, I'll tell you what I do. I skip breakfast, I have a because the supplements I have And then I go throughout the whole day, as I'm doing right now, here I'm just keeping myself And so I don't feel hungry, be aware that the first when you try that you will feel hungry and you also have a habit of wanting just to chew on something that there's a lot of but try to make it through and do without breakfast and you'll get through it. And I did that most for mainly because I wasn't Some people are very hungry in the morning and they may want to consider but I will go throughout the whole day. I don't get the crashes and the low glucose that anyone who goes, oh man, it's three O'clock, If you do what I do, you will not experience that anymore because what my body does is it regulates blood My liver is putting out and it's very steady throughout the day. And I don't have to even I'm just powering through. At dinner, I mean, I love So I will eat a regular, I'll try to eat mostly some shrimp, I rarely will eat a steak. In fact, my microbiome is if I eat a steak, it will I'll feel terrible. - If I don't eat a steak, I feel terrible. [David laughs] - Argentine lineage, but some other time. - Well, everybody's different, What works for me may and we do have to measure I rarely eat dessert, I when I turned 40 and occasionally I'll steal a bit of dessert 'cause it doesn't hurt But other than that I avoid sugar, which includes simple carbohydrates, I've actually noticed, I used to get buildup and every time I went to the dentist, they'd have to scrape it off. And I even bought tools to scrape it off. 'cause it was driving me nuts. I don't get pluck anymore and I think it's because of my diet. I don't have those sugars in my mouth that the bacteria feed on and then form the biofilm on the teeth. Much better breath, by the way. - That's a benefit. Should you ever fast longer than this. It sounds if you go to bed, well, you used to tend to stay up late. I know because I get texts from you at like two in the morning my time, which means you're out very But assuming that people go to sleep sometime around 1130 or and wake up sometime around 7:00 AM plus or minus 90 minutes, It sounds something like four hours of eating and eight hours of food intake, et cetera. But do you ever do longer fast, like 48 hours or 72 - Occasionally I do. So my typical day I would only Just usually I'm either eating out or. - 'Cause you're 22 too. - Yeah, but I love well. - And if you exercise, then you just power through - Absolutely, I can exercise and now I've already so used to it. I don't feel like I need food But have I gone longer? Yes, but not very often. I find it quite difficult But when I do it, maybe it's once a month, I'll go for two days after if you go for three days without eating, it kicks in even greater So there's a system called which digests old and And there's a natural cleansing that happens when you're hungry. Macroautophagy its name is Ana Maria Cuervo at Albert discovered a deep cleanse called the chaperone mediated autophagy, which kicks in day two, day three, which really gets rid And what excites me is you that said, if you trigger it lives 35% longer. - [Andrew] Wow. - Yeah, so it's a big deal. If I could go longer, I would. But I just find that with my lifestyle and I'm going always at least once a day unfortunately. - One more practical question related to this, the practical question is when you are fasting, I know you're ingesting fluids like water and presumably some caffeine or more espresso today, but are you also ingesting electrolytes? Like I know some people get lightheaded, they start to feel shaky when they fast. And that the addition or potassium magnesium is something that's becoming a little more invoke now. Is that something that you do or that you see a need for people to do? - Well, it makes sense, but I So I don't, I drink tea when I'm first awake and So I don't fix what's not broken. And I do add things to my protocol that I think will improve of course that wont. But yeah, because I I don't try it. But it does make sense, especially if you've had a you'd probably want to But I think there's fair in tea and coffee as it is. - Okay, so then the you've told us that there's ample evidence that keeping your blood sugar is 24 hours, can help longevity anti-aging mechanisms. And that extending them can trigger yet additional of dead cells and things of that sort. How is it that blood glucose Because we've said, okay, remove glucose and things get better. You've talked before maybe about some of the underlying things like this are sirtuins, but how our glucose in the sirtuins actually tethered to one - There's a really good question, that proves you're a scientist So what we've now know is we call them these longevity And we used to say, oh, my longevity genes is It was ridiculous. 'Cause they're all talking to each other, you pull one lever and And the way to think of it is to detect what you're eating. So the sirtuins will mainly And then there's this which is sensing how much are coming into your body. And they talk to each other, we can pull one and affect But together when you're fasting, you'll get the sirtuin And you'll also through particularly three of them, The body will down-regulate down MTOR that is hugely beneficial and turns on all of the body's defenses, the pro chewing up the old proteins, improving insulin sensitivity, repairing cells, all of that. And so these two pathways, I think, are the most important for longevity. - So interesting, you mentioned leucine, within the resistance training fitness community. Leucine gets a lot of attention because there are long-standing debates about how much protein one needs per day and how much you want and It makes for many YouTube videos However, it's clear that on the mTOR pathway, that not just people in these that are actively trying on a regular basis in order and fitness and in some but also just wellness. But what I interpret your is that leucine, because is actually pro aging in - Well, it could be that's And again it goes back to the debate. Should you supplement with All of these activities will You'll bulk up more. You'll feel better immediately, but based on the research, it's at the expense of long-term health. So my view of longevity, the way I treat my body is I have one end of the candle lit, I'm very careful I don't blow on it, but I also do enough exercise that I'm building up my Anyone who's seen me, knows that I'm not a but I tried to actually, here's the key. And I haven't said this I pulse things so that and then I eat, then I take a supplement, then I fast, then I exercise and I'm taking the supplements and eating in the right timing to allow me to build up muscle sometimes because you can't just expect and do something And that's why it's to develop my protocol. And there's a lot of subtlety to it. - Yeah, it sounds like a Does the name Ori Hofmekler - No. - Okay, just briefly, I about 15 years ago, he was He's now got to be close to 70. Forgive me Ori, if that He wrote a book called 'The Warrior Diet', which got very little But what he said was when he they rarely ate more than once per day. And sometimes once every And this is a guy who maintains incredible physical stature, and very vital at, I but he's getting up there and he just seems to be Ori Hofmekler was the person if you will, although to be completely fair, the so-called intermittent fasting diet. He called it the warrior diet and this book didn't get much attention. But one of the things that you just said really reminded me of Ori. I sat down with him, I and sat down with him and he but these pulses where or even slightly over nourish the body provided they aren't too frequent, have a tremendous effect on vitality. And so I want to use to address this issue of because here you're telling me and certainly the evidence supports that growth hormone will make taking testosterone or estrogen, There are women who take who take estrogen, they experience a strong if it's done correctly, but the body more rapidly, it's sort of a second puberty if you will, but this idea of restriction not necessarily feast and famine, but certainly famine and there really seems to So at a cellular level, we'd kind of go back to How do you think that the to this kind of lowercased type protocol? - Right, well, the pulsing, I is to get the cells to Okay, 'cause our modern we're eating too much, Our cells respond. They go, hey, everything's And they become relaxed and their own turn on their defenses and we age rapidly. We can see it in the clock. People who exercise and eat less, have a slower ticking clock, it's a fact. But my protocol is because I am pulsing it. Now, first of all, let's get to, why did I even think 'Cause I didn't read the warrior diet. What I found in my research was that if we gave resveratrol on that became well known in the 2000's. If we gave it to mice, they were protected which we call the Western diet. They had lean organs. They live slightly longer, but not a lot. And if we gave them a high-fat they actually lived a lot shorter. So it resveratrol protected We gave it to them on a normal diet, they just ate it when they wanted, and there wasn't much effect. This is what's not known though it's in a supplemental data of the paper that nobody ever reads. The mice that were given on a normal diet live dramatically longer than any other group. - [Andrew] Interesting. - So people out there, my didn't extend the lifespan Therefore it's not aging, it's just protecting Well, look at the If you give it to the we had mice living over three years. - Wow, that's a long time, in my owner ownership and that's a very long life for a mouse. - It was, by far. And so it was a long life span extension. And what that told me is that probably, you don't want to be taking You can take it either every other day or give your body a rest. And I do the same with my meals, I rest during the day and then to my body and then give it And then I try to time it when I'm taking the drug For those of you who don't know, Metformin is a drug given to bring down their blood sugar levels. But it's been found that of veterans and all those, that those two type two diabetics live longer than people that don't even get type two diabetes. So it's a longevity drug, right now you have to get it in most of the countries over the counter and you protected. It looks like, based on heart disease for LT. What else? Dementia. So I take Metformin. - In addition, you take Metformin end So when do you take it - Yeah, I always take along with the resveratrol, but mainly because my body responds better and I've been measuring But here's the thing, if I'm I will skip the Metformin. And a lot of people who do pay attention to this kind of thing, think that they should 'cause they're never going to get muscle, or it's going to affect their But that's not true, what it actually just reduces because it's inhibiting your And so what happens is you do fewer reps. But guess what? Those muscles that you have the same strength and and other markers of aging. You just won't have that So if you want large muscles, don't take Metformin and you'll be fine during your exercise. But for me, I'm not trying to get giant. I want strong muscles and healthier. So I just try to time it out of my exercise regime, but sometimes in scientific literature, it's worth bringing this up. If there's a 5% difference in a graph, then either the press release oh my goodness, big difference, 5% contact Metformin during exercise. That's the headline. And then you go in and And the graph is distorted the axes to make it look bigger. And now it's become a myth that Metformin greatly inhibits which is not true, but in I skipped my Metformin on And not only that, I'm one of the 20% of people that has a stomach sensitivity to it. So if I'm not feeling great that day, I don't take it either. - You mentioned Metformin is available only by prescription from a Berberine is a substance I also learned about He said, if ever, I'm going to overeat like a Thanksgiving meal or something, I take berberine, those were his words. And I tried it and what's is that you can eat and not feel as if you've eaten I'm not necessarily But what I noticed was which my understanding is to Metformin where some and the mTOR pathway, et cetera, that if I didn't ingest food I would feel a little dizzy like almost hypoglycemic. What are your thoughts on berberine as an alternative to Metformin? And are there any cautionary notes? Obviously people should before adding or subtracting including breath order, but with all of that set aside, what are your thoughts about berberine and timing of low blood sugar - Right, well, before I I was taking berberine. It's often known as the - He just called me poor. - Women can take it too. So the thing with berberine it is effective at boosting just like AMPK and Metformin does. And we've actually given and seen that they are very healthy, especially on a high-fat diet. So I think it's likely to be good. There are some human studies that exist, clinical trials showing that it increases insulin sensitivity. You have to take high doses. - Which is a good thing, right? I think when people hear sometimes people think, No, but you want your cells You don't want a lot of that can't be sequestered into cells. - Exactly, so this is And so that this berberine on the metabolism of animals on dozens of people that's being tested. Now, there's one cautionary Caenorhabditis lab reduced the lifespan of worms, but I'm not sure worms at this point. - Not in my opinion, no disrespect to my C. elegans colleagues or rather my colleagues that work on C. - Yeah, well, what I like to do is to give all the information, people can decide what they want, but I would say based on the worm data, I wouldn't panic just yet. And I think berberine has been shown to be really safe in humans. - You mentioned resveratrol, think now would be a great time protocols for resveratrol, Let's start with the obvious but for the record, can't and get enough resveratrol, David. - You can try, you need to - I'm sure it's been tried. - There are some, and I drink if I get the chance, it's a lot of calories and and it's all bad. So, I mean, realistically, you can only get the thousand milligrams that I take a day from a Now there are a lot of If it's not light gray or The brown stuff has gone And the contaminated stuff But regular resveratrol - So a thousand milligrams - Yeah and I had for about 15 years now. And you ingest that with like olive oil or yogurt, is that right? - Yeah, you have to, and other supplements of course it's in curcumin. These are crunchy things, that is not going to get through your gut. And I'm not just making this up. I always base my statements So we've done a lot of as have others since, we found out early, I was to take a high dose for resveratrol. And when we included it with food, the levels in my blood went up five fold. And so you want to have If you just drink it with water, it's not going to get through. And unfortunately, some people without even thinking that they might need to dissolve it in something. - So are you taking this and chasing it with some olive oil or are you dissolving it in yogurt? What's the specific protocol? - Yeah, I've been improving perfecting what I do for about 10 years I would take some Greek yogurt, a couple of spoonfuls, put mix it around, make sure it's dissolved and put that in my mouth and swallow that, these days, what I like to do, because I've realized that olive oil and particularly oleic acid, fatty acids is also an activator So I'm trying to ingest So I switched to olive oil. What I do is I put a couple in a glass mix around the resveratrol, and maybe some Coresatin Make sure it's dissolved. I put a little bit of vinegar and if I have a basil And it's like drinking And it's very- - Delicious, that raises a before we get to NMN which is by doing that, do you think that it breaks your fast? And I want to just frame this in a more general scientific theme. And I'd love your thoughts on this. One of the questions I is does ingesting blank break the fast, does eating this or drinking this, coffee? If I walk in the room and does it break my fast? People get pretty extreme with this, my sense and please tell me if I'm wrong, but my sense is that it of what you did the night before, whether or not you're So for instance, if I eat an go to sleep, wake up at 6:00 AM. I could imagine that black coffee or coffee with a little bit break my fast, but the body doesn't have a breaking the fast switch. The body only speaks in the mTOR, et cetera. So do you worry that is going to quote unquote break your fast? And more generally, how do you think about the you're fasting enough to Because not everybody can manage or we should say not on just water or just tea for - Well, my first answer is not scientific, it's philosophical. If you don't enjoy life, what's the point. And so I'd like a cup of a little bit of milk, spoonful of yogurt, it's not going to kill me. Olive oil doesn't have protein And so I'm probably not affecting those longevity pathways first of all, I wouldn't Second, well, the olive as the yogurt, but I'm trying to optimize and there's no perfect And we're still learning. We don't know what's optimal for me, let alone everybody else. But I'm with you, I don't believe that taking a couple of spoonfuls of something, unless it's high fructose corn because I've now got the rest of the day till about eight, 9:00 PM And that I forgive myself for that. And that there's a really good point here. You and I were discussing this earlier. The point about doing this is If you go from regular living you're going to fail. It's like quitting smoking, cold turkey. It's easy to chew gum because your body has to get And it's social, it's physical, chewing, not just the and your brain will fight it. Your limbic system is going to go, hey, do it, do it, do it. And you're going to have to fight it but once you get through but you do it in stages. Do breakfast first, then do small lunch and then eventually cut lunch out. Don't go cold turkey It's a fact that if you right out of the gates, - Now, I think that captures the essence of the fasting rationally to supplementation very well, along the lines of supplementation. What about NMN, NR and B3, niacin? How does one, I want to know what you do. I also want to know what I should do, and I think most people want These are molecules that impact the pathways that control aging or rates of aging in the epigenome. How do they do that? And how does one incorporate that into a supplementation protocol? Should they choose to do that? All right. - Well, disclaimer is I but I talk about what I do. So a bit of scientific background, these are two in genes that we discovered first in yeast cells when I was at MIT and then in animals as I one of my first post-docs, actually literally my published a great paper and found that turning middle of the seven, number It extended the lifespan that he engineered both males So what you want to do the activity of these sirtuins. They are genes, but That's what genes And then those proteins in many different ways as we've discussed. So how do you turn on these they make even more active? You want to rev up that system. So exercise will do What about supplementation? Well, the first activator of that acts on the enzyme of cleaning up the body We looked at thousands eventually tens of thousands. And the one that was the best And then we gave it to and then flies and And we saw that it activated that enzyme. So resveratrol is one way to activate it. And you can think of it as the It revs it up, but there's need to work and that's NAD little chemical in the It's used by the body for a hundred different And without it, you're dead The problem that we've decline as you become if you don't ever get hungry and the body not only doesn't make enough of it, it's chewing it up as well. There's an enzyme called over at UCSF showed choose up. Now he's now at the Buck choose up NAD as you get older. So it's a double whammy. You don't make as much and chew it up, which is really bad because and so have others is that NAD levels are really important for keeping at a useful level. And you can give a lot of resveratrol but if you don't have the fuel, you're basically accelerating a car that doesn't have enough gas. So you want to do both. And that's what I do. I take a precursor to NAD called to make the NAD molecule in one step. And so I know from measuring that if you take NMN for I've been taking it for years. But if you take it for about two weeks, you'll double on average, double your NAD levels in the blood. Okay, that's not public information. That's from clinical trials over the last two years. There are other ways in someone like me, who's You can take NR, which which is used to make are sold by companies in the US. NR is laxter phosphate, the phosphate is a small You've probably heard Let's go back one step. How do you make NR? NR gets made from vitamin B3, often. You can also find it in but sometimes people ask me, why don't you just take vitamin B3? And won't that just force And the answer is no, it We know this just by doing the experiment, but the reason I think is is that NAD, I said, it's a small molecule, but relative to vitamin B3, it's big. It's got those phosphates it's got the vitamin B attached. So you've got all these to make this very complicated When you give NMN, it that the body needs to make NAD. If you give NR or just vitamin B3, which is an even smaller molecule, the body has to find from somewhere else. So where do you get phosphate, well, the body needs it for So high doses of something that requires additional phosphate makes me a little concerned. And we have compared to in mouse studies, for instance in NMN, we've shown in a cell makes mice run further, old 'cause they had better NR are at the same dose, did not do that. In fact, it had no effect. - I see, dosage wise, if in supplement form to and presumably slow my aging, how much NMN should I take? What's the protocol that you do? And are the various are some better or some worse? - Well, I'm always happy and what my father does, we take a gram of NMN every day. - So it's a gram resveratrol - Right. - Okay a thousand milligrams. - Now another important point, which is, I'm not the I have a different And so I've been measuring myself and so I know if something's, or I think I know if or worse based on measuring So I just want people to be aware that what I do may not perfectly but I have studied, as I said, dozens of people who take NMN, at a gram, sometimes two grams. And I know by looking at all those people that without any exceptions, your NAD levels go up by And so I do that every day, Now people sell it. Now I never get into brands and all that. First of all, I don't have I don't know, though I should say, I do want to say I'm working on a solution for people to know what works and what's real and what And in the meantime, I would say, if you do want to buy this, look for a company that that has high levels of quality control. Look for three letters, GMP, which is good manufacturing practices. And so that means they make of quality control. You're not going to find and it probably has the stuff But so that's all I can say right now. I'm working on something that's but overall, make sure it's and that to me, it tastes - You crack open the capsules, and you'll take a little sample to make sure it tastes like burnt popcorn. - Well, when I'm making and I do a lot of quality - Do you take that gram all at once with the resveratrol or do you take it spread - It's all in the So if I take Metformin, it's NMN and the resveratrol altogether. And there's a good reason for that. It's all scientific, I try to be. The levels of NAD go up in the morning in our bodies naturally. Our bodies actually have a - It's Arcadian? - It's Acadian. In fact, NAD controls your clock. This was shown by Shin Imai and colleagues in this nice science that if you disrupt the NAD cycle, which is controlled by the that is what's telling your it's time to go to sleep. And if you take these, the NMN you can disrupt your circadian rhythms. - Interesting. - Conversely, when I travel to the time zone, I will take and I feel great. - Does this protocol for you, does it produce any immediate effects of increased energy, et cetera? You mentioned that one would, would have to take it to start to see the NAD levels increase. At that point, when NAD levels increase, could one possibly expect an increase in overall energy, focus, et cetera? I realize we're not making promises here, but I'm just wondering whether of whether or not this protocol is working is whether or not you die at And of course, once you're dead, you can't really know if if you'd done something - Sure, well, there was a my good friend at Washington that showed that improves, remember this insulin sensitivity, But you can't know your unless you're measuring glucose, have a glucose monitor on your arm. - Do you have one on right now? - No, no, I used to, I learned a lot. - Yeah, last time I it looks like a small leach, not a large leach and it was - They're very informative what your body reacts to Rhonda Patrick agrees with was what, where were we, Andrew? - The issue is whether any immediate effects on just even subject. - So what do you feel, is the question. And anecdotally, 'cause I've been taking if I don't take it, I it's horrible. I can't think straight. It may be placebo, but who knows? But what we're doing now are We've done the safety for two years, and we're now treating elderly patients at Harvard Medical School with And those people are actually going to be an currently in MRIs. So you can measure the in their legs as they And that will tell us if is increased endurance actually works. In the meantime, it's fun I have a number of athlete friends, some of which have increased their load, their time in marathons, for example. There's a good friend that is winning marathons at age 50 now. And he attributes that to - Interesting, I haven't but I'm planning to do that which is in a couple months. But I do experiments on my I have a sister who's three who is very enthusiastic And I'll tell you that I started purchasing an NMN supplement and she She has a quite sensitive system and she's very tuned into it. She feels far and away as opposed to when she doesn't and I've done the control and then giving it back to So that's my other laboratory. This is what younger brothers I have a question about something that if it has no relevance, we can just treat it as a speed And the artificial sweeteners, these things that we increasing sweetener. So you've got Stevia, And then you've got and all these things. There is some evidence that they've been publishing showing that they can in certain cases in particular saccharin, the one that basically And it's questionable as has the same negative effects, et cetera. That's not what this is about, but in terms of the sensation of, or the perception of sweet taste, is that itself a possible detriment to these pro-longevity, the pathways. If I were to drink a am I somehow disrupting this? And I'm asking this question, because I get asked this question a lot. - Well, there may be small effects. I don't think they're Joe Rogan laughed at me 'cause during the first I will drink diet coke, I've And again, it's this 5% thing that I think is blowing out of proportion. If I was to put a number if eating a high sugary meal or drinking a sugar-filled soda, what is that, 30 grams of sugar? Let's say that's a 10 A diet coke might be a one. And if I'm, which am I going to do? I could have a 10 or a one I'll do the one on occasion. I try to avoid them because I But you can't say that sucralose is equivalent to drinking a sugary soda. There's just no comparison. And I think suc, what is it? Stevia, I do use Stevia whenever I can, because it's a naturally sourced product. And I haven't seen any good evidence yet that it's bad for you. But I think a lot of this is overblown, and a lot of it's the media trying to give equal weight to stories It can be frustrating and something's a one, - How do I say this respectfully? I think if science to post their credentials then people would take the articles into, with additional grain of salt, right? I mean, in other words, that I think that the science media is mainly generated One is to make people very, very afraid or get people very, very excited, and oftentimes the get people excited part is sponsored content, and I think that's overlooked in any case. Thank you for that. I want to talk about iron and iron load. We were talking earlier about ferritin. And of course, women menstruate. And so their iron needs men that don't menstruate or women that don't menstruate. I don't think we can get right down into how much iron somebody needs because it'll vary person to person. But I was surprised to learn that iron is actually going to accelerate the aging process in various contexts. - Well, this is a new Manuel Serrano's lab has will increase the number of And senescent cells are these zombie cells that accumulate as you get and they cause inflammation mainly and also can cause cancer. And it's found that if or never accumulate In animals, and there's some out of Mayo Clinic in humans as well. So iron is a pro-senescent metal. And so what I think is that if you're taking you're probably accelerating The other thing that I is I've looked at hundreds of thousands of people's metabolism and I was one of the first people in InsideTracker as a board member, and I'm still their scientific lead guy. So I can look anonymously at hundreds of thousands And we also know how fit Some of them are marathon runners, some of them are CrossFit. And there's a signature of health that actually is different Now, I'm not going to 'cause a lot of my best friends are MDs and I work with them at The issue though, is there's a scale of what's normal, and if you're out of that normal range, something must be wrong, that's the paradigm that they work under. But first of all, everybody's different, and you want to know their baseline and track people over years to And what I find for example, is people who are really and have a diet that's fairly still have slightly low hemoglobin levels, slightly low iron, slightly low ferritin, but we have super amounts And we're getting along great in life. But a doctor who just oh, we need to give you more iron. All right, so what I'm we need to personalize medicine and look at people over the long run to know what works for them and not just work towards but work towards what's optimal for human. - I love that answer. You mentioned tracking And this is a really interesting area that I know you have been I've been getting blood worked frankly, since I was in college. I just got, I like data and I got interested in 'cause it made me feel better, but I also want to know what So you get numbers back, you this blood glucose measure, et cetera. How do you make sense of the data? I mean, what InsideTracker is doing aside, how do you personally in ways that might differ from the way that a standard MD might Because the standard practice is to say, is it red, yellow, or green, right? Is it basically too high or too low? Is it somewhere close to Are you in these ranges? Are there any things that you think are for people to just take note of? I mean, we're not asking you to go against anybody's physician. But what sorts of things to educate themselves about in terms of what these if they choose to get them, - Yeah, well, there's a lot there. The first is that you because one measurement isn't enough. These things vary and over time. And if you can have a it's super important, informative, as you know, well know, as you know. So the physician, interestingly, my physician, let's So he sees me, he says, &quot;I'm feeling great.&quot; &quot;Okay, see you next Anyway, so I say, okay, stop. Let's talk a little bit about. - Let me educate you, that's I imagine that the says to a physician, &quot;Listen, let's have a Is that how it works? He finds me pretty annoying But so I say, so hang I've got the InsideTracker data. So I pull that up on the screen, and I'm showing him the and my CRP, which is And we're going through it, and you can see things change over time, and I've corrected them as they go slightly out of which is different than But what was funny is that he says, this is great, I love this data. But I'm not allowed to get the insurance companies won't pay for it. So again, you can pay out of pocket. It's not super expensive. I would say, if you save a you can afford this kind of stuff. But the main point is that It's just that they're on every one of their patients to get it. - Is there a code word that someone can use with their physician that will trigger a I keep trying to figure that one needs to ask I'm feeling blank so that - Well. - Do you have to be hemorrhaging - Well, I usually use the WTH method, which is what the hell? And then he says, &quot;Okay, we'll do it.&quot; - 'Cause I think a lot of look, I'd love to have blood but that's hard to get but also a lot of people to approach the conversation. And this is one of the things that I hope that we can educate people on, that they deserve to know what's and that it makes a and that you don't have to - Right, yeah, and a lot of people do. So I would say, if you there are increasing number of companies that offer these tests, And you just do it a couple And then you can share If you can't afford that, then here are the main ones - Yep, and we must. And there's an email that is something like 555, or a phone number, rather, it's 555-5555. I think if they have any complaints, they can just call that number. David will pick up on the and I'll pick up outside of those hours. - But there was the Your blood sugar levels, which is your average glucose There's CRP, which I - Yeah, let's talk about 'Cause I think it's been shown to be an early marker of heart disease, of a CRP is something that we don't hear enough about, I think. Maybe, what do you know I'm guessing a lot, but. - Oh, it was originally picked up as something that was in the Framingham study, I believe. It is the best marker for and is also, we use it as and its levels go up with mortality. And so this is an association, but there's enough data that I would say, if you have high levels of CRP, you need to get your levels down quickly. And the levels usually go up with age and with levels of inflammation. So the ways to get it down eat less, try to eat more vegetables. You'll find it will come down, and there are also drugs that can do it. Anti-inflammatories can do it as well. But CRP is, it's actually, hCRP, there's a high sensitive Get one of those readings. 'Cause if you've got your doctor, or fasting your doctor might say you're fine. But a lot of people but have high CRP, which is and can predict a future heart attack. - On the lines of heart attack. I want your thoughts on cholesterol and serum cholesterol I cannot, for the life of me, get my arms around this literature. And even if I ignore all that's out there in various as saying cholesterol is the or cholesterol is not, or dietary cholesterol has nothing to do with serum cholesterol and I can't seem to sort that essentially ask, is having high levels of LDL Should I be striving to always Is that a reasonable goal? And if so, is dietary cholesterol the And just as a final point about this, I am aware of quite good data people that essentially eat no food, unless you force them to, So their dietary cholesterol and so they're manufacturing So realize this isn't your but you're a smart guy and you think about this What do you think is going on with the cholesterol literature? And will we ever get to the bottom of this as a scientific and medical community? Because to me, it is rather perplexing. - It is, but you can get I know a fair bit about cholesterol 'cause it's in my family history. And I was headed for an early death, my grandmother had a stroke 30, that's how bad I am in So I went on a statin, and I who say that statins long-term are bad. It's associated with Alzheimer's disease. I've been taking a statins since I was 29. And that's 'cause I forced my same doctor to give me the statin, the conversation was something like this. You're too young to be on a statin. And I said, what? You want me to have a heart attack before you give me So 29, I'd been on a satin, and my cholesterol was which is a massive mess up. Basically my blood was creamy to look at. So I've now got my cholesterol down to low, low levels to what would it be. You can check on my InsideTracker, but so my ratio of HDL to LDL, which you want to be less and the LDL is below a And I've measured my I've got a movie of my heart beating. I've still got a heart of a I'm willing to forgo the risk that the statin is causing problems later because of my family history. But other people, I would say, be aware that statins There were some interesting new ones. There's one called the PCSK9 inhibitor, which is, I think fortnightly, that blocks the release And then that seems to be but also has other benefits And there were some people that I was just talking to and their doctors are instead of the statin. So you could talk to your doctor about. - Do you avoid dietary Red meat, butter. I mean, I have been to love butter. I love red meat. I realized there's some people who don't. My cholesterol is a little bit high, but I'm working to bring that down a bit, although not by altering But what do you think is the relationship between dietary cholesterol and what's going on with the liver? Why are anorexics? Why is there a certain cholesterol so high when they're eating nothing? - Well, there've been in a that have been ignored. And our friend, Peter Attia, brought to my attention recently, a new study that I think definitively said that dietary cholesterol on blood cholesterol levels. - Good. - Yeah, so I'm annoyed and butter for most of my So I have eggs- - Plenty of time, or - Yeah, yeah. So that's the thing. You can eat these foods because it's very difficult to take cholesterol up And most of it's being - Well, I'm just pausing because I think that it's Six meals a day, eat a and this kind of thing, avoid cholesterol. I mean, basically everything we learned in the '80s and '90s and early 2000s is getting flipped on its head now. But, and I think this that's important to mention, amino acids. In particular, the amino acids that come from animal products, right? Seem to have some pro aging At least the way that I've And I'm somebody who But so I'm by no means, a vegan at all. But I've heard you say but a little bit of fish or chicken or something But is that specifically to avoid excessive amino acid intake? Or is it something specific about plants that excites you with I mean, vegetables are Is it something great about plants or is it something bad I guess the biologist in me I don't think top sirloin, And I think top sirloin as I'm eating it, but really what they are, are amino acids, including leucine. - Yeah, well, there are two and neither of them is taste for me. I would eat steak all the time if I could. I did when I was a kid, I'm an Australian. But plants have two benefits. One is that they're highly nutritious, and they'll give you a lot of the vitamins and nutrients that I need. I don't take multivitamin, I don't want to have the So there's that high density nutrition. So those dark leaves, if The second is that there is what's called xenohormetic That term, xenohormesis is a term that I came up with How it's, which means that benefit your health. I'll break it down. Xeno means between species, whatever doesn't kill and live longer. And the idea is that when think of a great vine that's dried out and then starting to harvest the grapes, which is typically how it's done. They are full with resveratrol, because resveratrol is that I think is made to activate those So plants have sirtuins just like we do. But by purifying or at least concentrating in a light-proof bottle and we stabilize the xenohormetic molecule, or it's a cocktail, not just We then ingest those and get the benefits of activating our own defenses, because our food was getting stressed out. And by stressed, I don't mean I mean, biologically stressed. And so I try to eat plants that have gone through a bit of stress. They might be brightly colored, or got nibbled on by a caterpillar. So you go to places where it's and those are the plants and they probably have high concentrations of these molecules. And in addition, I also to make sure I'm getting - Which supplements mimic that? - So resveratrol will, there's another one called quercetin, or quercetin, some people call it, what you find in trace And we also showed back in 2003 that it activates sirtuins as well. But others have, 20 years later, found that it kills senescent cells or helps kill senescent cells. So it's a double whammy - And are you actively that look like they were - No, but I don't worry if - What's the story with antioxidants? Are they of any value whatsoever, because the way that you and what I've heard recently is that they are not all What are they doing that's useful? Should we be seeking for other seller health purposes? - Well, yeah, antioxidants unless you take mega doses. We do need some oxidants And there's even, what's which is your mitochondria power packs, need to have a little bit to be able to function. So you don't want to overdose vitamin C, vitamin E, don't overdo it. - You don't take a multivitamin, correct? - Right. - I think I'm going to stop 'cause I've always just taken one for the kind of insurance purpose, which is a stupid purpose. Not actual insurance, but just thinking, oh cap top off on my ACBD. - Right, and I'll pee out what - But that never bothered me. The whole expensive pee thing never got. That argument never got A good vitamin is not that expensive. I just figured better safe than sorry, but it may be that it's detrimental. - Well, it can in the case of iron as we discussed and the antioxidants. So when I came into the aging it was all about antioxidants. And we thought that enzymes and superoxide dismutase, well, they're going to be the key to longevity. It turns out that it's that giving animals and haven't had the longevity And the main reason is that than just free radical damage. The epigenome gets disrupted, we've got these proteins misfolding. And so the problem really has that you need to turn on the body's natural defenses against that plus a whole host of other But I'm not going to say an antioxidant drink, pomegranate juice for one including xenohormetic molecules. But resveratrol is a good case in point, which is when I worked on resveratrol as a longevity molecule, first we showed it in yeast Before that, it was was good for your heart in red because it's an antioxidant. So then we showed that of yeast cells through this And we then tested whether resveratrol, if we change one atom to make it not an antioxidant, guess what? It still worked fine. So it wasn't its anti-oxidant activity that was extending lifespan. It was its ability to turn on the yeast's defenses against aging. Conversely, when we gave they lived shorter. So yeah, that was the into thinking turn on the body's defenses, don't give it the antioxidants. - This is an opportunity that I've been wanting which is that, what's so is that because the goal is mechanism, you can really start to understand as you just described, what is very different than I mean, if a fire alarm goes it's going to modulate our attention. That doesn't mean that it it's not mechanistically relevant. And so I think this is one of these cases, it sounds like where it's but until one really unveils you can be, one can or in a field, can be badly wrong for a It sounds like the sirtuins and really getting down to of what causes cells to age Zooming way out, what that one can start to think about in terms of ways to modulate these? Basically the way that DNA is being expressed and functioning. I've heard you talk before about hormesis of other We talked about fasting. We talked about exercise in broad terms, but what about any evidence, if it exists, as to whether or not aerobic training versus weight training, In other words, what that people can do to improve And I realized that there are caveats. We can't go directly from but in the general theme, what can people do, what do you do? - Right, well, we know in mice and rats raises their NAD levels and their levels of sirt, two actually, number one and number three. What we don't know yet is optimal to get them to change. We will learn, we're doing work. Now it's revealed that we're doing work with the military in the US, to try and understand that kind of thing. And I'll always tell you and the public, when I don't know something But what do I do? I base my exercise on the which has shown that is very important for a number of reasons. The two main ones are, you want to maintain your hormone levels. I'm an older male, losing my testosterone And by exercising, I will in fact, I probably haven't since I was 20. So that's one of the benefits - Sorry to interrupt you. You do know we did an episode on hormones and there are data in humans that show that there are some where their testosterone is equivalent to the average of 25 and 30-year-olds. I can get you that information, is really impressive studies. Unfortunately, they didn't about the lifestyle factors, et cetera. But this idea that testosterone it might be the trend, but it's not necessarily a prerequisite. - Right, I believe in naturally increasing and maintaining these hormone levels and I've been measuring And I could see for me, were steadily, levels were going down. - And then you got tenure [both chuckle] - No, I actually became complacent. And it was the worst. Actually my age changed in the 'cause I was relaxed. - Interesting. - And not worried about the future. But then I got serious. And I actually, according to got my age down from 58 to So that was a big drop. And I've been getting steadily younger over the last 10 years, according to that - What about estrogen? Because women are different in the sense that they do the number of eggs that they, and the ovaries change over time, right? Do you think that they can in over longer periods of time using some of these same protocols? - Well, yeah, I get into trouble when I talk about this too much. - About estrogen? - Just about fertility and long story. I don't want to get too but I'll tell you the science, which is that if you take a or caloric restriction where it should be in fertile, so that's about at a year of age, a mouse gets infertile, female mouse. - Due to fasting or - Due to aging, due to aging. The fasting, it's not extreme fast, it's just less calories. Then you put them back on a regular food, and they become fertile again for many, many months afterwards. So the effect on slowing down aging is also on the reproductive system. - Interesting. - And so that, I wouldn't I wouldn't think that they to try and preserve fertility, But these pathways that we work on these, sirtuins are known to delay Case in point, I'm one of the lead authors on a paper where we used NMN. Remember, this is the gas, the fuel, the petrol for the sirtuins. We gave old mice. One group of mice was 16 months old. Remember they became infertile And I think it was only six weeks later, they had offspring. They became fertile again, which goes against biology, which is that female Turns out that's not true. You can rejuvenate the and even get them to as we call it. So that's a whole new - That's super interesting. Sorry to interrupt you, but I'm reminded by a set of studies that were done by your former colleagues 'cause they're no longer there, David Hubel and Torsten Wiesel, my scientific great grandparents. Won the Nobel prize for discovering, what are called critical periods, this phase of early development when the brain is extremely plastic. And a big part of their work was to show that after a certain point, the critical period shuts down, essentially the brain can't And then people came that you could open up these but very briefly, and it takes a very specific high degrees of focus, et cetera. However, there's a well-known where if you take an this has been shown in humans as well, and you let them pass but then you essentially You take away experience, You essentially reopen So it seems like I couldn't that there's this parallel between what we're talking and neuroplasticity, where yes, there is a timer where to the organism early in life, and then they tend to taper off. It's not an open and But then a deprivation the availability of that process. Forgive me, I just couldn't but to me, so both of those things fertility and neuroplasticity. And so I think that I'd love to collaborate with you on this to explore how neuroplasticity by these things like the sirtuins. - Right, and the sirtuins in neurons as well. So what I think is really interesting is that what we're learning from work that you and your colleagues have done and in my lab as well, is that the body has and recovering from illness and injury. And what we once thought and you just can't repair, or you can't get over these diseases, you can reset the system, and the body can really get rejuvenated in ways that in the future will wonder, why didn't we work on this earlier? The future of humanity is more like us walking We'll probably be cleaner, and we won't smell as badly, but Deadpool, if you don't know, can get injured and just recover. It's very hard to injure this guy, and we're going to be the same. There are many species the limb grows back. - Salamanders or. - Yeah. We are now learning how And in part, what we're doing is reversing the age of those cells, and telling them how to read reversing the age of that epigenome. And when you do that, the cells, the brain, for instance, the skin. We did the optic nerve. - Let's talk about those Then I want to make sure that we return to some of these behavioral protocols. You have this amazing paper cover article, full article in nature, showing that essentially a small menu of transcription factors, which control gene expression, et cetera, could essentially reverse and rescue those cells against damage. Essentially allow blind mice to see again, and offset degeneration incredible paper, and Where does that stand now in I mean, how do, what are you envisioning in terms of the trajectory of those data from mice into human someday? - Right, well, to get to we're going to be testing just for safety reasons. And then the first patient early 2023, and we're going - This involves making an injection of a virus into the eye, right? Right now, there's no to manipulate these transcription factors through a pill or some other? - And that's why, we working on in my lab at Harvard right now. So it will be- - It will base moderation of- - Well you pop a pill in the whole body gets rejuvenated by 20 years. That's what we're aiming for. Now we do it with gene therapy So in the IES, it's single injection, the genes go into the retina with a drug called doxycycline. And we do that in the mice then the eye gets younger. We can measure that' cause And then the vision And I don't see any reason, because it's the same structures on in the human as well. Now these- - And it's one injection. - It's one. - I should mention injections into the eye obviously nobody should do this outside of a ophthalmology clinic. And there definitely by the injections into the eye by the right person. It sounds dreadful, but it's actually, I've seen it done hundreds of times. I've done it, thousands of times and it's not to myself, And there's a way of doing this as completely painless to the person- - Oh you don't feel it. It's a tiny, tiny needle too. But the great thing about this is that it's a one-time treatment. Those genes go into the back forever. And you can just turn So what we found is you can they get their vision back, and then you turn it off again. And so far, many months out, the benefit has remained, but if it does decline, we'll just turn it back rinse and repeat. So one day what's exciting is that we could potentially do and just take this antibiotic, every five years and go - And thinking about the body and what's going on under still that there isn't a that would allow me to just whether or not there are I mean, it's not that hard I mean that the technology exists. why hasn't anybody created an at home or pseudo at home solution, and pay 50 bucks or a hundred bucks and see if you have any - Yeah, it's still expensive. You can get your doctor there's some companies that look at circulating DNA, that'll measure it. We're getting there. It's still probably five to 10 years away from being really cheap. You can do things like a I think it's a hundred You ship off your shit, and they measure it. And they tell you if with high probability, I did that during the pandemic because I didn't want - Mhmh, is it more accurate or - I believe it's close The downside is that during a colonoscopy, they can pinch off the polyps whereas this obviously isn't that, but it's certainly easier to do. And my father who's it's free for Australians. They get this test routinely. - Mhmh, interesting. I want to return to the topic So I apologize, which Do you regularly do the cold shower thing? Ice baths, cold water swims, [David chuckles] - Well, you do know that 'cause we did it together. - That's right. Not the same bath, just to be very clear, same sauna, different ice baths, [David chuckles] the idea of Sinclair and Huberman taking an it might warm some people's hearts, but just to be very clear, different, same ice bath, different, different times. - Yeah, thank you for clarifying. - [Andrew] Yeah. I don't do them regularly. I do try to sleep cool. I sleep better anyway. I try to dress without I'm here in a T-shirt and but in winter, I'll try - So you're challenging your - Right, right. I've got this, hypothesis with Ray Cronise. We published what's called The which is, few tens of we were either hungry or cold or both and we really experience that now. And so, we try to give and part of the problem I is that we're never cold and cold, when you're cold you have to burn energy. It may be only slightly, if you're a little bit cool, you'll actually expend more energy. So I try to do that, but I'm not a big fan of cold showers. The sauna, I don't have access So, but I do want to get back into it. I used to do it regularly with my son and I posted on Instagram once that he could stay in there for 15 minutes and I could only stay in for about three. Anyway, long story short, I try to compensate with until I get back into it. - You reminded me of something that obesity reduces NAD How? I mean, okay. So again, this is the, the scientist in the us, so someone's carrying a lot subcutaneous and, visceral fat. But why should that reduce NAD in any ways that are independent of If it, you know, is there's something direct And the reason I ask this, is not simply to dig into mechanism alone, but I think there are that fat actually gets neural innervation. I mean, it's not just a, it's not just stored fuel. It's stored fuel, that's acting as an So, why would being fat - Yeah, that's a question that, is so obvious, but so few people ask it, that's what makes you a good scientist. And so that we don't know, but I'll give you my best obesity comes along with include a lot of senescent cells in fat, if you stain old fat for - Mhmh. And when you kill off those cells, at least in mice, and maybe in humans, it looks like the fat is 'Cause those senescent cells these inflammatory molecules that will accelerate aging as we now know. We talk about the sirtuins in NAD. So if we, if we just look philosophically, at why this would be the sirtuins only, like to come on or get is on the right adversity. And if a cell is surrounded by it's going to think times a good, it doesn't need to switch on. So that's the evolutionary argument. Mechanistically, we don't know, but it could have something to do with the response to glucose, which then responds to the sirtuin gene, but that hasn't been worked out very well. - And is there any evidence that leptin, this hormone from fat can actually, interact with the sirtuin pathway? - I don't recall seeing that- - Maybe I could do a and that'd be a fun one. - Definitely- - Because leptin during the permission for the hypothalamus - Yeah. - This is why kids that eat and get overweight will also start to go and undergo puberty more quickly, although they have - Well yeah. We should study the the hypothalamus is, can control the aging of the body. - The most interesting part of the brain. [Andrew chuckles] - For sure. - Yeah, absolutely. - If you turn on the SIRT1 gene, the SIRT2 that we work that actually, will extend lifespan. Also, it's been shown by Dongsheng Cai at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, that if you, inhibit in a mouse, it will increase or maintain the expression which is the hormone that, he found actually controls And so keeping inflammation is sufficient to extend And I reviewed that paper for nature all about seven years ago. And that was the first demonstration that the hypothalamus is one of the body's age. - I find this fascinating GnRH, for those of you that don't in the hypothalamus that then, literally reached down into the pituitary and trigger the release of fertility, luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone, et cetera. It's such a powerful set of neurons, and it's never really been clear, what at a behavioral level There's all the stories about pheromones and timers and puberty, et cetera, but environmental conditions and behaviors that can is an incredible area for exploration. I'd love to do that sabbatical by the way. I have a couple, well but I can't help, but ask is forage the internet for a few people are doing, and then wonder whether or You mentioned methylation the way it disrupts the so to speak. There are people out there who And when I was a kid, I used methylene blue And I love fish tanks. I know you're into aquaria also, a different podcast episode, but why in the world, would Meaning is their logic correct? And or is that a dangerous practice? I'm not sure I'd want to sounds not like a bad thing to do. - It stains your body if you've - Yeah, there was someone was using it to study a related to the blood-brain barrier and used to inject into animals but then again, people You know they'll put please people don't do this or if you do, just don't tell me, 'cause I won't like it. They, people put it in their eyes and some people actually stain their skin. They actually become kind of if they do it excessively. I mean, there's a lot of But what do you think they're thinking with this methylene blue thing or should we just get them - I don't know, for sure. I think methylene blue was found to extend the lifespan and that's where it came from. My recollection- - With the emphasis on lower organisms. - Yes smaller organisms. I think doesn't, do you interrupt or interfere and that's- - Maybe that's why the are doing it. - Yeah. - We need to look this up and post it. - [Andrew] Okay. - We'll get to the bottom let's talk about those. - [Andrew] Yeah. - Those methods have to part of the genome. They get attached to the right And if you have a lot of methylation, it's going to mess up the epigenome. Smoking will do that, lack of So you, what you actually want and make sure what you're is working. How do you know that if you do this or that is actually helping. And so you can test your age. I could take, a swab from your mouth and tell you how old you are biologically. And then we could work on and actually there were anecdotes now, that people are reversing just by doing some of the and some other cutting edge stuff that I'm going to write about. But yet, but you have to measure stuff. That's, I didn't want to I'm measuring stuff all the time. I have blood tests like you, I've got this monitor that that's measuring myself and I measure my biological age. - What's it measuring a A huge list of things. - Yeah, yeah. So this, this little device is stuck here and it's for two weeks or send it back and get a new one. It's got a body temperature movement, heart rate variability. It's an FDA approved It's not one of these recreational things. It also listens to my voice, eventually will me if or if I'm depressed, it will tell me how I sleep, obviously. But when you put all that data together and it's individualized and anonymized, it can now tell my doctor in real time, if I've got a cold that or it's just a virus. If I am suffering from COVID-19 or even if I'm going to have And so these little devices all the time, instead of going which is ludicrous. - I have to ask you about x-rays. 'Cause every time I go through I think, &quot;Sinclair would never do this.&quot; And the argument I heard was a really excellent one, which is that it's a low level amount of radiation, going through at the airport, but the argument is always, well, it's just as much as on the plane and your argument, your &quot;Well then why would I Why would?&quot; So when you go to the airport, assuming you're not running late and you have to go what do you say to them? And do you say, &quot;I'm David Sinclair.&quot; And then they shuttle What do you say? You do say, &quot;I don't like this thing.&quot; Do you have to give them a reason? - No, you don't. You can say, &quot;I don't want this.&quot; And they'll get annoyed to pat you down, but you get a pat down and you you're done as long as you're not If you want to pay for or the way to get around those So I travel a lot, so but I just go through the metal detector, I don't get scanned. - And the metal detector same problem. And what about x-rays at the dentist? Yeah. - Well, you know one x-ray Two's not going to kill you, but I- - Three will kill you. No, I'm just kidding. [Andrew chuckles] - I try to limit it - Right. - And I went for six years and then my last visit, I just gave up. I was tired of arguing with my dentist. So they gave me one, but they've got led coats on and they put lead all over your body. That's telling you something right there. And funnily enough, my Now you can balance that by saying, &quot;Well, one x-ray, two x-ray, three x-rays is worth And that's true, you want to know what's in there, but doing it regularly, for me, I don't think it was worth it because it, my teeth are in perfect I don't have any cavities, they're fine. So stop scanning me. I mean, I know you have but you know, do I have a choice? Yes, so stop pressuring me. - You know, who shared your and the dentist in general? My apologies to the dentists out there, was the great physicist, Richard Feynman. This is a story about him that's but he had very serious about x-rays because he and he understood enough biology that, he was actually quite vocal about his, dislike of dental And he talked about some of that. People can find that on Speaking of people who, are like Feynman, who've been engaged in public One of the things that I the way that you and I, initially came to know one public health education efforts. So, obviously we're doing this podcast, you've done the Joe Rogan Podcast, Lex Fridman's Podcast, excuse me Lex, I'm still adjusting that. Lex Fridman's Podcast you've written an amazing book. What are you thinking these days in terms of what the education from scientists, education in general as it I think if nothing else there's a gap, there's a gap in understanding. And that the scientists too are guilty of, not knowing what to do that's out there on pub med or elsewhere. I'm just, you know, what are you thinking for I'd like to just know, what do you think the world needs there? Maybe we can recruit some - Yeah. Well, we've gone from a in college and young to get our voice out to through a newspaper or a which for me was extremely the newspapers and my topic, every time was twisted into something that was not just embarrassing, used to bring me into the back office and- - Frankenstein. - &quot;How did you say such a thing? We're all going to live to a 250.&quot; I didn't say that. So, we're now also in a world where we're overwhelmed with information, and most of it is wrong and anyone can pretend to be an expert. So we've gone from early and we're experiencing it right now thanks to guys like you, people like you, is that the experts, some experts, a small number who are are talking directly to the public. This has never been able to be possible, until this time, right now. So another five years from I would hope that there are of people who can not just but are able to talk about aren't even published yet to say, &quot;Here's what's really going on. And this is what the future looks like.&quot; But this is somebody, like yourself who spent their whole life and knows what they're talking about. And this, this is also something don't know that we we burst into flames, we absolutely cannot tell And to the best of our because if we don't, we're beaten up, and we, or we kicked So the people who survive to our age, and I'm a little older than you. So I've survived a bit longer. - But a lot younger inside. [Andrew chuckles] - Nah, but we have to measure you with- - Yeah we need, I probably need a little - We'll measure that, and we'll work on your really important is that, finally people like your are to talk to the public. I used to do it, with a real threat to my survival. People would look at me, &quot;Oh, he's a salesman, he's It was seen as a real I think we're in a world where, it's not negative anymore. And the pandemic showed that voices of fact, that you could trust. And you can see the shows that the public, they're desperate for 'cause they don't know - Well, I'm being completely honest you know, I followed your lead. I saw you on the Joe Rogan I was like, &quot;This is amazing, like this.&quot; Because, you get out other good you're tenure Professor Harvard Genetics, Department of Genetics. And for those of you don't know, there's the Harvard and of and they're both excellent, of course, but these are the top, And I certainly understand and survive there and to thrive there, it's like a game of pinball. You never win. You just, you just get to, if you're doing really well, And that's the truth in academia. And if you're not, you But when I saw you, in a way that was accessible to people and also talking about, possible protocols that they to see if those were, right for them. I was just, I was just and I made every effort to And, the rest is history, but, I think what's really because of 2020 and with and it continues to happen. There's a thirst for knowledge. There's also this direct that you mentioned. And, I think there's also an openness, I'd love your thoughts on this, but it seems to me that from the general public, about health practices, that there are actually things their stress level, to control, their sleep, to control their cholesterol if that's what they to and to even control their lifespan, which I think is remarkable. And, I know I speak on when I just, I want to say, thank you. You've, truly changed I would not be sitting here doing this were it not for your example. And I always say Sinclair, many academics have but in terms of doing podcasts and really getting out there I have to assume raised and heart rate just a little bit, but you did it nonetheless. You are truly first man in and that, that deserves a nod. And, I have a great debt of So thank you so much. - Oh thanks, Andrew. You're a, you've become a good friend and I'm super proud of what I know what you will do. - So in addition to your book and your presence on social and appearances on podcasts, recently I've noticed a survey email/website excuse me, to get some information and rates of aging. Tell us about that and And what is this test that secretly and now soon, not so secretly. - Yeah, well that, what I want, is a credit score for for people to follow their health. And there is a number, there's a, there's a biological age Unfortunately, the test is many hundreds but in my lab, we've been And so I want to democratize this test so that everybody has access to a score for their health that can predict their, not just their future but to change it. And I'm building a system in the right direction and give them discounts for certain things that will improve, not but 10, 20, 30 years into the future. And we can measure that, and very cheaply, keep that you're on the right track, 'cause if you don't measure something, you can't optimize it. And so this is the biological age test, we've developed it, it's We're rolling it out. We're building the system right now. And there was a sign up sheet 'cause a lot of people go to doctorsinclair.com, you can get on that and you'll be one of the to get this test and see what we're doing. - Oh, fantastic. Will people be celebrating their, biological age birthdays? In other words, if I'm so I'm 45 right now, soon to be 46. But if I, if I were to be so lucky as within 12 months, maybe Do I get to celebrate, a negative birthday? - Absolutely. And my plan is that those a year or more, we think we can they'll get a birthday card from me and it's a negative birthday card. [Andrew chuckles] - I love it. And probably very little, actual birthday cake being ingested but, who cares 'cause you're - That's full of stevia,* that'll be fine. [Both chuckle] And thank you for talking to us today. I realized I took us down deep and as well, talking everything from what one can that's right for them to, how to think about this that we talk about when as always an incredibly illuminating. Thank you, David. - Thanks Andrew. - Thank you for joining with Dr David Sinclair. If you're enjoying and or please subscribe to our YouTube channel. In addition, please subscribe And on YouTube, you can leave us comments and you can leave us suggestions, for future podcast guests that In addition on Apple, you can leave us up to a five star review and Please also check out at the beginning of this episode, that's the best way to Also, I teach science and science related tools on Instagram. It's hubermanlab on Instagram. I also have a Twitter So be sure to check those out. A lot of the material, covers things similar to the podcast, but oftentimes I'll not featured at all on the podcast. So that's hubermanlab on In addition, we have a Patreon, it's patreon.com/andrewhuberman. And there you can support the podcast at any level that you like. Today, and in many other the Huberman Lab Podcast, we discuss supplements. While supplements aren't many people derive tremendous For that reason, we partnered with Thorne, T-H-O-R-N-E, because Thorne Supplements are the absolute highest quality and the absolute highest precision, meaning what you see listed on the bottle is what's actually in the bottle, which is not the case for many supplement companies out there. Thorne is one of the and all the major sports teams. And so they really are very If you want to see the supplements you can go to thorne.com/u/huberman, and there you'll see the you can get 20% off any And if you navigate deeper through that portal, you'll also get 20% off any that Thorne makes. So again, it's Thorne, thorne.com/u/huberman to get 20% off any of the Also take note that the Dr David Sinclair as a host, launches Wednesday, January 5th, you can find the first episode here on the Huberman Lab Podcast channel. They also have their You can find the link to that So please go there, subscribe on YouTube, also on Apple and Spotify. I've seen these episodes, and you're going to learn about aging and how to from the world expert And last, but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science. [upbeat music]