How often do we profess that we with the important people in our lives The trauma and devastation of the wind, mudslides, opportunities for expressions of love, care, and in fact, that these catastrophes were in part a to serve. We have witnessed open expressions in the day-to-day unfolding of our lives, and creed, and color. A deep sense of joy and observed this outpouring of love. While I was at individuals from across the country wanted to media. They frequently spoke of the services as for the public good. They talked about the through service and sharing. These experiences behaviors so evident in emergencies are less often a crisis to bring out our feelings of love and or a stranger? Why is an abundance of love so a choice between a fullness of love and something As a people, we have all Thou shalt love the Lord and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. And the second is like unto it, Thou On these two commandments hang We know in theory that love is manifest through and to ourselves--and that we need a balance that however, does not automatically make love in would like in the time that is allotted me love--learned from the scriptures and from review of the importance of patterning our lives aspects of love as it relates to our individual permeated with love and, second, some obstacles these two aspects--(1) the benefits that come from our doing so--I would like you to keep in mind a If white is good Then all my friends It suggests that the benefits and obstacles are not clearly separate, but are perhaps To begin--why is it important to pattern our lives question is nowhere more clearly emphasized, We are all familiar with verse 48, "Be ye is in heaven is perfect," but have we dwelt Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou But I say unto you, Love your do good to them that hate you, and pray for them That ye may be the children of your Father to rise on the evil and on the good, and For if ye love them which love you, what reward And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Love is the basis for becoming perfect or, as the perfection connection is love." We ought therefore be cognizant of the fact that though love "Knowing 'where it comes from' is not the same constant reminders that we cannot have the fruits There is an integral relationship loving our neighbors, and loving gives perspective to all of the laws and to just wait for "love" to happen in our to be sensitive to its presence or absence, to its What then are the potential consequences, on the principle of love? In what ways does require a lifetime, even an eternity, to answer we see new horizons--new levels on which some important consequences that can be that we are loved by our Heavenly Father and reciprocate that love. In 1 Corinthians 2:9 we nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart them that love him." If we accept and return that it is extended to all mankind--that perspective of who we are and who others are, Knowing our Father loves us and endowed us with the capacity to fulfill for understanding our worth. Self-esteem and I had an experience some five years and which in a quiet moment allowed me to see at once. My sister and her family came to spend As Nanette, my three-and-a-half-year-old "I didn't kiss my mother and father good night." and kissed them good night. When she returned, Heavenly Father loves me; my mother loves me; my my Grandmother Brasher in Duncan, Oklahoma, on a my Grandpa Mortensen loves me," and she went on to Jordon, and Yvonne, and then she stopped. I asked, "But what about Aunt Pat, Before I could proceed with the I am not telling you everybody in the I am only telling you the ones that and Huntington." The specific identification of not something abstract, something to generalize loved and that she loved others radiated This love created for Nanette an awareness that and continues to this day to have a sense of peace knows she matters in important ways. When our we too are secure--secure in an overriding disappointment, and discouragement about we too are free to grow because and we are in the bonds of love. We know to struggle because struggle can produce growth As I contemplated this shared moment with reported many years ago in the Improvement Era. four as his mother tucked him into bed. He asked, She responded, "Oh, yes, son. It is important that we love everyone. His reply was stunning: "I don't. How often do we profess that we love important people in our lives demonstrates interaction with family and our friends may not be destructive. There seems to be an assumption they will understand if we don't behave lovingly Such behavior has the power to inflict deep Our Vital Signs, stated it succinctly: "We kindness or courtesy from strangers. When we Understanding who we are and that we are loved strive for perfection, not to achieve it in process--the eternal process. In this context, become an adventure of stimulating proportions, as well as ourselves as individuals who are them in a different light. We can love them as fallible. None of us has been translated. We for weakness and inconsistency, for growth as we as well as others a break. We can serve, with opposed to serving as a matter of duty. There can Yes, lives patterned on the principle of who we are and who others are and our relationship to our Heavenly Father--that With little effort, some study, and a moment of a number of specific differences genuine love of a specific difference to start us thinking. We but perfect love casteth out fear: because fear in love." Freedom from fear can be an important 60:2 that some "hide the talent . . . given unto 90:11 that "even according to thy fear, so is thy man bringeth a snare." Think for a moment. Do work with them, to develop them, because someone if you try or because someone will know you have a fear that someone may obtain something you your place in a situation? When were you last in the consequences of telling the truth and tried require time, energy, and emotional input which fear, our productive potential is freed to focus This is one of the places where the gray and While love casting out fear is clearly a positive Now, back to my central thesis--the and its presence in our lives is enriching. potential we have to strengthen this quality in obstacles (in addition to fear) that inhibit our I will explore these obstacles from two points responses to others and the resulting consequences our capacity to love? One thing we might do is to when our lives become circumscribed by be so narrowly focused that they never This frame of mind may produce a self-love which that prevents us from seeing our wholeness, our need for others. Included among these pride, arrogance, vanity, boastfulness, jealousy, they are spoken of together in the scriptures. and arrogancy, and the evil way, and the froward This know also, that in the last For men shall be lovers of their proud, blasphemers, disobedient Without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, Traitors, heady, highminded, lovers Having a form of godliness, but denying the Ever learning, and never able to The truth is veiled because we see only in part. The tenth Psalm also speaks of divers acts of by Paul to Timothy are noted there too. these behaviors are so serious and why they They imply an absence of love. such disregard for others as the and fraud and further states that When we become so caught up in ourselves our fellowmen, or our true selves, There are many ways in which our words and deeds example, we may emphasize in the academic love and living is not enough and suggest in We may be so confident of our own capacities that share with others because they have nothing to of our cleverness--our superior capacity. President Because one man is more talented than another, he his brother, and then expect that God will approve did, nor ever will. We should operate for one for each other. We are supposed to be brethren in the indissoluble ties of the everlasting Gospel, our operations should be for that end, founded on Yes, pride, arrogance, vanity, boastfulness, but they are likely to be devastating I think of the example of a missionary who made it he knew more scriptures than anyone else. In fact, works. He took every opportunity to be sure that the situation was that there seemed to be a lack sufficient, that we should also understand the Another set of attitudes that may permeate important impacts on others as well as ourselves. acquisitive society the desire to get and to have take with no thought of others' needs. We often an appreciation for living frugally, not because as William F. Edwards, a financier, economist, and A marvelous ad with an important message Wall Street Journal, placed there by a Please don't eat the seed corn. [Now if or in the Midwest, you know that seed If you eat it now, next year's crop is society the temptation of success is to devour without planning for the future. That's as I suggest that it is even more dangerous when opportunity for growth now and throughout strength, resources, and talents were Are we part of the group that eats the seed of resources? Do we perceive the effects of greed or development of love in our lives? Many of these questions. When we read, "And again I say the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter "That doesn't apply to me. I am not rich." There (1) that being rich means having more than I cannot be greedy. I question both the During the time my parents were serving them for a few days at Christmastime. Christmas some of the families with whom they worked. surveying the surroundings and the people, I terms of material possessions and awed contentment that radiated from the faces of the I be this content in these circumstances?" what I have? What are my responsibilities? Am I rich? The answer depends on the in my heart I know that I have enough of this accountable for my use of them. Are you rich? determination be made? When we use more than our we greedy, or are we both rich and greedy? Are Greed can canker our souls, and are and our purpose in life. We Wo unto you rich men, that will not give your your souls; and this shall be your lamentation and of indignation: The harvest is past, the Will we be found among those who too late the importance of giving and of love? There is further scriptural evidence compatible and that the consequences of greed Yea, they are greedy dogs which can never cannot understand: they all look to their own Come ye, say they, I will fetch wine, and and tomorrow shall be as this The implication that one cannot is focused on "never enough" and the Thinking of "never enough" reminds me of the young of a Sunday dinner to which his family had several more dessert. This news did not please him, and His mother in self-defense and embarrassment The boy still chafing retorted, "There've been lots of times I've eaten all I Are some of us like him? Are we struggling for want more? In this frame of mind, what is it on this subject in chapter 34. The shepherds the sheep or care for the diseased or the becoming lost. They did not understand the need not receive attention, but that there should Lest we think that greed applies only to to note, as implied in Ezekiel, our talents, and our care and concern. These demand more than we deserve and give a man who was truly generous in all aspects of seems to be to give of ourselves, to do away nothing is a hardship." This message is echoed by his brother located at Boys Town, Nebraska: The challenge to give of ourselves may of our time--self-fulfillment. The emphasis on base of greed which says that I must pay hope that others may be benefited because I am in exploring the ideas about self-fulfillment Self-Fulfillment in a World Turned Upside Down," has counseled the self-fulfillment seekers: must lose oneself contains a truth any grasp." This concept was grasped by both There are those, however, on the other side and appreciation of themselves fail to fill their are thus unable to establish an effective, loving for balance--a love of self and neighbor It becomes evident that a life patterned on the principle of of self and from this base doing a considerable achieving a life patterned on the principle of an undue amount of looking inward--focusing way we want to look--to choose to enhance our We can take steps which will enhance the quality choose to help it grow. We can start from emulate our Father in Heaven in His capacity connection--demands love of self and others It is my prayer that, as we grow in of love in our movement toward to incorporating it in our lives and become May we be worthy to receive the blessings Lord make you to increase and abound in love may I add toward our Heavenly Father and toward