Scotti the kitten was only one day old when he was found alone outside. Rescuers were worried about him. He was so little. How would Then three days later, rescuers Chip, his brother. They were way too small to get adopted. Their eyes weren't even open yet. They needed a ton of extra care and attention from their rescuers. Wait, there's another Three-day-old puppies: Koda and Bandit. Caring for animals as tiny as these is an around-the-clock job, so at night, they all went All right, Mars, you can And they spent the day We get to watch them grow up together. Who's gonna get big first? Sorry, sorry, it's not a race. Or it's the cutest race in the world! &quot;Good boy.&quot; One week later, the They stay right on their so she knows when they want food, which is pretty much always. They can't walk yet, &quot;Good boy.&quot; Zeeva doesn't mind. She needs them to eat so they can grow big He's like, &quot;This is nice and all, but can I have more food, please?&quot; &quot;Yeah, he eats a lot.&quot; There's more, don't worry. He's pawing the air, just like kittens when they drink from their moms. They're growing so much, maybe soon they're gonna &quot;Why'd you pee on me?&quot; I will let you get cleaned up. Let's check on the puppies. Their eyes are open, too, Oh, never mind. Still Looks like they're trying to walk. Not quite ready. But Zeeva noticed Scotti &quot;Hi.&quot; Could today be the day &quot;He's gonna start to take Show us what you got, Scotti. &quot;You can do it.&quot; Oh, yay, we got a walker! What about you pups? This is no time to fool around. Yes, and they're wrestling Playing is a sign they're growing up, and Zeeva can't believe it &quot;Oh, oh my goodness.&quot; The kitties are in full curiosity mode. That means it's time to show them they're really not babies This is mealtime mayhem. I promise you got everything. All this big-kitten food I bet they're even bigger than -- Nope, still smaller than a dog. &quot;Saying hi?&quot; A tiny dog. And speaking of, let's check on some even tinier dogs. Still wrestling. Their foster sister's Now that they're bigger, of their foster home at Hello, animal shelter. Someone order two incredibly cute puppies? And it looks like they're What do you guys think? That is a yes. Too (dogs barking) What is all that barking? Ahh, get to higher ground, kitties! &quot;Whatcha doing up there?&quot; So maybe lots of dogs isn't their style, but they've grown so much. It's time to start looking for Hey, you finished yours already, Chip. Meanwhile, whoa, too close! The rescuers start to the puppies have, even if it So maybe it's time for the next big test. How do they do outside? Their first time in the grass. And getting off the grass. You can do it, Koda. &quot;You got it!&quot; There you go. Nope, still too little. But the puppies have passed their test, and they're certainly acting big, which means we're about cutest puppy fight I've ever seen to their forever home. &quot;Koda, sit. Good boy.&quot; &quot;Sit, Bandit. Good boy.&quot; Where they get some new big siblings. Are you trying to start a fight? Uh-oh! And the kitties are of their own: They're getting adopted by someone who works And a few months later, with just as much energy as always. Let's see the kittens again. They're huge too, and for the best groomer award. It's hard to believe but it looks like growing up together was just the magic they needed. This might be a while. Remember when we first met you, Francis? All you wanted to do And you were so little, You were nearly a month old, but you looked like a newborn baby. See... Francis Newborn Francis Newborn You should have been twice this size. We knew right away you were gonna make But before you could be adopted, The first few days, we stayed close by so you would feel safe. And once you did, you stopped being shy. In fact, you thought you were ready and you were gonna do You tried showing off but you'd always get stuck at the bottom. No worries. Mom to the rescue. "Oh, I'll save you. C'mon." You'll be climbing Don't give up! In the meantime, we made sure you got Starting with little nibbles, which soon turned into big bites. That's a big piece of kibble, Francis! And you found other ways to show us you were getting bigger, like making friends, big friends and little friends. And grooming - totally aced it. Wait, wait, are you cleaning your teeth or brushing your fur? Oh, goodness, this is not how a And you kept growing. You got stronger and bigger, until nothing could stand in your way. Not even stairs. "C'mon, Francis! Let's go!" "Come on. Last one." "Come on, you can do it." Look how much you've grown, Francis! You're nearly 4 months old now, and you weigh almost 3 pounds, which is big enough "Are you ready?" You're going to your forever home. "Let's do this." "I now pronounce you, Francis..." "adopted." You and your new family are going to be so happy together, and we're happy for you too, Francis. You transformed from a tiny, timid kitten into a brave, spunky cat There's no stopping you now, Francis, because you're big!