Once upon a time there was who wanted to catch grey partridges But the &quot;fairy tale&quot; is long gone and now, there are hardly The few that remain are That's why the tomcat is left But as to why the birds of the is a long story. Blackbirds, ... sparrows, ... robins. These are the birds we know well. Quite often they build their nests When we hear about the vanishing we tend to think of these But the familiar birds in our Their numbers have dropped Most of the forest birds that have only decreased slightly. Eagle owl chicks are spotted even But the impression we get from Barnacle geese and other large because they are well protected. The number of all birds in Europe has plummeted by around 420 million a decrease of twenty percent. One group is hit particularly hard: the farmland birds, such as lapwings, ... barn swallows ... and skylarks. But what has led to A region near the Kellerwald forest is one of the few places where one that has become almost extinct Already in February males are courting their hens. Once they lived in vast steppes, but for hundreds of years they have in traditionally managed Today grey partridges Their numbers in Europe have by 93% since 1980. They live in fields and meadows, Flying is mostly reserved The birds have a preference that Grey partridges don't their bath-time routine The sand trenches are ideal - the birds keep coming back until that will reach every last inch Another farmland bird species lives A male yellow wagtail Together with its partner, it builds a nest on a plot The two have been working on it They tirelessly carry dry stalks, to their &quot;construction site&quot;. Every time they return they have The nest is perfectly camouflaged. However, even the best hiding place against the greatest threat that the yellow wagtails have It's early May, time for The farmers harvest the grass to for the cattle in the cowshed. Even though for some birds has only just begun, it is already over. Within a few days, all plots It all starts with Every farmer wants to get his before the next rain. On this hectare alone three pairs and a pair of skylarks Now there is nothing left. And not only the nests have fallen Two fawns were caught Their strategy to hide instead of In the evening the mother returns. She is looking for her fawns. But her search is in vain. The place in which she left her Many roe deer mothers share The mowed grass is collected. Farmers hire contractors The special machines are expensive and wouldn't pay off Chopped into pieces the grass and will soon be fermenting to make high energy feed. To understand why all this one needs a farmer to explain it. We are the Clasen family and we here in Meggerdorf Currently we are milking And we cultivate approximately Basically, we keep the cows in We use a mixer-wagon that blends One of them is the silage and then we add maize silage, which All of that gets stirred up and is freshly presented A hundred cows, that's a lot And grazing also limits the amount With pasture grazing I can't get and it is impossible to take proper It is a lot easier to feed with grass silage in the barn. Still the Clasens drive half for the day. The family owns enough land That is a luxury, other In the region lives another whose nests often get destroyed The lapwing. Its losses are dramatic. In Europe more than half of its The numbers in Germany are down In spring the males fight for on fields and grassland. The ones who can convince One female is already sitting She has to hold out for a good From time to time she calls for But her partner is still busy His legs are his &quot;secret weapon&quot;. With soft vibrations of one foot &quot;Foot-trembling&quot; is the name It takes sophisticated technology, because even worms have The female has been calling At some point she decides By now the fight has lasted worn out the worm gives in. Finally the male notices the empty Both partners take turns The male often takes on the when predators are out and about. The female did not take her eyes Now she can relax and That lapwings more and more often is due to the fact that agriculture I'm 23 now, and in my childhood the number of Each farm had its thirty The big ones had fifty. The difference between was not as large as it is today. These days people tend to say with 110 milking cows A large farm today has a number of up to one or even two thousand cows These are enormous numbers; If you look back a few the difference is even bigger. In 1959, the German wildlife was filming in Schleswig-Holstein. At that time farms were still and cattle were driven through The mowing wasn't done and then only for the harvest Nobody needed grass silage. Mowing with horses meant were still in direct contact even when small tractors The nests of the farmland birds Bird parents and chicks were able Today, things are different. Agriculture often takes The harvest takes place and within a very short time. Hardly anything remains. There is no room to get away After about a month the lapwing chicks hatch Their mother immediately gets After a while all three chicks each with a bodyweight of just Although they are precocial birds, they still get warmth Barely hatched, the oldest is The chicks have to take care of The younger siblings prefer their The night is going to be cold, A danger to the chicks. Come morning, the grass is covered How did the chicks survive Seven o'clock, sharp. The eldest chick survived. The lapwing mother is still because she had to squat over as the male didn't show up. Thanks to her perseverance, the There is only time for because the family has The mother will lead her young to and that could be hundreds A long hike for the chick's The Clasens operate a and take part in the local But they also need to how much bird protection they I have now reached the decision that I would like to continue after I'm finished studying I am very happy that we have That wasn't something Originally Magnus had told us that he didn't want to and that he would rather That's why we hadn't made into our farming business. So then we said: okay, we basically have to support with the farm's income. That extra family is me. In order to be able we needed to deliver more milk, and that meant we needed So we decided to buy And we invested in a milking robot. To make room for it we of course had to add For everything we have modernised we have actually invested my parents and me at 23. That's a &quot;hefty&quot; amount for But there was simply no other way. If we hadn't have done that, we would have had to stop That is quite a lot of money A loan like that shouldn't I just hope we can The marshland in the region is one of the last strongholds There is one species that is hardly found anywhere else. The curlew. There are just over ten thousand Changing of the guard at the nest: the male flies away to eat. The couple has to sit on the eggs A long time, in which The curlew is a giant It can be over half a metre long. Its beak alone measures This curlew is lucky, it breeds and the farming family In the summer months, Anja Clasen drives the cows home She hopes that the milk price will It is not us farmers who determine The consumer wants to buy cheaply and the supermarket negotiates the That is certainly the reason for many farmers to milk Then the price gets better Economic pressure certainly in the fact that many farmers This no longer pays off who have few cows and Farms closing down and Both are consequences Regularly farmers are protesting of large grocery retailers. But their efforts haven't in terms of the basic situation. On Clasen's grassland the curlew The survival rate of the chicks is only about thirty percent That makes every chick As soon as the chicks Ralf Clasen will be able To make sure that nothing a biologist from the bird research will ride alongside. Four eyes see more than two. - Hello Heike. Shall we go and have a look? Yes, that would be nice. The curlew is probably sitting But I am not completely sure. Sometimes we might be aware but we don't know exactly That's when a scientist like to detect the birds and to tell us that we spare from mowing for the protection of the nest So much has changed over the years. These days we mow the first cut We need to obtain feed that has the highest concentration We can only achieve that when we If we would let the grass the energy contained in the feed and we wouldn't be able to use it - Look, there it is over there. It's a great pleasure being able to run around on the plot afterwards. And yes, it is great to see that That makes one happy. Hardly any bird these days is able to hatch or raise its That is why more and more of them or road margins, like this pair Less than half a meter away their young have hatched. That alone is a success. Skylarks breed several times Even when a nest is mowed over, But in order to maintain a a pair must successfully raise Given the dramatic situation it's quite absurd that road in the middle of the not only on country roads, but also on back roads On the edge of the Kellerwald farmers also mow their plots. At the end of June it will be the At this time of the year, it often Fortunately, there is a small that farmers can turn to. Private individuals try to save as many eggs from The orphaned chicks will hatch The rearing of the wild partridge But as the partridge population every chick is valuable here too. Outside in the fields, another Farmers get compensation for planting flower mixes Here the grey partridges actually If the flowering blocks they will not only provide food, but also cover against predators On average, grey partridges It takes almost two weeks During this time, they are on good cover. Adult grey partridges feed But the chicks need animal food: and insects. As soon as the little ones their parents lead them to the Especially in the first few the young birds need The dug up ant pupae are exactly that will help them grow. After a quarter of an hour the chicks are so exhausted from The first day in a chick's with eating and sleeping. Outside of the flowering blocks, that makes survival Just how little food the birds are is shown in a study by the So, now we are going to weigh you. 29.3. The biologists Lisa Dumpe carry out the test. Look, he's got something. In a series of experiments, various partridge chicks are to once in a flower block and then, Before and after each experiment, In the flower block, the chick encounters plenty of So, it weighed 29.3 It has gained 0.4 grams. With a new chick, the test now 28.8. Here we go. Now on the wheat field, the chick However, it does not seem - How are we for time, Eckhardt? How long do we have left? - Yes, it's over. 28.7. That lost 0.1 grams. After only 15 minutes, the The result is alarming: the chicks are consuming more than they are gaining from leading to them starving to death. Up to the horizon nothing This is what our agriculture The grain grows to be so dense that hardly any light In addition, herbicides Other plants don't stand On the arable land arable weed species grow under the Here birds and insects Bird experts estimate that a larger would save the farmland birds. But so far on the continent It is the spread of one plant that has heavily contributed to Farmers grow maize to produce What might be good for the climate, Since 1975, the cultivation has increased by two The area where maize has become larger and larger. This has dramatic consequences Thousands or even millions in spring and summer Stopping climate change and So in comparison, how important In addition to their role they have always been of the state of our environment. Miners took canaries underground. When they fell off the rack, it was high time to leave the pit. There was a risk of carbon Birds have also warned us of life-threatening dangers When masses of yellowhammers suddenly died in Sweden scientists compared their with that of yellowhammers from the They discovered a significantly in the recently deceased birds. The heavy metal had been as protective dressing Via the rainwater the highly toxic substance found where the rural population Because the mercury accumulated the Swedish government advised not to eat fish more Many anglers had to dispose Although they were left with only many lives were saved. Today, mercury is completely But there are still poisons that are widely used to kill plants Birds that rely solely on insects, are particularly vulnerable. On farms where livestock is kept, they still collect straw and clay If pesticides are sprayed there, their breeding success also Barn swallows originally But even in early farmhouses they into the stables and living rooms, The breeding season brings stress. Quarrels with neighbours Many males are still singing A few weeks later, the Both parents now have to constantly Three more weeks and the young During bird migration huge flocks One gets the impression that the But in fact there are only two to three birds 30 years ago there were four. Even starlings are becoming Where cows are still grazing, birds That's why the starlings They return to the nest An apple tree on an organic farm The chicks double their weight Without the nutritious insects, Their metabolism is fast and The adult birds feed their chicks At that point the young look and are about to leave the cavity In the marshland of another cause for the vanishing This is where the whinchat breeds, a bird that has spent the winter This couple got their chicks safely because they had built their nest Whinchats are among of the EU's common with losses of more than 88 percent The birds have very specific Their hunting strategy Without those they are and without food they cannot breed. On modern grassland plots, hardly and certainly no thistles. In addition, in 2009 the EU that obliged farmers to let part of So today the male whinchat has to travel to the neighbouring On these patches of fallow land and there is more prey Later in the year, farmer Clasen closes the drains of and dams the water. He gets compensation for doing it, the birds are rewarded with prey The birds need a good Otherwise they won't try to raise So of course, it is an indication It tells me the conditions Soil life is extremely important for example to ensure a good oxygen So all the insects that live In the end, we make a living In other words, the soil, provides our cattle with the grass These insects and microorganisms in the life cycle of plants, partly because of their mere existence It would be critical and dangerous not only for us humans if this pollination no At every dining table one can see if pollinators and soil insects There would be no coffee, Fruit like bananas, apples or Vegetables would be eliminated: Even meat and dairy products without food for the cows. And fabrics made of cotton would The Food and Agriculture is already warning of the After all, 75 percent of all crops The vanishing of birds that agriculture as we know it Even the mere fact of could itself become In China in 1958, Mao Zedong ordered the The regime and the people that the birds not only eat grain, With the sparrows gone, these Thus, the loss of sparrows Birds don't just keep Without insects and birds, the landscape would be full of Nobody would clean up. Diseases would spread. We need the birds because even our A rescue of the farmland birds This is shown by like the one on the edge of the Here grey partridge numbers since farmers are converting more It's a small first step. So there is still hope who are having their first It doesn't take long and a few join Some chicks though are Others would rather hide underneath but right now that's not Planting flower blocks to help farmland birds recover. In addition, it would be important whether it is grain, Fallow land could be created by reintroducing the EU's A higher proportion with a diverse vegetation of arable And last but not least, the use of pesticides should be I believe that there is still a lot and that it is also necessary. If the economic pressure on us we wouldn't have to squeeze out of every plot of land. Farmers would have a completely and commitment. We would be able to support out of our own conviction and The dynamics of the protection If farmers, environmentalists and the farmland birds would Their survival depends on and how it is produced. We all have an influence on that.