Funded by the Ministry of Channel 1 Star Media babich-design Russian Military-Historical Society Present The Battle of Sinop, 1853 The triumphal news about the victory in Aristocrats, state officials, everyone was congratulating one Children pretended to be Black Sea Society ladies admired the But in a while the war, known to and always taking place somewhere far This war was called the Crimean war. in the Crimea. But were battles on the coasts of the Arctic and Pacific The enemies willing to subordinate Russia wherever they could get closer. In a a rehearsal for the upcoming The Zero World War. ZERO WORLD WAR, episode 2 The contradictions between Russia resolved peacefully. And there was who pressed the Turkish sultan from the Church of the Nativity in That was a blow against the prestige long protected the Orthodox Christians demanded to return the control over clergy. However the sultan, who was Ambassador Stratford Canning, To force the Ottoman Empire to make the Danube Principalities of Moldavia not only in the Danube region, A turning point was the Battle of Sinop, destroyed the Ottoman Fleet. In response Britain, launched a war in March were standing at the Turkish border. &quot;The Moscow barbarians entered &quot;Chellenge to the entire civilized Europe?&quot; The Russian forces crossed the Galati, and Izmail. Immediately after In the region of Galati and Brailov fire, and the Russians took two Near Izmail, a more serious 700 Russian servicemen were killed After that the Turks ran away, leaving and a gunpowder storage facility, Saint-Petersburg, 1854 Meanwhile, Russian commander in chief, the czar that the crossing of they had to immediately go The emperor didn't He suggested that the field-marshal alliance with Austria. But Paskevich Russia would reinforce its positions in at the border. When Nicholas learned the young emperor kissed his hand, suppressed the Hungarian And that was the gratitude. Yet Nicholas didn't share Paskevich's road back - only ahead, to the Balkans. Russian army was the Silistria Fortress. he could have taken it very fast - at the beginning the fortress But because of Paskevich's extreme the opportunity to take the fortress would have faced czar's anger, but The emperor simply left the old field-marshal Bulgaria, 1854 The unit which had been stationed for welcomed the arrival of General Shilder. sixties, he was in perfect shape. His Shilder immediately organized the works Shilder Karl Alekseevich was born engineer, inventor, and test engineer and defense, he essentially improved His innovations included tubular underwater boats with spar torpedoes and 25 years prior, during &quot;So what if he takes it again, &quot;garrison is extremelly thin?&quot; The Ottoman army could only But the hope was fading. When the batteries and embrasures for the siege of were only embarking on the ships heading will they need to deploy in battle The Russian camp was The army was waiting for Paskevich's At some point the Turks organized and the greatest fort of Silistria General Selvan decided not to wait for the At 1 a.m. three Russian In spite of the heavy fire, the Russian and the victory was very close. Suddenly The general who was standing near froze near his friend's dead body. shouted, "Go back! Go back!" The trumpeter, when he heard the The army retreated, suffering losses. The general couldn't explain He was accused of cowardice, but The commander in chief at the Danube feeling that they would have to retreat understood that. On the contrary, everyone Full of patriotic enthusiasm, retired to service and asked to be transferred of Nikolay Karamzin, the author of He lacked battle experience, but he was immediately appointed However, the soldiers Soon Karamzin was tasked with reconnoitering of his subordinates, a six-squadron and four main guns were The troop headed to the village of Caracal troops located there. When the unit the soldiers saw a huge cloud. It was then four parts. Those were Turkish that each of them consisted of no less around 3,000. Lieutenant Cherniayev stay there any longer, because it was grimace, "Fear has big eyes. What seems are in fact just two fences." Cherniayev the colonel back to reality. But it was at the Turks and rushed into After a few shots, the Russian It turned out that there simply were They could still retreat without any In spite of everything, Karamzin The first squadron came close to the their commander, the soldiers started back, before reaching the enemy. The chances to win. The Turks rushed to To get there sooner than the enemy, the there too. Everything ended up in a officers were killed. The Karamzin, surrounded by the Turks, was was found, with 18 wounds. Only death When the news reached Petersburg, it the courage of Karamzin who paid with him of criminal light-heartedness. "Wishing to mark himself with a Walachia fields, but at the same time he was entrusted with. The readers colonel's death should be regarded a (Sankt-Peterburgskiye Vedomosti) Not only soldiers and officers were but Field-Marshal Paskevich as well. one thing, to put an end to this war the then for himself. Soon When Ivan Fedorovich was going along and serve a dinner for him. The field-marshal Although he had almost unlimited he was unable to finish the war operations Another way out remained, to absolve himself The field-marshal told his adjutant that Nearby, he ordered him He never returned. Those who knew After the elderly field-marshal left, prevent him from taking Silistria. But at the moment when he was examining nearby and seriously wounded the general. had to amputate his leg. After a painful frontline, to the Moldavian town of who were starving, were waiting for who ran away from Russia back in the Turkish nationals, shook their heads leadership, "Moscow, take this damned Prince Gorchakov who substituted Paskevich - they couldn't wait any longer. The storm of the fortress was Several minutes remained till the launch the beginning of the storm. And the first half of the war would be hanging above the camp. "According to the siege, if Silistria won't be When Gorchakov read this phrase, achieved what he wanted, persuading in the Danube region. The prince In June 1854 the units of the Russian from the Danube Principalities. the Turkish troops were following them, In such a way, commander in chief Omer the Russians away. The only serious battle which the Russian army continued Meanwhile, Shilder, who until recently and now a miserable old man, Suffering from unbearable pain, he the formidable Turkish fortress which Before his death Shilder was repeating Having received a notice of Shilder's Gorchakov, "There will be no other man or bravery." In August, the Austrian army, with the the Russians in the Danube principalities. occupants and started real tyranny. The a stick are called "kind," those who those who beat to death are called before killing them - "self-willed." French and 20,000 Russia had to take a defensive stand. Moldavia and Walachia, the capital facing a threat. The British Royal Navywill This announcement was made to the of probably the most influential one of the soursesin the government the Rusaian capital soon is nothing more In Petersburg people knew that it left the Winter Palace and went to the but his posture remained the same. In field glass all the time, observing bristling with cannons. During disappearing from the sight again. The squadron of the Royal British Navy At first it had a goal of blocking the the Northern Sea, and if they However, the Russian warships were Then the British admirals decided to if an opportunity arises, to attack the The squadron entered Gulf of Finland, 1854 The coastal signs were hardly discernible were not working. They wanted but the Danish refused to violate The mood of the English sailors The commander of the squadron difficult situation. Charles John Napier, vice admiral, he volunteered to serve in the fleet in the war against Napoleon Bonaparte. the Anglo-American and Turkish-Egyptian the highest military decorations, and the Russian Order of St. George. After he arrived to the Gulf of Finland, they couldn't even dream of any active of the weather. Then he sent the ships had another reason not to hurry: he knew persuaded Napoleon III to sent a Louis-Napoleon didn't care about the in the southern direction. But how could When the French squadron arrived in the started to explore the waters of the battle whenever an opportunity arises. When the allies approached the Sveaborg were too strong. Napier didn't take The admiral took the course towards a part of the sailors fell sick with the vice admiral's decision to attack homeland people were expecting a reconnaissance brought a confusing protected with mine barriers, and the allied forces, whereas the approach area The water route past Kroonstad to would have had to put the ships in a the Russians could hit them all, one by refuse from attacking Kroonstad from Saint-Petersburg was to land the troops. The Anglo-French Fleet that approached Empire, consisted of 26 battleships, 32 The Russian fleet, with its main forces consisted of 25 battleships, 27 ships - corvettes, brigs, and cutters. Finland was defended by the troops of the Were stationed near Petersburg and Kroonstad, 40,000 - in the lowlands of Western Dvina. Kroonstad to consult Admiral Litke. The meeting was The emperor said that it was impossible near the Russian coast and offered go into the open sea, unite with a Litke answered that he was ready to fulfill it was safer to stay in the port. The result favor, besides the propeller ships of sailing ships. It was the most reasonable As long as the Russian ships remained impregnable. The allied fleet found The situation could have changed if they were supported by Sweden. Since the moment of declaring the But both Paris and London dreamt of the anti-Russian coalition. The even promised to return Finland to if Sweden annexed the Finnish lands, Such a threat from the north was Finland was annexed by Russia in Within the Russian Empire the Great Finnish a great deal of economic and political headed by the general-governor appointed governed by local governments The allies were sure that the Finns However, Charles Napier came to an of Finland were completely satisfied the Russians as their enemies. Having learned about the allies' At first the debate at the royal palace Finland was supposed to get after success of this enterprise appeared speech of the British ambassador, the was not going to send its army to help back was given to Sweden. Oscar didn't a war with the powerful neighbor, the pros and cons, the king announced, King Oscar is not willing to dight for the people support us, the Englishmen, with Think twice whether a person like Oscar is "They want to make us fall out with our out of banal greediness, so their words freedom are worthless." If the Swedish king turned out so to the main Russian fortresses, Sveaborg needed at least some victory. Before but closer to the utmost western region Bomarsund Fortress was located On July 20, a French infantry division of It joined the squadron of Charles realized that his fortress with a and officers, was doomed, but On July 26 the allies landed on the started a massed bombarding of the fortress. the defenders of the western tower As a result of the negotiations, the but the French agreed only for a one-hour birthday of Napoleon III, the allied from 800 heavy weapons. The cannon balls Only after that the commandant threw a which mainly considered of Finnish If it was about the storm of the Knowing this, one of the prisoners He expressed his regret that he hadn't "The end of the defense of Bomarsund of soul pain I regretted that we were not our fatherland, shamefully yielded with The victory in Bomarsund didn't have allies. Having got an order to leave the garrison in the destroyed fortress. The Aland Islands into his possession. For an inglorious end of his career - the British and dismissed him after 48 years of flawless Napier achieved - the Baltic Fleet ammunition across the mainland. It expensive. With the same purpose, to block trade - the allies sent A squadron under the command of to the Arctic coast of Russia. It frigates, one brig, one The main attacking force were the Eurydice, 15-cannon corvette When the allies approached Archangelsk, garrison, and the city was well fortified. attacking the main northern port of Solovks Monastery. The Solovki Monastery was founded in Since the 16th century, owing to the aimed at beautification of the monastery, and cultural center of north Pomorye. prison and was an important borderline In the 16-17th centuries it endured The Solovetsky Islands, 1854 The silence on the island was going The ordinary life of Solovki, where Archimandrite Alexander, strict and and he was teaching the monks the The entire life on the island was work, and prayers. That's how it was and On July 6, the monastery clergy, having organized a cross procession and built Eight more guns were established in Five hours later two British ships, With the first shot they tried to missed the target. The bombarding The monastery responded with reinforced from the walls don't reach the ships, made a hole in Miranda. The damaged When the night fell, the artillerists place for firing, to the At the moment of the invasion of the the Solovetsky Monastery. Most of them There were also 25 prisoners in the two petty officers, and 50 which made the monastery garrison. The prior of the Solovetsky Monastery, Regiment priest, was a brave man and a the war reached Solovki, he recruited shooting and the bayonet fighting. so the monks got from the armory in case they would have to fight On the next morning after the bombarding, the monastery for pilgrimage only a week area, exactly in the middle between the English officer. He looked at Sokolov a folded sheet of paper and gave to the Englishman could hardly keep his accept his proposal of capitulation. "So," the officer stated, "the bombarding will be totally brought to ruin." On July 7 at 7:45 a.m. a very strong monastery cannons. To distract the hiding behind the trees, were shooting The Englishmen answered with the detoured the Pesiy Island, approached from the rear. The defenders of the previous positions, under the fire of continued to shoot. Meanwhile a service prayer about assistance against the enemy. organized a cross procession along miracle-working icons. Before The last cannon shot sounded exactly announcing the beginning of the prayer Kazan Mother of God. The long awaited The Englishmen didn't dare to land Over the two-day bombarding they monastery buildings constructed None of the defenders of the Solovki suffered losses: one person The prior, Rev. Alexander, explained the saint miracle workers. Those who were monastery included a foreign tourist, a these two days impressed him so much Christian. "The English ships that birds, which are more used to the battles. The birds who rose immediately to the ships, after which it was no longer became white, as if covered A month later after the bombarding of approached the port Kola in Barents The commander of the garrison refused confirmed that they were ready to not to surrender to the enemy. On the started firing from all guns. It used and bullets with incendiary material. The from the 50 people of the invalid team After many-hour bombarding the wooden down. Besides the residential houses ancient churches were destroyed by the Ascension Cathedral of the 17th architecture. Having accomplished this the allies left the Meanwhile another theater of war The military activity started at the coasts of the allies, like in the polar seas. Britain entire north of the Pacific After the declaration of war, the English, advantage of the situation and The allies expected an The events started to unfold at the Russian frigate Aurora raised anchor to the north-west. The frigate was Squadron located in the Di-Kastri Bay. with Russia began reached South America, chase Aurora, to drown it in the Having reached the Hawaii Islands, the seize the Russian ships there, The squadron under command of Admiral frigates, La Fort, L'Eurydice, President and Peak, as well as the steamboat allies with 200 guns on board The residents of Petropavlovsk had known The port with a favorable location, couldn't but present interest for the declared, the visits of quite suspicious became more frequent. They were Then the governor of Eastern Siberia to build fortifications in the the upcoming assault arrived in May in the North-American United States. The Americans kept neutrality in that Petersburg. Weakened Russia in because that would mean the new world would strengthen. Starting with January 1854, the American in favor of the union with Russia. squadron was heading to Kamchatka, the accounted for about 200 people. The cannons and one 3-feet Petropavlovsk, 1854 In such a situation they could count Having gathered the residents of the Governor of Kamchatka Vasily the enemy - and if they would fail to defeat thinking of retreat. Zavoiko Vasily Stepanovich was born in traveler, one of the pioneers of He was a brave man and a talented governor of the Kamchatka krai, over Petropavlovsk port and created the city Soon Zavoiko's hopes that they would At first the frigate Aurora came to the and drinking water, the ship had to The captain of Aurora met with repel the attack of the allied forces. The 350 soldiers of Siberia Linear Battalion, Before the beginning of August the garrison the ships counted for around 1,000 people. the coastal batteries before The work was underway day and night, the guns from Aurora and Dvina, and then taken up, along the steep As a result, seven squadrons were established On August 17 at 12.30, the keeper neighboring post a signal, "I can see six ships." Several minutes later, of transmission points, the news reached Fleet entered the Avachinsky Bay. The positions. The battle started with an artillery The allied squadron turned round and A witness, English Captain Barridge squadron commander Admiral Price that the Petropavlovsk Port was much Price decided that his mission was This event stopped the allies for a The morning of August 19 started To enter the harbor, the four ships Le Fort, and Virago, were shelling the the approaches to the port. The Russian they couldn't drown them. At the first and in the leg, wasn't leaving his to encourage his subordinates. Even women the battle - they carried The enemy fire didn't stop even for a all over the coast, didn't spare Petropavlovsk. When one of such boys, asked by a doctor, "Does it hurt?" "No, it's for the czar." The enemy managed batteries. The second battery, located but it was unable to stop the landing Admiral Zavoiko sent 130 sailors everyone he had near. At the same time, a bomb at their own landing troops Aurora and Dvina opened fire against retreated to their boats in disorder. The first attempt of the allies to But it didn't mean that the operation the damaged ships and burying the taking advantage of the calm period, The commandment of the English-French This time the enemy decided Five days later a The squadron of the allied forces President, Le Fort, and Virago were established in the Avachinsky estuary L' Eurydice, and Obligado to distract attention, the first and the fourth ones, but soon the tactics of the allied forces yielded result batteries were damaged and the Russians of the allied forces landed on the coast. The landing troops, firing back, climb down to the country road leading to the ordered to gather all the reserves and units of sailors to help. They managed in separated units, rushed to counterattack from all directions, started lives, jumped from a The ships of the allies, not waiting for of the landing troops, went The battle that lasted for no less than an unheard-of catastrophe. Their 400 and around 150 were wounded. On the On August 26, two days after the the English-French squadron As they retreated, the Englishmen left officers' sabers, and 56 rifles. On the found at Nikolskaya bald peak an instruction about the actions made by a superior commander, "Don't that this thing is The people in Petropavlovsk were celebrating pleasant because it had seemed to Admiral Zavoiko offered to the officers to report to the emperor about the of the second battery, went to Petersburg. governor of Alaska. In summer 1854 the Russian army was The English-French squadron, was leaving the Baltic Sea. In all Meanwhile the allied forces accounting were landing in Varna, on the Black Sea was developing a plan of The Crimea was lying ahead.