Brainy Dose Presents: 13 Everyday Habits That Make You Smarter A lot of people think that being smart means However, to be smart is to be able to think you. It's not just about memorizing information understanding how the world works and using You don't have to be a genius or spend hours Regardless of your age or level of education, habits. Here are some of our favorites: Number 1 - Question, Don't Just Assume This is a habit that applies to every aspect information to how you approach interpersonal Many people tend to take things at face value. They don't question things; they just assume the media or by a source they trust, then Unfortunately, this can lead to bad decision-making could help make better choices. Don't just assume that something is true because Always clarify and look at all sides of everything Number 2 - Read Something You Normally Wouldn't Reading is a great way to expand your knowledge be smarter, you should definitely read every You should also consider reading something opposes your own perspective! Whether it's an article or book, reading something read can potentially be an eye-opening experience point of view. It can certainly help expand your mind and Number 3 - Diversify Your Day While a routine can be great and beneficial, To be both happy and productive, you need doing new things and keeping your brain active. Get yourself off of autopilot. Take a different route home from work, try outside instead of walking on a treadmill. Inviting a little novelty into your daily and interesting, but it can actually help Number 4 - Expose Yourself to Different World Smart people are curious. They interact with different people, and expose perspectives as possible. It's a great way to get your mind working. Of course, it's also important that you are from these sources. You may not agree with everything you hear will help broaden your understanding of the Number 5 - Make A Point of Learning Something Learning something new every day (no matter have a big impact on your brain. Watch educational shows, listen to audiobooks newsletters. You can even use a word-of-the-day app and Number 6 - Apply New Knowledge When you learn something new, don't let it If you don't apply what you've learned, then Don't just learn for the sake of learning; Whether it's learning about nutrition or technology, that knowledge into practice. Number 7 - Think of New Ways to Do Old Things Another way you can challenge your brain is about how you could do them slightly differently. Finding new ways to do things will fend off focused, as well as make life more interesting You could also use this habit to find better, do often, such as packing lunches or folding Number 8 - Play Games That Make You Think To keep your brain sharp and engaged, do something Board games, card games, video games, and As a matter of fact, studies show that playing function. That's because they require you to think And by giving your brain practice with this improve your ability to deal with different Number 9 - Increase Mental Intensity The more you challenge yourself, the smarter The key to doing this is to push yourself Try picking up a new skill or studying a subject minutes a day. You could also try entertaining a different or listening to podcasts about personal development. By doing these things on a regular basis, in your brain, which will ultimately increase Number 10 - Take Up A Productive Hobby It's important to have interests outside of Hobbies are more than merely a way to fill keep your brain engaged and they can even Whether it's writing, playing a musical instrument, hobbies are essential for your mental health you a more well-rounded person. They can also serve as a great way to meet helpful if you're looking to make new friends. Number 11 - Hang Out with People Who Are Smarter This is a big one! It's easy to surround yourself with those level of intelligence as yours. But if you want your brain to evolve into to learn from those who can teach you new at an issue. When you surround yourself with people who inspire you. They will make you think critically about you become more effective. Number 12 - Get Some Physical Exercise You already know that exercise is one of the which is why it's so important to make physical In addition to helping improve your overall blood flow to the brain. Consistent exercise also produces BDNF (brain-derived learning, focus, concentration, and comprehension. As an added bonus, it also promotes better Number 13 - Set Aside Some Quiet Time If you want to be smarter, it's important Smart people learn from their experiences and again. And by reflecting on your days, you can also to unhealthy habits or behaviors. This will help you become more self-aware live. So, there you have it. If you want to get smarter, try adding these If you already do some of these things, keep And remember: It's not about being perfect Don't be too hard on yourself if something Just keep learning and moving forward. If you enjoyed this video, give it a thumbs-up, keep making them. For more videos like this, hit the subscribe bell. Also, be sure to check out our other videos Thanks for watching!