From giant chainsaws to fracking equipment, machines ever. 13. Chain Trencher A chainsaw on wheels. That is the chain trencher. Its job is to dig trenches by, essentially, This tool is often used for construction crews One model of chain trencher, the Tesmec TRS twenty-six feet wide. With a tool like that, it shouldn't be surprising A man working on a construction crew in Guam was struck by the trenching machine. 12. Shellfish-Shucking Machines In 2014 a man was violently killed after he He was cleaning the machine and got caught Police said it took the fire department nearly dismantling the machine. He was pronounced dead on the scene. There are many inherent dangers in working you may have. Any little mistake or malfunction can cause 11. The Walking Tree Harvester This thing is unnecessarily scary looking. And if you are a tree it is truly terrifying. The idea behind this next machine is quite Harvesters cut down trees and sometimes need bad idea. To compensate for such terrain, the walking Developed in the 1990s, the machine is able These sensors react automatically to soft, A computer control system distributes weight The machine walks over obstacles and the operator each step. Walking harvesters also wreck less havoc on on treads. Well, besides the fact that it was made to 10. The Feller Buncher It's a machine with a giant claw that has A logging harvester like the one discussed trees, picks them up, rips off the branches, It can take down two trees in six seconds. Imagine those are people and things start 9. The Forage Harvester This could come in handy for the zombie apocalypse. A forage harvester (also known as a silage that harvests forage plants to make silage. Silage is grass, corn or other plant used This farming tool looks like a lawnmower on It can either be a dedicated machine or a In 2008, twenty-nine year old Justin Jantzen, and died. The details of his death are unclear but it's close to this machine. 8. Tunnel Boring Machine Also known as a &quot;mole&quot;, tunnel boring machines through anything from hard rock to sand. The largest tunnel boring machine is Bertha, and is currently burrowing underneath Seattle. As of March 2017, it's only 1000 feet from the machine appears to be several inches off Tunnel boring machines are an alternative conventional &quot;hand mining&quot; in soil. They don't disturb the surrounding ground reduces cost and makes them perfect to use However, they are also incredibly expensive. Elon Musk has tweeted an image of a tunnel roads. It was an idea that came to him while being While these pieces of machinery are expensive In 2013, a man in Ireland was killed while 7. The Continuous Rock Miner A continuous rock minor is a machine with tungsten carbide teeth that scrape coal from Operating in a "room and pillar" system of 20-to-30 foot "rooms" or work areas as five tons of coal a minute - more than day. Continuous miners use conveyors to transport Remote controlled continuous miners are used conditions and robotic versions controlled All of this sounds wonderful until you see It looks like a forager but for underground. Since 1984, there have been 35 deaths where by continuous mining machines in underground 6. Bagger 288 Welcome to the single largest land vehicle It is a 13,500 ton beast that chews up mountains. The Bagger 288 is a 315-foot high, 721-foot Krupp company for the German mining firm, It originally operated at the Tagebau Hambach it removed layers of top soil from coal seams It also mines coal. While at the Hambach strip mine, the Bagger up to 240,000 tons of coal per day. If you take your standard soccer field and about what the Bagger 288 pulls out of the That's enough to fill 2400 coal wagons and Hambach in just 23 years. It now works at a new site in Garzweiler and a year. If it looks a little familiar, it's probably The machine has made an appearance in Ghost Games: Catching Fire. 5. The Godzilla Saw The Godzilla saw, which operates in Kazakhstan, costs $100 million, and can scoop 4,500 tons It's used at a strip coal mine that was This mine has been so productive in pulling Book of World Records. Why is it so scary? Well, just look at it.... 4. Car Shredder Ever wondered what happened to your car after Today, scrap metal is at a premium. To help meet demand, cars at the end of their The biggest of them can eat 450 cars in an In Newport, Wales, the LYNXS automotive shredder of its kind. The plant is run by the Sims Group UK. The LYNXS works like a conventional shredder Cars are first crushed to reduce their volume, The feeder pipe allows large chunks of scrap a Twin Roll Compression Feeder prevents too the same time and clogging the mechanism. A series of huge, rapidly-spinning hammers--powered the vehicle into fist sized chunks.. It is so big and so powerful, it had to be grid to draw sufficient current. What comes out of the shredder is &quot;high-density The machine is capable of handling a wide After being shredded, the plastics, rubber, sent off for separate recycling. The metal, copper, ferrous and non-ferrous About 60 percent will reach South East Asia, The company exports roughly 2.5 million tons On the other side of the pond, there is the It is run by the same company and can consume between 2,800 and 3,000 tons of steel, aluminum, 3. ACCO Super Bulldozer The ACCO super bulldozer is the largest bulldozer It was manufactured by the Italian ACCO for The 40 ft (12 m) long vehicle has a 23 by engines. Only one example was built, but it never arrived against the country. Never used, it was tucked away into a storage Recently, it was moved away from the abandoned 2. Caterpillar 797 The Caterpillar 797 is a series of off-highway These are two-axle, mechanical powertrain for high-production mining and heavy-duty In production since 1998, the 797 series represents haul trucks. The current, third-generation model, the 797F, in the world, up to 400 tons. Moving a 797 requires dis-assembly, loading at the new location. In order to haul the various parts of the loads. If a 797 must be moved from one jobsite to on public roads due to its size and weight. 1. Fracturing Pumpers At first glance, this equipment is small and It's not huge or prone to kill the people There are no Guinness World Record holders However, it's the end result that makes so very terrifying. While a study showed that earthquakes are into the ground, something done at all well fracking still has a part to play. Yes, these unassuming pieces of equipment have been having an above average amount of To reach rocks at deeper depths, miners have being applied by overlaying rock layers. To do that, fluids are introduced using fracturing This process is called hydraulic fracturing, wellbore. The U.S. Geological Survey claims that injecting for earthquakes. Wastewater is produced by all oil drilling However, a new study suggested that fracking A University of Calgary geologist pointed after a fracking and are confined to a small Thanks for watching! Be sure to subscribe and see you next time! Bye!