We're in St Petersburg at the height of the Cold rumbled. He runs as fast as he can as a pair of trying to get a bead. he might end up filled with more bullets than sleeve - Something that nobody would expect. into an alley, drawing on his adrenaline and the soldiers. He weaves from narrow street ahead of his pursuers. He's standing deathly still - perhaps luring to take the chance. One raises his weapon There's no scream. No blood. Just a to deflate before their very eyes. Baffled only to see that what they thought was their spilling out of a pocket-sized box. We know you can't get enough of the absurd, of the Central Intelligence Agency. For beginnings as the Office of Strategic Services, the Second World War, the CIA has become a activities across the world, with operations While they might claim to only act within the as well as adhering to international treaties, human decency are considered to be entirely off-the-books black sites, planning and attempting to topple governments that the US feels threatened of human rights violations under their belts. Well, at the risk of landing ourselves on an insane covert CIA operations we were able to find. so bear in mind: these are the things they're Let's start with one that's practically public has known about the existence of these ever since President George W. Bush acknowledged these sites existed for a good while before he around 2001, shortly after 9/11, to capture is a misnomer since they weren't just places 'Enhanced interrogation' is the euphemistic approved following the September 11 attacks, violate the Geneva Convention and torture the you must be thinking, 'How could they get never be allowed to do something like that in champ. But the CIA isn't authorized to conduct your answer: that's how they got away with it. in countries like Afghanistan, Lithuania, where the CIA was free to use objectionably These included beating suspects, waterboarding, detained, subjecting them to extended periods far more unpleasant, "private" nature. or 'Cobalt' but known as the 'Dark Prison' by loud music while left in total darkness. In the after being left naked and chained to a concrete the worst of it, then brace yourself: not only sites completely innocent, but the CIA barely this. Most prisoners gave fabricated stories and a Senate committee even ended up ruling that What's darker: torturing innocent people at black right? But the boys at Langley aren't they're asking, 'Why not both?' with Operation Paperclip, a US intelligence Nazi scientists and technicians their knowledge would help develop technological and even partly helped put mankind on other way about what that scientific expertise But it may surprise you to learn that Operation saw the CIA, or their precursor, the Office help. The ominously codenamed Operation Bloodstone collaborators living in hiding in the wake of the but to enlist them as operatives. Yes, hired as a part of Operation Bloodstone many of whom were guilty of committing war crimes. rights all the time. Naturally, they'd look to Proposed by the US State Department and approved from the United States Army, Navy, and Air Force purpose was to seek out any former Nazis living Soviet Union. You see, right around the end of the paranoid about the spread of communism in other ideologically aligned with Nazi agents who were Latin America, and Canada and who also happened In the early stages of Operation Bloodstone, the elements in countries both within and outside to be potentially valuable assets to the Agency propaganda. Through Bloodstone, the CIA sought them a more coordinated international network. approval, with the CIA then permitted to mobilize notoriously unfriendly - into taking covert were said to include enacting psychological any airmen from the Allied forces held in Soviet were even permitted to capture targets of Remember only a few minutes ago when we pointed its operations domestically within the USA? foreshadowing because it turns out that nobody to spy on US citizens. Well, it's not like anyone violation of their own charter - oops! Let's During Richard Nixon's run as President, there among the American public, so much so that alone were involved in anti-war demonstrations. to resent the anti-war movement, not only because morale of the US troops fighting overseas but also been other forces behind it. Specifically... Another bit of foreshadowing from earlier is that its fear of communism known and trying to stop by the late sixties, paranoia towards communism pastime. And so, suspecting that foreign in the United States, Nixon ordered the CIA to for the demonstrations against the Vietnam and the part of the CIA's charter mandating that on overseas targets was conveniently ignored. across America, targeting various civil rights even the different slang used by the groups they than three hundred thousand American citizens and with more detailed files being produced on over birth, complete lists of their family members, and were contained within 201 files. Again, this is prevents them from doing this because of a American citizens to a high degree of privacy. anti-war movement were found to be tenuous at telling him that they couldn't see much in the way seem to be any outside direction or control over It turns out people had their own reasons for require the oh-so-terrifying lure of communism. CHAOS were students, and the then Director of this in a cover letter to Secretary of State on American students wasn't exactly in the [Operation CHAOS'] existence, it would prove most Jumping from one type of CHAOS to another, some of the outright baffling espionage tactics the KGB. In the late seventies, CIA operatives nosy KGB counterspies off their tails, or at for these undercover CIA agents to slip away CIA wouldn't come up with an idea as baffling Okay, while many retellings of this weird Russian in question a certain way, they were intended Airplane! They were referred to as the JIB, or they'd be deployed went something like this: about spying on another country, and you're Your contact within the Kremlin is about to and evil communism is. But what's that in the probably means some KGB agents have caught stowed under your seat, you've got a secret Usually kept contained in an inconspicuous of a gap between you and your new KGB pals quickly slip out before they noticed. By the time but your inflatable fellow agent would have taken for liberty. You see, the JIBs were exactly what up with a male likeness - since almost all CIA were then rigged to deploy by inflating out essentially using a primitive form of the This wasn't the only way the CIA intended to as another plan they had involved air-dropping USSR but with a demoralizing twist for Russian be incorrectly labeled as 'medium.' Talk about a of day, but the JIBs certainly did, thanks in part enlisted to help out the CIA by the head of Les Smith and John Chambers loaned their expertise thanks to the 2012 hit Argo, Chambers had helped to help the CIA rescue six Americans during the be part of a production crew for this fake movie, comic legend Jack Kirby to convince Iranian out of the country. But that wouldn't be the only hand at a bit of movie magic... However, their next Unknowingly borrowing plot beats from the the CIA once made an 'adult film'. Digging up to privately behind closed doors has a long looking to blackmail or discredit them. And sure they took it a step further and actually allegedly filmed in Hollywood, of all places. Sukarno, the leader of the independence movement in 1945 as a national hero, with overwhelming out, the CIA. Sukarno had a reputation for the rights of its citizens, and particularly of closely with communist allies during the Cold some of the ideologies of the Soviet Union and largest communist party outside of the USSR. It with a certain powerful US intelligence agency. the time were big believers in the revolutions happened in one country, then in order to try and curb this and sever the CIA attempted to oust President Sukarno. Indonesia's 1955 elections, their usual method campaign against the leader of another country been circulating that President Sukarno attendant - who may have, as it turned out, been Soviets had leverage against him. However, the Sukarno's reputation as Indonesia's national hero Merely spreading rumors about Sukarno wasn't KGB had already tried to blackmail him by attendants sent to a hotel room he was staying allegedly filmed. But this did nothing to always openly supported and practiced polygamy. proved themselves to be ineffective at toppling some... spicier methods. Casting a body double the CIA had an illicit tape made only to then run before the days of the Internet. The CIA had as they later worked with the British coup that replaced Sukarno and his government on a campaign of mass murder, having real and Next up is Operation Midnight Climax, and we been a perfect name for the operation we were just of the now infamous Project MK Ultra that - among and attempts to research the possibility a real thing, and regardless of what Stranger horrific. Operation Midnight Climax came about use cases for a combination of drugs and 'intimate much like Operation CHAOS, this was yet another in America, in San Francisco, to be exact. completely unassuming men at bars and bring turned into its very own testing lab. Two-way watch and film the reactions of their unwitting of a hundred dollars each to the ladies that with lysergic acid diethylamide, LSD, without their senses and impair their normal sense of over-monitored how they reacted to the drugs. prying eyes, these men were then engaged in in. The goal was to see if combining the use trick these men into divulging any sensitive monitored through listening devices strategically some of the men being given other psychotropics would be better suited for interrogation. powerful hallucinogen, especially if they're irresponsible. Even more so, since LSD can induce being used for these experiments were never told information on what the potential side effects of the CIA could sit back and watch what happened. branch up and running in a similar bordello worst part of the whole operation is that continue for an entire decade, from 1953 to '63. Climax was getting off the ground, another of in Europe - their first major covert action of surrounding the potential for a large-scale since the culmination of the Second World War. the USA and USSR, both possessing nuclear amount of testing with those weapons, things to solve it? Well, they decided to dig a big hole... intelligence agency, MI6 - who are alleged to have rights abuses too - the Central Intelligence Unlike its name suggests, this mission wasn't of buried treasure: information. You see, a lot against the East, and vice versa, was done through World War Two, the city was partitioned into that had won the war. So, the CIA planned to running out of the Soviet Union and other parts all the way into Germany's neighboring France... The CIA's joint effort with MI6 in this venture interest in monitoring Soviet communications off something similar a few years earlier. it's less valuable than gold? - had sought to military headquarters in Moscow to Austria's Vienna was a hotbed of espionage operations militarised zones controlled by Britain, the US, the city and creating a fake business to act as tunnel to the telephone lines used by the Soviets. so they worked alongside British intelligence to of Germany that were now considered to that ran deep beneath the city couldn't be digging down to where they were tapping them that their calls were being listened in on. So, building an Air Force radar site and warehouse While the Soviets weren't exactly content they seemed to believe they were just building CIA decided to brief the British on what they were One of the MI6 intelligence officers briefed about double agent named George Blake. He took detailed ultimately making the Soviets aware of Operation nearly a decade later in 1961 and imprisoned, lived as a Soviet hero until he died in 2020. CIA's... wait, are we reading this Well, as admittedly cool as it would be to as with everything the CIA gets up to, the Phoenix one of the most controversial aspects of the Vietnamese government had been making an organized the communist-backed insurgent fighters in campaign against the Viet Cong. This program traditional Vietnamese and Chinese culture, So, when the CIA also got involved with these their operations under the closest analog in As part of the Phoenix Programs, the Central seek out and eliminate communist operatives throughout South Vietnam. The reason for to the CIA's routine use of these teams to carry that CIA classic: torture. Oh, and this was all in these activities in Vietnam. You see, given analysts, and, of course, interrogators, working allowed the US a degree of plausible deniability. to destroy the Viet Cong outright, to attack their including not just targeted killings but acts program was the idea that the Viet Cong's thanks to support from local civilians, who who had potentially allowed the Viet Cong them to coordinate their insurgency efforts. of these civilian noncombatants the Phoenix Program 'neutralized' 81,740 people. killed, with the remainder either surrendering The very nature of the program was widely program,' given the number of likely under the suspicion of Viet Cong involvement influence. That it certainly did, suppressing the When details of the Phoenix Program were released and was forced to shut it down. However, stopped there, as a similar program, Plan F6, While it's easy to focus on the brutality insidious puppeteering of foreign forces to do the weapons is its control over information. What the withheld can massively influence people's functions. In addition to controlling art and literature have long had incredible Case in point, during the fifties, the CIA novel around the world as a weapon, a piece the Soviet Union and against communism as a whole. its titular fictional character, a physician and Revolution of 1905 and the Second World War. first published in Italy? older societal class within his home of Moscow, since the country's communist revolution. Given conveyed his own very critical stance against allow Doctor Zhivago to be published in Russia. for containing anti-revolutionary been smuggled to a publisher in Milan by it likely never would have seen the light of day. the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1958 - which urging the Kremlin and the Italian Communist Now, a book that draws the ire of the Soviet Union in reading themselves. So much so that when a rolls of film containing photos of the book's Zhivago for their own ends. Upon reading the book, that Pasternak had created an anti-revolutionary as a piece of propaganda. So, they planned to have and then disseminate it among Soviet citizens to The CIA was given the go-ahead to exploit the US government had 'no hand' in the process. Of be too obvious that they were involved. By seeking as well as diplomats from the Vatican, the CIA copies of Doctor Zhivago to Soviet visitors By July of the following year, at least nine had been printed at the CIA headquarters. anti-communist books and magazines that the Union over the course of the Cold War. through propaganda is one thing, but trying to fear campaign is arguably even more sinister. insidious of the covert CIA operations we've codename 'Devil Eyes'. Between 2005 and 2006, in a secretive psychological warfare program that action figures of Osama Bin Laden. Yes, you Naturally, during the mid-2000s, the US War to 9/11, and Bin Laden, the founder of the had been identified as the mastermind behind the the attacks taking place, the United States against militants associated with al Qaeda invading the country of Afghanistan of al Qaeda supporters. This drove their However, rather than weakening al Qaeda, the US counterattacks against the American military independent groups that formed in support the CIA came up with a strange strategy to scare well as their parents - out of accepting the by making them terrified that he was a demon. a former executive from Hasbro who had for his role in helping launch the massively various branches of the US military to children. experience for what they had planned, too. at about twelve inches, and made to resemble Osama and two even resurfaced in 2014 and 2015, selling over six thousand, respectively. The plan was a material that would peel away when heated to demon-faced Bin Laden had red skin, black hence the project's 'Devil Eyes' codename. would assist with the manufacture and distribution children to scare them and their families and Qaeda. While the CIA acknowledged the existence of many were made beyond the three prototypes. The the CIA. However, there have long been rumors that and even shipped to Karachi, Pakistan, in 2006. You Aren't Supposed to Know."