(electronic chiming) - [Falcon] Video games There's so many crazy, bizarre, and just plain confusing things and we really wanted to talk about some of the most out-there Hi folks, it's Falcon, 10 WTF moments in video games. Before we get going, there's so many just in games out there. It'd be pretty much So, for this list, we're trying more out of nowhere moments that aren't usually So, if we're missing something just let us know in the comments. All right, let's get going with number 10, &quot;Sekiro's&quot; Guardian Ape's special attack. This is really the kind of Just some really weird There's a lot about the Guardian And depending on who you ask, this may not even be the But seriously, what the hell is this? During the first phase of this fight, this ape fights you in a very bestial way. He's aggressive, very dangerous, but most of his attacks are basically stuff you'd anticipate. He's got a ground slam, tries to swipe, got a big intimidating roar, and he throws poop at you, also. Seriously, this happens. Just look, he literally and throws a stinky brown lump at you that is literally poisonous. You wouldn't think a creature would do something that And the first time I saw I laughed a lot, like a lot. I lost 'cause I got too But, I mean, if that was the only juvenile attack that he's but he also literally tries I would usually describe as intimidating and challenging, but this guy I would It's like he's trying to make a kid laugh. And if you think that's note that I said just a moment ago, that I laughed very hard for a long time the first time I saw this happen. These attacks make the part as a headless sword-fighting and maybe even mundane in comparison. I'm used to throwing shit but I never expected a boss And number nine is the from &quot;Assassin's Creed Origins.&quot; Now, aside from some key elements, the &quot;Assassin's Creed&quot; series is usually pretty low It's changed a little bit with the mythology and the monsters, but usually, they work to within the historical setting But not this little quest though. Made does a crossover this bizarre quest has you investigating a meteorite crash site and some ruins that are very suspiciously &quot;Final Fantasy XV&quot; branded. It's a pretty basic little dungeon with some puzzles to solve, but when it's done you're where Ardyn, the main bad comes out of a crystal cage or something and then Bahamut shows up, I guess. it's a weird one. If you didn't know anything or that was a crossover you would be absolutely And even if you did, like me, it's still really, really bizarre to see totally fantastical stuff happen in the relatively down-to-earth world of &quot;Assassin's Creed Origins.&quot; The confusion doesn't stop there either. At the end, you're rewarded with some &quot;Final Fantasy&quot;-themed gear, which is a cool reward. And this grotesque monstrosity, this Chocobo slash camel hybrid, that looks all kinds of wrong, you get that. That's a thing, a Chocobo with four legs. I mean, it's not right, but it is yours. At number eight is the from &quot;Control.&quot; Now, here's a game that could qualify for this list. But probably my favorite thing that just kind of happens in this game, is this moment where, for some reason, there's an '80s style music video being performed by the Now, when I describe that, you think, &quot;Oh, that must be like your little bonus &quot;or an Easter egg or something But, no, just right there If you play the main And no, there is not any that I am aware of. Almost all you ever see of him is these old demonstration so he is mostly just giving exposition on the nature of the strange But for some reason during the final time traversing the Oceanview Motel, you can look into one of the rooms at a projector playing this from the Federal Bureau The song's basically there to and it is genuinely about as There's so many other weird moments in &quot;Control&quot; that we could list here, but most of those can be explained in-world in one way or another. Dr. Darling is dancing in a Eh! And number seven is the Another really small one For some reason, around you take an elevator up, and then, bam, you're looking at a bunch Like the previous point, this that is not an Easter The only way you can miss this is if you immediately started shooting, which, I mean, you're tempted to do. Platinum Games are known for but for the most part &quot;Vanquish&quot; I mean, the guy you play as is basically a walking and the whole premise of but they don't go out of of the game world until here. I mean, there is a boombox. There's a boombox. They really pulled out all the stops for something this dumb and pointless. And when you start shooting, the boombox even transforms It's pretty great, actually. And number six, &quot;No More Heroes,&quot; You could do an entire WTF moments list just from this series alone. The amount of bizarre nonsense that happens in these For whatever reason, stands out to me is unique, because at least at the time it was such a next-level troll that I could really hardly With &quot;No More Heroes III,&quot; three pretty much the entire trolls, and stuff that doesn't make sense, but the original game felt a little more connected to reality, so this sequence stands So, enough teasing. The fifth rank assassin in the game is a guy named Letz Shake, a punk rocker you encounter on a highway. When you find him, he's it's called the Earthquake Maker, and there's a whole pre-boss buildup fight that goes on longer than I remembered it. And it seems like it's just like every other assassin but out of nowhere, another slashes the machine in half and kills the assassin instantly. So, then this guy is the boss then? No. Travis and him run at each and it fades to black, but then Silver appears and stops them. And that's it. That's Thanks for playing, folks. The fact they spent so much with unique model, voice, and cut scene, before unceremoniously killing him off in the most pointless fashion, it just comes off as nuts to me. I don't know if they just ran Honestly, I don't know. And number five is Adam's Moving on from SUDA51, let's take a look at a game from another famously unusual The &quot;NieR&quot; games have had their fair but they usually make some kind of sense in the context that they're some important message or meaning. That's not to say they always make sense because that's definitely not the case. But certain moments from aren't quite as baffling in context. Not the case for this though. On the surface, &quot;NieR:Automata's&quot; at least, for a Japanese game. Yeah, it's a little bizarre you're playing as a on a ruined future Earth but in anime terms, It takes a while before of Yoko Taro weirdness, but when it appears, man, it hits hard. Your first major mission is to hunt down some Everything goes as expected And this is where, and I'm you find a robot orgy. I mean, I guess it's an orgy. There's something going on 'Cause these little wind-up whatever this is for no reason, which becomes abundantly clear and a cut scene triggers what looks like a pair of legs and something falls It's the birth of the robot, Adam. How that's supposed to work, I don't know, but that's what's going on here. The whole thing happens so fast that players might not even realize what's supposed to be happening. But if you go back and look at it, yeah, it's kinda clear as day. But I'd like to point out doesn't mean make sense. I honestly don't know what This is totally nuts. (Adam yelling) Four's &quot;Yakuza Kiwami 2,&quot; Be My Baby. You may be noticing a theme here, and, yeah, Japanese games can The &quot;Yakuza&quot; games are their melodramatic and their whimsically You think that wouldn't work, but it does. I mean, these are great games, where most of the quests or kind of funny, and this Found in chapter five, and actually, the first Be My Baby is, well, it's The premise is simple. Some thugs start hassling beat them up, naturally, and afterwards, the boss comes while talking about So, it's a hostess club or a Not quite. You enter in a room that and the woman attempts and you fall through the wall with seriously old men It's kind of grotesque, shocking, And it's even better when in a mass brawl. The whole thing's so surreal and weird that it's actually but that's also a big It's totally pointless in but it's burned into our memories, so you have to see it too. So, there you go. (man speaks in foreign language) And number three is &quot;Devil May Cry 4,&quot; the Dante versus Agnus sing-off. Yeah, oh, &quot;Devil May just full of the WTF moments. These are equal parts and it definitely follows Even in comparison to the previous games, Dante in this game barely what's going on, just That goofy personality when you encounter the Probably just because the battle takes place in an opera house, for some reason, Agnus starts singing, and for some reason, Dante follows along, with choreography and stage And it's melodramatic and over And it's clearly not meant It's so goofy and it's Like if somebody came into the room and you were playing this, you would feel like you had to explain it. Also, it goes on for almost two minutes, which is about 1 1/2 minutes Dante does a lot of goofy but doing an opera duet with a boss, probably the most ludicrous thing that's happened in the games. Asking why this happens It's a &quot;Devil May Cry&quot; - You will fumble in your (gun blasting) - [Falcon] And number two is If you thought &quot;No More Heroes&quot; was weird, strap in for this one. &quot;Killer7&quot; is an abstract Nothing makes any rational sense in a way that would resemble a story. It's a head trip where confusing and nonsensical things happen regularly, so singling out just one almost feels like cheating. But this sequence is so specific, bizarre, and almost entirely pointless, Let me set the stage. You go into this place called which is actually a school to infiltrate the US government. Simple enough, right? Along the way, you get to meet this guy named Benjamin Keane, the school principal who's or something. For whatever reason, he challenges and if you win, he will tell you to hit on But if you lose, then you Makes sense, right? Of course. Just a normal, everyday situation. Uh, no. I mean, it plays out very matter of fact, but nothing about it And it makes my head It's the sort of dream logic that this game fully embraces all condensed into one There's something about the bizarre things these characters say, along with the looming that makes this sequence It's honestly kind of incredible. (Benjamin gasping) And finally, at number one, &quot;Tekken Tag Tournament 2's&quot; endings. &quot;Tekken&quot; games are famous Probably the most bizarre and in the entire series can be found in &quot;Tekken Tag Tournament 2.&quot; Most fighting games don't put much effort into their ending cut scenes. You usually get a few but &quot;Tekken&quot; always tries proper ending cut scenes, no matter how inconsequential So, a lot of them are normal There's so many that are Like the ending for Paul, where his friend throws a rock at a bear, and then they run away, for instance. Or this one for the character Lars, where he is eating dinner and they're eating too That's what happens in the ending. Or the Heihachi ending, where he drinks medicine and then turns into a bear. I can go on. Probably the most bizarre one is this ending for Roger, where he is wearing glasses and a tie and comes home with a bundle of roses, only to find that he's the boxing raptor. This is seriously an This is how a story wraps up. It's totally nuts. That's a selection of these There's so many more We could literally be here all day just talking about &quot;Tekken&quot; endings. Look up some of these things yourself, they have to be seen to be believed. And with that, I think the weirdness has piled up enough for today. Leave us a comment. Let If you liked this video click like. If you're not subscribed, We upload brand new videos Best way to see them first is, of course, of subscription, Don't forget to enable notifications. And as always, we thank you very much for watching this video. I'm Falcon. You can follow We'll see you next time