(applause) - It's been 30 years since Song of the Year. Was there a time in your life that you, kind of exactly on point, and - Oh, yeah. - Yeah. - Yeah. - Yeah. - No, I was really in a dark, dark space when that lyric was written. I was really at a point in if I was at a crossroads, if I didn't get my life together and stop doing a little drugs and had a really bad boyfriend at the time. I just was in a lot of &quot;If I don't change my course, I'm gonna be &quot;in a lotta trouble.&quot; So I knew that I was at either had to like, hold die. (laughs) - Can I thank you for 'Cause not everybody is honest about that. - I'm sober 15 years and, you know, I was gonna say I need it now You need, you know, inspiration like this and songs that can help get So I need it now. - [Kelly] Music heals. - Music heals. For sure. - So what are your like, favorite memories from the time it hit number one? Like, did you splurge? Or did you do something that was just like-- - The first time I heard on the radio. The first time I heard &quot;Hold - [Kelly] That's a gift. - What a great gift that was. - Wow! - We were in Tennessee - Yes, we were! - I remember all the details. I swear to God. - How do you remember that? - I don't know. I was terrible in school, - I know, I retained nothing. - But the dates and But just knowing that we were so young when this happened, you know, we were on the whirlwind on tour, we were just, we didn't know anything except we were a group, we loved to sing, and we just were embraced by the world and we're grateful for that, you know? - [Women] Amen. - Lotta hard work. - So, like-- okay, you just said something interesting and I confessed this but I had no idea-- everyone make fun of me now-- I had no idea who your parents were. (laughter) - Not everybody does. - Until last night. Until last night. I was like, &quot;Why do they keep talking &quot;and the Beach Boys?&quot; I was like, &quot;I love The Mamas and the Papas,&quot; I was like, &quot;What does this have to do?&quot; And I was like, &quot;What?&quot; I was like-- I had no idea like, I just - We take that as a compliment! - On your own merit, I was a fan. It had nothing to do with I think that that's kind of something. 'Cause like to grow up, and I imagine that was very hard. I'm gauging that and I'm sure you have to as well, having parents so famous and like, what is normal? And how do I... - [Chynna] There was no normal. - It's so hard. - There was no normal. The chaos. - [Kelly] I know, that's not good. (laughter) - Well, but it was exciting too. - Says my therapist. - Yeah, right. But we also have a great mom, Marilyn, who's in the audience today. Our mother Marilyn. But she was really, she was really great at and being real about things, you know? Not everything is normal And you know, building and showing us love. And now we instill that in our kids. - Yeah. - [Carnie] It's important. - It's a weird thing to navigate. But like, I know... So since finding that in a thing like, one of you was put to and I was like, &quot;What?&quot; What is your life? That's insane. What was he doing at your house? - He told you a lullaby or something? I don't get it, what? - No, no, no. He reminded me when I was just on &quot;The Talk&quot; with him &quot;Don't you remember? &quot;I put you to sleep.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;What?&quot; - I'd be like, &quot;No, but I'm telling everyone.&quot; - Yeah, exactly! He literally-- I mean, he just wanted to buy Dad's piano that Dad wrote &quot;Good Vibrations&quot; on. That was his mission. - [Kelly] Solid piano. Lot of memories there He came over and he was My mom said no. But he, I guess I came chatting and doing &quot;Time to go back to bed,&quot; and put me in my bed and that was Elton John putting me to sleep. - Okay, the best... The best part, it turns out, of this story actually isn't that, it's the fact that your mom was like, &quot;No, you can't have our piano. - [Carnie] I know! - To Elton John! - I know. Well guess what, that piano's mine now (audience cheering) She said I could have it! - Wendy. - Thanks, Mom, great. So what are you working on now? You said you do a show a month, like everybody can find you I know you each have kinda - Yeah, so we do our one show a month and I've got a YouTube which I'm really super excited about called California Preaching and it's all about-- okay, I believe Jesus is the son of God. And so I talk a lot about Jesus. (audience applause) - That's amazing. So that's what you do - California Preaching, Chynna Phillips, California Preaching YouTube. - Yeah, I love that. Passion is good, spirituality is great. - [Chynna] It is. - What are you up to, ma'am? - So I'm raising four boys. - Whew, girls. - That's a handful! - Teenagers. - So I will be giving you (laughter) - I need to start drinking wine. - Wendy! - I'm just kidding. But I'm also trying to develop my own personal care products. Line of personal care - Are you really into I found that happened with me. I never cared about me I was like, &quot;What's in this?&quot; It was like, you feel responsible. So that's amazing. - I was always that a health nut, you know, wanted to know the ingredients and stuff. But yeah, it's important to me, for sure. - It should be important to all of us. Yeah, all right. - Yeah, and let's see what else. Well in terms of Wilson Phillips we just re-recorded &quot;Hold On,&quot; it's check it out on Spotify. - [Kelly] Awesome. (audience cheering) - Yeah, and... And I was gonna say that pound cakes and cheesecakes do for me. - Yes! - So I followed my heart and - It's my spirituality as well. - That's right. And I created Love Bites by we're launching grocery this year. - That's amazing! a gourmet dessert. There's always a thing with the weight and the whole image but the truth is, I'm not giving up sugar, I'm and that's the message I think is healthy. (audience cheering) - No, I think it's a realistic thing. It's a realistic thing &quot;Look, this is something I--&quot; and for me, personally, I'm always like, &quot;Look, I struggle with &quot;a little bit, like portion--&quot; - That's healthy. - And try and stay, you 'Cause that's the only way I believe but. - [Carnie] It's realistic. - Yeah, anyway, I love cake. (laughter) So I got a video from you last night and I wanna show everybody the tape. It's awesome. - Okay, so Kelly, it's the day before the show, I made peanut butter that you didn't like peanut butter. So, I rushed back in the kitchen So here are your lemon cakes for tomorrow. Those are little bites. And I made you, I got some Some lemon marshmallow glaze. And I'm gonna glaze these to you for tomorrow. - All right! So here we go. Would y'all like one? Would everybody like one? I'm gonna-- well, I'll go first, fine. - Yeah, good. Go ahead. I've had five million of these - No, but I was gonna say though, if you do have a sweet is amazing because-- - [Carnie] Look at the size. - Yeah, the bite size. So it's like you're getting it - They're like my children. (laughter) - My problem is I get this at home and I don't eat just one. (laughter) - [Carnie] Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know. these are so good! - Lemon, and it's lemon marshmallow. Hello! - [Kelly] You have mallow in it? Is that what you were gonna say? - Yeah, yeah, lemon marshmallow. - Oh my God, we are sisters - I know. I'm definitely coming over,