Speaker 1: It's great to be joined today by philosophy at Harvard University and also of Merit. Can we find the Common Good? It's so great to have you on. I appreciate your time. Speaker 4: Good to be with you, David. Speaker 1: So to maybe start talking a little sort of like two layers to this discussion. And one is a focus on an argument as to whether have a real meritocracy. That's one piece of the conversation. The second part which is less discussed, but have a pure meritocracy, would that actually What would be the concerns? What would be the problems if it was really From whatever sort of perspective we want So can can we maybe start with how we can kind of philosophy that you lay out in the Speaker 4: Yes. And I do address both questions, and you're It's very important. The first problem with meritocracy is that we profess. In Ivy League universities, for example, there than there are from students and families If you if you come from an affluent family. Top the top quarter, you're 70 percent of plus most selective colleges and universities, families. And you know, how many come from the from Speaker 1: It must be incredibly small. Speaker 4: It's three percent. Right. And now so we don't live up to the meritocratic slogan we hear from politicians tells us that really has an equal chance to succeed. So that's one problem with meritocracy. We haven't realized it. We don't chances are not truly equal, but ideal is flawed. And this is really the heart of my argument. In the tyranny of merit, meritocracy has a corrosive of the common good. And let me see if I can explain why, because think that if only we could perfect the meritocracy, Right. But think about it, if it were really true. That everyone's place in society and in the doing such that they could say, I've earned Those who landed on top would believe their their merit, and they would look upon those In fact, the person who coined the term meritocracy, In 1958, he coined it, The rise of the Meritocracy Because he glimpsed this, he glimpsed the the successful and the humiliation and resentment Now, you asked me, David, how do I bring these We've got, in a way, the worst of both worlds. We don't have a true meritocracy because opportunities landed on top, especially in recent decades, their own doing and that they therefore deserve society showers upon them. So we have the hubris among the successful. We have the humiliation and the brewing resentment, struggle even without a genuine meritocracy. And and I think that the anger and resentment elite, credentialed elites look down on them. That set of resentments and anger, those grievances they persist because the Democratic Party credentialed elites and has lost contact with its base going back to the New Deal. Speaker 1: That's that's very interesting. And there's a lot of aspects there that that political party. It seems that one of the I don't even know I mean, it's really a direct consequence of earned and what they've deserved with equal It seems like politically it's a recipe to position is is lesser or less good, because their actions that they are there. And in fact, it's this isn't theoretical. Some of the primary arguments made to cut unemployment during the pandemic that we've some form of laziness or simply choosing one's Why would we reward people for that? It has a very direct line to policy. Speaker 4: It does. And we hear this argument all the time in support. What's interesting is the way troubling, but the Democratic Party has migrated from being the working class against the privileged to well credentialed elites and the professional And this happened really over the last four Republicans, embraced a kind of market driven, education, admonishing people to improve themselves That's been a big part of the message, especially inequality and wage stagnation and job loss What we've heard from politicians, mainstream with inequalities of income and wealth and They've offered a kind of meritocratic workaround. They've they've offered individual upward If you want to compete and win in the global What you earn will depend on what you learn. That was Bill Clinton. You can make it if you try. That was Barack Obama. But what they miss now, it teams inspiring university and increasing access, broadening That's a good thing. I'd be the last person to argue against that. But as a response, or is the primary response decades and is a response to the wage stagnation people? That is a pale offer because those who pass If you think about it right, improve your You will surmount wage stagnation and job The problem is that you aren't well enough The problem is not that we embrace policies It's that you are not well enough educated. So that was the insult implicit in the seemingly And the result was rising resentment among being taken seriously. Speaker 1: Yeah, there's a couple of interesting I mean, so we've seen a story that I first I think it was with Rick, the senator from years ago, where he started to say, you know, We're never going to have those people on and universities, they're just going to indoctrinate The left, on the other hand, has talked about look at free college, let's look at making And there's a couple of effects of that. One is that it's saying if and until you do have done that. But also, isn't there some degree to which it sort of zero out and not even actually to resolve? Speaker 4: You're right. It does not solve the problem of inequality. I think it's desirable for its own sake to as possible. Yes. People from every background that are good But the question is whether that is an adequate of recent decades. And I say it isn't. First of all, those of us who spend our days can easily forget a simple fact. Most Americans do not have a four year college Nearly two thirds do not. Right. So it's folly to create an economy that sets and a decent life, a college degree that most It also this way of thinking is too, too blinkered it leaves in place the steep hierarchy of who who are well credentialed. Right. And it implicitly disparages those who aren't. And this is embodied in policy and in funding. An economist at the Brookings Institute Figured one hundred and sixty four billion dollars And how much do we spend supporting people in community colleges? At the federal level, about one billion hundred Now there is there's something wrong with including community colleges and technical on to prepare themselves for the world work. But this this imbalance reflects this broader valorizing people who are well credentialed not been to university. And this is showing up in the way people are Trump managed. To tap into the grievance against elites that at the voting behavior in the last few decades gone increasingly for Democrats and the vote increasingly for Republicans and especially populist bent who channel the anger in the And what's interesting is a similar pattern in other countries that have embraced globalization, and have alienated center left parties. Speaker 1: Now, there are some who would look college educated voter, voting more for Democrats, parties in the UK and say, well, this is there's As you become more educated and you learn for everybody. It's better for the country to vote for these You're doing an altruistic thing. You're doing a rational thing, and we're all Speaker 4: Right. And that in itself, I think, is a hubristic the policies, the kind of finance driven globalization right, center left parties, really center But politically, the toll has been taken upon Party in Britain, the Socialist Party in France. These policies have failed in the 2008 financial of how a kind of finance driven globalization The recession that followed, which fell very demonstrated demonstrated further. The failure and then to add insult to injury solution to to inequality and wage stagnation promoted and enacted for 30 or 40 years. It simply for you to improve yourselves. There is something deeply disparaging about So I think that what I'm proposing for the on arming people for meritocratic competition ask what would it take to make life better credentials they may have. And we could explore. And there will be debates about what counts, the dignity of work. But I think that should be the starting point. Speaker 1: Last thing I want to touch on, today or historically that have had maybe or rational view on the kind of interaction be interesting as a model in some sense? Speaker 4: Well, in some ways. And this is not to engage in golden age nostalgia, the time of FDR and the New Deal were an example working people to improve themselves, but the economy to strengthen collective bargaining, more of a voice, more of a say, as well as I think today, in some ways, Biden has begun neoliberal orientation of his predecessors. And it's interesting to notice that Joe Biden Without an Ivy League degree, Rice may have horizon. He speaks more actually about the dignity and meritocratic competition. There's also an interesting political figure Democratic candidate, Schultz. Has been trying to make this shift as well, of the single minded focus on merit and has the dignity of work. And I think that this is a more promising the center left parties generally. Speaker 1: I could not could not agree more. And much of what we've been talking about The Tyranny of Merit. Can We Find the Common Good? We've been speaking with the book's author, So appreciate your time and your insights Speaker 4: Thank you, David.