The Roman Peace was one of the most cherished did they accomplish this level of law and modern countries. Thus far in this series we have of perspectives such as the law, the courts, of these have had their scopes limited to what we will broaden our horizons by seeing how the safety and security are concerns shared by both they've got your back when it comes to the data mining theft and locked content in addition VPNs awesome features also include multi hop which increased security whitelist er which allows VPN for things like banking clean web which switch which protects against accidental exposure borders mode which maximizes your access in surf shark VPN has very generous terms of use and a 30-day money-back guarantee try it today and using the promo code Invicta to get So just what are we talking about here were basically administrative regions that such areas were quite poorly defined. For it did not simply occupy pre-defined hexes on control was imposed through a web of treaties Rome acting as a central, unifying hub. Thus of it today. Instead in this period, the latin that was a general's responsibility rather However as Rome continued to expand the question While these were being disputed militarily, such magistrates to carry out the conflict for a set it proved convenient to just reuse the wartime following the First Punic War, Rome found itself of Sicily, Sardinia, and Corsica. Given their isolation, it made sense to just lump all these to deal with them. Thus Rome's first province provinces of Sardinia et Corsica. The rest of the manner. Each would be overseen by a governor who assisted by a small staff. These magistrates for 1-year terms. However as the number of other Romans to be given the assignment or Following the civil war at the end of the undergo some changes as the Republic turned to monopolized many of the roles which had previously of many regions. These domains would become representatives of the Emperor. The remaining were governed by proconsuls appointed by the were those by the borders which often had legions were those on the interior with little to no of these provinces would change as new lands So what was the point of explaining all that. it forms the basic administrative system by which while the roman government may have spread surface of each province would remain had existed before. In many cases, cities, Peninsula were left to rule themselves, responsible for managing their own communities relatively rare and particularly noteworthy. regarding internal public order was not Autonomy was highly prized, and Imperial With all this framework in mind, of law &amp; order that trickled down to The highest level of authority at the province by a staff of assistants and advisors whose number of the magistrate. These would generally reside in cities of the region. However the governor and such locations and often travelled around the duties primarily included the maintaining If they had questions, needed clarification, point of law, they often sent letters to Amazingly we actually have records of some of exchange between Pliny the Younger and Trajan. "It is my practice, my lord, to refer to doubt. For who can better give guidance to never participated in trials of Christians. I practice to punish or investigate, and to what as to whether there should be any distinction on young and the more mature; whether pardon is to be a Christian, it does him no good to have ceased offenses, or only the offenses associated with the those who were denounced to me as Christians, He then goes on to describe and intended plans. To this, Trajan replies: in sifting the cases of those who had been not possible to lay down any general rule to not to be sought out; if they are denounced with this reservation, that whoever denies that by worshiping our gods--even though he was under repentance. But anonymously posted accusations this is both a dangerous kind of precedent and Here is another letter from the Emperor with a 66 word list of his titles and "I have commended you for your zeal and bravery council of the Lycian League. For you set out you defeated them, and either killed or took them in response to those (deeds), it bestowed upon you one. This was bound to enhance your reputation, deeds. I have therefore confirmed the decision have permitted you to be counted henceforth embassy was undertaken by Meleager, son of I love these letters and the insight they give us highlight the numerous sorts of local issues specifically at how the issues of public order, When it came to public order, this generally governor held imperium and thus would have These might include some combination and militias. I should however note that reforms border and field units which changed how the most of the time the governor would be the one to fight foreign and domestic threats. Governors raids and even invasions. However if things got from other commanders or the Emperor. Internally, root out bandits, or suppress a disruptive be quite terrifying as is evidenced by However not all events rose to such high levels level threats scattered across a province and it at once. Therefore many cities and especially their own defense against smaller issues as Such local forces, especially in the led by eirenarchs who were mostly wealthy, and any assisting militias, would be instrumental and conducting limited detective work related to a powerful and desirable one. Their word was and governors usually deferred to their policing force within the Roman world the eirenarchs could often be little better This fact and the relative independence of did not get along with their neighbours, open conflict over things like sports rivalries, ancestral disagreements. The governor, of course, but that was only possible to some degree. were stolen. He and a local guard were able to and found the thieves. As they were apparently the local guards of that town swarmed on and throwing them in a prison for three the thieves had obviously fled. In such cases, his representatives who would mediate and To keep things under control and help a small detachment of men to a town. of centurions being assigned to training could be anything from managing to helping the town to defend itself against a All this being said, just as today, there was petty crimes often went unpunished. For these, For instance talismans were a commonplace item forms of harm. If something did happen, often the perpetrator whether or not their identity was towns and cities, and could be for anything to spreading gossip, to stealing someone's clothes citizens banded together to police and institute fire brigades. However Roman groups that could potentially cause trouble, governor was responsible for the maintenance represented the ultimate stability of Rome, and Let us now discuss the other primary duty of the in and of itself can be quite complicated nature of the Roman Empire. Its inhabitants were each of which carried with them certain rights right to vote, run for public office, hold and enjoy a whole host of other benefits. It could early on, the Romans actually adopted a form be applied widely and helped level the playing native laws ruled day to day life for those in the as a cosmopolitan Empire, it would increasingly AD, the Emperor Caracalla issued an edict which be given full citizenship and all free women Thus we see that the exact type of justice to history. Generally speaking though, when they did up judicial proceedings to hear and judge cases. court but could also be set up remotely when the the Governors held supreme authority and the power to impose capital punishment. Those but this proved incredibly burdensome as the in Rome before either the Praetor Urbanus or the calling on allies with deep pockets or friends not all cases were tried before the Roman much was handled on the local level according A good example of this whole process in the bible. In this case, Pontius Pilate was Jerusalem to oversee the celebration of incredibly strained at the time and both anything that might spark a riot. Thus when the local authorities hauled him before the situation spiraling out of control. The Jewish Praetorium. Here they accused the rabble rouser sedition. Pilate however was wary of getting pass it on to King Herod claiming he had no legal sending it back to Pilate at which point the the proceedings but it seems that the Governor whether they wished Jesus or another to walk was put out for the crucifixion of Jesus. In the had ensured a peaceful Passover at the mere cost show how stability was often the guiding principle The last major duty of the Governor was taxation. that the Governor and his financial officials extracted from a region. This included how much be used to support the troops stationed in the the government actually outsourced the collection auction was held whereby private contractors would government a lump sum up front in exchange for the even higher amount. Such tax farming inevitably exploitation, and oppression that eventually Thus in the imperial period, the system was and also to limit the ability of governors Emperor. The model of this new system was wealth. Its implementation was regulated be collected by a town or local magistrate it was a far more efficient and fair system. the required taxes and make sure the dues were Lower level Roman officials or their local done on the ground level. Such activity often to collect taxes, prevent fraud, ensure safety, the play between merchants and the authorities a patrol to check the measures would be sent would attempt to close shop before inspectors authorities would attempt to collect taxes, only amount due or simply bribe the official. If the merchants pushed their luck too much In the end we see that Peace in the Provinces Rome's governors and local authorities. which was light enough to allow communities stability. This was a marvel of its time which Empires in history. Yet we should be wary of Law &amp; Order practiced by the Romans was above status quo though force. It was a system that of "peace" and which led to the brutalization Christians. We would do well to heed this lesson work to the benefit of all. I know that the been an eye opening moment for myself and to come. Stay informed, stay engaged, and A huge thanks is owed to our Patrons for funding get previews of future content and downloads enjoyed this content, be sure to like and subscribe for more history Videos about our fascinating