hey this is Joe from grow at building today I'm 2024 so regular viewers of this channel experiment and observations over the last many leaves as I can find and see how black you've probably seen how it increases the depth year after year while also reducing compaction Well this is my update on this for the 2024 cover. Namely for the first time I actually go into detail about that. So without All right, let's cut right to the chase how deep samples around my garden to see the depth. And Garden. For reference I expanded my garden old Garden it has had five full years of leaf two years. But the sole depth in the old Garden expected because I've basically added 2 year for 5 years. So every year I do leaf roughly. And this is almost solely due to leaf compost each fall before I put the leaf mulch on. take the depth measurements from the New Garden 5 in of deep. And again this is expected as it had compost. If we want to look at my whole history I can show you what the soil looked 2020 2021 right up through 2024. All in all of organic matter as well as the depth of it and easier to dig. so when I first built my handle from fighting the the compacted soil I just need a trowel or sometimes my bare hands seedlings. And if you're enjoying this video as it really does help me out and I greatly soil testing. I had never done soil testing before I didn't just do a single test but multiple and samples from the area that is my old garden and um I'd never taken a soil sample before and I the best I could do was to take two samples from sod pad flipped it over and took my sample and results have made me change what I plan to do about later. but I did a basic nutrient analysis turnaround on the results. and I'm not sponsored pocket but I did contact them to ask if they would they would. so if after watching this you want to using the code grow it build it at checkout the took six samples I tabulated the results so it is So here's the high level results, and then we'll to my situation. But the table is laid out showing range for a typical vegetable garden, and then the New Garden, and my lawn. And I'll have all these that below if you want to look at it more detail. and New Garden generally have way more nutrients surprising let's look at some of the key see that the lawn soil has a pH ranging from 6.4 higher with a pH of 7 to 7.2 now ideally we want we know that compost and leaf mold is typically soil registers at a slightly higher pH than my both the Old and New Gardens have about the same next I want to look at organic matter content most 7% and here I come in with a whopping 15% result this doesn't seem shocking considering what I up and they break down over the course of that terms of organic matter content. phosphorus. so included in every fertilizer you would buy and available for a given year is 40 to 70 parts per that at 100 to 170 PPM, while my lawn is far below I dump a lot of organic matter on each year and produce. And finally potassium. Again, I'm about year. Now the rest of the results that I have enough micronutrients available for a typical And many of them are just part of my base soil the same levels. So what does it all mean? Well that I shouldn't add any organic matter onto that I'm accumulating phosphorus and potassium other nutrient deficiencies, as phosphorus can it so that it's no longer available for your potassium as well. But I want to consider how consider that my lawn which has virtually no of base level phosphorus and that's completely five full years of leaf mulch and several million. And the old garden levels are not that only had 2 years of leaf mulch. So it appears that really quickly and that matches my experience. a huge jump in plant size and yield. And that year. And as much as I like the old adage &quot;if it would probably be irresponsible of me to ignore And it definitely appears that I am accumulating year of gardening. So based on that I'm going to compost top dressing to the old Garden. I'll just leaf mulch as it certainly doesn't appear that trying to find actual hard upper limits of how are hard to find. Actually if you or anyone you fertilizer or nutrients please tell me in the another reason I'm going to use the leaf mulch having to weed my garden and I really don't of leaves on that slowly decomposes over the fertilizer. I just need to focus on growing and all in all I am very happy that I finally did confirms that I have very fertile soil which results for my garden yields and plant sizes as and the reduced compaction. I mean my black soil my hands if I want to. That was impossible when for some years or just starting out it could be a Baseline for future results. The company I used build it when you buy a checkout and they do have process was simply buying sample online they mail in a bag. you basically just take a scoop between off in a pre-label box you get the results a few it should be, and any recommendations that they results. But all right let's review. After gone from Orange inorganic and compacted to is clearly fertile so I reliably added 2 in of to 12 in of leaf mulch in the fall you know we Gardens and I am definitely putting them more than I'm going to do this fall by only doing leaves year to see if the levels have changed much but you have any questions please ask them in the If you found this video interesting or helpful to help me out and I truly do appreciate one for