An Ice Age Is Coming and It's not &quot;Glaciers are retreating, Greenland is blooming sea levels are rising... Stop global This, more or less, is the relentless message Everyone says it, so why shouldn't we believe it? Only a few persist in claiming that the merely an unproven conjecture, deduced solely Circulation Models. On the contrary, highlighted the presence of natural climate This natural variability explains a significant The anthropogenic responsibility for the is therefore unjustifiably exaggerated, and The climate is the most complex system coherent approaches commensurate with its level of change skeptics,&quot; climate simulation models variability, particularly failing to reconstruct periods recurred roughly every thousand years the Roman Warm Period, and generally extended past periods were even warmer than the present, are linked to millennial cycles of solar activity. First and foremost, proponents of imminent climate &quot;possible extinction&quot; of the human species, and biological life in general. Our Earth has years and has witnessed climate changes of such real) resembles the bite of a microscopic fly. activities... let's not fool ourselves. We may are utterly at the mercy of natural phenomena, Let's consider the magnificent evolution of years, only to be devastated by the impact of a the effects of a standard explosion of a giant No, the Earth is not dying, nor is it ailing... never identical to itself and ready, if something it has done several times before. cycles of substantial fluctuations in average is found in glaciations, which seem to have Between glaciations and even during have persisted, capable of entirely altering In essence, until about 10,000 years ago, of several thousand years within Our lives literally revolve around cycles: order. There are hundreds of different types Some are natural, like the change of or the circadian rhythms that govern our like the planting and harvesting of crops, What could have generated the alternation between emerged in the early 20th century from the work of his studies, he was convinced that the entire of years could be described by considering not perfect billiard balls moving in perpetually Everything changes in the universe, everything Earth's orbital path is currently nearly However, that &quot;nearly&quot; implies that perihelion is approximately 5 million kilometers! the eccentricity of Earth's orbit can vary interactions with other planets... resulting that can extend up to 17 million kilometers! of Earth's rotation axis to the plane of which oscillates from 22.5 to 24.5 degrees in variation involves the orientation of the axis, of the equinoxes. This leads to the shifting of and completing a full 360-degree cycle in assumes opposite inclinations about every 12,900 &quot;Before moving on, don't forget to subscribe make sure to hit the notification bell so These astronomical cycles influence the amount of seasons and latitudes. For instance, when Earth's between seasons become more pronounced, while seasons. Additionally, orbital eccentricity solar energy Earth receives throughout the year. significant changes in Earth's climate. When the energy is concentrated in the northern hemisphere interglacial periods, can occur. During these Conversely, when variations lead to reduced glacial periods can take place, characterized by In this regard, it's crucial to understand interglacial periods is dictated by Consider that the average temperature during the average temperature during an interglacial striking. During glacial periods, life on Earth much like those present at the Poles today, extend covering much of North America and Europe, With a greater amount of water stored in It is estimated, for instance, that during the by approximately 120 meters, transforming United Kingdom into a peninsula inhabited During interglacial periods like the present considerably milder. Northern Europe largely The connection between Milankovic demonstrated through the analysis of Ice layers, marine sediments, and carbonate about climate variation over millennia, And thus, over the past two decades, ultimate bastion against the thesis of With limited success, it must be admitted, because by the Serbian mathematician can only account about by major glaciations, interspersed proponents of human-induced climate change, they claim, has risen in a few decades, have had If an alternative theory to anthropogenic cycles cannot provide any assistance. true that in the past there haven't been episodes If that were not the case, one of the fundamental human activity would crumble... What climatic Neolithic humans have triggered? historical periods randomly! &quot;Iceman&quot; (Oetzi, as he was nicknamed by ago and whose mummified remains were found Alps at an altitude of around 3,200 meters? it's hard to say. But he certainly wasn't a what do you think? And indeed, there's Think about it: ten thousand years ago, the Alps yet just a few centuries later, there was a altitude, pursued by someone who managed Well, it's difficult for us to imagine that Much more likely, he closed his eyes forever in already cleared those altitudes of snow. This already occurred, allowing people to move freely A thaw certainly larger than today's... and Blaming humans for that as And then, how do we explain the subsequent rapid causing Otzi's remains to be So, it's not true that short-term climate variations don't exist. Earth's entire and they all occurred entirely naturally, Similar episodes have repeated themselves even in to recall the sudden warm period lasting from Red to colonize Greenland and then discover Europe and the entire northern hemisphere from Currently, there's a phase of modest warming, there was talk of unbearable cold there were even thoughts of covering However, the catastrophists seem increasingly the media and politics, that a kind of On the other hand, the Sun has certainly been for some years now, almost completely &quot;Maunder Minimum&quot; which brought about 70 years of And in fact, some scientists speculate periodic solar event called the &quot;grand not enough evidence to support such a position. sunspots appear rarely, and less ultraviolet from several decades to centuries, In short, the confusion is significant, to be right a priori... So, just to the situation between the two Milankovic's astronomical cycles explain but not short-term ones. Global warming proponents say that changes have never occurred before, and Climate change skeptics, on the other hand, that occurred in periods when human activity So, how do we sort this out? Is there with their massive and uncontrollable carbon but catastrophists turn a deaf ear to this the benefit of the doubt) that there haven't been Perhaps another major neglected There's no doubt that the gathering or parting of but these are changes that only occur Is there really nothing else we should consider? but in all this debate, there's not only true energy source of the entire solar Catastrophists, with their tangled but have underestimated its role to a paltry short periods of warmth and cold recorded over Climate change skeptics, however, have cycles for their arguments, which variations and don't account for The Sun, in fact, doesn't always shine at dims or brightens - to the tune of 0.1% Throughout this period, the Sun undergoes Solar radiation levels increase of material the Sun emits into space and the These changes have a variety of effects in space, Until now, the scientific community lacked solar variability and climatic changes. However, a Research shows, for the first time, a correlation periodic meteorological phenomena that occur on which is the atmospheric shift from warming in the Central-Eastern Pacific Ocean. Thus, variability on the meteorological This connection between solar cycles and ocean warming observed in recent years, exonerating But the battle continues. It's a battle where, Vast interests are at stake, and from impression that even science has been