Hi, Doctor Bernard here. Don't do this. Just because Benadryl is over the counter Even taking it as directed for allergies, that lasts in to the next day. DON'T DO IT. JC is a 21 year old woman, presenting to the Her dad Scott, tells the admitting nurse that The last one went on for more than 15 minutes, a rag doll. You see, JC was a regular college student She just finished her finals, although, she because of pandemic. This summertime break, was a good chance for With TikTok being the favorite of all her famous. A small trend was growing over the weekend. #BenadrylChallenge This is going to be something big, she thought. Back when she still had classes in person, someone's mind." Some of her friends tried it on the weekends. She thought she had tried it during her freshman She couldn't really remember anything from Haha TikTok meme she thought this time around, bottles of Benadryl, before dumping them into And immediately after finishing both bottles, She was going to be famous now. She was going to get 10 million views. "Allergy medicine go glug glug" she thought. And what she didn't realize is that the As the hour passed, JC could feel a burning Her ceiling became like jello, wobbling around. But ceilings are cringe. Im floor gang now, she thought. Always have been. JC had never felt more relaxed, as she turned She could hear people chanting her name over That's the sound of being TikTok famous, She tried recording more videos of her trip, Her vision was blurry, but she didn't need There was a drum beating faster and faster Her mouth was like a desert, devoid of water, each other down into sand. JC looked at the clock. 12 hours had passed. Her dad had come up to her and asked, "how But she wasn't sure if that was a hallucination She said she took 10 million, which is how her first seizure. In reality, no one was around. Her dad hadn't seen JC since hours before on the floor. As Scott walks in on his daughter, he sees While he called 911, and while the ambulance stop. But when paramedics arrived, she fell limp. Her dad had no idea what happened as she arrives At examination, JC was unresponsive. She was flushed, but she didn't have a fever. Her heart rate was 180 beats per minute, about was 70 over 40, about half of normal. No one there had any idea that JC had taken a few clues as to what could be happening. JC's skin was red, but she wasn't sweating. Her pupils were dilated, and were minimally Her mouth was dry, just like all her mucous Her heart was beating fast. All of this together, signals anticholinergic But what does that mean? What is a cholinergic? And what does it have to do with Benadryl? Well, Benadryl is an allergy medicine. Its chemical name is diphenhydramine. Lots of people take it in the spring, when Pollen and allergens cause people to sneeze. To cough. To have a runny and stuffed nose. The body thinks these allergens are foreign What's a good way to remove things? Well you could dilate the blood vessels, and allergens will leak out. Benadryl stops this allergic reaction by stopping chemical that's made in your body, called Hist from histidine, which is an amino acid, and amine referring to nitrogen which is a But if Benadryl is just an over the counter It's not like you're stopping allergies And why is her heart beating so fast? As the doctors keep examining her, they find in a way, that if nothing is done about it, be able to produce an actual contraction. Doctors shock her in to a normal heart rhythm. And after this happens, JC's dad realizes of her drinking 2 whole bottles of diphenhydramine. He shows this to the doctors, and it tells Diphenhydramine inactivates histamine receptors. It doesn't stop the immune system from releasing with it. When you take the dose on the instructions the histamine receptors, so that you don't But if someone takes too much, like lets say to have a lot of diphenhydramine floating interact with more than just histamine receptors. But, what else would that be? Well, if you've ever taken diphenhydramine, That's why it's branded as a sleep aid Some parents give it to their kids before plane and not cause a ruckus. You shouldn't do that to your kids. But if you've ever taken it for sleep, you All of this means that Benadryl acts on the Which is clearly what it did to KC because care unit, she suffers her fourth seizure. Nurses had to give medicine to stop the seizure, The Benadryl deposits not just in her brain, much of it. This brings us to an idea called lipophilicty. Lipo meaning fat and philic meaning affinity Benadryl is lipophilic, meaning it dissolves We know that water doesn't mix well with Outside of the cells in the human body, there's and defined by a layer of fat. This would mean that a lot of Benadryl doesn't mostly made of water-- it would want to be bilipid layer. And, more than 60% of the brain is made of Do you remember those histamine receptors? Well they're not just in the lungs and the They're also in the brain. And while histamine can cause blood vessels body, in the brain it does different things. It regulates sleep and wakefulness, so if histamine anymore, so there's no more regulation, That's how it causes drowsiness. Histamine's also involved in cognition. So if Benadryl is there to block it, then Less cognition could mean more hallucinations, Histamine also has anticonvulsant activity, then there would be convulsant activity, explaining But she doesn't just have a little bit of But if it's sitting in her organs, blocking still a lot of it floating around, what else This brings us back to "anticholinergic A "cholinergic" refers to the naturally Which happens to have a similar structure One part of your nervous system signals for This is mediated by the chemical acetylcholine, And cholinergic receptors, take in acetylcholine But interestingly enough, since we have sequenced DNA in our body makes. Nature likes to conserve things, and our genome receptor, is just like the histamine receptor. And because Benadryl isn't too different a massive amount of Benadryl in the body, too. A lot of Benadryl means a lot of these cholinergic they get Benadryl instead, meaning, JC's either. Without a digest signal, her mouth becomes Her stomach muscles don't move anymore. She becomes flushed, but can't sweat. She can't and hasn't urinated since she Her pupils become dilated. And her heart doesn't slow down, it speeds doesn't actually produce a real contraction. In the intensive care unit, doctors give medicines Benadryl doesnt just stop the histamine signal, signal. It also blocks sodium going in to heart muscle happens to fit in those receptors in the heart And because JC took a huge amount of it, there's where it can fit. Is there any way we could happen to pull it Well, maybe. But in most cases, this is treated by.. waiting Give medicines to stabilize her heart. Give medicines to stop her seizures if they Ventilate her so that a machine breathes for But maybe, there is a way we can exploit the Bringing us back to lipophilicity. If Benadryl dissolves in fat, but not water, in the hopes that it would pull out Benadryl At this thought, doctors infused the lipid intravenously. JC's heart rhythm didn't change after It's still unstable. Twenty minutes later, doctors infuse another and throughout the duration of her stay in heart rhythm. In several case reports of this intravenous a positive inotropy was observed, meaning beats harder and stronger. It's possible that it could be the heart to fatty acid from the emulsion. But it could also be additional volume in a rebound reflex. Or it could just be because the toxicity has That's the good part. Sometimes, that bolus of fat can cause pancreatitis, down fats, and it can also cause acute respiratory But in this case, JC turned out OK. And on day 3 of hospitalization, she pulled Confused as to where she was, her dad explained that the TikTok fame wasn't worth the memes, haze from the event, for several months afterwards. Viral following is almost never worth it. Because fast up is fast down. Brightest stars burn out the fastest. Thanks so much for watching, take care of