This is a machine that makes it so you can spin a coin better than any human. And this is a giant version of the same machine that can spin massive coins and possibly even PS125 manhole cover. Watch your fingers. Now, why would you need a machine to help you spin coins? It's because most people are really bad at spinning coins. Go. Okay. 2 seconds. It's not so easy. For proof, I asked ten random strangers from all different ages to spin a coin while I timed it. And these were the results. As you can see, when you average their times, it falls down in an average of 6 seconds. And yet with the coin spinner, you get a solid 14 seconds every time. And to show just how cool the coin spinner actually is, we're gonna have a little competition today at the Crunch Labs. And for that, I'm joined by two lovely assistants, my nephew, Ty, and my nephew, Beckham Welcome, Ty. Hello. Welcome Beckham Hello You might recognize these two from some of my previous videos. What was the first video you're in that you remember? I think the watermelon one. Let's roll that clip and show how adorable they used to be. And then what else were you in, Ty? Snowball Machine Gun. Did I shoot you in that? Yes. Ha, ha. Then what's next? Shot me in the big Nerf gun video. Nerf gun? Beckham I feel like I've shot you less. You've thrown me in plenty of pools Roll it I threw you in the Orbees pool. And my pants fell down. Pants came down. Where else did I throw you. In the sand hot tub. You're the one I tried to drown in sand, right? Yeah. Yeah. poor you Classic Beckham Okay, well, we're gonna have a little competition. I've got two crunchlabs boxes here. That's your guys's. We have 20 minutes to put it together. May the best engineer win. Clock starts. Ah ah Watch it- NOW! Go, go, go Now, when each crunchlabs box there's actually two coin spinners to build. That way you can use this beyblades type of arena and have a face off. So while my nephews knew that we'd be facing off, what they didn't know is I wasn't building just a normal coin spinner. so after the build time expired It was time for our Face-Off and the big reveal. All right, you knuckleheads. Classic uncle Mark everybody hold up your coin spinner Okay, We're going to do the big one versus small, but I'll let you guys choose which one you want. Do you want this one? hold up hold up hold up Is that the coin? Yeah. When there's more mass on the outside. Yeah, it has more energy to keep rotating That one has all the mass on the outside while our puny little guys have it spread out. distributed between, like, the apples. WOW! Beckham impressive. That's pretty big brain right there, Beckham I didn't prompt him to say that he's actually talking about the instructional video from the original Disc launcher, which we'll play right now. If you look at the distance, this apple is moving on one rotation. It's about that far. Whereas with this apple, when I make one rotation, it travels this whole distance. When it comes to rotation, the location of where the mass is matters. So knowing that, what do you want? You're going for the big Mama. Big Momma. All right, you guys have to help me drag it over there, though, okay Go Tyyyyy got it! Okay, here we go. One, two, three. Before we pull the trigger, I do want to point out that while this is what the final coin spinner looks like, the path to get here was very winding and filled with a bunch of failed prototypes. As the CrunchLabs chief toy designer, Mason is showing here. It was more going to be like a rapid fire coin spinner. This was the very first direction you would stack coins. If you got lucky, you could spend five or six coins in five or 6 seconds. This one was even crazier a coin spinner, six shooter. And this is where we started kinda getting into the actual firing mechanism being this lever that you would pull back. And we kind of went a direction. That was new which was optimized for that one single spin. We started moving into Ratchets, which made it into the final variation, and now we're getting a little bit closer to like where we actually ended up. Good job. You're not fired. Thank you. Okay lol And so after learning a bunch of ways not to do it with each prototype, we eventually landed on the final design, which led us right here to this pivotal moment. Got it. Good work, boys. Are you guys ready. To do this? Okay. Who do you think's going to win Beckham? ME! I have the Apples. You do. You got the big brain going on over there Okay. Ready? Here we go. One, two. whoa whoa whoa wait Hey, hold up. Hold up! Dang it! Almost go 'em! That's what we refer to at NASA as a critical oversight. All right, now we're ready. Okay, here we go. One, two, three. Oh, come on. Apples! wow, look, still spinning Done. Well done, boys. That's what I'm talking about. Them apples. You guys know how Uncle Mark doesn't like to lose, though, right? Yeah. Even if we do win, you don't let us win You don't really win, do ya? Introducing Mega spinner 2.0. Now, if you look closely, you might notice why I felt so confident about my chances. Given this one has ten times the number of rubber bands theirs does. Our rubber bands are uh... a lil bit beefed up How do you even pull that back? I'm glad you asked! In fact, here's Josh to explain exactly how. So with scaling this up. We added more rubber bands, which made it really hard to pull the Striker back and you couldn't by hand anymore. So we introduced a winch, which actually has ratchets built in. So it has a four and a half to one mechanical advantage. So crank that back. You're gaining four and a half times the amount of energy you put in in exchange for distance. And then there's a ratchet that keeps it from going back the other way. So once you're done cranking, the striker's pulled back and it's not going to go forward until you pull the quick release. What a perfect engineering application for a ratchet where you want to be adding this energy. But storing it for a specific moment. And if you watch the video for putting the coing spinner together, you learn all about ratchets. And it just so happens the build box coin spinner itself also uses a ratchet. So that's the gear badge you earn for this box to put on your diploma. And since we're making massive versions of everything else, it's only fitting that we make a megadiploma as well. Now back to the final showdown. Here we go. Won't be needing this Ty your design. Nooooo We got a mega coin Look at that. All right, here we go. using Ratchets to my advantage. We have the O.G. Uncle Mark. We're going to win. Okay, You ready? One, two. Three Champion! Hold up. ours is still going Hey! WHAT? It's out of the arena! DQ! yeah, yeah. That was our win. Never, I'll edit it out! I'll edit it out! Champion! Hold up. Ours is still- Champion! I'ma let you I'ma give you guys the tie on a technicality because I'm just a benevolent uncle. All right, Let the record state After that, we had the brilliant idea to also try and use the megacoin spinner to launch 125lb cast iron manhole cover. And that went, I guess, about as good as expected. But since we're not quitters here at CrunchLabs, we came up with a slightly different approach. Three, two, one. Here we. Go. MEGACOIN! well that was a little underwhelming. So not wanting to let a good manhole cover go to waste, we enlisted the help of my favorite fruit. And since that put us in a smashing mood. I will end with this montage of beautiful destruction. oh one If you're watching this and you haven't yet ordered your build box subscription from crunchlabs then what the heck are you waiting for? Visit crunchlabs.com with a parent, and once you're there, you can learn more about how it all works. Thanks for watching