Your life is short. Terrifyingly short. Assuming that is just 4000 weeks or 29,000 days. If you were to visualize it would look something like this where each circle represents one year. Now I'm going to be 40 this year, so I would cross off 40 of these circles. And here's what you see is left. The blank circles represent Scary. I know I have this as a constant because it is something that we tend And it is why so many live this tragic as if they are never going to die Don't let this be you. So in today's video, I want to share with you three insights on and to help you understand that but about the quality of your existence. The first is to understand because when you haven't trained your mind you will be told by society I used to think that success how much I earned, my status in society, the car I drove, or how big my house was. However, over time I came to realize that success for me It was about inner peace. It was about whether I lived a life It was about the impact This transition from focusing on career and spending more of my energy really helped me to get clear Because it is our legacy that people They won't talk about in your eulogy, or how long you worked in the office, More likely they will be talking about on those around you, the value There is this beautiful story a man who had the rare opportunity to read his obituary During a warehouse incident in which it went ablaze The media had mistaken his brother for him His brother Ludvig, was the actual person who died, So upon reading the newspaper. He read the title and it wasn't pleasing. It was brutal. In fact, the title read You see, Alfred Nobel made his money And upon reading this title he didn't like the legacy So you had this opportunity, to change the story He sat down and he got out his will After leaving some funds his loved ones and friends, by pouring it into funds to those who were furthering who were bettering our planet and helping us as a society to be better. And so was born The Nobel Prizes. While you may not get the opportunity we can do an exercise that can help the difference from where you are What you want to do is to write down first the obituary that you would love to read As you do so, What would people say What would people say about the impact What would people say about the impact you had on them? And then you want to write the obituary of the life If nothing changed, if nothing changed, then notice The difference between the obituary about your life and the obituary And then ask yourself, how are you going to change your story? How are you going to change the life that you are living It is too late to go back and change but it is never too late to begin to begin that you were meant to live and to change to change the destination The second is to master the art of being, There is this quote that says, And it makes me realize that the and that we can receive that feeling of being present To feel connected with someone. And it is an experience that I'm reminded and husband to my wife, is less about the doing and more about the being. Being in the present. Being with the people that you love. Because you are rarely going to look back and say, "I wish I wish I'd worked late into the evening." you're going to look back and say, with the people I loved I wish I was there that my four year old daughter taught me as much as they want I remember asking my daughter "What is your favorite activity?" to say things getting presents, But instead, she replied by saying, "My is spending time with my Mum and Dad." do not want your time as much as they want You may say to someone that, "Yes, you," But did you? Were you actually there with them? Was your energy and your presence with them during the time that you say Because if not, then to them Remember that quote, "Wherever you are, So what can you do to live To live more in the now? Because that is where life is happening. When you master just doing you're able to live you are able to create beautiful memories instead of constantly being distracted The third is to be bold I believe that the purpose of life and it begins with owning your day and take bold action to move forward you create a ripple effect It is why I wrote in my book Energize that designing your life begins How can you expect if you can't even own your day? Most of us go through our weeks in which our days own us rather than us When you show up with a certain you begin to attract opportunities, people Now, I understand that fear and doubt In fact, fear is one of The fear of the unknown. The fear of whether we are good enough. The fear Of what others You can live your life but that is going to stop you a life that you desire is that you are going to get to It's why people say that the graveyard because it is full of the hopes and dreams that people never got to see materialize. You can take action now in being bold and not let the opinions of others remember when I was going and I sat down with my publishers would be great to ask for endorsements One of the names I wrote down author of books such as Start with Why, I knew that he didn't endorse many books. His endorsement was rarely that I had read. But I said to myself, I'm going to do it I'm going to send an email ask out there And within three days he wrote back and As you can imagine, I was blown away and excited to have support And what it taught me was this. Be bold in your asks, but do not be attached to the outcome. Ask again and again and again. All you need is a couple of yeses. The more you ask, for things that you want out of life. Because if you never ask, guess what? You will never know. Fear and doubt will always be with you. It is the price of admission It is part of the game Now it can be a passenger in your car or it can jump into the driving It comes down to the relationship If you can cultivate to understand when fear is working for you you can overcome it Because nothing beats fear like practice. Nothing beats fear like practice. When you put yourself out there. When you have the courage to take action. When you have the power to collapse you begin showing yourself You begin to open your imagination and just how capable you actually are. If you really want to understand Have a go at this exercise. Take one limiting belief Write down three things. The first is The second is what has this And the third is you in the future Now, once you put your answers down to those questions, the challenge on what life would be like If you had the opposite to that belief, what would be possible for your life You see, belief is the catalyst to action. Belief or it can free us towards we can be, towards realizing those hopes and dreams And to show the world what we are made of. To share the value, gifts and talents Because you matter. You were born on this planet for a reason. And when you get to share this when you get to do the work that you were meant to do, to a fulfilling life to build a life around I hope you listen to the guide, and every one of us, and awaken I hope you discover the energy and allow your life to flourish in ways Because one day when you're old you're going to wish you had. you're going to wish and you won't be able But if you commit to making better choices to living with intention, you are going to put yourself on the path You are going to be using your time that you can be proud of. if you enjoyed this video, Thank you so much I hope you enjoyed some of the insights If you did, it would be amazing Subscribe and leave a comment below In the meantime,