Inside your head, there is a problem. And you are worrying too much what people And it's really causing a lot slow progress. So watch closely as I train you on how to you. You might be suffering from the very same from. It's called WOTAM. W-O-T-A-M. What Others are Thinking About Me. And it is a epidemic. I mean, it is like... It is very contagious. It is infesting the minds of the people and And the kind of problems it's causing is we of about what other people think about us in a state of paralysis. Really, like we can't even think what to do are going to think or our family members are are going to think. And it literally stops us from having progress. But what's going on? How come this is so hard for so many people Because you listen and you will hear that ask them what's your biggest challenge and The number 1 challenge that people are having thinking about them. So I want to uncover for you really what's And also, give you some steps about how to Because it's totally messing up your life. It really is. So does what other think about me, whole situation. What's happening is when you are posing the is thinking about you, you are activating And so, your mind is trying reach and and would think of you. So then, your mind is puling back a whole But none of the scenarios can actually be Because your mind can not confirm any of these you've given you're mind. It's an incomplete request. It can not come up with an answer. So because it is unfinished, you're mind keeps about you. And because it can't find the answers, it It's like giving your computer a search option Searching, searching, searching,searching, It literally gums to computer or gums up your And now you can't process any any other thoughts Because half of your thought process is still thinking. So, that's where it started, as you we're people think. But now, the request can never be answered. And now, every time you've wondered what other where it's now causing you to move slowly Alright, so what do you do? How do you get out of this? How do you stop this? Because you know, as an adult, you might be But what's happening is the way you plan your your family. What you wear for the day. What you do in the form of going for goals It is affecting you. It is slowing you down, it's causing problems. And if you don't look around, you're going that's causing you. For a teenager, big problem for a teenager. Literally, if somebody... If a teenager is struggling with their grades, constantly. What are the others kids think about them? You know, what are their friends think about You know, if they... If they're trying to have boyfriend or girlfriend, We're wondering what their boyfriend or girlfriend But it consumes the mind. And let's say that you have 100% of your mind This right here, this going to take off 50%, No wonder you can't remember things. You know what? No wonder you can't finish things. So, how are we going to take care of this? Because if you don't figure this out, your You're friends are going to have the challenge. Somebody's got to start figuring out how to So you can get back being productive. Alright so this is what you do. Give you some instructions here so it can It's up to you to create the answers. Your mind will never figure out what other No matter how much you try to figure out. It won't figure it out. So, it's up to you to answer 4 questions. And these 4 questions is in the search menu And it's up to you to literally sit down with laptop or your computer and answer this 4 Now, you're going to feel like you're making &quot;Wait a minute, I can't make up these answers.&quot; If you don't make up the answers. it's an incomplete question and your mind So the way I stopped it in my head was I start to come up so my mind will quit this nonsense.&quot; Just quit the nonsense of searching. Because an unanswered questions can cause unanswered questions about what people are You can feel insecure, your self-esteem can will definitely go down. So I took these 4 questions... I got a pad paper out and I just answer them. Now, notice this is &quot;What do I think of them?&quot;, And what do they think of me? I came up with an answers. And here's some answers that I came up with. Number 1, of course they think I am handsome. Right? I know, that's one of your questions. You wonder, &quot;Do I look okay? Am I alright?&quot; And I know it sounds like it's totally cocky about yourself. But if you're wondering what people think you're going to make this decisions what people So I made a decision that I am handsome, I I've got it put together, I know where I am And this is what other people think of me. Because if I come up with these answers and the way I act around the people will completely I'll be more confident for sure because what or I am too slow or I am too fat or I can't If I am thinking they're thinking that of Doesn't it just makes sense? We're already playing a head game with yourself You're already playing ahead and give of wondering You might as well play a better head game. You might have as played a better head game So make up the stories yourself. You're already make up so many weird stories Make up better stories. If you're going to try to figure out the story, So, there's 4 questions. You can see what they're saying. Answer all 4 questions. But get involved with making the answers the Now, I got to tell you. I am an introvert. And how did I come out of being an introvert I had to decide what people thought about One of the challenges that introvert have what's going on around them. And one of them. And one of the things that an introverts get them? And the stay quiet and stay in their shell. But to open up my extrovert side, I came up So if you're not outgoing and you're not, things a row. You're to do list doesn't get done. I think this is haunting you. It totally is messing with your head. So since you're going to play a psychological up your own answers. Now, here something else about you that I And this right here is super important. You have to stop measuring others. You see, one of the reasons why you wonder analyze people. Oh, yes you do. I totally busted you on this one. Because if you worry about those other people, You're over measuring them. So just stop that. The other one is stop being so critical. A person who is really critical of them self them. And so, wait a second, it sounds like you I know this things. I know this things because this what I used I used to be super, super analytical with And then I wonder what they thought of me. And I used to be so critical about others And then I created this whole facade of that's I think. So I had to like, calm down the craziness How do you like calm this down? So I backed off this, I backed off this and my mind down. And when I calmed my mind down, I can focus... I can focus on my steps of what to do each I can focus on my goal. I can get my goal because I am not worrying I think today's a good day for you to stop And just take some actions. You'll be so glad you did. Now, you don't want to miss any the training So make sure you subscribe here to the YouTube one of these videos because it's real life So just when you thought you had it all figured your mind and teach you exactly what to do So subscribe. You'll love it.