Hello! That must be the freakiest job in the world! Look at that guy just sitting there behind all day just: Just taking camera work of my ass the whole time. Mr. Bombastic. You know so uh So um Hello I uh I'm from New Zealand right and uh and I don't know if you've ever been to New Zealand? It takes a day to fly here. A day! When you get on the plane they take your diary off you and rip out tuesday. They're like: You won't be needing that up there you [ __ ] hahahahaha. And then you get introduced to the deep vein thrombosis people. You know these people? Who you could be flying from Boston to New York or something like that there's always people just stretching for no reason. If you met these people. They're thinking that they wear like special black socks. They're just stretching like some kind of erotic aerobics like that. You haven't even left the runway yet! I hope you're getting this right and He's asked me to do this bit and uh but I love it and the great thing is right. If you're on a plane for a day you might as well just get drunk and watch movies. That's a cracking day out! Until you land. You haven't moved. No one can get you up. You go to get up you're like a newborn horse. You can't feel your legs you're like walking down the isle. You've got like food all over you huh bloody great flight! But be from New Zealand we're quite a humble nation. You know? We have like the Australians are our biggest rivals they're kind of like America and then like the the rest of the world really.. and uh we sort of don't get on with them you know? They're nice enough they don't have a measurement device in Australia. No measurement device they've replaced it with the word shitloads. Seriously you just have people like uh measuring for wood oh. How much would you recommend a shitload of wood? People in supermarkets going: How much cheese you want? I'll have a shitload of cheese. Person behind the counter knows exactly how much cheese they need. I travel quite a lot I live in Sweden now and I travel. I travel from the right up, from the north to the south it takes it takes months Right? Like Gandalf got off he couldn't be assed and uh it's an amazing. I do the night train the sleeper train You have them in Canada. I believe and uh you get on there. You're.. I was in the bottom bunk. This is how I normally sleep which kind of freaks my wife out. To be honest. I'm just sitting there like karate kid over the top of her and this I was just in there enjoying myself. Not not in that way. But um I uh. So this guy. This guy comes in. He's like: &quot;Hey, hey, hey.&quot; and I'm like: Hello I didn't open my blanket didn't home that. Well you know hello like that right? We get talking. It's brilliant! We get chatting away I've known him for about 30 seconds, decides to take his clothes off. Doesn't he! He... yeah.. Judging by your reaction that's quite a normal thing to do on a train. In my world, you don't do that. You put three towels around you and go against the wall just in case there's a squirrel with an iphone or something like that you know? Put it on youtube, three hits and uh This guy takes his clothes off, gets to his underwear. Gives it a bit of a shake, right? My, he hasn't touched mine he's just touching his right? And then he peels his underwear off. Right? Peels his underwear off. You've got to remember at what height I'm at during this whole story right? I'm down here I mean. I'm on the bottom but I'm on cop cam that's where I am. I'm trying to look away but I'm looking. I'm looking into the eye of the beast, right? My eyes are going: Don't take a look! Don't take a look! But my brain's going to: Take a look! Take a look! So I'm kind of like: That's really confused. He sort of sees me panic. Does one of the greatest Swedish things of all time. Shakes it and then goes to the ladder and climbs the ladder naked. I don't know how many times you've googled naked man climbs a ladder. It's a one-off experience. Especially when you're under the ladder. But being from New Zealand, we're quite liked, you know? Like the Canadians. We've got the same attitude as you people. I like that you know? I like what the attitude you've got here it's that kind of you know? You see someone smiling in the street and you're like what the [ __ ] is wrong with you? I uh I find that heartwarming you know and I've been walking around I take photos. I love taking photos because we're in that digital age now, aren't we? You know? We've gone away from 36 photos. Do you remember those days? That's all you had was 36 shots. 24 if you didn't have much money. And your mum would go: &quot;Don't you touch that camera! We've only got two left! It's for Easter next year! Don't you touch that camera!&quot; You see your dad in the back garden with a hula hoop naked or something like that. &quot;Don't take a photo of that! It's just your dad experimenting.&quot; Now we don't care do we like Facebook tag. We really don't care. What we do is we take a photo here and then that person who's in the photo wants to see the screen. We want to see ourselves. We run up like this and we grab the camera. Oh no! Delete it, delete it! I look stupid and you grab the camera off and go no... That's what you look like. That's your face. One of the my greatest photos I ever kind of.. I met one of my heroes. You've got to get a photo! Or else there's no proof, right? And I met Bono you know. The guy from the little hobbit from Ireland! Little Bono &quot;Beautiful day!&quot; You know that guy? Tiny! &quot;Don't let it get away.&quot; Tiny. He is tiny! and I met him and I thought it's going to be the best experience of my life right? And I went to kind of shake his hand. You know those moments in your life where your brain's like an ipod shuffle and you don't know what's going to come out. You know like I don't know if you do it here. The double kiss that you do it here.. Yeah.. Yeah so in Belgium, Belgium and Holland they do it three like that you don't know what's going on. By the third one you just stick out your tongue and hope. I met Bono right? I went to shake his hand! Bono's like this: &quot;Hello!&quot; Like that right? That's how he talks right? And I went this far away. Went about there went into a fist for no reason. I thought... I'm an adult. No I'm not I'm Jay-z. That's who I am! I'm like yo yo yo. Here we go bongo right! I go like this: I just hit his hand. My brain's going: Oh no and I go like that. There's nowhere to go so I break it up and I go under his arm. I go. It's the most excruciating thing I get to his elbow and I just start shaking his elbow. I've got one of my heroes going like this. It was brilliant just like you people. You're amazing, you're brilliant! Yeah look after that guy! He's gone look after yourselves.