There's a mod for Red Dead Redemption II... ecosystem. And it is, quite literally, a transformative With this mod I tore through a town as a deer, lion, and I soared through the skies as an And through it all, I gained a new understanding familiar with. I knew this virtual ecosystem was vibrant, it's alive. Some worlds feel like they exist long before When a game pulls this off, the results can uncanny. So let's discover what makes a digital ecosystem Even without mods that expand your perspective, Snow realistically falls from branches as in the dark, depending on the ambient temperature, your horse's -- okay we're skipping that This game's commitment to environmental Which is probably why playing as an animal voyage. I don't want to over-exaggerate, but I mean hard not to lose yourself within each new Every animal made me see the ecosystem a different Inhabiting different roles in an ecosystem... Ember. Developed by an indie studio, the entire experience the perfect time to transfer your consciousness You play as a Soul Wanderer, a reincarnated bodies of nearby lifeforms to navigate a hostile It's a little tricky to get the hang of natural it becomes to constantly be changing No two species feel the same: being a wombat is frantic -- fitting for an animal with minute. And since every creature has their own terrain settle into one form for too long. Like in Red Dead, the multiple perspectives ecosystems, to the point where it's impossible But here's what's weird. The shape-changing feature isn't actually like Lost Ember, it feels fundamental. For example, while playing this mod I realized It even seems that heavy species like condors and need a realistically elevated position But pretty much the only time you see birds so why include these intricacies? This mod doesn't add any animations -- all ... just waiting to be uncovered. Each bird also has a distinctive flight pattern, unique flight system. I didn't even know there were bats in this ...I've beaten it twice! ...What compels a studio to focus this much majority of players are never going to uncover? If any game can help us answer that question, the most labyrinthine and complicated title The product of almost twenty years of work start, the game generates a new world, calculating and elevation and a hundred other things. You can watch thousands of years of simulated in the top corner chronicling wars and treaties the abridged version. The full history of my first game included events -- all before I started playing. Trying to actually beat Dwarf Fortress is But I think that bewildering intricacy is In the original text-based game, you manage which can be overwhelming... but also mesmerizing. I know I'll never fully comprehend this it feel more like an actual world, the kind Of course, you could also spend a lifetime Ants Simulation is the pinnacle of specificity. Created by youtuber Pezzza, it's incredible movements of the real insects. Every simulated worker leaves behind a chemical to sources of food. Two different colonies of ants will fight breaking off into numerous skirmishes. Ant simulator doesn't boast thousands of the interactions feel no less important, proving as a macro one. This is true in other digital ecosystems as excited to find ants in Skyrim, a title where Sometimes, it's the smallest details that Take mud, for instance. Okay, hear me out on this. The mud in Red Dead is beautiful. The way people and animals and carts all leave If you accidentally fall into the mud, it physical. Which is why I was surprised to learn it's And not just flat because it's on a TV screen game's 3D rendering. People have gone into the files and discovered footprints all a clever optical illusion. And that's not a bad thing, you can't hardware without carefully allocating resources. But it is a noteworthy paradox that many of cull things out. The beautiful, rippling grasses of games like the world is lowering the quality of plants In fact, for most modern games, any part of immediate cone of vision is constantly being And again, I want to make it clear that none most digital ecosystems couldn't exist at So why is it that I feel slightly uneasy when contains thousands -- tens of thousands -- of The vast majority of interiors you can see completely flat images like Red Dead's mud, trick of programing. It's a conceit that makes total sense -- New as detailed as any biological one; there's apartment. I know that. And yet there's still something strange it's not there. This strangeness isn't unique to game environments. Movies have been using similar techniques ecosystems through well-placed flat images. The traditional film method for creating imagined was combined with live action footage in the The original Star Wars trilogy made use of scenes merging sets with paintings in ways It really is something of a lost worldbuilding It's likely you've seen some landscapes paintings. Even still, you might have felt something A slight, nagging sense of unreality. And of course, in some cases, it's easier if you look closely. The seams in virtual ecosystems typically But you can spot them too if you know what Any moment in a modern game that requires is probably buying time to load in the next This strategy is honestly pretty clever, and have to be. Maybe that's why when a game includes useless animations, it feels so revelatory. Like you turned around too fast and instead being alive in a way that it shouldn't. This is a huge part of why the ecosystem of of its own. In that title, creature interactions are simulated you'll constantly stumble upon unfolding It feels like the world simply exists far If there's a film equivalent to this kind 360-degree physical set -- which are becoming Though less practical than a static backdrop total immersion quality I find extremely compelling. These are worlds that people actually built Like the Roman Forum from the film Cleopatra, bankrupted the studio. Its proportions were more than double that And since this film was a financial bomb, hubristic end of old Hollywood, a historical survived to present day. I also think of the Atoll set from Waterworld, Production of this movie reportedly swallowed more to be flown in from California. This film was also a financial bomb. You might question what such anecdotes have there's a real commonality across these fictional environments. Perhaps it's a natural creative inclination boundary. It can also, clearly, be disastrous -- and At what point does a fictional world stop This is a question essential to the production What began as a single movie turned into a actors and extras lived in a closed-off replica Whether on or off camera, people on set had jobs for period-appropriate currency. This Truman Show-like simulation was 12,000 Europe. And the institutional corruption the movie life on the set, with allegations of mistreatment And despite all these efforts to create authentic to be very good! (Crowd Noises) unique characters in Red Dead? The vast majority exist in the background, purpose to make the environments you walk Yet if you decide to follow one throughout people have a full daily routine. They wake up each morning and go to work. Some toil away for long hours. Others slack off when they can. When night falls, people amble home at different Some have families to get back to. Others seem... achingly lonely. Early in this video, I said that worlds that can feel uncanny. Red Dead's world, with its almost unhinged that category. Left unchecked, the pursuit of a living fictional You can see this quite plainly across the Molyneux. A founding influence in the so-called 'God-Games' of not just ecosystems, but entire worlds, collapsing under their own weight -- the There's a reason why not that many other like this -- trying to make worlds at this and broken promises. That said, a part of me sympathizes with how he can actually produce. The wildly anticipated Fable famously claimed grow into a tree over the course of the game, version. The game Yonder: The Cloud Catcher Chronicles Yet as writer Matt Paprocki points out in actually can watch acorns grow into trees. Which is impressive, because Yonder is a small of the kind of world it wants to build. The map is tiny, the creature variety limited realized than many big-budget titles. I think it's an intriguing contrast to Dau-style need a thousand layers of detail to feel alive. Do Red Dead's intricacies make the game I mean, don't get me wrong, they certainly most stunning environments I've ever had But on the other hand, sometimes the excess I think one detail in particular sums up this you've never noticed. The stars in Red Dead shine ever so slightly do in urban areas. Which is accurate, but also... what a detail to include! On the one hand it seems crazy to bother with But on the other hand, I think it's kind Because Red Dead Redemption II isn't just it's also about the end of one. Rapid industrialization changed the very landscape Expanding cities and railways replaced forests communities. All these themes are present in the game's in the land itself. Even when you're not in a city, there's a sense that none of this will remain as it Not even the stars. I felt this dimming of a natural era most animals. Which is again, really weird, because none But trying to steer a buffalo through an urban -- it instills a feeling in your animal bones to you. Maybe it's silly to read this much into to how thorough this world is that it can never intended. Having said all this, I do think there needs ecosystems don't always work perfectly. I've recorded a lot of game footage for out are glitches -- moments where creatures Even the most impressive virtual biospheres When it comes to immersion, glitches are almost But in a strange way, I think they can sometimes Nature doesn't always act rationally, just -- a contest where the top nature photographers out. Animals aren't always perfect at being animals the same is true in the virtual realm. For example, I had a lot of trouble recording because some problem with their code meant But I think that's kind of appropriate -- bears they're bears! I'm not sure any ecosystem embodies the in Alba: A Wildlife Adventure. The final title I want to discuss today, Alba opposite of a game like Red Dead. Its world is bright and stylized instead of Instead of playing as an outlaw you play as an island. And the map itself is really tiny -- a carefully You even have a little book full of all the Which is why it's a surprise to learn that You find out early in the game that all these for a hotel development. And as you might imagine, this world's fate United States in Red Dead. I mean, it's a kids' game. But it's telling that the creators felt I don't really think you can craft an ecosystem-centric seeping in. Even Lost Ember, which takes place in a fantasy explores the tension between nature and humanity These are ideas you can't really escape, background. But in games with living ecosystems, the backgrounds I know this is an aspect of Red Dead that I mean -- the game is advertised as this is that, for some of the time. But at least 60 percent of this game is just On my first play through, that seemed like not so sure. In environment-focused games, it is the backdrop, details... that become the whole point. My experiences with these worlds have stayed in the jumble of my thoughts. Long after I've pressed the power button they've continued to have a life of their These worlds linger. They're alive. And as always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.