Hey, Vsauce. Michael here In 1934 Webster's dictionary gave birth to a new word by mistake. Their chemistry editor Austin N Paterson submitted a simple entry: &quot;D or D abbreviation for density&quot;. Nothing wrong with that, but the entry was misread and 'dord' was added to the dictionary. 'Dord' was an accidental word for discovered and its wordship revoked. Let's have fun but first, what's the deal with first? Or for that matter, second? If you were in you're in third place. Position 5, fifth. Position 197 one hundred and ninety-seventh. Pretty simple. So why do positions 1 and 2 give us first and second? Shouldn't they be 'oneth' and 'twoth'? Well, maybe. But English loves collateral adjectives. Adjectives derived they describe. There are plenty of A bunch of clouds make the day cloudy, friends are friendly, poets are poetic. Things with a lot of but the Moon is not Moonly. The Moon is lunar. Collateral adjectives are everywhere. Mouth stuff is oral. Bees are apian. Some nouns have both. Fathers can be fatherly or paternal . And a setting filled with fog can be foggy or brumous. It's often said that no word rhymes with orange. Is that true? Well, rhyming can be controversial because accent and can be forced. Especially if words, you can force orange to rhyme with if you want. But what we want is a perfect rhyme. A perfect rhyme is what occurs between like tickle and pickle. They are perfect vowel sound and all the sounds Identical doesn't rhyme with pickle, end with 'ickle', identical has it stress We could rhyme them if we pronounced it but instead identical. With that in mind, orange does have perfect rhymes. They like 'Blorenge', a hill in Wales. Silver also has a perfect rhyme: chilver, a female lamb. Think Fact delineated even more words we actually do. Point is, orange does have perfect rhymes, and even if it didn't, well, that wouldn't make it special. Sure, monosyllabic words tend to rhyme with other words. It's believed words that have no rhyme. For instance, wolf, sixth, depth and filmed. But considering words of all lengths, it's been calculated that most English words don't rhyme with anything. Don't believe me? Well, leave a comment below. The word rhymes with nothing, nor does husband, sandwich, liquid, penguin, chimney, empty, and, of course, 'nothing' rhymes with nothing. Identical rhymes are even more perfect than perfect rhymes but they become so it's a little obvious and not really Identical rhymes occur when the consonant between two words are also identical. Sun and gun are perfect rhymes. But gun and begun are identical rhymes. So are offend and defend, or homonyms like son and sun. You could call the people 'the police police'. Who watches over them? Well, 'the police police police', of course. You can any number of police's and always create though clunky, title. You can even use the word police by itself to create a eight of them. Police police police police police police police police. Here's what the sentence which police police police watch over, Add any multiple of three more police to and you preserve the grammar. The most is 20. If you say police enough times real word. That is called jamais vu, the reverse of deja vu, when something familiar all of a sudden and novel. I've covered it before but If you don't practice obediency to the police you may wind up in J L. Escape, and you're an SKP. Letters, whose names said together some are called Gramograms. You can't hear a pterodactyl urinate because it's But every letter in the alphabet is And some letters are used more in English words. Scrabble provides more often when playing hangman. Next time you play hangman you can take advantage of this. People will guess more letters that has few different letters. John McLuhan ran 15 million computer simulations of and he found that the most difficult word for is jazz. Phantonyms aren't ghostly undead words, they're words actually mean something completely different. Enervate sounds like it means to fill with energy but it actually means to drain of energy, to weaken. Noisome appears to mean really noisy but it actually describes something that has an extremely offensive smell. In 2005, the New Oxford American Dictionary esquivalience. They said it meant the wilful avoidance of But it didn't. They made it up as a copyright trap. If anyone copied the stealer wouldn't be able to explain without admitting that they had copied it. Map makers often insert fake features for the same purposes. Streets and to trap copiers that only exist on paper, Paper Streets &amp; Paper Towns. The author of in one of his books because he that the Trivial Pursuit board game was from his book. Sure enough, later the as a real question. Similarly, the esquivalinece trap was used to catch Dictionary.com. But here's the thing: authorities don't built out of fake facts. Facts cannot be copyrighted. They belong to, and can be used by, all of us. US federal courts have argued that fake facts presented as real are not no one could share real true information of sharing something protected by copyright. That said, stylistic decisions like how the facts can be copyrighted. When the automobile the stylistic features of ordnance twenty million pounds. You cannot own a fact and you cannot own a lie you made up, if But you can own how you tell them. Puns are great, and in 'The Pun Also Rises' John Pollock relates a fantastic story. all the way back to be epic of Gilgamesh, of an upcoming giant flood. They are kibtu and kukku. Words that mean corn and the sound corn makes when But in the story, the words are actually on words for misery and suffering. People who got the pun prepared and but those who failed to recognise the pun which means the very oldest pun on record was literally corny. Is that ironic? No. Irony is one of the most debated figures of speech. The Oatmeal[.com] to anything as being ironic, the hip thing to do right now is Situational irony is what we The Oatmeal defines it as &quot;when something Dig.com's recent article on the saying &quot;situational irony is a direct action intended to produce the opposite effect&quot;. Their example is really good. If the elevators at in elevator repair school are out of order, that's not really situational irony. what would be really ironic is that if the experts at the school had done something to them they believed would make them run forever out of order. Alanis Morissette wrote a 'Ironic', whose lyrics contain situations but famously no situational irony. People love pointing this out. &quot;A traffic jam when you're already late.&quot; that's just a bummer or a sad rewrote the song's lyrics to contain situationally ironic. For example, a traffic jam when you're already late to receive an for reducing the city's automobile eighty percent, or a black fly in your poured to celebrate the successful fumigation of your recently purchased vineyard in southern France. Now that's what I call situational irony. But regardless of what Alanis intended, a close reading of the song's lyrics is occurring, just not the situational Instead, her song is all about dramatic irony. When someone is, often hilariously, unaware of the significance of an event, Take a look at the lyrics for 'Ironic'. explicitly labeled ironic. At the most, they're simply life. And, she adds later, life is also ironic. Dramatically ironic. These actually figure, they actually make sense. Ironic is not a list of examples of Instead, it's a treatise on dramatic irony, the difference between what life knows we need and what we think we need. What's ironic isn't 10,000 spoons when as Alanis believes, you have all of because unbeknownst to you, but known by life, what you really need right now is only spoons. Or, the last thing you On the subject of overanalysing pop songs, analysis of dog mitochondrial DNA all dogs may be traceable to a localised event. The species is believed to have resulted wolves about 11,000 to 16,000 years ago, in what is now Southwestern China. So, Baha Men, to answer your question, it was the Mesolithic Southwestern Chinese who let the dogs out. And as always, thanks for watching