This is the BIC Cristal Possibly the most successful product ever made No matter where you are in the world you'll find this pen in homes, offices, This iconic design has reached and at some point in your life Since it's release in 1950, more than blowing the next bestselling products out of the water. Amazingly, the design has remained and it still continues to dominate the world. With 14 million being sold every day the impact this pen had on the world was monumental. Pen prices dropped and literacy rates shot up but what made this pen so successful? We modeled every last detail to and how its clever use of But to really understand how In the past, pens were expensive and difficult to use. Traditional quills were messy Because of this writing was seen as more of an art form limited to those who could use a pen. then the fountain pen. Then the fountain pen was invented which had a metallic nib Although this was an improvement, On top of this, they were still super expensive costing around $150 in today's money. At the time only around 20% of the world could But at the end of the 19th century a breakthrough was made. American inventor John Loud came up with a mechanism that fed the ink onto the page using a small ball instead of a thin nib. This would in theory spread the ink more evenly He had While this design worked well on tougher surfaces it was too rough on paper and so his pen never sold. Decades went by and many new designs were made but none of them could master the ballpoint pen. If the ball was too tight in its socket If it was too loose the ink would Getting this right was extremely difficult since the tiny ball was Then came Laszlo Biro a man with a name you might recognize. He realized that the solution was in the ink. Most pins at the time used thin, and would seep through the fibers of the paper. It also relied on gravity to feed the ink into the ball which, depending on the He started experimenting with oil-based inks which were thicker, dried almost instantly and sat This turned out to be a stroke of genius and it unlocked a unique physical effect that without gravity or any external forces. This is called capillary action and it's what allows water We can see this effect in action by But what's happening here? The attraction between the liquid and the walls of the tube is stronger than the attraction and so the particles at the top until the weight of the water eventually cancels out the force. In Biro's pen this effect was happening upside down The ink was being pulled through ensuring that it was constantly covered in ink. Biro quickly patented his design and sent it over Just kidding. AnyDesk weren't around then, but they are around now. AnyDesk - today's sponsor, is a remote access service that allows you to control your device All of the animations in this video were With AnyDesk I can send the Blender files to my PC AnyDesk is is also an easy way to send without needing to upload them to the cloud. Even with poor internet AnyDesk is lightning fast. It has its own special codec that transfers the without a noticeable drop in quality. AnyDesk works on all platforms and best of all and they also have tailormade plans for businesses. To get AnyDesk for free and support the channel In order to master the ballpoint pen Biro came up without gravity or moving parts, Biro mastered his design and his but there was still one huge problem. The cheapest pen he offered and so although the design was great At this point literacy rates had only hit but just a few years later French manufacturer He bought the patents for $2 million and began designing a new and improved version With the help of state-of-the-art Swiss watchmaking machines he developed a method for to within a fraction of a millimeter. Instead of using metal for the rest of the pen he bought machines that could mold plastic something that had only This was the end result. Although it may just look like a pen it's hard to overstate just There were no moving parts, springs or complex materials yet every element had multiple purposes. Let's take a closer look. The pen had a hexagonal barrel like a pencil which stopped It was made from polystyrene which was strong, cheap There was a tiny hole on the barrel The ink inside the cartridge while still producing a good quality line. The ink flowed into the tip of the pen The ball was machined so accurately and could move just enough to spin and deposit ink onto the page. When the pen wasn't being used the ball would create a seal stopping ink from leaking out of the bottom. If the pen was turned upside down the would stop it from falling out the back of the pen. The lid which also doubled as a the clip was made from and stopped the pen from cracking. The pen was so perfectly simple Most of all it was cheap, hitting the market in 1950 at just $2. It was an instant success selling around 10,000 units daily in Marcel realized how English- speaking countries so he dropped the H and the BIC name was born. Marcel understood the importance of economies of setting up factories all over the world. By 1953 he was already selling 40 million pens per year and the BIC Cristal took over the world. Now anyone in the world The world had secretly been begging for this product Over the next 50 years 100 billion of these pens were sold and literacy rates went from 35% to almost 90% It's almost impossible to imagine life without this pen and the fact that its design has remained shows just how perfect it was. And now for the Primal Space giveaway. The winner of the previous In the next giveaway we'll be giving away this Primal Space designed space shuttle print available in our store. All you need to do is sign up at the the link below, like the video and leave a comment saying what you think of this pen's design. Thank you very much for watching