(upbeat music) - Hi, I'm Stephen Galloway, and welcome to Close Up With The Hollywood I'd like to introduce Jordan Fatih Akin, Aaron Sorkin, Darren Aronofsky, and Emily V. Gordon. Welcome. I want to start with this, there are dictators with nuclear bombs, the world is collapsing, why write? - I'm not sure that writers to be diagnosticians, but we certainly, our role I think is to Large part of our work is research and trying to look at both The old dialectic that goes back to Plato showed two sides of an argument. And it's one of my big main ambitions is to inter compleat the situation where there seems to be one obvious answer and put two opposing ideas into conflict and see what happens. And that's really the is two equal and opposite ideas colliding. So that's what we do and what happens in the phenomena that is not in our control. I think drama's best of that collision and then stands back and allows you the audience - What do you mean it's - You may not be happy as the writer with what the phenomena that So you might enter a project thinking well I have this fixed position and this is my object of And then when you create an antagonist and you charge that antagonist with ideas that are virile and strong and convincing, you start to unhinge and crack open your own certainties. And when you've done your job really well as a writer the perfect to end up in is uncertainty yourself. - Hitler will not insist He will know his own weaknesses. He will be reasonable. - When will the lesson be learned? - When will the lesson be learned? How many more dictators good god give any mixed You cannot reason with a tiger when your head is in its mouth. - After 9/11 I felt for a while in the world. I felt useless in the face of and all the heroes that there were. I don't feel that way today. I feel like that the best delivery system ever invented for an idea is a story, and that the stories just have been so powerful and so useful and as timeless as they are they speak directly to the - I think that's completely was I don't often walk and what's happening in the world. I was just feeling tremendous frustration about where we were. It was the eight year of Obama ironically, but just leaning into Everyone was talking about the summer that we just had about to happen. So it was strange to release Mother as all of these travesties were happening. Here first hand, you know there was one viral video I saw of a bunch of tourist in South America carrying and taking selfies and they murdered the, and that's reflected exactly in my film for anyone who's seen it where So it was weird for me just been like you know what I'm going to make a reflection Most of my things have and this was the first time I decided to sort of do a reflection. And then it's interesting what you said, because the reactions you get are often from all over the place. - You can't control that. - I think people come in with so many of their own different opinions. I've had everything from this to this is a portrait of mother earth. To this is about the creative process and releasing your film to the world and having it devoured Which I think is great. I like when there's so many and conversations about the work. That's always the goal is you want to continue to have people thinking about it and talking about it. - Has anybody said that actually made you see it differently? - I think that one, and it came up to me, it started and a couple of female and working with, they interpretation that it of creating a piece of art. Which I'd never saw it. I was much more direct to the allegory and the biblical references of it. But a lot of people saw it that way and also the celebrity thing a commentary on celebrity and fame. I was much more interested in worship from a biblical perspective as opposed to modern celebrity, but I think that had to do with Jennifer Lawrence and Javier Bardem, and Michelle Pfeiffer who So people start to see that in the film. Things that I didn't - Emily, why write? - I think my career before and so for many years my job was to help clients kind of feel less alone. Like in a room with them and what was fascinating to into writing was that is people feel less alone and their empathy level. To me that is why I write. When I'm justifying why I changed careers. It's to help people feel less alone and to help people feel in some regard. As to what you were saying, as coming from a therapist that everyone is just Even if they're a bad guy. So why does that person course of action and really and then coming out to &quot;Oh well you think you're right also.&quot; And that kind of taking to rethink everything that you know. I think that's such a lovely If I can ever create anything feel that way, that's why I write. - Is writing therapeutic for you? - It can be, it depends on I think some days you don't want it to be, and some days, yeah, you feel a demon but you don't also to be, at least for me, cathartic experience. You want to connect to it emotionally but not kind of wring you out. - You're film is actually - Yeah, that one rang me out a little. (panel laughing) - Was it tough to bring or was it actually helpful? - It had been five years and I think that helps tremendously because you're far kind of look at it and but not so much that Because I think if you see someone create a piece of art throws of going through something, you can always kind of to vulnerable for you to be watching. Which can be beautiful, but we didn't want this to feel like an overly intense kind of movie that you feel in danger We wanted you to kind of see that we've gotten a little bit And so I think to me that's as us having enough emotional distance but not so much that it - I didn't heckle you. I just woohooed you, it's supportive. - Okay, that's a common misconception, but yelling anything at a Heckling doesn't have to be negative. - So if I yelled out like that would be a heckle? - Yeah, it would be an accurate heckle. - Whoa, bye. - Don't go. - You scared my friend off now. - You can't be precious Because if you saw a movie to my husband and I, it and you would not enjoy it. So taking this actual real-life event that touched you and was and creating a story from it is always a challenge. And also realizing that was important to you personally that doesn't mean that and that doesn't mean that So what we would try to do was if there was a scene that was incredibly important to us. It happened like three or four times, like this moment was like oh it meant everything to us. And we would either write Like one of them we filmed we were like, &quot;This is so stupid. &quot;This will never been in this movie&quot; Finding a lateral move why was this so important, what were we feeling, what was happening? And then can we craft a Because this exact my hospital room and watching on a laptop is not that we need on screen. And finding other ways So I think that was the was understanding that your story just because it's your - Did you write because of doing a horror story or because you wanted to - It began as the fun of a horror story. It's my favorite genre, I In the middle of the something more important. The power of story is that we can really feel empathy Built into the idea of story is the idea that you have a protagonist. When you have a that all of us are trying to do is bring the audience into behind their eyes. And so this is a well crafted story and a good story is one of the few ways we can really not tell somebody you have to feel for somebody else, but make somebody feel because through entertainment. - [Police Officer] Sir can - Wait why? - Yeah I have state ID. - No, no, no, he wasn't driving. - I didn't ask who was driving. I asked to see his ID. - Yeah, why? That doesn't make any sense. - Here. - You don't have to give him your ID because you haven't done anything wrong. - Baby, baby, baby it's okay. - Anytime there is an incident we have every right to ask. - That's bull. - Ma'am. - That's the power of cinema that you can make a film about or an 80 year old guy in the UK, and if the filmmaking is working you can completely connect with it. - I think when I was watching the first time and it was an and at the end of the rolls up and the lights go on I heard the audience go, &quot;No!&quot; And I thought what a an audience of mostly white people to be upset about seeing a cop car because they know this until Lil Rel pops out &quot;Everything's fine.&quot; But I thought that's a great exercise in empathy that everyone suddenly got why that was such an awful Where as normally the police car means everything's going to be fine, like the problems are solved. I thought that was such an - Thank you. You know I was worried at several stages during the writing of the movie that this would be this where I thought maybe because we're victims in the movie and that's hard to watch. That's not fun. Maybe I'd lose White people because White people are the villains in the movie and that would be an assault. But I stuck with it and and validating things to see was how an audience would sort of go in with their different preconceived notions of what the film were. But by the middle they were all Chris. They were all the main character. And that's kind of the-- - It's a really good horror movie. I'm curious, I had heard in your writing process when and it was the police that we all feared, is that true. - So that's true. I wrote the movie primarily So the Obama era, when &quot;Hey we're past racism, right?&quot; - We did it. - We did it. And the notion of sort was almost thought of as perpetuating it. So the movie was originally brutal wake up call to &quot;guess what, the horror movie &quot;the cop showing up at the And it became very clear that they needed a hero. They needed the movie to be an escape. What I love about the current ending is that moment you're talking about where the police show up, the audience does all the So it's have my cake and eat it too. - [Emily] Yeah you really do. - [Aaron] That's exactly right. - When you go into a story, do you know the ending in advance? When you start writing. - Well I think you ought Because the rest of the writing work then becomes a preparation I often find that writers who disavow the importance of an ending, they're just not very good at endings and so they fudge it and of other elements of storytelling. But to me it's critical to know what you're working towards so that you can fade and And take the audience a way and mislead and do all those craft things that are so important to a great story. - Do you agree with that Fatih? - It's different from Depends on the material. With the last film, with In the Fade, one of the first images It was like, how I'm going to get to there. So it was kind of like But sometimes it's completely different. Sometimes it's the opposite. Sometimes I start because for an opening but I - You've made very political films. Which inevitably must be divisive. How do you react to hate mail, people who disagree with you? Before this round table began we were talking about on of your films. You're Turkish-German, but you made a film that was very sympathetic to the idea of of the Armenian genocide. How did your family and - My family loves me. (panel laughing) - Right. - My parents still love me to get in any trouble, and I'm curious about trouble. I like to be involved in kind of like trouble, not trouble in the street, but like writing something provocate something. I definitely believe in discussions. If you go to the cinema and you come out and two people have two different opinions and they talk about it I think you can solve The Armenian genocide based about fear. There's a film by Rainer the German film maker, Fear East the Soul, Angst essen Seele auf, and I believe in that. So I don't want that my fears be eaten. So hate mails and stuff, I force myself that I (loud chatter) - You couldn't have I don't suppose. - No I couldn't. But that was not the film I just posted something on Instagram. - You mean The Cut was not - [Fatih] It was not the film. - Which one was? - I haven't shoot it yet. I just put something on Instagram. - And what is that? - About Kurdish freedom I would like to do a film about that because you have these female characters and they fight against ISIS and this is somehow fascinating me. - Would this be to advance - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - [Anthony] Well that's provocative. - Yeah, they freaked out. So the Armenian genocide - Do you ever go back to Turkey? Are you ever threatened by anyone? - My parents live there. I cannot go there right now. Right now not, maybe in the future. - Because of Erdogan and the regime, or? - Yeah. (panel laughing) - [Stephen] But you feel safe in Germany? - Yeah, yeah, yeah. There is this past because there is a lot of Turkish immigrants. Like somehow the conflict Turkish monitors. It's not that dangerous in Germany describes that. There is not a real conflict between, I don't see or feel that conflict between Turks in Germany yet. But I'm an artist, I'm writing. I'm at home in front of my computer so sometimes I'm a bit out of the streets. So sometimes I don't really - Darren, did you think as divisive as it is? - Yeah, I think we did. We knew it was always going to and very intense. But you know, then again any paper of record and you what happens in any A is a lot more messed up than But I think once you put it into a house and put movie stars in front of it that you're empathizing with, it becomes a different level of intensity. And that was the idea behind it. But we know it would be all over the place and a big explosion. And we were excited about that. We were excited to make a film that would have conversation and would have big debate. - No, no, I didn't abandon you. They just lost a son, I was helping them. This is not about us, it's about them. - No, it's not about them. It's about you. It's always about you and you're work. You think that's going to help you write? Nothing does. I rebuilt this entire house wall to wall. You haven't written a word. - I know, I know, I'm sorry. I can't, I can't write. - How do you handle the critiques? Do they hurt? - I don't fully plow My mentor Stuart Rosenberg always said, &quot;Bad reviews hurt, good (panel laughing) And I thought that was very smart. - Great line. - Yeah, it was a good line. I sort of live by that but in today's world, because of just how connected everyone is you can't sort of escape information coming from different So I have a sense of what's going on. I doesn't upset me, it excites me that people are arguing and discussions. I think those are the The ones that people leave and you're just breaking down and figuring out Seeing all the different ways The fear for me is to be a that it's like a McDonald's goes in the trash and what did I see. - And there's a lot of that. - Definitely. - Is this a golden age for the movies or is it the rust age? - I feel like were-- - It's the golden age for us right? - Well I feel like that hopefully a new renaissance. - In film? - In film where our tours are embraced. Obviously we've been in of the huge big special effect movie. We all remember sort for us as artist in the film industry. So I think we're heading I think Darren, what I really and your craft is that diving into something complete stressful, completely uncomfortable, can still be entertainment - Thank you. - And it's one of those things that-- - But does it have to be fun? - It should be entertaining. - [Emily] It helps. - I think rule number one is You have to, even if they're or they're off, as long as they're engaged and they're with the character and they're following the plot and they're not sort of or thinking about their second screen. That's our goal. How do we keep people from without a second, sometimes third screen. Which is happening everywhere. The only way to do that and to engage them emotionally. - I also don't like medicine movies that are like I'm supposed out of this movie. That's why I want them to be entertaining. Whether or not I'm enjoying I want them to not just be like, &quot;Here's your lesson for today.&quot; I want to be wowed. (upbeat music) - You took a real life What did you have to What changed the most? - Listen when I do non-fiction, it's not a documentary still. I think I've used this that it's still a painting I use the parts that I that I kind of saw when I first started learning about this. I don't use the parts that I don't need. - I can see you're getting warmed up but really don't have to defend my, as usual, - I know, I got your email. I get that I'm not welcomed As your father though, you if I'm welcomed or not. But I'm not here in my I'm indifferent to whether I'm a very expensive therapist and I'm here to give you one free session. - You think what I need - Yeah. - I read a review of Molly's Game in fact, and it was a positive review and a critic noted that I've movies in a row, but what I really do is that I use these characters for parts and I make my own thing. I read that and I went, I'm not sure if that was (panel laughing) I'm pretty sure I do do that. - But is it okay to and reinvent that person Is that morally okay? - I do ask myself that question. I'm not indifferent at I think that all of us have a that we use. I have faith in mine. In this particular case, she was very involved in. I spent about six months talking to her before the writing began. - Do you still talk to her? - Oh yeah, I talk to her everyday. - [Stephen] Did she like the film? - She did. She saw it for the first time Obviously I said we'll set and for your family. Because her father plays a She called me and she said, &quot;We all,&quot; meaning the whole Bloom family, &quot;with an audience, have And I said sure. I had been cautioning that there's nothing that's you for this experience. For someone as you said, up on the screen, named Molly Bloom, only and listen we all know that as a series of scenes that People don't speak in dialogue. These are movie things instead of a photograph. So she and her family they're - What changed the most to the screen? What did you not convey about him that you would have liked to? - There's a really fine line and artistic licentiousness. (panel laughing) And there's history is a lousy filmmaker. It doesn't give you all and no story will quite as Aaron's saying. However you're compelled to a real life story. And if you don't it will be inert or it will just be a sequence, like a vast action sequence of the known. And it won't tell you anything we don't already know from documentaries. But however, there's a really fine line because if you say that Napoleon you're movie collapses. The tolerances of history are very similar to the tolerances of audiences. In that if you breach that faith and you got that before your movies starts based on a true story, and you go over that red line which is indistinct and in a different place. You're really bravely saying, I'm going to go impressionistic I dear not do that with Winston Churchill. He's too beloved. He's too iconic. You can't do it with Lincoln. - I agree. I wouldn't if I were writing I wouldn't make anything up about the fall of a president of the United States. - This goes to really the Because I find completely fascinating that we all think of, we all when we write a movie. Three act structure, four act structure, whatever it is, but and ideas surrounding every genre. With a thriller for example, there's a contract with the audience before they even come in something fucked up, that - Jump scares, probably some jump scares. - There's going to be some jump scares, and so genre does sort of does in a weird way. And I hate using the word rules because there are none, but if you look at something which is theoretically a historic movie. - And changed the end of World War II. - And completely changed but it works because it of pulp entertainment. So that's part of the to me is so alluring is because you're almost not doing it right if you're not pushing the and darkness and sort of - Why did you turn to me about that? (panel laughing) - Does Mother belong to Sean? - Yeah, I don't think so. I don't think I've ever really sort of sat in a genre too well. You know Pi was sort of an The Fountain was I don't The Wrestler, my biggest - You mean let down commercially? - No, my biggest let down personally because ESPN wouldn't so I couldn't get their trophy. I'm like it is a sports movie. They're like wrestling's not a sport. - [Emily] Wrestling is - And Black Swan was like don't like ballet and ballet - Also a sports movie. - And also a sports movie to So I don't think I But I do love genre and I for an audience. Because I think audiences and when you sort of or thrilling moments intension they completely go for it. So literally throughout Mother I kept falling into genre films but I think when it added up to everything it doesn't really fit I just don't, I think when that's where my passions lie is to tell that type of story and just be truthful to the allegory and to the emotion of the story. And not necessarily - Did you ever think of straight drama not a comedy? - We talked about it. We actually didn't think until the marketing people And they were like oh okay. We started seeing cuts of trailers and we were like, &quot;Oh I I always thought of it as That's kind of how I thought of it. We had the same thing of like if we go into this like this is a comedy now comedy means four or five big huge set piece actions scenes. Comedy means a very specific thing now unfortunately drama also where maybe you can't make a 9/11 joke. So I think for us we tried but in my head it was always movie about families. And then when we saw all &quot;Oh romcom, okay.&quot; Which to me is a very It's just interesting Pi was one of my favorite movies, and my friend described rather than body horror, - That might be my genre. - Brain horror. - Fatih, anything you would not do on film that you're scared to touch? Any subject? - No, there are no limits. I would try everything. Everything what somehow touches me. Whatever it is, can be (panel laughing) - Have you ever tried porn? - I'm thinking of writing but I didn't tried it. - Have you ever asked that question in one of these round tables? (panel laughing) - I actually think I - I watched some but I haven't. - [Stephen] When you got was it a difficult film to get made? - Well actually it wasn't I did before, it was a film was a genre film. It was for like a German audience, was based on a German novel. It was box office in Germany. So I could do In the Fade very easy. It was a very quick financing. I financed the film, wrote the film and shot the film in six months. That was kind of like the - What's been your toughest - Sometimes you spend - Give me one moment that you where maybe you thought of giving up? Did you ever think of giving up? - When there was no iCloud thing, you know once I wrote something for 18 months and I had a problem with my computer - Oh shoot. - and I lost the whole file. That was like you had a very old wine like 200 years ago and the bottle broke. It was something like that. - It's much worse than that. - What has been your - Listen most of the time, I really struggle with writing. People ask if I have writers block. That's my default position. So most days I go to bed except kind of climb the walls because I don't have an idea You really do think, even many, many times before you really do think in that moment you're not ever going to write again. Those are tough moments. Another tough moment is in your head that's good that can work and you were onto the piece of paper. - But I want to know if as a writer was the one I'm going to give up. - No, no. - [Stephen] Did anybody ever tell you that you should give up? - That I should give up. (panel laughing) - No, no I've been lucky. I haven't had that in my life. - Darren what about you? - There's so many struggling moments during making a movie. The amount of nos you get as a film maker are everyday endless. That's why the only are films that I just couldn't They're just burning from deep inside and no matter what they are that feeling. Another thing Stuart Rosenberg said is, &quot;You just try your hardest &quot;you can respect yourself for having &quot;tried the hardest at the time.&quot; That's kind of the approach. - Would you ever do a franchise film? You at one point were - Yeah, I've always been I guess I've been lucky enough to have enough success with each to find an angle to make these films that I can sort of guarantee that wants to make. Which has always been for me, the filmmakers I like are the filmmakers who clearly made the films Whoever, even if they or popular films, if they just and singular vision that sort of expands what cinema can be, that's - I want to go back to which is this idea of you're saying we're entering a golden age. And I want to separate because I think everybody and great in television. Is it really a great age in film? With the Harvey Weinstein story we're dealing with sexual harassment, we're dealing with abuse. Writers are kind of the lowest person on the totem pole historically. Have you been abused by any of you? - I know a film director who said he had an anti-shout clause included in his deal with Harvey. He said, &quot;I'll do the movie &quot;the rights revert.&quot; And apparently that was included. It was unprecedented. - That's an amazing clause. - [Emily] That is a great clause. - No, I haven't been abused by a producer. - You've worked with some tough producers. - [Aaron] Scott Rudin. - [Stephen] Scott in particular? - [Aaron] Yeah. - [Stephen] Has that - Listen I think Scott is a great producer in the three phases where He is, at least for me, I think I've done my And he gets the movie for the budget that you need. And then he rides herd marketing campaign. I've worked with Scott many times before and I hope I get a chance to But where you need a Scott would have an easier time made than a $10 million movie. Studios are just much more comfortable making a $100 million They're not quite sure how to And the Scotts and the Harveys are experts at marketing those $10 million movies. - Have you dealt, Darren and Emily, with bullying, with a conflict, with situation you didn't think were ethically right in the business? - I've been pretty very publicized fight with a studio over the final cut of Noah. There were a lot of pressures coming from not just commercial ends but as well and that was a rough Eventually because I get the films I make are so I guess strange in they're very hard to them into anything else. So ultimately I ended up getting but you know I thought ethics when you go into about what you want to make with incredible clarity that and it's signed off on and and you deliver that, and then you have to deal with pressures. But I understand that that's for $115 million, that's a lot of money and people need to get their money back. There just was no way, I mean it comes down to testing for me. That's where I have ethical issues because my films do not test. I mean Black Swan didn't test. I just make these films that you know will you definitely You know it's not going to happen because there's a lot of that's too freaky. And I think my films need a and critical response to sort So that's the only thing - Emily? - Very sad to say I've been lucky. I guess I hate to say. - [Darren] Sad to say? - No I guess I'm saying it's well I've been lucky. I've been lucky in that any direct personal harassment or abuse. I mean I especially for this film, which was my first film I realize now looking back that we were taken on, were taken on as like that was doing everything. And I know that that's rare, and I'm imagining that be the case. - I mean you deal with the ethical issues that your husband had to - [Emily] Oh absolutely. - Meaning? - My husband's Muslim. - So there's tons of issues. And the film address that straight on. - [Stephen] In the entertainment business? - Well it's beyond that Definitely in the entertainment business. - I think this and to the Harvey question, it goes to this great question of this systemic problem as well. I think the industry is and its shortcomings The larger system itself. You now I based the movie pretty which what does for gender, And it got me thinking but there is this many of us back and many of us behind. I've never met Harvey Weinstein, I know he's one of a many other people who It's part of the problem stories, why we haven't seen people, more women get ahead in this industry is because that's happening Everyday and on all sorts So I think he's a bad guy, but its completely systemic. It's everywhere. - And you know, you can work in an office and there could be a Harvey It's not a Hollywood issue, as much as it is a anytime this can be an issue. And that's literally everywhere. (upbeat music) - I'd like each of you that has particularly influenced - I'm fascinated by Apocalypse Now. The whole writing process Life is be like that, Writing can be like that. Not finding the end. That's why what I said in the beginning I was very thankful that like it will not be Apocalypse Now. That was very inspiring - Fascination or is it you particularly admire which one? - Both, both, that makes the - Anthony, what about you? - I'm trying to separate it in my mind, great films from great screenplays. And it's probably are to do because great screenplays usually end - It's interesting you and don't separate them. - Yeah, I mean from a pure, when I watch I'll avoid the question when I watch recently right. It was a very stagey kind of production but Glengarry Glen Ross by David Mamet and I just could not, my I think it's one of the but it turned into for me, and people would say, but I think it's just a terrific movie. - What did you admire - It had, and Aaron's it's not realistic it's And it creates a new So people aren't being poetic, it's not Shakespeare, but So the rhythms then become musical. Arthur Miller did this with Eugene O'Neil it liberated diallage they lifted it one notch above real. And to me, I love words. The Churchill movie is to get the right words and discover that they can enlisted to change the world. And they really can. And so great writing, great They create a poetic. - Aaron, what about you, one screenplay you particularly admire? - Network, for the reasons we've heard it. It's Paddy Chayefsky with great theatrical language. Every bit is meaningful For a little kid siting in a move theater who really loved plays. I grew up in the east coast and I went to see plays all the time. Often times they were plays that I was too young to understand even. So I loved the sound of dialogue, it sounded like music to me and speeches sounded liked arias. It's the first time I think you can do that in movies too. I was not at all interested in I thought I want to be the - Darren? - I think the first thing is probably The Social Network. I couldn't put it down. I read a lot of scripts and it's rare I do one sitting type of thing. It drove you through it. I think the musicality realizing it's not fully real yet it is real and it is grounded but it's kind of in a different level. It's something I could I'm just very connected just trying to make stuff as real as I hear them. But to actually create but it's still connectable to all people. I remember where I was when I read it. - Thank Darren. - Emily? - I tend to go dialogue. I tend to be really and so that's why the kind of struck me. Because it is not the most dialogue heavy but it was just really gorgeous that screenplay unfold. Having read it after seeing the movie which is always kind but I was really impressed - How about you Jordan? - You know, I want to go Rosemary's Baby as well, both Ira Levin stories. - [Emily] Good Lord. - For me those movies were because what they did was this very delicate tightrope walk. That sort of honored that you rarely see in I guess what I mean is the the protagonists are smart and they're investigative. And they're on the trail, and there's never a point, that those movies makes, it doesn't equal, there's an equal effort to justify why the character And that to me that sort of dance between showing something and then showing how with how weird reality is. That's the technique I brought to Get Out. - You're throwing a dinner party, and you're allowed to have three guests, who would they be? - Any time period? - Any time period, and - At least one of them would - [Panel] Oh yes. - [Stephen] What a great choice. - Yeah, and here's another - [Stephen] Who also knew how to harness words like Churchill. - Yeah, and you know what and I think this might be of all time, Thomas Jefferson. - [Darren] That's a dinner party. (panel laughing) - Fatih, three people at the dinner party? - It's difficult. - [Stephen] You can pass. - I'll go filmmaker, I'll go Herzog, but the problem is - [Stephen] He had a round table. - And it was like why Let's just listen to Herzog. - [Stephen] He also has that great voice. - Herzog kind of fills up a table. - I always wonder if in German, as when he speaks English. - No apparently he doesn't. - I don't even know what it is. - Werner Herzog. - Then I have to Werner Herzog. - [Emily] We were saying it wrong. - But even for the German and that's what has that wonderful sort of maliflous quality. - You can roll the r's more if you want. Werner Herzog. - [Stephen] So who would - I'd do Herzog, and I'd do Terry Gilliam, it would And I guess I'd bring back Fellini. - Oh wow. Emily? (panel laughing) - Fellini would be He'd be doing pornographic - Of all of us. - I think I'm going to go John Hughes I think I would like to one at dinner also. Who else, I think I'd want even though it's a little cheating because Because I could listen about working in this from so many different angles. Maybe, maybe Stanley Kubrick. - Interesting mix. Jordan? - Yeah, that's fun, that's a fun table. I'd put Hitchcock in there. Just to pick his brain and hopefully get wryly insulted by him. It would be an honor. Spike Lee, who I do know. I'm producing a project of his and he is also I just soak up that he has to offer and he's so fun and boisterous and engaging. And you know, I would say, Steve Martin, who I just love Steve Martin. - Keep it going, the conversation. - Keep the conversation going. - [Emily] I didn't think of that stuff. - I have to have Churchill - Would you want him to - Preferably not. - Do you think he would - Well I had the experience of doing the Stephen Hawking movie to Stephen and I was terribly anxious about what he would say. He dialed in his response, there's a camera on his cheek - [Darren] Fair enough. - [Emily] That works. - So I'd have Mr. Churchill. I'd have William Shakespeare, and I would say, &quot;William did I want to know whether - What do you think? - Maybe Napoleon. - [Stephen] Do you - Yeah, invertibley. If you know anything about theater its a collaborative thing. He would have done the first draft. - They've done computer analysis like Two Noble Kingsmen where they've actually - We all know that actually. - If he only wrote one of them. (panel laughing) - Shakespeare writers room. - Napoleon would be the other one. Very riveting conversation. - Since it is a dinner party you said, I would invite three women you know. I would invite Marlene Dietrich. - [Stephen] Marlene Dietrich? - I would invite Marilyn And I would invite Audrey Hepburn. These three ladies. - Can I come? - You're all welcomed. - Last question I want to ask each of you. For one piece of advice a starting writer. - What is the line of Beckett? - Yes, this fail again fail. - [Fatih] Fail better. - The piece of writing is intention and obstacle, - What do you mean? - That's what drama is. You can't do anything if you don't have, somebody wants something, of getting it. Intention and obstacle, once you have that it's the drive shaft Let me use a different metaphor, it's the clothesline you can hang on that. - Structure. - All the cool stuff that you like doing. Whether its a nifty dialogue, You have to have intention and obstacle. I would recommend that they - Anthony? - I think every new writer, stands on this border of called the arts. And you don't know whether And you really question And this question of talent, we don't know where creativity but my experience is that the writer I was when I began was only a capable of doing now. And that you can grow your talent and don't stand on that threshold saying, I'm uncertain about my talent. You can grow that part of yourself. - I think tell only That's what I tell, you know I teach, and that's what I tell students. If you're trying to tell stories for a largest audience possible, the best way to get to them is by telling the story that really connects with you. That means something, that you can relate to that's the driving force. And the second thing I think I've learned is that screenwriting maybe not for Aaron, but screenwriting at least And it's a type of carve away at to get to - Emily? - Somewhat similar to I know a lot of writers who because they're like, &quot;Oh this would be &quot;a cool thing to write.&quot; But I think the best work comes from when you are really that you are personally, like a thing you've been thinking about. Something ethically or morally debating in your own about your own family or about I think that's where the not just like, this would be a cool thing. So I think if it could speak to something that you're personally going through, not literally, but always make a better piece of work than this might be cool. And also just get the thing done. I think that so many people are just like, &quot;I keep starting and I don't know.&quot; like just get it done and then you can go back and work on it. - [Aaron] Get to the end. - Get to the end and Don't get yourself bogged down. I know people that have of something and never get anywhere else. - Coppola said to Lucas, that you have to go through a full pass and then go through, and It's like if you focus you just get a beautiful perfect hand, then the rest of the But you slowly dig away at the - [Stephen] Jordan? - I would say with writing everybody, we all deal with writer's block, we all get in our own way. My sort of mantra was follow the fun. So that means, if I'm not having fun, I'm doing it wrong. If you get to a point where it's up to you to figure out, how to have fun while doing it. - Really? - To look at it from a different angle. - Is writing fun? - It's very fun. - [Emily] It's super fun. - If it's going well and follow the fun should be on a t-shirt. - At a certain point in what am I doing, no one's this awful sequence. And that's when I would say, you know what put that down, let's a secret society. Like that's the most fun work on that and then eventually that gives me enough space to come back and deal with what the scene is. - That's good. - Thank you all. This is an excellent first draft. We're not going to do it all again. Thank you so much for taking part in - Great pleasure. - Close up With The - Thanks very much. - Thank you. - Ready? - [Man] Okay, quiet on set. - And I look down the lens. - Let's do it. - Hi I'm Margot Robbie. - Bryan Cranston. - Robert Pattinson. - John Boyega. - I'm Sam Rockwell. - Willem Dafoe. - Emma Stone. - Allison Janney. - Guillermo del Toro and - Thank you. - Thank you for watching. - Thanks for watching - The Hollywood Reporter. - The Hollywood Reporter. - On YouTube. - On YouTube.