(dramatic orchestral music) - [Alan Sklar] It lurks at Where polar currents stir the deep ocean, and sea creatures feed on its bounty. (dramatic orchestral music) How did the great white shark emerge, millions of years ago, (atmospheric piano) Out in the unending waters of is a rocky, remote outpost (waves crash) A handful of visitors have traveled here, to observe at close range, one of nature's crowning achievements. (air bubbles burble) They do so from the protective Rising up from the murky deep, a dim figure appears. Moving quickly and effortlessly through it's liquid universe, a great white shark. Humans maybe the planet's top predator but in the ocean, it's sharks that lured over (water sploshes) We face this species with extreme caution. They approach us, drawn by the scent of bait, our noisy technology, or even the vibration (atmospheric piano) White sharks gather by along the shores of Isla Guadalupe, often swimming thousands of kilometers. For several months each year, this island plays host of Guadalupe fur seals and California sea lions. They haul out along steep shorelines to rest, mate, and bare their young. From these rocky, protected shallows, they move out into deep waters to feed on fish that thrive in the cool, of the Eastern Pacific. They are joined by thousands Once hunted to the verge of extinction, their numbers have surged all along the western including Guadalupe. For a great white shark, a successful elephant seal kill brings a huge reward. Adult males can grow to a weight of more than 2,000 kilograms. We often see great white sharks in one-dimensional terms. As indiscriminate killers ever in pursuit of food. (atmospheric percussive music) The truth is, like us, they each have their own personalities. They can be bold or shy. Some are steady, others erratic and unpredictable. Sharks are by nature curious. Especially when something (teeth clack on camera) (dramatic orchestral music) In this case, a camera that had been attached Sharks predate dinosaurs by Their success is due to their ability to adapt to conditions in nearly every nook and cranny (atmospheric orchestral music) It's also based on several With torpedoed shaped bodies, powered by tail fins with sharks are built for speed. They move effortlessly through the water, thanks to tooth like that line their skin. At just a tenth of a millimeter long, these ridge-lined structures reduce drag by dissipating tiny eddies that form along the skin. Packed tightly together, rows of denticles help seal out parasites, while forming a concrete-hard shield against strikes by other sharks. (atmospheric orchestral music) A shark's swimming motion is stabilized by a series of large fins along it's sides, top and bottom. With skeletons made of cartilage rather than bone, they have the flexibility to accelerate and change directions quickly. (water splashes) Predatory sharks seize their prey by lunging and extending Large sharks like the then use their sharp teeth with vicious side to side motions. (ominous orchestral music) In the process, their teeth can easily break or shatter. A shark replaces them by constantly generating new rows of teeth that roll toward the front of its jaw. (atmospheric orchestral music) Guadalupe Island off the coast of Mexico is just one of several for great white sharks. (water sloshes) Here is another, the rugged coastlines of Southern Africa. Powerful ocean currents drawing cool, nutrient rich that fuels an explosion of sea life, including thousands of Cape fur seals and the sharks that prey on them. (dramatic orchestral music) Visitors come from around the world to witness one of the most dramatic events in the natural world, a white shark rising out For most of the year, the seals feed off shore, preying on schooling anchovies, mackerel, as well as sea birds and even penguins. (atmospheric orchestral music) As summer approaches, they stream into dozens One of the largest is just off Hout Bay Harbor. Isolation from the land and the rugged undersea terrain, make it an ideal refuge for seals. Males haul out for about remaining on land to protect their harems while living off their fat reserve. The females arrive pregnant After giving birth, they make regular forays spending three to four days away, then two to three back on land to nurse. Here the young can grow and learn to hunt. Close to the island, these strong, agile hunters Out in the open ocean, they are too nimble and spread out for predators like the (water splashes) (ominous orchestral music) The danger zone is the realm in-between, where sharks wait and watch for seals coming and going. Moving out to sea, there is safety in numbers. (dramatic orchestral music) This group heads for deep Time is of the essence. They swim in a low porpoise, diving down to scan the waters below, but the visibility here is limited, the seals may not see what lurks below. (dramatic orchestral music) (water sloshes) (atmospheric orchestral music) What separates the great white from all the other predatory An adult can grow to a length of over six meters and Scientists once imagined is a scaled down version discovered in the fossil record, the giant toothed megalodon. With its blunt nose and stout jaw, megalodon was the most It lived from 23 to about 2.6 million years ago. Because shark's skeleton's dissolve quickly in ocean water, scientists have been left to reconstruct megalodon's history from that includes a few and teeth. For comparison, the largest measures less than three inches long from the crown tip to the base Megalodon teeth grew to twice that size, over seven inches long. That corresponds to about a and a weight perhaps exceeding 50 tons. Megalodon probably had a Greater than the mighty Tyrannosaurus rex. It was not the only super Megalodon shared waters with the largest toothed whale ever. Leviathan melvillei was in Herman Melville's novel, Moby Dick. Leviathan was a distant With males growing to 16 meters long, with a weight of around 45 tons. (atmospheric orchestral music) The modern sperm whale able to descend thousands With one row of teeth on its lower jaw, it uses suction to catch Leviathan had much larger teeth arrayed on both lower and upper jaws. Like megalodon, it worked seizing small and medium sized whales, with its impressive bite. These two super predators when mammals were diversifying throughout the earth's oceans. Their world was shaped by changes that began tens of The dinosaur age came to an end some 65 million years go. North and South America North Africa, Europe and the Middle East were a fragmented network India, then a large island, was moving steadily toward Asia. In this time called the Eocene Epoch, Carbon Dioxide, a greenhouse spiked at up to six or Earth's atmosphere was warmer than today by at least four degrees Celsius. Tropical palms and crocodiles could be found in high, Polar oceans would have been as warm as the tropics are today. These hothouse conditions would not last. By around 50 million years ago, the movement of land masses separated the Arctic Sea It became a warm, dead sea. Its surface, capped by and runoff from the land. A fern like plant called Azolla took hold. In a year's time, it can draw as much as 15 tons of Carbon Dioxide Meanwhile, as the Indian subcontinent began to plow into Asia, the mighty Himalayan Mountains rose up. Massive amounts of exposed rock interacted with rainfall in That drew even more CO2 washing it into the sea. By 30 million years ago, the Earth was dramatically cooler. Ice had taken hold on the Southern Pole, staying year after year until A cold current now circled Antarctica, drawing nutrients to the surface and fueling a global (atmospheric piano) Large, highly mobile sea creatures began to ply the oceans, including hundreds of species like the humpback today. They roamed the seas in great numbers, scooping up countless tons of plankton and tiny sea creatures. For the giant predators, Megalodon and Leviathan, a dietary requirement of around 1200 kilograms of food per day. Fossil evidence tells us, that megalodon's range extended nearly into the polar regions. They would likely have Especially in vast, shallow areas between North and South America. By 20 million years ago, with ice accumulating at the poles, sea levels inevitably fell. That allowed North and South America to join in the Isthmus of Panama. A warm ocean current now began to flow up the coast of North America, bringing storms, moisture, and sea ice to the Arctic. That led to dramatic and other food sources. Larger whale species adapted between tropical and polar regions. Smaller whale species began to disappear and with them, megalodon. At the same time, whole new types of predators and prey began to appear. Scientists recently of a creature similar to a large otter that lived in the Canadian Arctic some 23 million years ago. Because of its webbed feet and scientists see it as an ancestor to modern pinnipeds. This new class of nimble marine mammals, sea lions, seals, and walruses, thrived in the highly productive waters of polar and temperate oceans. They developed external layers of blubber to insulate against the cold. They were followed in turn by smaller and more nimble predators, that included another toothed whale, the orca. In the fossil record, the earliest known orcas date back to around 5.3 million years ago. (atmospheric orchestral music plays) Orcas moved freely between the Northern and Southern Hemispheres achieving a global distribution. The orca, which share the ocean with another rising predator, the great white shark. (atmospheric orchestral music) At about half the size of an orca, great whites generally swim alone or in loose associations or scavenging a carcass. Because of the scarcity of fossil remains, deciphering the evolution of any shark species can be tricky. Since white sharks appeared as early as 11 million years ago, their teeth have often been found in associate with pinniped remains. That has led to speculation that the two evolved in response to a steadily cooling climate. Because of similarities in their teeth, the white shark is now thought to be a close relative of this shark, the mako. Ranging from two to five meters, mako sharks today are known for their sleek, cylindrical bodies. They can accelerate to speeds of up to 70 kilometers per hour. With keen eyesight, the mako zeroes in on fast moving prey in the open ocean, including swordfish, The white shark and mako of large, fast moving sharks found in oceans around the world, called lamnid or mackerel sharks. They are know for muscular, that taper at both ends, with prominent dorsal fins They both employ counter shading, with a dark back and light underside to conceal them from prey above or below. Over millions of years, great white ancestors began to specialize by targeting new types the pinnipeds. For a great white, targeting seals in the cold poses a basic challenge. The body temperature of most sharks is the same as the surrounding water. In warm, tropical seas, this allows them to make efficient use of calories consumed. In colder waters, their digestion, muscle response, and even brain activity slows way down. A white shark can stay warm by swimming in the sunlight and by eating. In response, it's body allowing muscles to work harder, heart to beat stronger, digestion to improve, and rate of metabolism to increase. (water sloshes) To keep this up, a white shark cannot to the surrounding oceans. A typical shark's body is composed of about 85% muscle compared to around 40% in humans. Most of it is white muscle, used to power quick In lamnid sharks like a band of red muscle and gives the shark endurance It also allows the shark These red muscles are surrounded by a web of veins and arteries called rete mirabile. Oxygen depleted blood is shown in blue. As it flows outward toward the gills, it gives up heat from metabolic activity to oxygen rich blood flowing in. In this way, a shark recycles the heat generated in the red muscle and sends it to critical like the brain and the eyes. (atmospheric piano) As it targets seals and the white shark is (water sloshes) Decoding the interplay of it locks in on its prey from a distance. Often rising out of the But vision is only part of its success. Like other sharks, the great white is a wonder of highly integrated sensory and motor abilities. In the murky medium of the ocean, the white shark understands its world through an acute sense of smell. (atmospheric piano) It is said to detect one part per million of blood in seawater. Its sense of smell helps it to locate concentrations of prey, estuaries for birthing, or to identify rivals or potential mates. The great white shark has one of the largest olfactory with two large bulbs nestled in its snout. They're connected into and behind them, two large optical lobes. Complex folds allow it The complete brain of mature great white measures about two feet in length, extending down to the brain stem at the top of the spinal column. It integrates a range of sensory apparatus tuned to the highly conductive that includes tiny pours They open up into a series known as ampullae of Lorenzini. Specialized nerve cells read the voltage flowing into each pore. This allows a shark to given off by movements or Sharks extend their sensory reach by picking up vibrations and with a sensing system that runs the length of their bodies called the lateral line. Vibrations pass into fluid filled canals, where they excite hair like cells. These cells move and transmitting the information to the brain. As a shark follows an odor it may use its lateral line to hone in on vibrations produced by its swimming motions. (atmospheric orchestral music) For great white sharks, this battery of senses To hunt, reproduce, and roam the ocean, in one of the longest life Among its larger tropical counterparts, the tiger shark reaches sexual maturity at seven or eight years, in a lifespan of almost 30 years. The great hammerhead begins reproducing at eight or nine and may live 30 to 40 years. Great white sharks can In a study of great whites males reached maturity at 26 years of age and females as late as 33 years. One reason they grow so slowly is that their intestines are that results in slower digestion and longer intervals between foraging. In females, a smaller intestine makes room for a larger uterus. She can carry her pups long enough to grow to a meter and a increasing their chances of survival. So too, a smaller intestine allows for an unusually large liver. A white shark uses its and is part of an impressive At up to a third of its total body weight, a white shark's liver can of liquid blubber from seals. It draws on this source during migrations covering (atmospheric piano) To learn more about the breeding and migratory patterns of white sharks, scientists have been tracking them from gathering points such as (seagulls squawk) Each year, this island attracts One study showed that younger sharks with less experience catching seals, range over large areas on the hunt for concentrations of fish. As they approach maturity, the sharks begin to develop well-defined territories around the island. By mastering the nuances of topography, currents, and even seal routes, these adults learn to hunt successfully while conserving their energy. In general, great whites spend only a few months each year before moving on. From South Africa, some have been tracked Some head north up the coast of Namibia. Here, about two thirds of the total Cape fur seal population, up to a million animals, occupy a chain of rookeries. Still, other sharks head One female named Nicole, began her journey at Over a period of 99 days, she traveled all the way to the northwest coast of Australia. She was spotted seven months later back near Seal Island. One of the most mysterious was documented in the Pacific. After a season hunting elephant seals, white sharks depart the for the open sea. One fifth end up in Hawaii, perhaps drawn by humpback The remaining 80% come together with sharks from Guadalupe Island ina wide open region Given the large population of sperm whales in these deep waters, it could be the sharks are attracted by an abundance of squid or There maybe another explanation. Off the coast of San Diego, California, fishing boats have reported scooping up an unusual in the month of August. Given that white shark for 12 to 18 months, that means they would have mated during their time in the Shark Cafe. (atmospheric piano) From there, the females to the tropical estuaries (soft acoustic guitar) Citizens and scientists are to places like Guadalupe Island, to see and experience the They are part of a shifting balance in the way we see these In the United States, the shift dates back to the passage of the Marine Mammals Act in the 1970's. A time when the movie Jaws terrified a generation of beach goers. Ironically, off the where the movie was filmed, there were few sharks to be found. That's because decades of hunting, had reduced their main prey, the grey seal to just a few dozen individuals. Along the beaches and lagoons of Cape Cod, wildlife officials estimate there are now 30 to 50,000 grey seals. They come ashore at low tide, hauling out on sandbars and beaches, or lingering in shallow estuaries. As the tide comes in, they move out to sea to feed (ominous electronic music) The white sharks have taken and have returned to their Great whites too are and by the Convention in Endangered Species or CITES. It's illegal to hunt them. These protections are to coexist with the natural scene here. (atmospheric electronic music) Beach goers are warned, stay in shallow water, and if there are seals in the water, stay ashore. Just beyond the surf, all along the coastline, you can expect to find great - Do you wanna set up any GoPro's now? - [Alan Sklar] That's also and researches with the Atlantic A spotter plane flies overhead looking for shark's silhouettes Skomal and his team locate the shark and close in quickly. (atmospheric orchestral music) There's no need to bait the team simply slides up behind it. For some, they jab a device into the thick skin of its back. It emits beeps that allow a to record the shark's comings and goings. The team attempts to with a camera mounted on a pole. The idea is to capture Identifying marks, like scratches or lesions to help keep track of the The team wants to know and where they go along the shoreline. The marks also amount to a battles with other sharks, mating scars, health, age, and even personality. - Ooh, this, gee, Oh, oh. Ah. He wouldn't let it go. That sucker had scars, came right up to the camera. Kept, kept grabbing it, wouldn't let it go and ripped it right off the pole. And, this, this one had a clear attitude. - [Alan Sklar] The sharks they find here are nearly all around They have to be this which often weigh more than 200 kilograms. The seals know how far The sharks won't move into shallow water for fear the surf could drag them ashore. If a seal wanders out, (dramatic orchestral music) White sharks are ever opportunistic. A whale carcass brings a sudden bounty. For great white sharks, the seal populations along Cape Cod, are a focal point of Satellite tracking devices show that when the seals the sharks head south. (atmospheric electronic music) Most stay along the continental shelf, where found is abundant. A few head out to sea and in time for the return of the seals. The efforts of these scientists to understand and preserve come at a crucial moment The public increasingly accepts the sharks as part of a larger natural scene in harmony with itself and with us. (upbeat electronic music plays) The scientist's report there is even a growing appetite for information about individual sharks, including their life histories. Most are inclined to respect (atmospheric orchestral music)