No matter what profession you're in, having a portfolio website can make a powerful impression to potential clients, customers, and employers. Notion is a wonderful tool for creating websites because it's functional and easy to set up. In this video, we wanted to give a Notion tour of our portfolio website, Notion Template. We'll be going over everything from customization, shared to web, and setting up forms and testimonials. If you find this video useful, be sure to like, subscribe, and turn on the notification bell. Let's first start with an overview of this template. So as you can see, the front page is designed in a way that's easy to navigate, that you have all the important information you would want in a portfolio website. So we have a welcome message here, a call to action button, where if you click here, you're immediately sent to the contact page, synced navigation bar, as well as your portfolio here that you can also open up and see. Then you have a place for all of your social links, as well as testimonials, a footer link area here as well. So then if we just go through all the pages, we have an about me section, we have a blog, we have a portfolio, we have your testimonials here, a contact page, and then services. So first, let's go over how to edit your front page. And the first thing you might want to do is change the cover photo to add it your own personal touch. So you can go to the change cover here and then go to either gallery, upload link or unsplash, which has a huge library of stock images. Next, you can go to the title here and add your own name as well as your position or profession. Then you might want to edit this welcome message. So you can simply delete here and start typing. Under here is a link that takes you directly to your contact page. And if you want to edit the text here, you can simply click the edit button here and change the text here. Then we have your work. So this is the area which is showcasing your portfolio. And if we click one open, you can see cover photos as well as different properties describing it and some text about the project. And if you'd like, you can actually go to the three dots here, go to properties and edit which kinds of properties are getting shown here. So you can hide, for example, the tools and decide to show them. You can also move them around like this and we'll cover the portfolio section a bit more in depth later on in this video. Next, you can change the photo on the left hand side to your own picture. So you can go to the three dots here and then click replace and you can choose to upload your own picture. After that, we have follow me here. And if you want to add links here, you can simply double click here, go to add link and then add your own link. So let's say that this is Instagram .com and we have the link here. If you want to edit it, you can hover there, edit, and then you can change the link title URL, even remove link. And if you don't find these links relevant to you, you can also delete them. So simply like this. And if you want to add another link, you can also click the plus sign here and add a new link. And this is actually synced to your about page, so anything you make changes here is going to be reflected there as well. Next, we have the testimonials and we're going to show you the setup for the testimonials a bit later on as well. So after you have that setup, you can simply add the link to the testimonials here. And here we have a space for four footer links or other information you might want to add. So here you can either type something here. So for example, if you wanted to add your company address, you could put it here. You can also add links by going here at the link, just like you did with the social links. Next, let's go to the about me page in the about me page. We basically have sort of the same setup here and you are welcome to customize this however you want. We just have sort of a framework here in case you want to follow it. But basically, you can add your position and link to your company name here. So if we hover here and edit, you can change the name and change the URL. You can sort of describe your position underneath here and you can add your recognition and awards, a timeline of your life, interviews and features. And your footer link is synced here from the home page as well as your social links. You can embed or upload a file here for your resume if you need, as well as another bio here if you'd like and introduce yourself. You can also replace this image here using replace and you can change your cover photo here as well. So the next thing we wanted to show you is the blog. So if we go to the blog, you can see that we have three sample posts here. And if we open one up, you can see that it's very basic. There's a date and a tag. So you can add your own tags here, for example, thoughts and add them like this. And if you wanted to add other descriptive properties, you can click here plus add a property and add any of these as you wish. And inside here, you can basically type your blog out. And if we click out, you can see it here. So let's say that we wanted to add a new blog post. You can go ahead and click plus new and we'll just add a new blog. We can add a date here. So if we put a date, you can add a cover photo, change cover, something about design. So we can put something like this and you could put a tag and you can explain in your blog post and, for example, add headings like this, as well as some text. The next thing we wanted to show you is the portfolio. So if we go to portfolio, you can see basically what's also reflected on the homepage. And now we wanted to show you a bit more how to customize it. So let's say that you're actually a photographer and you want to add photography portfolios. So instead of these, you could delete these by highlighting them and then control click and then delete. And then you could go ahead and add a new portfolio item like this. And let's say that you want to showcase your wedding photography. So here you might not need the role anymore. So you could delete this property. You could put dates if you wish. You can put tags. So if this is wedding, you could put wedding like this. And then for tools, maybe you want to put something instead, what kind of camera equipment or things like that you use. And basically then all you need to do is to add your cover photo. You could upload one of your own photos here. Let's say that we just add some kind of wedding photo here. And then if you wanted, you could start adding slash image and uploading files here of your images just to showcase your wedding pictures. So if we put something like this and then you can even add things like captions and describe your photos. And if you don't want to show all of these properties, you can also edit your properties by going to the three dots here properties and then hiding them. So if you don't need them, you can simply click like this and only show the name. You could also choose to only show the tags and anything you update here. You'll actually have to manually update also in the homepage. So just keep that in mind when you are customizing the portfolio section. Next, let's go into the testimonials. So when you first open this template, we simply only put a embed link here so that you can embed your own testimonials. And for this, we highly recommend a testimonial service called Senja. And we're going to share the link with you in the description below. It's free to set up for up to around 10 reviews. So if we go ahead and open up Senja, we can show you how to set that up. So basically with Senja, all you need to do is go here and log in. Once you're logged in, you can start collecting your testimonials and how you can collect your testimonials is basically by going to forms and you can go ahead and create a new form. If you already have a form, you can edit the form and it's quite nice to customize. So you can go through it and just customize it. Once you're done with the form, you can simply share the link to the form and start collecting testimonials. So you can click the share button here and share the link. So once you've started to collect some testimonials or you can also import testimonials if you've had testimonials in the past. And these you can actually import from various sources. So they can be from your Instagram, your Facebook, your YouTube. All these are options for importing your testimonials. So now what you can do is go to the studio here and basically create a widget. So once you go to widgets, you can go here and then you can choose what kind you want. And in our case, we really like the testimonial masonry. So we click here and we'll just call this homepage testimonials and we'll put it in the homepage, create widget. Once you have that, you can just go to share and you can copy the URL here and then go back to your notion. So all you have to do is paste in the link and you'll have to drag this down like this until all your testimonials fit. So something like this, we can do the same in the homepage by returning home and we can go ahead and also embed the link here. So now our testimonial page is done. The next thing we wanted to show you is creating a contact form. So for the contact page, we use something called tally. So if we go ahead and open tally.so, we can go ahead and create an account and log in. And once you have logged in, you can create new forms by going to plus new form and let's go ahead and look for templates. So get started with templates. Let's go to the template gallery and we can look for a contact form like this and basically just click use this template. And once you're happy with it, you can go ahead and publish it and you can copy the link to share. You'll see the submissions in here as well through the submissions tab. You can see a summary of your contact form as well. So this is just very simple. You can also do a lot more with the customization if you're interested, but this is just the simplest way to create a contact form. So now if we go back, we can just simply add this in by clicking here and then pasting it in. So now we have also a very basic contact form. Next, let's go into our services. So in the services section, it's very simple. You can add sort of a photo here just to add some interest in here. And if you want to change that, you can go ahead and click here and then replace here. You can list your services and some descriptions about them. And finally, there's a call to action. Let's work together, which takes us back to the contact page. So now let's just talk about some general ideas about customizations and sync blocks. So all of these blocks are synced. So if you change one here, changed link, it's going to reflect in every of the other pages. So don't get surprised that they've changed here. The same goes for follow me here. So let's put sample link here. It's actually going to show up also in the homepage like this. And for the buttons, you can edit them using this gear icon here. And you can change the name by going here. You can change the icon here. You can do the same for all the other buttons. One thing to keep in mind is that the buttons cannot be linked directly to an outside web page. So just keep that in mind when editing the button. The next thing we wanted to discuss is if you don't need all of the pages we've included in this portfolio template, you're also welcome to delete them. So you can go ahead and delete it by going here and clicking delete. And the only thing you should be aware of is that if you delete the contact, it's going to make the button for let's work together not work anymore. And of course, if you delete the portfolio, it's not going to appear in your work section here. So just be careful of those two pages and everything else is quite editable. If you want to add a new page, you can also do that. And all you have to do is actually just duplicate one of the pages that you think matches the most to what you want to create. So let's say that you want another page similar to services. You can click the six buttons here and click duplicate. And then it's basically just going to duplicate the services tab here. And if you had more information you wanted to share, you could also add something here and add even more pages. So there's a lot that you can do to customize this. So feel free to experiment. And finally, the last thing we wanted to cover is how to share this page to the web. Simply go to the top of the page to share, then go to publish and click publish. And here we would recommend to turn off duplicate as template. And you can also decide to allow search engine indexing if you're on the plus plan. And then all you have to do is click this link here. And if you want to make the domain a little better, so for example, we have the organized notebook dot notion dot site, you can change it in the settings. And here you can write whatever you'd like in the domain that's going to show up before notion dot site. Thank you so much for watching. The link to the template as well as third party tools are in the description below. If you have any questions or comments, feel free to let us know and we hope to see you all in the next video.