Transcriber: amina khursheed Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, chocolate I stand before you today to but interesting facts that lie underneath Now, I'm pretty sure that and someone standing here are in love with There is a saying that says that that 1% As the chocolate business owner, But as a mother whose daughter I need to tell you that those And trust me, I'm trying hard Every now and then I come to her with Asking her quietly, would And every time she tells me, mom, you So more chocolate for all of When we hear the word chocolate, the first images that our mind evokes and other chocolate sweets and desserts. But let's hop together into a time a simple, modest era where the only the one of a steaming mug filled with Today, I want to take us all together a rich history of chocolate, a history The tale actually begins in the land native to that region gave It is believed that the Mayans were the first one who domesticated this And then introducing it to Mesoamericans, The word chocolate has its traces meaning bitter or sour water or drink. Originally, chocolate was consumed the addition of some spices or corn puree. The mesoamericans actually believed while the Aztecs elevated their admiration proportions, believing that And indeed, at that time, cacao beans They even served as a currency Today, the tradition of making such a drink is still present in South So please, when in South Mexico, don't Chocolate, cacao bean or tree however the rest of Europe. The Spanish were the first ones who brought chocolate using them at first for medical purposes But very soon they started adding honey And it was said that the cacao What tea was for English people. Now, what's interesting from the today's perspective is that for cacao beans to spread Two countries who first adopted it being Italy and France not Belgiu I am not sure how many of or I would rather say privilege but I would like to take us all together the cacao tree to the chocolate The scientific name of cacao Cacao is evergreen, blossoms through out the year the whole year growing beautiful cacao pods. from the tree trunk and they can be in various colors from yellow, green, orange, red,maroon the genetics, of course, but also on the degree of ripeness. Now I want you to listen to this carefully.It takes 5-6 years for the process of harvesting. One cacao tree can grow one pod contains 20-60 beans ,wrapped in white pulp. Now, I want you to imagine that and with all the beans. Don't Just imagine that, because the entire to make one kilogram of dark Because dark chocolate has the largest So remember this next time you grab that the shop. These are some titles that I personally like to hear when And usually they very often come But what if I told you that they do not They refer to cacao beans and the a chocolate. The closer we are to these here is a picture of a cacao bean. And as you can see, 50 to 55% of it is fat 30% fibers &amp;sugars, 10% proteins, 3% antioxidants 2% minerals( zinc, magnesium, iron) dark chocolate. I'm highlighting it. Dark chocolate is rich in natural fibers, sugars, and fat, and a little less in proteins . As I mentioned already, I want you to that it takes from a cacao the bar chocolate bar that we all know. These are some steps here, and Some of them last for weeks, some I would like you to think How long can a piece of chocolate on your desk before you take I imagine that it's seconds or maybe It's good and it's okay. But just remember or minutes for that cacao bean Chocolate is a multi-billion However, there are some dark and not so the surface of it. Social injustice and the destruction of precious rainforests We cannot ignore this. And yes, but I'm pretty sure that both consumers and producers can be part of promoting the fair trade movement, meaning that, you Who are the farmers? And supporting and chocolate makers who are part a huge step that benefits everyone. So You can, and it's not that complicated. Now let's shift to a topic that's very and chocolate makers. And that is the difference between craft artisan Words such as artisan and handmade Can you believe a chocolate thousands of chocolates can really claim to be handmade? Because it's impossible, I'm telling I can make hundreds, but thousands So why claim to be handmade Why taking that precious part from those Country of origin is another thing it doesn't add any value to And I'm quite sure that it doesn't mean the large ones industries, but to those small chocolate makers and chocolatiers who are very often For them, that information and it is so good when they put it because they remember the whole process. Certificates I like them because whether something is vegan, But is there a need to put certificate vegan on a dark chocolate? No. Dark chocolate is vegan. It So why putting that label and because of that certificate? All what we need to do is to think when the label, we just need to use our It's so simple as that. Now here you can but it's actually different And I'm quite sure that every one of you here has its favorite. Do you? Good. Officially, there are four The dark one, which is intense and rich, I would maybe rather say 54 to Then we have the milk one, which We have the white one, which the fact that it has only cocoa butter but it doesn't have the cacao solid parts. And usually there are debates whether it But don't worry, it is a type of which is a recent addition to the family for its natural pink color and Whatever your favorite chocolate is, remember the unique journey that each that chocolate that we all love today. Now this is my favorite part and I'm sure it's going to be yours as well. I already hear something, but Yeah, you won't be eating this. This So mindful eating is more than just a trend. It is art. Tasting is not eating. Remember that because you'll need for that piece of chocolate. Has everyone Oh, then you you should as you read that piece of chocolate. Please promise yourself a journey Take a moment to observe that chocolate. Observe the color, the shape, the shine. Think of the story that it carries with it I'm talking now. When you're Before taste please Smell it. Just do it. This way you can. Yeah. Let the aroma of the chocolate tempt your You can even guess what type of chocolate digesting activities (70%) have already started even before that piece reaches your mouth. Now, as try to feel the melting point of it. Not every chocolate has the same Mindful eating means knowing and So let that one bite take you through all and through all the steps My parting words are simple Don't just eat chocolate. Let it be a whole new experience. Appreciate the flavors, enjoy the textures Thank you. Thank you.