jazz street performer playfully humming -Bravo... -Rome, Italy, one of the most touristy but today's a different Rome video for you. We're gonna meet up with Simone Cicalone. Who said to me, &quot;Hey Peter, The one the tourists Of course I said yes. So that's what we're gonna do. jazz -Franchino Criminale, he's a criminal here. In the past, was a criminal, [Italian] -So I met Cicalone the other day. Cicalone's his last name Everyone seems to know him He's quite a legend in these parts. CICALONE: This is the Termini Station, -But during the day, there's much crime -There are crime during the day I show you. -When the tourists but when they goes or in the left side of the station -So this is the right side -Here it's better to stay on the opposite side Never stay in that area [Italian] -They try to maybe steal your wallet -Or ask money. But not ask money, &quot;Please.&quot; Ask money, [aggressive] &quot;Give me money!&quot; &quot;Give me money!&quot; [both chuckling] The people that made PETER: Right here? -Just this? -It's just a few homeless people. CICALONE: It's not... There are homeless During the day it's dangerous -To use? -Okay. It's not kindly. -Okay, so does the Italian government -It's possible. You go to a special area -Okay, yeah. -Or Suboxone, Subox. -But some people want Methadone, -But okay, Cicalone... This is the worst in all of the city? In all of Rome? -Um, one of the worst. It's a good problem you have in Rome -Yes. Here, there are another area. -Okay. -Underpass? Sottopaso Turbigo, From here, there are problem about.... [Italian] PETER: You gotta wear a mask in here? -We use a mask -The smell is really, really bad. [motorcycle passing] -Here, every area is for something. You can see fight between homeless because don't respect -Okay. Where are they now? -It is time, try to earn money. -Okay. -To drink, try to but someone can sleep inside here. -Yeah. -If you see this liquid, people go inside. Terrible. Last time I saved a guy's death. Sleeping here with the foot outside. -Yeah. -And a car nearly take the [cars passing] Or you see some people... Uh... Sleeping because have found the drug. Use drug and then sleep. -Especially with heroin. Here, very, very trash every area. PETER: Yeah, wow. Lot of drinking there. -Where is empty is for sleeping. Here is for sleeping. This is chemical barn here. -Oh, they're doing something -Yes. To have a little money, using metal. [motorcycle passes] Probably you can find -Okay. Do people use Fentanyl here in Italy? No, Fentanyl is very rare. I find Fentanyl in another station. In Trastevere some people using Fentanyl. -Okay. I've been doing a lot of mouth breathing. -It's the cleanest... -It's for sh*t. -He's from Switzerland. -No, this one is for sh*t. When you have a problem, -Oh, that's great, Jesus. When steal suitcase... PETER: Watch out behind you. FRANCHINO: Baggage. CICALONE: Baggage. PETER: Yeah. FRANCHINO: From bus. -Oh, they steal the suitcase up there, -There are bus station. Someone steal, come here, open, And the other... Leave on the corner. FRANCHINO: Just throw away in the street. -So Okay, in Italy, in Roma... Can these people go find a home? Like, does the government provide -No, it's not poss... FRANCHINO: It's really hard. -It's really hard? There is a Christian Association in Italy that take care of them So they can sleep but they have to stay about some rules. They must to be there -And they must to get out -And they can't do drugs in the home. -No drugs, no alcohol... -A lot of homeless prefer stay here -Same in US, a lot of our cities, Depending the city, but you have to be clean, -Yeah, exactly. -And if you're on heroin or Fentanyl, ...become clean I think. -Prefer live in that condition. CICALONE: This is the bus station -So they grab the bag... -And go over there? -Right under there. Why doesn't the police If this is such a big tourist hub, right? It's an important place. -Here, police, you see... If me and you make a fight now, -These ladies will help maybe. [laughing] -So in Italy, if you're homeless, Is that the problem? -No, some homeless, I know very well they have They tried to take back home, because have very big problem with drugs. Prefer to stay on the street the drugs that they need. Ciao. This is the baggage, [phwip]... And they go away. [Italian] It's the driver, stays here PETER: And take it under. -And take it under. Grazie, ciao. Ciao, bello. He is the only one that make pizza, try, eat, and give review criminal style. -What... -Bad words. -Okay. -Okay, okay. -Really, I speak about Italian food. When it's good I say it's good, -Okay, tell me this, as a tourist, right? Look, Rome is amazing. Architecture, beauty, everything, right? Just in the center. But why can you not do pizza like Napoli? Napoli is... their pizza's up here. It's amazing. -Yeah, but it's amazing. -Napoli is... It's soft. In Rome, pizza is crunchy. -So you like the Rome pizza better? -No, I like both but probably -The third way? -Exist a pizza called, &quot;Third way&quot;. It's in the middle Soft, but not too much. -Okay, where do we find that, -No, you can find in Rome CICALONE: This is the second exit PETER: Oh, this one up here, yeah. CICALONE: If you exit to the other side, If you exit to this area, -Yep. -And here, we go to Via Gioberti. Here during the night it's like a jungle. -This is the market but there are If you have something to sell, come here. -You can find someone can buy. You can go to some, not all. -Not all, okay. ...you have telephone, -But the business owner They don't know or maybe? -Okay, okay. -They don't care? -Yeah. -What I'm feeling here though I've been here four days. -Okay. -How are the police doing here in Rome? Do they do a good job? -For me, the police is not enough -Okay. -Need more police during the night. -Are police very corrupt here? -[both] No, no. -Police... -Okay, what about mafia? Is there a mafia situation here? Mafia Roma is very... [Italian] Think about Rome is divided -Okay. -And every kind of criminal organization -Okay. Do you have the Camorra here? -Yes, like Camorra, like mafia. Because Rome is too big. -There is a lot of business in Roma. The big business is clean the money. So if you have a lot of money I spend a lot of money, refresh. -And then without people coming inside, -But there are big difference to the... ...suburbs. Mafia in suburbs Mafia don't want ...where make business. -To avoid police, The only criminal act is sell drugs. Here the Carabinieri Carabinieri is from Army. Policia is police from civil. -How much money One thousand, two... -Two hundred to the grow. -1,200 to start -Yes. -Say you've done it 10 years, -Depend of how many career You can remain the same for all the life. -If you prefer to stay -They don't take bribes you think? They don't take any money, -No, because in Italy, if take money, -Too much risk for the money. For the money you can take Better to have people. All... better results ...because I give the gun, I give the drug, I give something to old women It's not possible to have -Okay. Some, maybe even kids are like, &quot;Hey kid, take this package, -Yes, but in Italy, kids in Rome, no. -Okay. In Rome, better is -Okay. -Yeah, little pension? -Yeah. Cannot pay the house, and can work because when you are old, Probably stay at home under arrest. -From that way -Okay. -Touristic side, rich side, a lot of money, and a lot of clean. Street clean and everything. And then that side, Every side here is close to the center but this side is So you can go inside the square because there are a lot of people -Okay. And it's really easy because This center of drugs is for poor people. During the day, the poor people for spend to the drug in the afternoon but it's not a place to buy drug CICALONE: This area during the night, FRANCHINO: It's full of homeless. -It's full of homeless, PETER: Yeah. Is Rome more dangerous now versus, -For me, yes. Many people use drugs. The drugs is the first driver -So more drug use now than 10 years ago? -More money needed, -What is the psychology I mean as a whole, as a whole. There are no chance to live comfortably. To have a good salary. To build a family. Buy a house. -And so Italy is Italian culture? The family is very important. Since I think 20 years ago. Now it's no more like that. -It's not now? -There are no money -Italy has very low birth rate. Like people aren't having many kids. -Do you have kids? -Kids? No kids, we're all not having kids. You don't want kids -Yeah, exactly. And the government doesn't help the family. -I show you the difference. Big difference. The same place... -The same place, You see the opposite side of the street. -Okay. -This is private, this is banking. Every day, clean. Every day, controlled area. -Who is cleaning, the bank or the city? It's the same floor. This floor is the same. -Oh yeah, it's just polished. -Yeah, polished. If you see, and if you see to the roof is cleanest. -That's very nice. You said, &quot;The psychological mood You see anything better What do you think Italy is in 10 years? -I think it will be worse. -You think worse? -Because people aren't having kids? -Yeah, but we don't have a good We don't have, -What about business? -[scoffs] I think that it is hard The rent is high. The bill... The bill is high. Electric, gas, everything is too much. -Tax. A lot of tax. Everybody in Italy -How much? -48%. -Okay, 48%. So you make, say... -Cicalone pay 48% of tax. -So you make, say, $10,000, -Yeah. What do you get for that? Do you get pension? You get a retirement? -This is the point I think it's right (to) pay a tax but what you give me back? Nothing. -What about when you retire? Pension? Not that, our other tax... is, yeah... -Other tax? It's really few moneys. -How much? ...for 20, 30 years you will have back, 700 euros per month. How can I live with 700 euros per month. An apartment in Rome to rent start to 700. The worst. -700 euros, no bills, no energy or nothing? -No bills, in the suburb. -In the center -Okay, what is the average salary The middle salary is 1,400 euros probably. -The middle salary? -Yeah 102, 104. One thousand and two, -One thousand to fourteen hundred euros? -Yes. -Yes. -Yeah, 2,000 is a really good salary. -But then 48% tax on that? -No, free for tax. -After tax. PETER: So there's no way FRANCHINO: You can't can cost easily more than 200,000 euros... ...in suburb and you go to the bank and the bank say easily, &quot;What?&quot;. [chuckles] -Could you ever imagine like Milano or Napoli? Could you live in those places? -I was in Milan for 10 years. During my job from 30 years -How do you like Rome Uh, Milano is better for work. -Okay. -Okay, if you want to make a career, -How much do they make there, 2,000-2,500? It's possible because No people live here. Italian people, Roman people It's too dangerous, it's too dirty. All the apartment are sold and used If you see... -So sorry to interrupt, guys. This nice American family, that this neighborhood's not so nice. -I think so, they have no clue. I want to suggest them, why you are here? It's so bad, it's so ugly. Go to the City Center, CICALONE: 2,200 met... no, -Gotta love this about Rome though, From underground? FRANCHINO: It's free and you can drink. FRANCHINO: You can drink. CICALONE: It's one of PETER: And even you say, Look at this beauty right here. -I mean everywhere in Rome. -But c'mon, there has to be -Nah, this is good place but you have to stay Because here... -Because Termini? -Gotcha. -You have Termini and you have and you have every kind of different store. Now, Chinese store. Today, Arab cooking store. If you see... If I live here and have this one here It's not good. There's a strong smell, -If you see, people live here to have better quality because CICALONE: [Italian] Art gallery? PETER: And just like that, -This is Central Market. -Sushi? -Yeah, here there are a lot So tourists, when come from the train They can... yeah. Stefano Callegari, I told you Basically right below here Right above, fine dining. -Yeah, but I'm saying that the world exists below, right? -Of course. -The people from station arrive here, And never see which Food is really important in Roma. -Oh, yeah. Cicalone is healthy so probably... [slaps] [chuckles] He will eat something like salad. -Chicalone's gonna eat a salad over there. Let me get a sandwich though. -If you want, you can eat... One of the best pizza in Rome. Or il trapizzino is... -Oh, look at that chicken, -You have to try this one. This chicken cooked in the Roman style, -Chicken in the pizza? -It's like American. [laughs] -No, it's not like American. -I'll eat whatever. -It's called the cacciatora. It means with the olive oil... That is fantastic. That's one of the best things Delizioso. -Grazie, grazie. You took me for the traditional food I'm from Rome, PETER: Cicalone, This is your traditional... -The sticks, you can't use the fork. It's stupid, why can't you use the fork? -Come out from the cave. I use, but... Cicalone, neanderthal. [as Cicalone] Franchina australopithecus, PETER: So guys, what do you think -You have a lot of building in Rome, -Okay. ...that not needed. Today if you made... ...all electronic to make document... To make something for... You have a lot of building and there is job opportunity like in this case. In this case, he have a problem. Illness, mental illness. -Okay, so that's the bigger problem, -Yes, but see, it's connected. -It's connected, yeah. So there needs to be -Yes, more treatment, more area -Yeah. -And you have more people working to help. Paid by government -Yeah. -Today, lot of people don't take job. In Italy now, -Okay. -Is like... [Italian]. PETER: Welfare? ...but I pay, you stay at home. Then I find you a job, I call you, But today, a lot of people In that case... Payment but no job? Payment by government but not job. In that case, you have Okay, I take a building, use for homeless, but use people that take money to work inside and help. Homeless inside. But if somebody's on drugs, they don't want to work, right? They just want to do drugs. That's the problem. -Ciao. Bella. The people with drugs, -Right. -You have people with drug, The (Serta), Methadone, -Yeah. -And if the people remain the drug all their life, -Yeah, yeah. So guys, I want to make a very clear point. Rome is one of the most and so today's video is but the goal of these types of videos is to show you that there are Sometimes literally on top of one another and so while there are thousands, of beautiful videos of Rome, I thought I'd give you And even that other perspective, I've been here five days, But I have felt through and through, This isn't a &quot;Don't go to Rome.&quot; video I think like any city, but I'd say less bad than most US cities right now. So come to Rome. Don't let this scare you at all here is the main train station is that world that and I think the same can be said for All right, Cicalone, Bringing us in. and visit the worst face of Rome. Guys, I wanna drop Simone Cicalone has Simple channel, &quot;Cicalone.&quot; The other channel is If you come to Roma Franchino is the the right person. -And Cicalone has the very cool to see a different perspective of Italy. All right, guys. [hands slap] -Thank you very much, see you. That was awesome, ciao. [laughs] We're gonna get Cicalone in the hood. Until the next one. jazz