- You guys know about the Fiat 500 Abarth, the hot version of everyone's favorite little drivable puppy, the Fiat 500. It's faster. It looks cooler. It handles better, and it has a fricking scorpion on it. Well, what if I told you that that badge represents one of the a race-proven company so influential that its name is Italian slang for strong? Are you ready to expand your mind and join the ranks of the illuminated? Throw up the triangle and get 'cause it's frickin' scorpion season. This is everything you need to know to get up to speed on Abarth. (upbeat video game music) - [Nolan] Huge thanks to NordVPN for sponsoring today's video. I'm sorry you had to call again. Yes, sir, I'll handle it. Guys, that was Mr. Nord, and he's pretty upset that your online security seriously. We talked about this last week, all right? You gotta protect your by using NordVPN. NordVPN is accessible, it's easy to use, and keeps your browser behind a high-tech wall NordVPN doesn't share, track, or do any data collecting whatsoever. So you can safely Google &quot;Was James Pumphrey in 'Two Broke Girls?'&quot; without anyone ever knowing. Choose from over 50 to 100 And the best part is, so you'll never have to when traveling abroad. You can download it on Windows, Android, iOS, Mac OS, and even Linux. And right now, if you go to you'll get a two-year plan with a huge discount. It's all risk-free thanks to Mr. Nord's 30-day So please check it out. I don't want Mr. Nord to (slow electronic music) - All right, so there's and he's born in Austria in 1908. He moved to Italy as a teenager, changed name to Carlo All right, big time. As in, he designed and built motorcycles, which is almost as cool as being a state runner-up in improv and speech which is what I was doing as a teenager. (electronic air whooshes) But he wasn't just a motorcycle mechanic. He was also a motorcycle racer. He won his first race when that he designed and built himself. And he did that by himself, like with no fricking pit crew so already, this dude is next level. Well, I'm about to throw another All right, the next, next level. (video game chime dings) Carlo won the European the next five years in a row. (bubbles pop) After that, he was like, (in foreign accent) &quot;Racing &quot;What else can I race?&quot; How about a train. And I'm not talking about This dude raced the best train, the Orient Express. Carlo destroyed that luxurious choo-choo in an 850-mile race across Austria. Abarth was tearing it up on two wheels showing trains who's boss. - [Demonic Man] Flawless victory. - You think you're the Turns out you're not; I am. Everything was going great. Little did he know that his world was about to change forever. (in distorted voice) Forever. Carlo woke up in a hospital bed in 1939. Doctors told him that in a motorcycle accident and And then frickin' World War broke out. What is this now? Can we get a break? I'm being robbed of my adulthood. I digress. Everything that Carlo knew I can relate, obviously. Thankfully he had plenty of He had to stay in that He probably thought of all but one made more sense Carlo knew that he had and a dirty little kink for speed. (object smacking) He just couldn't ride I imagine he damaged his taint. And as we established before, he'd already made trains Cars. (engine revving) When the war finally ended, Carlo got a job as a design engineer at a brand new car company called Porsche. Then he moved on to an Italian called Cisitalia, which It was post-war Europe. So it goes, bummer. But at that point, Carlo &quot;None of these guys ever even beat a train &quot;in a race, okay?&quot; &quot;I have. &quot;I bet I can run my &quot;And I bet I can buy So he bought Cisitalia, and in 1949, he transformed it into Abarth Just C. With his race car buddy, which sounds racist, but it's his name, who just happened to come (cash register dings) Make friends with rich people, guys. Then you make them like the And then you get to do that stuff. Carlo's idea for Abarth &amp; C hot rodding skills to develop aftermarket go-fast parts for cars. Actually, his real idea was but they didn't have enough money yet. So Abarth didn't really This was just a means to a bigger goal, but that doesn't make it any less cool. This was 1949, more than before M or any of those Why am I comparing Abarth to these in-house manufacturing tuners? A little thing I like (in echoing voice) Foreshadowing. Things are gonna get crazy But first, if Abarth &amp; C they needed a bad-ass logo. It's like the most important You think we'd be here without this? So Carlo turned to the most badass thing that he could think I guess he was at a loss for ideas because he was like, &quot;What's my sign/ &quot;I'll make that into the logo, done.&quot; Now, thankfully, he was a Scorpio, which is repped by scorpion, which is like the coolest If he were a cancer, (host coughs heavily and clears throat) With a sick logo nailed and a rich co-owner ready all Abarth needed was something to sell. Now, Carlo knew from his racing days that modifying exhausts was an easy way to make motorcycles go Why not apply this to street cars? So that's exactly what he did. He also copped the trick to make them look cool. A matte black finish Abarth exhaust didn't just sound amazing. They were like jewelry for your cars, but (bell dings) the people of Italy like so much gabagool, and by the end of 1950, Abarth had sold nearly Now let me say that year again, 1950. Abarth &amp; C was founded in 1949. All of this happened in one year. What could Carlo and his team All those muffler profits got to develop more complicated but more importantly, to him at the time, it meant he finally had the scratch to build a sports car of his own. Buying Cisitalia gave him a headstart 'cause the deal included called the 204A. Abarth finished the car. Then he raced it all over Europe with his business partner, Guido wasn't just the he tore crap up in the 204A, and Abarth used the prize money from winning all those races to build the company's All right, before I say I want you to look at it. Okay, it's beautiful because Abarth hired a dude from legendary Italian design This thing was quick too. Carlo and C doubled the horsepower on the 1.1 liter Fiat engine. The 205A was sleek, speedy, sexy, and very, very expensive to produce. Abarth only sold three 205As. This obviously wasn't gonna work. (metal clanks) So building your own car And developing performance Good to know. With that valuable information Maybe there was a way to work with an established car company to make these bad-ass road Maybe, but he needed to find one, one with lots of money. Wasn't already building Company like Fiat. Only problem, Fiat was based in Turin, and Abarth was more than Solution: move Abarth to Turin. This was a big, expensive business move, but it proved to be genius. Fiat was aware that were fitting Abarth and hey, wouldn't you know it? Now Abarth is just down the street. Carlo's just like, &quot;Oh, hey man, &quot;I'm new in town. &quot;Just wanted to introduce myself, &quot;and oh wait a minute, you build cars?&quot; Fiat saw, &quot;We're the largest &quot;in Italy.&quot; &quot;There's no way you &quot;Our cars are a legion.&quot; &quot;What? &quot;What a coincidence 'cause &quot;What?&quot; &quot;I can make cars faster.&quot; &quot;What?&quot; &quot;Sorry, my bad. &quot;I made the exhaust in those cars. &quot;I said, I can make cars faster.&quot; Fiat and Abarth struck up a Abarth would undertake special projects for Fiat and in return, Fiat would foot the bill and In the industry, that's After a few rollercoaster and even bigger whiffs, Carlo finally felt safe. And as you psych majors know, you gotta feel safe before you can work to your full potential. And oh man, Carlo felt very safe. Just look at the first This is the Fiat Abarth 1500 Biposto. Now look at this thing compared to the car that it was based on, the Fiat 1400. That's what most cars Now credit for this Bertone made this car he made it fast. He took the stock 1.5 liter Fiat engine, worked his scorpion magic, and rung an astonishing 68% more power out of it without using a It was a cosmic leap in power to match the car's cosmic looks. Carlo and C were getting really friggin' good at this. The 1500 Biposto was displayed at the 1952 Turin Auto Show, and people went absolutely ape. This car put Fiat Abarth on the map. They became the talk of the frickin' town. They were like the first power couple. The Italian super dup built a few more over-the-top prototypes like but that's not really So we're gonna fast forward a few years to the introduction of the Fiat 600, not the 500, that's gonna come later. The 600 is the 500's older brother. It was a little rear engine city car, kinda like a cross between and a Mini Cooper, but without any of the that made those cars good, just But once the scorpion stunning the 600, it was nothing to fool around with. Abarth modified the 600 with bigger carbs, juiced up internals, and of course, brappy exhaust systems to create a whole line of tuned 600s. Most of them used the stock for wider wheels and a But every now and then, For example, take a look at If you've been watching this you know Zagato. It's another legendary just like Bertone. They designed the prettiest the DB4 GTZ. The Fiat Abarth 750 Zagato but you gotta remember And as you can see, Carlo (sexy music) He was doing what he loved with the financial backing of Fiat and Fiat loved it too. People were buying crashing 'em, coming back Cha-ching much? Just when Carlo thought things his bosses at Fiat asked him by going out and beating And he did it in this: the Frickin' so confident that Basically, it was a lightweight, streamlined version of Lightweight as in like 850 pounds. So it only needed 47 horsepower to shatter a 24-hour endurance And this was just the first of 133 records that Abarth would set. Now breaking records is cool, but again, it's not really So let's get back to that then. Let's talk about the original Fiat 500. (upbeat rock music) All right, just like the modern 500, the original was cute and Carlo had his work cut out for him, but remember, he just with only 47 horsepower to play with. He was confident that he'd And that's good because Now the OG 500 is an icon now, but when it launched in 1957, nobody was buying 'em 'cause said it was unreliable and slow, and they weren't wrong. Fiat had screwed the pooch on this drop. So they turned to their And what Carlo came up with was the original Fiat Abarth 500. Made it look cooler, He frickin' doubled the horsepower to 26. Double the power means double the speed. Double the pleasure, double the fun. An icon was born. The Abarth 500 was a success It broke six international By 1965, this hot little potato had nearly 900 race wins to its name. Carlo and his crew turned Abarth didn't just save the 500. They made it the pride of Italy. They made it a pop culture icon, and Abarth became so well known as a purveyor of things that they started using the name of Abarth as a freakin' word to Customers in cafes didn't They asked for Abarth coffee. The 1960s were incredible for Abarth &amp; C. They built some of their and their aftermarket across the globe. But Carlo was getting old. And 1971, he sold his trusting them to carry into the fray of Carlo Abarth passed away in 1979. He was 71 years old. He raced a train and he beat it. He bought a bankrupt company. He built one of the most in history. He took economy cars and race winners, and rally champions. He is an internal bad-ass, and to honor the eternal bad-ass, Fiat put all the Abarth &amp; in charge of the Fiat racing They were given free rein to And at this time in the 70s, Fiat was focused on rally racing, and they were campaigning of their little roadster, the 124 Spider. Once the scorpion got hold of that Spider, the rallying world learned The 124 won the European and again in 1975. Now that was cool, but Abarth figured that The next car is really but don't take my word for it. Tyler, the creator, owns one, and he's just about one of Fun fact, I used to write for him, so... I mean, one look at this thing, and you'll see why he Box flares, baby. The stock Fiat 131 is pretty uninspiring, clean, very generic. And if performance was but in the hands of Abarth, the little rear wheel drive that gave it a sick flared out, and a rippin' two-liter And it won the World Rally Championship in 1977, 1978, and 1980, a three-peat. They just weren't feeling it in '79. They had an off year. Now naturally, race fans of this hot little And they were like, okay, because Fiat had to build some road cars to satisfy competition rules. So 400 131 Rallies hit Now, after all that success, weirdly, Abarth just sort of ceased to be. Fiat was a huge company, and in the '70s, they were getting even bigger, swallowing up brands left and right like Nolan at a banana farm. (electronic music) One of those bananas that another Italian car company And for some reason, Fiat put all their racing No, I can't really complain about that because Lancia in the '80s made some of the most incredible The Delta Integrale is Tyler, the creator, owns one of them too. But Fiat's decision to focus on Lancia basically shut the door on Abarth. And in 1981, Abarth &amp; C was no more. Fiat continued to use the name to market slightly hot rotted but this badge engineering The banner of the scorpion, remained folded up in a closet. That's where scorpions live. Until the newly merged Fiat Chrysler Group decided to re-introduce Fiat to America after a two decade hiatus. Now these guys, they're not dumb. They knew getting Americans to buy small European and they knew selling the in America would be an uphill battle despite all the attention Now it didn't take much of that Americans loved Volkswagen's GTI. Fiat Chrysler quickly realized that they needed a GTI And what's up? Guys, I was just looking in the closet. I found this really sick scorpion banner. 2007 Fiat Chrysler Group relaunched Abarth as the performance arm of Fiat, just like in the good old days. And with it came a new, high and a new Fiat 124 Spider Abarth. These cars are almost universally They have a big dedicated fan base, and anyone who spends of an Abarth knows why. They look very silly to me, but they sound good. With the Abarth 595, 695, and even the Abarth 1241 make European Rally Championship series, Fiat are honoring Carlo exactly how they should by making cars faster, louder, (car engine revving) (upbeat music) (sighs) Looks pretty good. (man spits) - Donut has posters? - Donut has posters? - Yeah, Donut has posters. - Donut has posters&gt; - Yup, Donut has posters. - Wow! - Wow! Hang 'em in your bedroom, your office, or have 'em professionally Get your Donut posters just - Wow! - Wow (TV beeps) Thank you guys so much and everything else on Donut Media. Go ahead and hit that subscribe button so you don't miss anything and hit the like button 'cause it really helps The algorithm is the only God that I know. We have a ton of merch that Go to donutmedia.com, Follow me on Instagram at James Pumphrey. I love you. (smacks hand) (uplifting music)