The Mu family is here Why haven't you even changed your clothes? Mom, do you really want me to marry my sister's fiance? You don't want to regret it now, do you? Nuan Nuan, Mom, please Your sister deserves better. Just help her. What about me? I should marry an ugly and cruel man A man who is still inhumane? So you have to marry for your sister. You don't know Every woman sent to his house No one came out alive I am your biological daughter Warm Mom Please, help mom again. OK Madam, Miss Three The Mu family came upstairs Too ugly Too ugly Who are you Don't you know who you're marrying? Of course I know The person I married is Mu Lingxiao It seems like another woman who believes in rumors. It turned out to be my cousin's wife I am Mu Jiachen, the younger brother of Mu Tingxiao Wedding Night I guess you don't want to take care of a useless person, right? He is your cousin Please don't say that about him. Even the top giants Even his cousin said this about him. He must have had a hard time these years. This ugly woman Not my rumored beautiful fiancee I'll tease her. There's no one else here You don't have to pretend This must be the first time you look like this, right? I'll just do it as a good deed and satisfy you you Don't think everyone is as dirty as you. Before your cousin comes You go quickly I can pretend nothing happened. Let's go No woman has ever dared to lay hands on me you You just wait here That useless person He can come and go freely here. Then he must have a very good relationship with Mu Tingxiao He wouldn't say anything nonsense in front of Mu Tingxiao, right? Master, your face What was hit by the door? How can I leave five finger marks on my face? The eldest son of the Mu family I was slapped by Mrs. Shao. Oh yeah Master, uh This is Mrs. Shao's personal information Jiang Nuannuan That ugly woman looks quite frigid She actually gave me a name called Nuan Nuan. His biological mother treated prostitutes and whores like treasures But he is so cruel to his own daughter Hmm, kind of interesting. you Don't think everyone is as dirty as you. You should leave now before your cousin comes. I can pretend nothing happened. The fool speaks so clearly What fool could resist in this situation? Slap someone hard He is a fool Uh huh I will continue to search until I find the information I am satisfied with. Otherwise, don't call. Yes, handsome Mu Tingxiao didn't return to his new home last night Good morning, Mrs. Tang What happened to Mrs. Tang? The young master and the young mistress really love each other by beating them Yesterday's slap Today we are playing role-playing again Good morning Isn't your master here? He's feeling a little unwell He's in the hospital now. Can I go see him then? Oh, it's inconvenient Because he has been having this inconvenience recently. Eat breakfast He made this breakfast. Why are you afraid that I'll drug you? Ah, thank you for your breakfast. But I'm not hungry Could you please take me down the mountain? I want to go back to Jiang's house to get something Mrs. Tang wants to go home to get something. I'll just take you there. Young Lady You let less Master Tang will take you there. peach You feel really good. Let's go Forget it. I can't get entangled with him anymore. What if you do something out of the ordinary? Anyway, just send it I just keep my distance from him. Ugly is a bit ugly It's quite correct I kindly sent Mrs. Tang back Shouldn't Mrs. Tang thank me? Unloading so carelessly Then I'll have to take the gift myself. No more glasses Otherwise I'll kiss you every time I see you. Warm How did you get down here? Sister-in-law, I'm waiting for you The man just called you cousin He is Meng Tingxiao's cousin Do you have any shame? On the first day of marriage, I had sex with my husband's cousin Who do you want to kill? If you want to die, don't drag the Jiang family into trouble. Why don't you ask me if I'm willing? One is a disfigured and inhumane person. A normal healthy man I don't know who to choose. You last night Could it be that he also lived with this cousin? Wanqi, are you feeling better? Mom, I'm much better. Warm I understand your feelings But you also have to consider the Jiang family. Be more restrained Mom, am I right? Of course Wanqi is right Nuannuan, since you have married into the Mu family You have to keep your own duty Don't embarrass our Jiang family. you're right If I'm unhappy one day You said if I did something out of the ordinary Will the Mu family punish you along with the entire Jiang family? What do you mean, sister? I mean whatever I hear. Your mom, I was trying to persuade Nuan Nuan with good intentions, why is he like this? Nuan Nuan apologizes to her sister Wanqi, how about we just leave it at that today? If I force him That ugly woman Could it be that he was bullied by the Jiang family? Humph, she doesn't look like someone who will be easily bullied. Sir, would you like to come in and sit down? Who are you I am Jiang Nuannuan's sister My name is Jiang Wanqi Jiang Wanqi The two daughters of the Jiang family In addition to Jiang Nuannuan This is my cheap fiancee. Where is Jiang Nuannuan? he He is still packing his things in the room. He asked me to come down I ask you to come in and sit down. He'll ask me to sit in. I'm afraid he's already slipped away. There seemed to be gunshots Big brother, Stationmaster Li, please hurry up Mu Jiachen Mu Jiachen you What are you doing here? I live here Then I'll go to where you live. no You want me to tell my cousin? seduce You What are you afraid of? Even if I die The most they can ask you to do is compensate me. You let go I'll call an ambulance for you. No sleeping train allowed Then I'll pack it for you. Go prepare the blade to catch me Candles, gauze and towels Do you want to take the bullet yourself? No, this is too dangerous. Who said I should go alone? You help me go I can't do it anymore I've never done this, you can't how Do you want to be buried with me? I'm going to start He is worried about me Sorry, sorry. I don't need to be nervous I won't die either. I trust you This Mu Jiachen Looks like a dandy scumbag But I can endure the pain without saying a word how are you feeling Let me make a prescription for you. ah What a smart and kind woman. I'll give you medicine If you're in pain You tell me I'll try to be gentler. how are you feeling I told you not to wear glasses. I told you not to wear glasses. Mo Jiachen I'm your cousin Please be respectful Cousin If you follow your cousin, you will just be a widow for the rest of your life. Don't you consider me? Not considered Call someone to pick you up now. Otherwise I'll call an ambulance. Let others know you were shot. Call up Mu Jiachen Mu Jiachen, you are shameless Repeated provocations I'll keep you here for now I'll kick you out when you can move. I made some soup, do you want to drink it? medicine The wound opened You think I'm ugly but you still stay here Now let me serve you dinner. Drink it yourself I'm leaving first Why are you with this ugly woman? There will be an inexplicable sense of security Hello dad You went home yesterday Who sent you back? It was Mu Tingxiao's brother who sent me back. Take your sister to Mu's house when you have time. Are there suitable young people? Introduce Let him make more friends Dad, I also want to take my sister to the Mu family. But I haven't even met Mu Tingxiao. I didn't even see my husband. There's no use for this. You still have the face to go home You send my sister to the Mu family. Maybe Mu Tingxiao would be willing to see him. I'm a fake Why does he want to see me? If you don't want to listen, just don't listen. How am I in bed? I clearly slept on the sofa last night You last night I am injured Why are your hands so white? His face is so yellow Mom, why can't I wear these pretty dresses? Nuannuan, you can't steal your sister's limelight Neither the clothes nor the scenes are allowed. Did you remember? Got it, mom If it weren't for Xie Shuang I almost forgot what I looked like. Even if I keep shouting Jiang Wanqi You still didn't look at me more You are real Don't love me at all I'm going out for a while You call someone yourself You go back to the Mu family. Warm Where are you going? Shen Chuhai, why are you here? Shen Chuhai, why are you here? Oh, it's hard to park here. You get in the car first. Oh ok Oh, I made an appointment with your sister to have dinner together. Let's go together I have a date with Jiang Wanqi I have something else to do I'll go first. Wait for us. It's been a while since we had dinner together. Let's go. But oops It's nothing, let's go Anqi, I met Nuannuan on the road Just let him come over. You don't mind? Of course I don't mind. Okay, I'll go to the bathroom first, you guys talk. Um Why can't that useless guy from the Mu family satisfy you? Ran out to hook up with Chu Han What nonsense are you talking about? Am I talking nonsense to you? Clear in mind You dare to say you don't like Chu Han Chu Han, why don't you sit down? Sit down Chu Han, don't have any psychological burden Nuannuan is already married We can be together smoothly. Warm You are married Yes, Nuan Nuan told me before Even if I marry, I won't marry someone too good. It's better to marry into the Mu family I also advised him A wealthy family like the Mu family Although rich But such a husband oh Warm Thank you Thank you for helping Wanqi marry into the Mu family Yes, it's a good thing you married into the Mu family for me. Otherwise, Chu Han and I wouldn't be together. It's not what he said. Oh I understand I understand uh Although Cheng Xiao's health is not particularly good But don't worry. This carpenter will never treat you badly. I have something else to do so I'm leaving first I admit I used to like you But I won't As for how I married into the Mu family I think Jiang Wanqi should know best Is it possible? I remember I remember Wenwen was quite innocent and kind. How come it's like that now? I don't know either Dishes in text messages Pack and bring back You haven't left yet Hello Why do you have to go back and forth? Biological parents Mu Tingxiao hates Don't even see me And this Mu Jiachen Don't keep pestering me No matter what, he will go to Mu Tingxiao and say that I seduced him Marseilles Home This is the food you take home. Packing is too expensive What delicious food did mom make today? Can you make my baby's favorite soup? Xiaoxiaoxiaoxiao Mom, come to me if you have something to say Let my son go What happened? Cooking a dish can offend this young master What's going on? What's going on? You go back first Hello What's his business? Then you take his daughter-in-law home for dinner. Tonight 1 You don't have to worry about his phone number. Eavesdrop on my phone call No Then don't go in. Do you think you have already thought about it? I'm planning to give up my cousin Plan to follow me Boss, how are you feeling lately? fine 11Hey, he's been calling you lately To Mr. Mo You blocked his number. He will call you at a different number. But you still don't accept Just call me here Oh yeah Mr. Mu just called me and said If you don't bring your wife home for dinner Then he will call his wife himself. Hello, I am Mu Qingfeng, the father of Mu Qingxiao. I am Mu Qingxiao's father Mu Qingfeng Mumu Tingxiao's father That young Countless women in Zenglingyang City The son of a wealthy family who is so eager to get married Mu Qingfeng Uh, hello What can I do for you? If you have time Let's have dinner together tonight Meet Mu Tingxiao's father I guess I know why he doesn't want to see me. Yeah, I have time. Have time boss Are you really going to let your wife meet Mr. Mo like this? What if I see him? Just a stupid woman. But I think he's playing dumb. Being able to convince others is also a skill Mr. Gu is waiting for you inside Thank you, Uncle Lu You are warm A person who is in power in a wealthy family He is so kind to others. I am Jiang Nuannuan No need to be restrained Since you married into the Mu family A member of the Mu family She's also my half daughter. daughter Pu Tianxiao's father actually treats me as his daughter But he doesn't like me. These father and son are really different. Thank you The appearance is a bit unsightly The reaction is also a bit slow Although restrained but polite A simple and kind child You will be like Tingxiao in the future You can call me dad Dad, yeah You and Cheng Xiao didn't have a wedding ceremony? I really wronged you. Today was supposed to be the day for you to go back to the old house and have a meal But Ding Xiao that child Because of his mother There's always a knot in my heart Don't want to go back to the old house You should persuade him more in the future. But I haven't seen him yet I'll ask Lao Xu to take you back later. Mu Tingxiao is upset about his mother's affairs Is it because of the kidnapping incident more than ten years ago? I just got in touch with Mu Qingfeng Young Lady The Master wants to see you Young Master Mu Tingxiao He finally agreed to see me. He is waiting for you in the study. ah Master Who is it? The young master is a young woman Is he Mu Tingxiao? I heard that you have met Mu Qinfen? Yes, I have seen Chatted some Oh, I mentioned you. He cares about you I heard from my retainers that you two get along well. Oh, we just met in the villa, right? Yeah Okay, get out. Mu Tingxiao, can you turn around? I don't have any other meaning I just think we will be together for life. Sooner or later we will meet. I really don't mind your physical condition But I mind you making noise But I mind you making noise oh I see That's nothing. I'll go down first. This ugly woman is really unexpected Looks really disgusting. You refused to see me even once. How come he is here? Tang Seng has not been seen for a long time. Don't recognize me anymore what are you doing here I just stayed at my cousin's house for a few days. No problem, right? No I didn't have dinner tonight Sister Tang, can you bear to see me hungry? Besides, I'm still injured. Hall Help me make something to eat I'm waiting for you What on earth is Mu Jiachen trying to do? Tang Sao Be quick I'm very hungry What's your expression? Uh no Is this still my boss? Pretending to be someone else to tease his wife He has stayed away from women for many years. But it seems to be different for my wife. Xiao Liang, you are back. Ma'am, I'll be back soon Come chop you up What happened Go check Weibo yourself I've only been gone for 3 months. You will do anything to marry into a wealthy family. Ugly women often do strange things Don't be angry first I see my mother is already at the airport Hello, why did you think of calling me? What can I do for you? Hot searches on Weibo News on the Internet Did you do this? What's the news I'm busy at work Before my brother came back from studying abroad I have to help my dad manage the company for him. Not as idle as you. You can have free time to read entertainment news Mom, I want to work on the 17th floor of Jiang You are not as capable as your sister. Going to the company won't help. Go find a job outside. Jiang Wanqi doesn't need to pretend I know you did it Although I don't know what you want to do But I know that I am now the young lady of the Mu family Even if you throw dirty water on me, it's useless Even if the Mu family doesn't like me They will not allow them to be destroyed at will. Wu's reputation Where is Xiao Chuhe? Don't you care either? It's up to you. How did you get in? I clearly locked the door when I slept What do you think? You go out In trouble None of your business It's really none of my business. But if you ask me I might consider helping you. Need not boss How to deal with the online news about Mrs. Shao What does it have to do with me? If you want to help him, you have to see if he wants you to help him. Good beam See you at the coffee shop later Hey, boss. Boss, this is a relationship with Mrs. Shao Sorry, sorry. I'm late You are now the young lady of the Mu family. Wait, you can Hey, your mother looks like she was buried in the ground Is it a biological child? Are you used to the Mu family making things difficult for you? Uh no They are to me All good Oh, I've asked about it. Jiang Wanqin buys trending searches She said you stole her fiance but I want to be with Shen Chuhan openly. You are the stepping stone. It's a beautiful thought. I'm asking you You married Mu Tingxiao like this. He thinks I'm ugly Why do you think others are ugly when you are not good enough? I'm telling you You just put on your clothes Put on some makeup to blind his dog eyes No, I think it's good now. Non-interference Okay, I'll come right over now. Honey, I have to go. I'll pay the bill Remember you are the most beautiful Hey, slow down. Feed Warm Come home and have dinner tonight You don't have time and you don't have a job. What could happen? Just go home and have a meal The whole family is here I am from the Mu family now. How do you talk to your mother like this? Then you go find Jiang Wanqi She is gentler than me More filial than me Better than me anywhere I am the victim Why I want to accept other people's abuse for no reason Jiang Wanqi, the instigator But you can gain both fame and fortune Hello Liangliang you Can you recommend a reliable marketing account to me? I want to give Jiang Wanqi a big gift boss Madam just apologized to Jiang Wanqi on Weibo No names were mentioned. Why did he apologize to Jiang Wanqi? Boss, what do you mean? Don't worry Tell me any progress You go out first good Hello What's the matter with the news on Tingxiao.com? I've seen it abroad. You really married an ugly and stupid woman. Your body is obviously fine. Why haven't you shown up? Let others misunderstand Let all the cats and dogs be your wife The gate of Kaneki's house Mu Jinyue, what's your tone? I am your sister You were born only two minutes earlier than me. Tingxiang, I really didn't know you were wronging yourself. Or self-degradation How do you let the outside world see your father? You shut up because you watched your mother abuse You are not the one who caused the death I can't find the murderer in one day I can't live in peace for a day Those kidnappers have already been executed. You shut up We changed our schedule at the last minute that morning. If the Mu family hadn't tipped off The kidnappers It's impossible to find us in such a short time. So the real murderer is not dead at all Mu Tingxiao, are you there? roll All right Jiang Nuannuan is back Uh, the lady came back a while ago I seem to have found you He just found me. Call him in for me. Good boss What do you want from me? I want to move out Did I scare him just now? I'll be going to work soon. It's not convenient to live here Do you think this is a vegetable market? You can come and go at will Just moving out is not good for your health The heart is also sensitive Forget it, if you don't want to move, then don't move. Then I know I'm going down first He doesn't really think I'm incapable. You probably talk to me in this tone because you're afraid of irritating me. I remember Jiang Nannan graduated from the Film Academy As a screenwriter, yeah oh I see I'll go now. My boss is the toughest one Tell me what's going on, sister. I'm sorry Don't be mad at me Can we meet up out there? Don't hurt mom If you let me out, I'll come out. Who do you think you are? I beg you Speak louder. I can't hear you. I beg you, okay? Jiang Wanqi will let you be proud for a while ah I feel that the lady's going out may have something to do with Jiang Wanqi oh Looks like there will be a good show today elder sister You're the type who still wants to steal my man. Only the idiots on the Internet would believe it. If you have something to say, please tell me I have a date with Chuhan later. Sister, I have already apologized on Weibo Could you please not embarrass me? Mom, I thought you were getting smarter. The result is still stupid. Don't make things difficult for Xiao Chu River can also I have only one condition What conditions Fool Xiao Chuhe never treated you as his daughter. But she is my mother after all. I know He asked me to marry Mu Tingxiao to fulfill your wish But I still promised him Now you only need to do one thing Divorce from Mu Tingxiao As long as you do this I won't make things difficult for Xiao Chuhe But Meng Jia will not agree to my divorce from Meng Tingxiao. That's your business. I advise you to be as obedient as a dog Otherwise I'll make life miserable for you and your mother. Bye Shu Han Hey, here I come Take it out Victory but He asked me to divorce Mutinxiu This caused the anger of the Mu family Let them point the finger at me so They will ignore his original fiancee. He can be with Shen Chuhan We are together openly What are you talking about? Do you believe it? I let you stay in Huyang City Even the entire entertainment industry can't stay pay close attention But it's not a problem Hello, Dad What's up? Go online and see for yourself how big a mess you've made. Still not home at night Come back to me right away What's so happy? What do you want to do? Did You Know The things you Jiang family members have caused on the Internet The Mu family has been alarmed You're not afraid at all If you haven't done anything wrong, what's there to be afraid of? This woman Now I don't pretend at all Hello be right back Dad, it must be Jiang Nuannuan who did it Wanqi, I know Nuannuan best. He was so stupid since he was young that he couldn't even pass the exams. How could he do such a thing? It's definitely not him He can't do this kind of thing. Stupid, he didn't rely on his dad's connections. You can get into Huyang Film Academy You said he was stupid Hey, that was just luck. Don't be angry Shut up, you two. They're all the same shit. It's all useless stuff. Okay, stop arguing. The top priority is to deal with this matter properly Jiang Nuannuan should be here soon Parents If it weren't for him I won't be like this now. Many friends have asked me What's going on with the news online? Warm What is going on with the video on the Internet? Dad, I don't know what those videos are about. Sister, do you believe it? I won't do those things. We are a family How could I harm you? Right We are a family Is there anything you need to think about for your family? Something is happening to your sister now. Some people on the Internet have misunderstood her. What are you going to do? Just explain this misunderstanding to him. Dad, sister, don't worry. I will definitely explain it clearly. Yeah, more obedient than a dog. What's next? We will hold a press conference Then you can say whatever you are told to say. Jiang Nuannuan wants to take advantage of me, Tang Bi, with just one video Overestimating one's capabilities Wan Qi Someone just leaked some of your videos and photos It has been hyped to the top What's going on Did I offend someone? Chu Han, it's over if Chu Han sees it I need my dad to remove the trending search immediately. This one looks quite ladylike. I didn't expect it to be so wild. There is also this I'm going to have a conspiracy theory I think the reason why his sister married into the Mu family It's because the Mu family knew that Jiang Wanqi was having an affair outside I heard that my sister is not good-looking. But it's clean. Looks good, like a bus Who dares to ask for it? Warm, um, you say Is the Mu family real? I knew about Jiang Wanqi's troubles outside. have no idea but Jiang Wanqi should be with Shen Chuan without any pressure Although Shen Chuhan is mentally retarded But it should not be taken Bus hobby Oh, you are so bad. Jiang Wanqi's indecent photos and videos have all been removed It must be Jiang Liyan's work again That's his precious daughter. I want freedom He is the boss You tell us the effect If he doesn't come again I jumped off the rooftop boss He is very busy What is he doing? Open the video and let me see The young master really wanted to piss off Mr. Gu to death. I'm almost being played to death by those old guys in the company You just sit at home and play games Um I hung up Mr. Gu first If you dare to hang me, I will tear it apart for you to see that Ask you something Are you asking about the interview invitation letter? How do you know? I heard Gu Zhiyan say The company needs some fresh blood. So among some college graduates Selected some people to recruit companies Did you receive it too? I'm not willing to go yet How can he have the energy to challenge me? Your brother Is he there? What do you want from my brother? Nothing Mu JiachenMu Jiachen What's wrong with you What hurts Is there anyone? Is there anyone? Mu Jiachen fainted What's wrong He suddenly fainted. Hey, Mrs. Shaw Can you stay and take care of the young master? But I have something else Mother Don't go There is no maid in the villa. These bodyguards are careless. The Master's condition has stabilized. Have a good rest Thank you, doctor. strangeness That day when I fell into Mu Jiachen's arms Nobody said anything. Today, I was asked to take care of Mu Jiachen No need to ward off evil spirits Let me go I'm not your mother. open Hello, I'm at your door. Where are you? I can't get away now You come in first. Wow Isn't it said that Mu Ningqiao is ugly? This is called ugly This is his brother. Mu Jiachen's younger brother Um Why is he holding your hand? My sister-in-law and brother-in-law don't know Taoism to ward off evil A sister-in-law is like a mother. The eldest sister-in-law is like a mother Yeah, so She calls me mom My eldest master Wake up soon I really can't bear it anymore. There's a phone call Hello What Your mother got married again Oh, good, good, good. Hey Liangliang, let's go Are the Mu family's genes so good? So good looking Is it a real person? That's it Wake up, wake up. What's that look on your face? This is my friend water Then you have to let go of my hand I'll go see if he's dead. Master, he is really sick. Ah Mutai is also here I heard that my family is sick. So I came to see him His Eyes Xia Liang Hitting him so hard You support me I told you a long time ago I'll hit you every time I see you Nuannuan, let's go eat Let's go. You are sick today Stay away from me Hello When will you be back? I haven't eaten yet. If you can't eat, ask the doctor to give you an IV. I want to eat your cooking. Well That handsome brother called you. Just a skin I don't believe you've never been attracted to Mu Jiachen. Even a little bit Um Liangliang, let me tell you I haven't seen Mu Dingxiao yet. They are all Mu family If he hadn't been disfigured Must be prettier than him. Haven't seen it till now You are a fake couple, right? It has been two or three months since you married into the Mu family. But I think Mu Jiachen is very special to you. oh Xiao Liang, come back now. OK, I know. I was asked to go to the company for an emergency meeting. I finally have time to have a meal with you. It's ok, go and do your work first Don't worry, I know what's going on. Then I'm leaving Um, bye My Big Star Bye-Bye Really strong Back You are working Um So are you feeling better? It's alright Just a little hungry Why Is Mu Tingxiao at home? At home So has he eaten? The young master hasn't eaten yet. Then I'll do it for him now. I'll send it to him later. Do you think he is stupid? Leave me, a man with a normal body and appearance Not pleasing Always thinking about being domineering Stupid or not You two are quite compatible. Well The young master is very concerned about Mrs. Shao Mrs. Shao is not stupid. He dealt with Jiang Wanqi That series of actions was very meticulous. It was me who helped him get out of this mess. Yeah Hey, Madam Give me the young master's share. Hey, is Ling Xiao going out this afternoon? Uh, not sure Oh my god. This kind of day of lying every day When will it end? Hahahaha, I know too many people first So light Otherwise You, a patient, still want to eat hotpot? Being sick can reduce anxiety Why are you so obedient today? Hello Liangliang Did you buy trending searches? No Oh, the topic that Jiang Wanqi removed is trending again. Really? I'll take a look. Hahahaha, this is called God will take care of the world Hey, who did this? How many people did Jiang Wanqi offend? Never mind. I still need to talk to Mu Tingxiao about this. Come in What does she look like? What's up Um Things on the Internet Did you know No need to mention it again As the young lady of the Mu family You'd better be quiet. Then I'll go out first. Although Mu Tingxiao has a bit of a weird temper But fortunately, unlike some traumatized people My heart will be a little dark Otherwise, my life will be miserable. Oh, and I have an interview tomorrow. Go to bed early Hello, Ms. Zhang This interview The company leaders are very satisfied with you The review book will be sent to you later. Yeah, thank you very much. Several companies must be carefully selected Jiang Nuannuan What are you doing, sister? Can't you just talk it out? Jiang Nuannuan's videos on the Internet are all posted by you Is it some video? Jiang Nuannuan's feelings are all fake in the Jiang family, right? elder sister You are more helpless than your parents. stop Han Qishuhan You finally agreed to see me Listen to my explanation Chu Han's videos are all synthesized The photo is Photoshop You, please believe me, okay? It's already this time You're still lying You tell Chu Han that it was you who did it I can't admit to something I haven't done. Angie You should clean up your own mess first. You protect him Don't forget that you slandered this ugly woman. Make him admit that he wants to be my fiance But it was your idea I believed your lies. Can you go out first? I want to talk to my sister alone. good Xiao Chuhe's slaps are for you. You still want to use Xiao Chuhe to threaten me You'd better stay on the street. I am you Jiang Anan I won't let you go Although there was a little friction between me and Gu Zhiyan But entering such a good party like Dingsheng Group You gotta catch it. Well, I'll think about it. Hey Xiao Liu Come here for a moment I won't tell you anymore. There's a party tonight I have to put on makeup and pick out a dress. Okay But I didn't hide my body from Mu Jiazhen. I won't tell you anymore. There's a party tonight I have to put on makeup and pick out a dress. Went in again You mustn't go what else Don't fall down Come over for a drink Oh my god, have a drink No way Bring me this ugly woman. Looks a bit ugly But good figure If you come from behind, I won't be able to see your face. Makes sense How many people do you want to play with? Why can't I play? I have to kill him. She usually works and rests like an old lady. I haven't slept yet. Where's your little star? Where is he now? What is a little star? My Shen Xiaoyang She is definitely going to become a big star. Becoming a little star behind the scenes He can stay in the entertainment industry. What do you mean? What are you doing to me? What's the point of bullying a woman? Go to Purple Gold Club Squeak, squeak, squeak This this This back view looks too much like Jiangnan I don't want him Where is Jiang Nuannuan? I am prettier than Jiang Nuannuan You find him and me If you don't tell me, I'll draw your face. Young Master, I didn't see Mrs. Shao when I came. They said Mrs. Shaw jumped off the balcony. But I've sent someone to look for it. We didn't touch that woman. She jumped from here by herself. This is none of our business. Please let us go. The young master did not find Mrs. Shao finally found you After eating, go home and eat It's okay, I'll take you home Cheng Yutian is really Always love to do some adventurous things Blindly Listen to the Flute This is the first time I serve someone like this It looks pretty smooth. Playing dumb and ugly What a scheming woman. Looks like the past was really miserable. What happened last night? I can't remember anything. Drink water Yeah, thank you. ah I Last night we Last night I went to the Purple Gold Club to save you What happens after you come back? You have to sleep in my room And take advantage of me The Dos and Don'ts of Last Night You did it all to me Don't lie to me I don't remember what happened last night. But I am sure I didn't have the energy to do anything to you last night Since I don't remember How can you be so sure? Um They gave you the drug yesterday. But the new aphrodisiac The drug is very strong Besides If my sister-in-law wants me, I can't refuse you. I'm going back to my room. I have been disappeared by Mu Ting Sister-in-law sweated a lot last night But my sister-in-law's sweat is fragrant and soft You are shameless This is shameless So what about this? Mu Tingxiao knows that I killed someone, oh my god You are in danger You are shameless, but I am your sister-in-law That's more exciting. I can tell you My brother is abroad these days. He won't be back for at least ten days or half a month. Hey ah I've drawn it so ugly. Why is Mu Jiachen still pestering me? ah My window display was removed. Mu Jiachen Jiangnan You don't need to pretend for anyone anymore. It's time to be yourself Um The door lock is broken I was fine when I went out last night. Let's have breakfast first. You bought Your cell phone It broke when I jumped off the building. Oh yeah Your friend is okay. Really thoughtful What did you say I said thank you Thank me for what? Your husband bought it for you. Your husband's hater To him It's not him Jiang Nannan You actually treat men other than your husband Damn your expectations Are you really going? Go ahead, I have my plans. Oh, I brought the things I asked you to bring. Well, let me come Come on, I'll come Oh, I see. Nuannuan, I have to go. Remember to show me the live broadcast when you smash the door Good to go Slow down. This woman is really hard to guard against. My brother is not at home You just sleep in his room. If the door is broken, it's your fault. My daily necessities are still in there. When you got married Someone sent me a lot of women's products. Placed in his room I don't dare sleep in your brother's room I didn't see you dare to contradict me. Now I don't dare to sleep in my room. So I'll just break down the door. I believe your brother is not that stingy. I won't let you get out of my way. Thanks I'm in him I suffered a loss at my hands I hope I am not disturbing you by sending you a WeChat message at this time. How was your last night? Those things I sent over before have come in handy, right? I said if you What's wrong with me? It was clearly me, Mu Tingxiao, who gave her the phone Why am I angry? Am I jealous of myself? I'm really, I'm really crazy It's really strange This door won't open no matter what. Mrs. Zhao pointed at it. It's so nice to be warm I hope you're okay. I attended a business dinner last night. The agent is afraid of getting into trouble later. I found a few people and took a group photo and posted it on Weibo I didn't expect to be used to frame someone. Have you found out who it is? My enemies are not obvious yet Jiang Wanqi It's mine. How could you bear to change your phone? The pen box was given to me. I'll take the call first Nuannuan, I booked a tea restaurant Come out and have lunch with me at noon. Just the two of us To Nuan Nuan I was too busy before. I don't even have time to have a meal with you alone. Don't blame your mother for being busy Wanci, don't drink so much in the future You are a girl outside If I hadn't picked you up How dangerous I waited at the cinema for two hours. You didn't return a single call. I was going to pick him up. Okay, send me the address. No more drawing It's very troublesome Anyway, I didn't really plan to have dinner with him. Jiang Nuannuan, what are you thinking about? You have to understand He is Mu Jiachen Mu Linxiang's younger brother Still savoring his kiss Wake up You are not feeling well This is to draw a line with me. This Mo family ship is too dangerous I'll stay away from him. Dian Dad Get on board Need not Let me go Don't try to draw a line with me. Mom, you should also experience the feeling of being ignored. Have a meal How do I know? He can't be simply conscious. Nuannuan, why haven't you come yet? I'm on the bus The road is a bit congested. Then hurry up. You are still here On the way Called But the fish won't take the bait. Concentrate on eating. Don't go By the way, I see you have been living in Pingxiao's house. Where are your parents? Have a meal I'll go pay the bill No Eating with women It's only natural for boys to pay Sister-in-law is like mother It is only natural for the sister-in-law to pay the bill I've already bought the order If you really feel bad about it You might as well give me a kiss Help! How could Mu Tingxiao have such a brother? Didn't you meet the original vixen? Warm Are you looking for a job recently? I think you should just come to our own company. You don't need to look at people's faces. How nice it is that you come to work in the company Dad gives you shares How much is my father going to give me? Don't worry, Dad will definitely not treat you unfairly. Dad, you're embarrassed to say Then let me think about it Um 15% You also know my current status If you give too little, others will laugh at you. Warm Dad treats you well. Dad, you're old. Don't be angry all the time Very angry Bad for your health Well, it doesn't matter if you don't agree. I'm just saying I didn't plan to come anyway. I have something else to do goodbye Jiang Jiang, what did you do? His wings are hard. It started to get crazy I'd better think about attending the interview. How many times have I told you Don't go to that kind of smoky place to play You have to be careful even if you go. Now it's good Originally wanted to marry into the Shen family This happened Does the Shen family still want you? Dad must be Mr. Jiang He wanted to destroy me briefly. But I've got my revenge. What you did dad You hit me Wanqi, no matter what Jiang Nuannuan is now the young lady of the Mu family Our top priority Solve the problem of capital chain Then let him find a purpose to ask for funds. His wings are hard now. Sell yourself at a higher price 15% of the shares Give it to him then. Let him spit it out when we achieve our goal. My baby daughter Cong Good idea Nuannuan, I agree to your previous request. When will you come to Jiang City to work? What are you doing? When will you transfer the shares to me? When do I go to work? Any time I'm free today. But I'm not free today, maybe tomorrow You don't have a job now. What are you busy with? dad Do you think I'm just being perfunctory? But I have something to do today. How about this? I'll send you the meeting address You are back You can eat soon. He is cooking The little girl is showing her courtesy for no reason. You sit down first. I'll help you Is today's food delicious? By the way, do you and Mu Tingxiao have your own lawyers? How did you end up in a lawsuit? Uh no There is a business contract I want someone to help me take a look Yes, there is. but You have to cook every day after How long to stay Look at my mood make a deal Now go cut the fruit. Didn't we agree to just cook? This girl actually brought her lawyer dad The stinky girl has no money Even if you hire a lawyer, you may not be able to find loopholes in the contract. Mrs. Mu There are problems with this and this What How to do things Such a simple contract loophole Even interns who have just graduated can see it. What's more, he is your company's legal advisor who has been working in the industry for 3 years. dad Should you change lawyers? sorry Chairman no problem alright Uh-huh Hello Take away two sets of afternoon tea My dad will pay, okay? OK, please wait. Lawyer Fu, thank you for today. I'll give you this afternoon tea as a token of my appreciation Mrs. Gu is too polite. Then I'll go first Good slow walk Sir, please stay. Mr. Jiang has something to do If you don't mind Let's have a cup of coffee together Sorry I don't have time Mr. What's your name? Surname Fu Surname Fu Fu I see The lawyer circle in Fuyang is so small He knows all the famous lawyers in the industry. This vicious and sharp person must be Fu Tingxi It must have been arranged by Mu Tingxiao He is so nice to the girl If you hold the girl Let him blow pillow talk Let's eat something Tell the truth Otherwise, salary deduction Give money Bought by Ting Given by Mrs. Mu Warm and cozy Why does he buy you afternoon tea? I'll go and hook you up with him This is too much. You and Tingxiao have been brothers for so many years. He actually turned you against each other The heart of the criminal You can do this You might as well become a screenwriter. You have also seen Xiao Nuan Nuan Looks good That's it. It sounds like being bewitched. I'm quite concerned about him. It's pretty. ah What exactly did you two go through? How did it become like this now? Why does this bedroom look like a master bedroom? Is his relationship with Mu Tingxiao It was so good that I even gave him the master bedroom. What's up I brought you afternoon tea. Is it going well? Very smooth. Thank you. Do it, do it, do it for you Look at him Why do you look different from before? Maybe I wore glasses before. The makeup doesn't look good. You go first. Is it that much different? It's like heaven and earth. When you've seen enough, leave. Stop You are inhuman You can go now Are you going out to eat with your girlfriend? Eat at home But the dishes are too simple I just want to eat a few dishes I'll try it too I'll get the dishes. Um Don't you know to use your own bowl and chopsticks when eating? I really can't tell Mu Jiacheng looks like he is idle. How could these two men of extraordinary status be so Surrender I didn't expect that from today on I can take Jiang's shares Go to work at Jiang's company legitimately stop Dressed so beautifully Are you planning to go out and seduce a wild man? Don't think everyone is as dirty as you. Even if I want to hook up, I will only hook up with Mu Pingxiao Why is your kidney not good? Can't even hold a cup Why don't you try it? You want This man is really ambitious today. This man isn't as scary as he looks. If I am threatened by him again I am the dog Hey, Nuannuan is here. Come sit down. dad dad What position are you going to assign me this time? What about the marketing department? We are currently looking for a market researcher You go try it first If it doesn't fit, come find me. Thank you for your kindness to me, Dad. We are a family That dear Take Nuan Nuan to the market Come with me The second lady is here Not sitting What do you want, Miss? This is the new market researcher from the marketing department. Take good care of him. OK OK Come here What's your name? Jiangnan Nuan rest assured I will Manager, please don't touch me. You also heard what Miss 2 said Just be obedient Let's be happy I won't make it difficult for you. You will do this again I'll hit you once I see you Hey, why are you alone? It's just the right time to have a car when the weather gets cold We'll send you. Oh, no need I want to go along the way Nuannuan, please don't be polite to us. The car is nearby. Does this gentleman think that there is no one left in our Mu family? I need another man Are you here to see off our Mu family's young lady? Mr. Mu, you misunderstood. I am friends with Nuannuan Just on the way I just want to give him a ride Yeah Not on the way Since it's not on the way Then we'll go first. Nuannuan, do you know who I'm acting with today? Could it be Silk Moon? It's him. Don't you like him very much? I came here to act. Hey, here I come Nuannuan, I won't tell you now I'll get Silk Moon's autograph for you. Nude photos may not be available But I will try my best Bye Bye Feed Warm Tomorrow you will follow Liu Kai to do the test adjustment. He is waiting for you at the company gate. good Is it Jiang Nuannuan? I am Liu Kai Get in the car and let's go The right amount of product It is a household daily necessities Aren't we going to a residential area? How to drive to the suburbs? Can you stop the car first? I want to go to the toilet Going to the toilet Can you bear it for a moment? I'm almost there. I have stomach pain during my period Okay, then I'll go with you. It seems that you respect me and want revenge I stopped the car Who are you? 3 I asked you this. What are you doing here? My colleagues and I came to the city to conduct research But he left Take you there Hey, wait a minute. Where are you going? My cousin just came back from abroad I want to get together with him first So please help me ask for leave We are here to do market research Are you going to skip work? Ask me to call the police You were so easily recognized even though you were fully armed. No, I don't have me. That's it. I know what your name is. My name is Jiang Nuannuannuan Um, is she Cheng Xiao's new girlfriend? How do you know I am Qing's cousin You can still call me cousin. cousin Thank you so much for today. A little help But girls should always be careful outside Well, I'll go first. Bye-Bye Come back today Why so early? Do I need him? Sharp-tongued Well, thanks for the compliment. Jiang Nuannuan I am Mu Tingxiu Mu Jiacheng, are you lying to me again? Do you think I have so much free time? Mu Tingxiu is not ugly Cruel and inhumane Why do you start being my parents now? Nonsense, I didn't No, I am Mu Xingxiao Not very good So many women want to get into my bed Don't you want You can't possibly be Mu Xingxiao I really thought I was a good mess No If he were Mu Tingxiao How could you possibly marry me or Jiang Wanqi? Moreover, Mu Tingxiao's attitude of avoiding me It's more like a normal person's reaction. He is definitely not Mu Tingxiao No firewood Even the air is fresh in the morning Get on board I'll take you to work. don't want What are you afraid of? I'm afraid I'm afraid if I continue, I'll really be heartbroken for you. Or you? What do you think of me? No It seems You get along well with Gu Tingxiao's cousin. The people who pick you up from get off work are quite harmonious. Of course, a family should live in harmony Should I be like you? Tricked me into going to a place like Zijin I don't understand what you are saying Jiang Nana I'll pick you up after get off work in the evening elder sister It seems that you regret giving your fiance to me. But it's no use regretting. Even if Mu Tingxiao is willing to divorce me, who will he marry? I don't want to marry that loser Mu Tingxiao It's not your turn to comment on my husband. My husband thinks it's a good idea to marry Jiang Nannan The feeling of being protected by him Feeling good Hello It's time to pay the water and electricity bills When will you come over I haven't lived here during this period. There shouldn't be any water and electricity bills. Nonsense! The lights were on in your house last night. ah Won't you get robbed? Yeah, I'll go back and take a look. Who are you Who are you? I am the tenant of this house. Why are you here? My name is Mu Jiachen May I have your name Mu what? Who is Mu Tingxiao to you? My cousin Isn't he very famous among you? So what about him? My cousin Where did you take the sneak shot? Which cousin are you? Mu Tingxiao My dad and his mom are brothers He is my only cousin. Why does this bedroom look like a master bedroom? Is his relationship with Mu Tingxiao so good? Even the master bedroom was given to him. I asked him how he could appear in Mu Tingxiao's master bedroom. Uh, the master said he's not hungry. I wonder why Shi Ye's reaction is so strange. He is Mu Tingxiao's man But he follows Mu Jiachen every day The bodyguards also listen to him. The key is The two brothers never appeared together. If he wasn't Mu Jiachen Then he can only be Mu Tingxiao himself Where are you going Mu Tingxiao Are you back? Well What can I do for you? Ah, nothing I don't think I saw your car coming back. Just came back Just got back this afternoon, except for Mu Jiachen's car I haven't seen any other cars. Please stop selling them. It's loach. Drilled in Acting as a cousin Look at me jumping down in anger You feel very proud, right? Ah, let's see who wins last. Bu Lingxiao, you pretend to be my cousin and tease me I wonder if you can still be happy if I cuckold you. Thank you for your hard work. Eat more The wife of the house has figured it out. I plan to follow you yes And you He's handsome and treats me well. Much better than that Mu Lingxiao I My sister-in-law was devoted to Mu Tongxiao before. Why are you seducing me now? What Women are really fickle. How can you say it's fickle? As long as she's a woman with a clear mind You will make the same choice as me. Do you like me? I All right I'm just being sentimental But you men are more fickle. You always came to provoke me before Now I deliver it to your door You don't want How to deliver it to your door? Don't look for me when you can't get it Come Come It's so cool to run after finishing Why are you here? Let's play games Come with me Forget it. Forget it. You had nowhere to go. Otherwise you wouldn't be hanging around outside at night. Go Go Go Why didn't the young lady run away? I'm hungry and can't run What young lady? ah I am your ugly cousin. I'll settle the score with you later. Do you have anything to say? I don't have anything to say And you Don't you already know this? What are you busy with recently? Bring it back to Yaya do what What do you think? Put your sister-in-law's luggage in the master bedroom And throw the bed in your sister-in-law's room to me. What are you doing? Say no The body is quite honest Li Jiachen, let me go Big Liar You haven't taken a good look at our bedroom since we got married. I'll take you there. I don't want to go see me What are you doing? These are prepared for you according to your size. It seems that Mr. Mu is very good at giving a slap Here's another trick for a sweet date It's fun You can understand it as a little fun between husband and wife More suitable Hum Fun A little fun of seeing ghosts Cousin, come out quickly. rogue rogue Sleeping together is considered hooliganism Um Cousin, I'm hungry. I want to eat noodles I'm hungry. Okay, then my cousin will make you breakfast. Come and try the noodles I made. This bowl of noodles must be greasy How about it Tastes good Listen to my dad You failed to get Mu Tingxiao to help with the housework It's impossible for me to persuade you to touch him. Useless things Who asked you to hang out with Mu Jiachen every day? You deserve Mu Tingxiao to ignore you. Even if he doesn't care about me I am still the young lady of the Mu family. What about you? If Jiang's goes bankrupt Shut up and stand still. Give me Mu Jiacheng's phone number Whose phone number is it? Of course it's Mu Jiacheng's You don't have the ability to let Mutisha take action. Of course I have to figure it out myself. Let you ask for it yourself What's your attitude? I am ruthless and unrighteous Just don't help the zombies. I want a phone number and you don't give it to me Don't forget that your last name is Jiang How could I forget But I can't give you his phone number. But I know he often goes to the manager The young master asked me to come pick up the lady from get off work. Said it was raining Just take me to a taxi What about others? He has something tonight. Then don't eat dinner at night He is going to Jinding to handle some official business But I won't be back late. Yes, I know It wouldn't be such a coincidence that Jiang Wanju met me. Hello I am Gu Zhiyan Tingting is in trouble Come pick you up now. I'll ask Shijie to pick you up. No Use tension I will not die I trust you Where is Ding Xiao? Ding Xiao had an accident She doesn't kiss anyone. I don't know who else to look for except you. The green pepper is in there. You go in What happened? Hey, you'll know if you go in and take a look. I brought you the medicine. You must seize the moment tonight Wang TingxiangWang Tingxiang Are you in there? My name is Nuan Nuan you What's wrong with you How come you are here? You were drugged. Get out of here Did you hear that? The door is locked Then go out there Then I'll wait for you in the living room. He fell asleep again. He could have just found a woman to solve the problem. You can force me But he knew he didn't want to So I'd rather take a cold shower than touch me That's right Mu Tingxiao is really hateful The desire for control is strong and the mind is scheming Gloomy and strong even He also deceived and bullied me under the guise of others. but He is also really kind to me. Protect me Protect me Take care of my body Protect my feelings Even desperate to save me fool And Jiang Nana You are not Have you already fallen in love with her? Jiang Nuannuan is angry You're willing to let him torture himself He is your legal husband. If you don't help someone at a critical moment, who will? What to do Get out of here right now Jiang Nannan, look at me Once you pick up my Muting Pear Don't ever think of running away from me. You think clearly Think clearly Because I already love you One more time don't want I went to my grandfather's house for dinner today. My aunt is here. Aunt Jing Ling My aunt After my mother passed away She always takes care of me. Then we'll leave in the afternoon. I can see you at midnight. You go in first. I'm going to the bathroom Xiaolian Mu Tingxiao's Little Lotus She and Mu Tingxiao's father were in front of me. This door has great sound insulation. Can't hear anything Why did you take so long? Auntie, this is my wife. Grandma, so beautiful Hello, Auntie, Hello, Grandma Tiexiong recent Many people are eyeing our Mu family's business. Our Mu family is rich and powerful. I'm worried that you're having a hard time alone. So the lotus I'm going to ask Cheng Yu to come and help you You have a good relationship In this way, we can take care of each other. Take care of yourself I don't care about your business. But don't interfere in my affairs. We go home Um The master asked you to go to his room. knew Take Mrs. Shao to my room to rest What's wrong with you Li Xing Have a peaceful New Year I know whatever you want to know. I'll tell you everything Including my girlfriend's affairs My grandfather ordered us not to investigate my mother's affairs. I'm afraid I'll find out the truth. I'm afraid the truth is unbearable But now grandpa wants to tell the truth again What stimulated him? Mrs. Shao asked you to come over. I'll take you there and wait for you. Okay, I'll be there soon. Grandpa, Grandpa What's wrong with you Doctor, call the doctor. doctor How is it? It's impossible to make grandpa angry Master The old man doubts all the costs Save my grandpa. yes You came here just now. Someone just called me and said grandpa asked me to come over. Then I went to grandpa's room and didn't see anyone. And I heard some noise at the stairs. I saw grandpa lying here Who can prove that you were not there just now? Do you think I was the one who pushed him down? Why shouldn't I pay you back? She also did a perfect job with her own family. Wulinxiang, why don't you believe me? I didn't push Grandpa. Why should I believe you? Because I trust you too much So I gave you a chance to hurt me Visitors Close Li Jing is your wife Why are you so cruel to her? Awan reminded me not to blame her when I was angry. You go first Things will definitely come to the point. ah Thank you mom laugh Mom Qin Xiao is not that kind of person He, Huo Tingxiao, is a bastard If you speak for him again, get out. Well, let's not talk about it. Let's go Let's go to my house You can rest assured to stay with me during this period. Stay as long as you want. Say something Nuannuan, don't scare me Deactivate I just knew it Zhiyan, you go and guard outside I'm afraid someone is following me. I'm sorry just now You've been wronged Grandpa was rescued by my people People haven't woken up yet But it's safe You mean that grandpa was killed by the Mu family? What are they going to do? Last night, my grandfather told me The queen wants to tell me about my mother Something happened today. The trouble is on your head. I guess They want to test your importance in my heart And then use you against me To stop the truth about my mother's death so Start now You have to stay out of it. Did you know We are a couple How could I stay out of this? Leaving you alone in the whirlpool I will help you Oh well But from now on You must protect yourself well Then I'll go first Rest early Yeah, buy some daily necessities. Buy some more food and cook some Talk about what you like to eat you How come you are here? Warm I came here to find you. Why is there no name on the TNA test report? One is Si Chengyu The other one is not hard to guess. Mo Qingbo How did you get this report? Si Chengyu is more cautious There is no impenetrable wall in this world If you don't want people to know Unless you don't do it No wonder Mu Qingfeng made Mu Ting smile Take care of each other with Si Chengyu They are brothers. Warm The water in Mujia is too deep You can't have any contact with him anymore. I like you very much The past is over. We will still be friends It's my problem I found out too late I know now In life There are many things more important than money and power. Um, thank you for this. Then I'll go first Warm Take good care of yourself Hello Is it convenient to talk? convenient Do you miss me? Be Serious Just now Shen Shuhua gave me a DNA test woke up Purple Jade I carefully arranged this warehouse. How about it I collected a lot of those Kidnapping case information The setting of the warehouse where the incident occurred was restored This took me a lot of effort. Qin Xiao will be here later You will definitely feel very touched Repeatedly restore the past The warehouse layout where he and his mother were kidnapped Ice Dog Don't look at this place as it's small But it cost me a lot of money But fortunately, I am satisfied with the result Why do you do this? Even if he is your half brother The mother is also wrong father He didn't feel sorry for you. Even you know this It seems that Tingxiao told you everything Then tell me Who is my mother? clove clove Let him go to me Okay, don't be nervous. I asked Nuannuan to guess who my biological mother is My mother is Jinglian Qin Xiao's Aunt I was adopted by my aunt I've known about their affair since I was a kid. But I know everything Hahahaha you know what In order to cover up their own scandals, They planned the kidnapping together, haha What I said I tell you Back then, your mother discovered the aunt assigned to you by Jupiter That's my mother's affair. They conspired to kill him. Ha ha Do you understand? I don't believe it. Don't believe me, I saw it with my own eyes You Mu Tingxiao You and I are both Mu Qingfeng's sons. Why can't I see the light? You can live in the sunshine So when I heard your mom was killed I feel very comfortable Cheng Yu, be honest My mother is innocent Tell you one more thing I was the one who asked Mu Qingfeng to push that old man down. Hahaha kill you guys I'm going to kill you Just to scare the people you care about. Drag you into hell husband Humble Don't be in a hurry. You're a new hotel. Zhiqiong You let him go, okay? Let him go I'll give you a preparation today. Tell yourself what happened that year Didn't we talk about Fangnian's affairs? It was just an accident. Why don't you let go? If you were found to be having an affair with this woman My mother will die for your life You can't blame me for what happened back then. I'm just one of those people who tied up the police book to scare her Our Prime Minister, those people with evil hearts and righteous anger Do that to him snort Yeah Dingxiang, you should believe me I'm telling the truth. How could I bear to kill him? After all, we have been married for more than ten years. It's your turn Tingting We really just wanted to send my sister away. Unexpectedly But we are also sad these days. ha sad Ha ha I deleted all three of you today. I'll feel sad for you then. No more Qiu Xiu Please let us go. We know we are wrong We were really wrong. Get up for me Why kneel to him? I am his father Don't kneel like that. I finally saw your true face I tell you I never loved your mother. I love Qinglian You are just the grandson of Mohism. If that old man hadn't protected you I would have killed you and your mother long ago I'm going to kill you open Today is a life and death You killed me to avenge my mother. No no No no no Good wife old Mother-in-law Restless That kind of person How can it be Okay, I promise you. I don't do that kind of person I don't do that. You go back to sleep I'll take you to the hospital I'll take you to the hospital now. Don't you still owe me a wedding? But now I Xiangxiang, you can't sleep If you fall asleep, I won't hold a wedding for you. Warm and warm Nana, wake up Wake up haha Nana, wake up If you don't wake up, I'll host your wedding I am coming Song Hospital Song Hospital Master, hurry up yes Qiuqiu, hand them over to the security captain. good Mr. Wen doesn't let me smoke What I heard How is he? hand Everything went well. Wait till the trouble is over. Maybe he'll wake up. Very good Just clean yourself up Aren't you afraid of offending Nuan Nuan by acting like this? Go away I'm fine If you do something that hurts yourself again in the future I will break your legs That Then you just promise to make it up to me until the wedding. It's hard to be discharged from hospital I'll let them come and see more The most beautiful and best wife under our roof Give it back to me These are all mine Side Dishes All mine is yours But you are mine