It started an hour and Tesla, the company is taking another leap of faith. Elon Musk is a master are and marketing to those. And AI is hot right now. He wants to keep people thinking of Tesla the envelope and is really a tech company, Elon Musk essentially decided that Like a thing with four wheels That the future was autonomy. The most important thing, or what Tesla is calling, the Cybercab. And its gambit targets not only the car Though some big kinks need Watching the event, my first impression The human experience as reflected in driving is more complicated It has turned out Next, Tesla's CEO Elon Musk unveiling a Robotaxi. Really a difficult moment. Make or break for Tesla. That's putting it mildly. Ahead of the October 10th announcement. Tesla had a market value greater than the despite selling fewer cars. Its shares had been trading If that means nothing to you, consider Nvidia trades about 36 times Basically, expectations Investors were really piling into As of April, Tesla shares They've come all the way back from that. Now, the promise of the self-driving car Speed control and guidance become What I think of as a self-driving your hands off the wheel, go to sleep, And it takes you where you are going with zero intervention. Which is exactly what Elon Musk envisions But some form of this is already here. Tesla has one of the best driver Tesla sells software known as autopilot. It also sells another version of software This is a system to make fewer of the decisions of driving as long as you are All these car companies But Musk's An autonomous car but can operate without you, The idea is like a combination If I own a Tesla, it can drive me to work. But if I'm on vacation lend my Tesla So instead of your car it's actually becoming, you know, Tesla, because they are basically designing and writing most of the software has an ability to essentially The same way that Apple does So the idea is, that at some point that would turn your car into a robotaxi. The Model 3 and Y will achieve unsupervised full self driving with permission approve it in the US, The end customer is the passenger. Essentially, it's the person you know, not released Tesla robotaxi app and pays money for that ride. And then how the money gets divided up but it's probably some combination and then Tesla itself. And if this sounds a little Someone is going I mean, these vehicles They're going to need to be serviced. They're going to need to be charged. To like, have a national, a car that could go anywhere at any time that Elon Musk is talking about, like, and complicated problem to really grapple with. The regulatory there are sort of what's considered Level one being the lowest level, Tesla cars that are on the road today which means that legally and morally like the human driver The company that is really leading the way so far has been Waymo, Waymo, very slowly and very methodically in specific geographic areas, mapped the terrain of the cities It's called geofencing. The difference between Tesla is its use of light detection That's like a big sensor suite that helps to kind of map the like Tesla does not use LiDAR. It's frigging stupid. It's expensive and unnecessary. He says, you know, you got two eyes. There's no laser in your brain that's doing this. Therefore, cameras So there's like an ideological component. But I think it's really a practical a consumer good. And these lLiDAR sensors, hundreds of thousands of dollars So Tesla can't do that So they're using just They basically just unleash their software a lot of information from the data Tesla would argue that their real world data is more robust than the data You know, not all data is created equal. And Tesla cars are typically more focused and they maybe have not done But we really don't know, on exactly how much data they collected. Tesla's approach of collecting real world AI to drive its but conceptually it isn't so different American drivers are, by and large, We have roughly 40,000 deaths a year distracted Tesla and these other autonomous car companies are saying our technology It might even be a fatal mistake. But in the long run, humans The problem there is when a mistake happens, Are we, as a society, going to be okay a new fatality, That's going to be like that people are going We've seen a lot of accidents get lulled into a sense of complacency, than it really can. We've seen lawsuits. I mean, one thing that really messed up has been a factor for Waymo, is the fact It's about like not So when can the world expect Well, in his own words: Well, I tend to be a little But but end to end in 2026. So, yeah, before 2027, let me put it that way. But the Cybercab's development a significant new test of shareholder Cybercab was in many ways Investors I spoke to pointed out There was not much discussion It was thin on detail There was no mention of China This was a company that needed to keep up the growth and we just don't see any indication The $25,000 Tesla that, you know, Elon that got scrapped, that got put to But to the true believers, from the International Space No one ever believed that So, you know, there's a lot of adage like, don't bet against Elon. Love him or hate him, he's definitely somebody and also who is pretty unpredictable. He's betting the company on this technology. It's a very, very risky bet.