Louis Vuitton. Christian Dior. Tiffany Some of the most popular housed under one roof: Louis Founded in 1854, Louis Vuitton is luxury brands. The singular brand has since grown Maisons, as they are formally You can think long term like Louis I'm not that much interested by What I am interested in is that the same in ten years as it is The company is notorious for year, and 2022 was no different. It drew $86.3 billion in revenue, 2021. The company recorded revenue quarter of 2023, up 17% compared reached a stock price of $191.99 Its store count more than with stores across 81 countries worldwide, making it a true leader I would argue that next Apple, no dominates their industry as At the helm of the massive ship is Arnault. Pre-pandemic, the luxury outperforming other categories in trend has only accelerated in 2021 The luxury and premium segments 33.2% and 18% during the pandemic. Bernard Arnault is very clear strategy of what he sees as the This idea of creating brands that LVMH's storied history begins in It was founded by a craftsman's start in master trunk making. At the time, the popular modes of carriages, boats and trains, which working class. Eventually, Louis Vuitton founded In 1886, George Vuitton developing a closing system that treasure chests. In 1987, Louis Vuitton merged with current moniker, LVMH. Louis Vuitton's CEO between 1988 different strategy to the brand. My basic idea was if luxury is you have no market. You need to become democratic, If you try to implement the usual any business group to a luxury In collaboration with Bernard master in luxury. Each time he bought a brand he He's extremely intelligent for You know that each one has to have Bernard Arnault has a real sense He understands fashion. He understands art. Each time I had a new line of he found the right problems He has very strong intuition and He takes risks. LVMH's aggressive acquisition portfolio, lends itself to businessman. He started looking for gems for outside of what his company had The Arnault family's supremacy is All five of Arnault's children An executive at Christian Dior, an of LVMH's holding company, roles. A CEO of TAG Heuer and a development. The family business, especially in success. Luxury, by definition, has It has legacy. And that's what you find in the Arnault's leadership is described LVMH's growth was so rapid, net mark in 2004. By comparison, Kering, then known owner of brands such as Gucci, YSL billion the same year. Between 2009 and 2011, the company income. It's international reach entered via Hong Kong in 1992, and strengthening dramatically between earnings report from LVMH records record revenue year after year. Anish Melwani, the LVMH North 2016, says the company's focus on have been key to the company's Luxury is connected to the human people buy luxury, whether it's makeup, because they have gotten the superior quality and they want that is behind those brands. There's a broad array of price expensive bag such as a capucine and then you have small leather The broad array of price points Over the years, LVMH has made Bulgari in 2011. 80% stake in Rimowa in 2016. Dior in 2017 for $13 billion. And its biggest and most recent Arnault is a brutal negotiator, penny. They had a deal right After the pandemic started, he No. He took them to court. Even uglier negotiation all in. He ended up buying it for $16 This is a brand that many people color. They are everywhere. How could you improve Tiffany? And yet three years after they their profits. They are now And that is the magic and the The world shut down in the midst of When you have terms that are of a global pandemic, it only and reevaluate. And I think that's I think the the board of Tiffany And ultimately we came to an While most associate LVMH with current portfolio spans across and cosmetics, selective retailing It owns Sephora, Starboard Cruise high quality yacht maker. Between 2005 and 2022, Revenue billion. That's about a five. Hundred percent increase. And in 2023, it's staggering lives on. While hitting its stride as the The hard part is keeping that means staying relevant. For LVMH, that means creating While many other companies LVMH stock rose steadily from brief decline. So far, the LVMH consumer seems Yes, Louis Vuitton and many of the in the sort of mid single digits, They haven't raised them nearly as You look at a Chanel bag, which it was pre-pandemic, which has That's one reason they haven't But the more important reason is The LVMH consumer is a very much savings during the pandemic they're just not affected. Mckinsey and Company noted calls revenge spending in 2021 and Ironically, during stressful brands such as a Louis Vuitton or those are dynamics that happen There's some safety and luxury do happen. LVMH prides itself in what Arnault Recently, it has invested heavily network production facilities and Operating investments totaled $5.4 poured into employee training This, the company argues, is Why prices remain high even during The savoir faire, the the knowhow is is not what's priced in, but valuable and that needs to be So we have programs like Metier apprenticeships at high school factories and to be apprentices in to make these products. Its focus in expanding its store vertically integrated company everything between production and point of sale in its brick and Coming out of the pandemic, during in e-commerce and our digital rebalancing back towards brick and Basically, people are out in the luxury boutique and maybe have a product for themselves. Stores for luxury goods are much the brand, and they're experiences emotional experience and also price. Even at the top of the chain, curating desirable collections to LVMH nurtures its designers, along curating collections and In an interview with Harvard said he doesn't have alarm bells In former CEO Vincent Bastian's Lvmh as competitors are hardly He has no competitors. They are just too small. They cannot compete. And that's Plus the fact that Bernard Arnault that he understood my strategy. It's a very big protection. Every competitor is trying to I think they are not successful, By comparison, Richemont, the next owns Cartier Van Cleef and Arpels revenue of $20.8 billion in 2022. That's a whopping $16.5 billion Lvmh is. Designers are, of course, fashion icons and visionaries. Kim Jones, Marc Jacobs, the late The list goes on and on and on. Bernard Arnault is smart, agile, manager in terms of acquiring also acquiring and fostering So what we've really seen is a cultural relevance and reinventing How do you think about a brand and Franchise for hundreds of years in but also looking to the future. More recently, the late Virgil designer between 2017 and 2022 and audience to the brand. Virgil Abloh was a really important Vuitton brand, in terms of approaching creativity streetwear. That's been a making big impact and also LVMH as well. Nobody ever expected Louis Vuitton That's the kind of example of people who never thought that a attention to them, cared that they All of a sudden realized that they It was the launch of a series of the brand in many ways. The name of the game in creating a lasting legacy, is bringing in the LVMH is notorious for fashion icons and influencers in younger luxury crowd. Its social media efforts have seen last several years. When you look at what drives luxury And what's cool is usually decided And LVMH brands have this almost tap into the nuclear core of youth Well, LVMH is success is wholly It has had challenges with the In 2021, after President Xi indicative of a more socialist from the luxury sector in 2022, caused Asia's revenue contribution The only geographic region that But in 2023 first quarter, LVMH in Asia. That's compared to an 8% quarter. While economic challenges means constant upkeep. How can the brand continue to be execute in new categories? Also, fashion is a very tough relevant at every moment. That means creative execution and with the merchants and innovating That's exciting and captivates the What our leaders use to create heritage that each of our maisons And that heritage is really a it's It's a real source of competitive heritage overnight. It can only be created over So remaining relevant is key to to LVMH as forward looking the heart of its long term According to industry experts, segment is in experiences. Lvmh has invested handsomely in curate just that. It acquired Belmond in 2019, which and Bulgari Hotels. Lvmh is no stranger to the Its efforts in the sector date refinement of these properties is Starboard Cruise Services, which struggled at the beginning of 2022 experiences luxury consumers have coupled with the long term value The resale market for luxury goods recent years. Innovative companies in the resale Realreal and Fashionphile have And consumers now more than ever of the value of their bag after resell that for. Resale values really indicate what's how much somebody wants to While the luxury market expands, exclusivity have opened a door to counterfeit market. The trade is worth half $1 Organization of Economic In response to bolster efforts in Prada and Cartier to develop the RFID and blockchain based trace a luxury product through its In its 2022 earnings, LVMH noted store expansion and evolving its backed by selective investments Touting a legendary iconography business model is longevity fueled The company doesn't just look years, but the next hundred. You know, I was walking down the on 57th and fifth, and right in On the corner was the new Tiffany And on the next corner was the robot and the giant dots all over And I looked up on this corner in retail district and realized it's we're just shopping at it.