I had an amazing climbing session with Paul I am sure most of you already know who he Paul is a professional rock climber, who climbs The rich climbing knowledge Paul drops that you definitely don't want to miss. Enjoy! What's like kind of the hardest you've climbed? Recently I did like a V5-V6, so I call that OK, so I want to work with you today on technique exercises-footwork technique, and also just other to build some finger strength and pinch strength I like you to try green. Let's see how it feels. Oh. This is what happens to a lot of climbers. What I noticed you did was you went like this looking for the next hold. What you want to do is you want to watch your So what happens is two things. One if you stand on the foot incorrectly like But also too if we don't watch our foot go we don't know if we are standing on it correctly. If I put my foot and I watch it go on, then correctly. Let's do the green one one more time, and that you place the foot and you watch your Very good. Ya. Good. Ya. Good. Now watch the left foot go on there. Yes. Good. Good. Do you see how much better that felt that time? Ya, wow! Because you were confident, and the thing it changes everything. Make sure when you are warming up, you are Because then when you start to get to the okay, watch my foot, place it correctly, and keep It only takes another half of a second but OK, this white one is not going to be super Good job. One thing I did notice, here is what you did, a pull up and I have to get my foot up, cause to here to get that foot up, but if I cross I didn't even swing. As you cut, pull in and Good. Match. Pull up. Good. You still swung but that was much better, the amount of time you are hanging by about So when you have to cut your feet, you want as possible. So in that situation, the best thing to do the tighter we are. We are not going to have OK? So I am going to have you do this move for here jump for this, and we have our hands like Now same thing again. As I do that move, I go past that vertical plane. Pull up as you do the move. Ya, perfect. Do you see how much more controlled you were? As you stick it, pull up and that eliminates you to grab way worse holds when you swing like this, and you are swinging out like this, and you only swing here, you are still underneath The green one looks hard. Good. Good, come on. Ya, toe down really hard on the right foot. Come on. Ohhhh, that foot is bad. OK, so one thing I noticed what you did was and what happens is, watch my body, right? See how I If when we fall, if we fall a direction, it means position. Now I am flagging out here, and my body didn't because this acted as a stabilizer. So when and your left toe here, and then you can just So let's try this one once more. Come on. Come on. Yes, good job! Good job, come on. Come on. Come on. God. That was awesome. And did you notice what happened that time you went like this? You didn't turn any direction, which makes that you grab the hold, your body starts to I am sure you felt it before. When you grab you do like 360, you know, and you come off When that happens, you turn and you twist off that happen?&quot; And that's usually because your been in. Also, what's really important is reading a options and ways that you can climb these you are hanging, we only have a small amount This white one actually, I want you to first I am thinking of starting here, and then I... Big shift the hips. And the next thing once I sure. Or maybe I can simply get my left foot So we have some options, possibly a toe hook, to think about the options. Ya. My worry is if I do a toe hook, it will at the clues, too, you know. This has a lot of black rubber on it, so a I think I am gonna try, put my toe on here. OK. Cross over, and the next thing is I will get Let's really look over here too. Do you notice on the white hold there is happen is if we look from here, now you see What I like to do is I just say: &quot;OK, it's, umm, Now when I get into this position and I can't to go. If I can catch it and get my left foot up side pull. Ya, perfect. And should I bump or should I...? You want to cross because if you were to go the hold slants downwards, so it would be very If the hold was this way, then I would say OK. I will try it after you. Good job. Good. Come on. Come on. Very good. Good. Figure it out. You can do it. Good. Good. Come on. Come on. You can do it. Ahhh. Good try, though. That was awesome! OK, so I like what you did at the bottom, foot well. I like the cross over. That was foot, which was really good to see. Then you this one, and then what I think you want to What's going to happen now is that if you to the gym, you will start to get better and you're just going to see it, and you will just are V5, V6, V7, you will see that sequence and you 10 tries will now take you 2. Thanks for watching. I was actually a bit nervous prior to meeting how down to earth and how charming Paul was. Just in case you still don't know yet, Paul There are videos about training, what life lot of great videos. So make sure to check them out if you haven't. And as always, make sure to like and subscribe. See you in the next video.