(Sounds of birds chirping, waves crashing) (`Ukulele playing) Singing: In the crisp, balmy breeze of early morning, in the cool shadow of Diamond Head. Her famous cloak of resorts have offered visitors since before the turn of the century. Such familiarity belies a distant past. Where royalty ruled over a thriving Hawaiian flourished with lo`i, taro patches, local In 1850, aliens were given the right to purchase Moneyed foreigners built lavish and privileged They developed bath houses and canoe sheds Soon the shoreline became a natural playground began. Access by public transportation prompted dramatic Waikiki into a world-famous destination. My name is Chinn Ho. Born in Waikiki 1904. Waikiki was a boondocks where we lived at Life at that time, it's, is a contrast with Waikiki is lined with hotels, and those school houses, it was, although very pleasant, And we really enjoyed it, enjoyed the discipline And we had to put our hands in front of the gets on. (Laughs) There was very little beach activity we had that area. In the olden days when I first started down I was young. I got in because of the old man John D. Kaupiko my age, like about 13, 14 years old, I was And the old man let me take out the commercial finally I got good enough and they licensed Then the Outrigger Canoe Club hired me and like Panama Dave, Charlie Amalu, Splash Lyons, those big old-time guys. Blue Makua, Jr. and Joe Pang, Joe Akana. They were about the big name guys then in know, everybody knows. And them, in those days, when we used to work, off the boat, the Matsonia, Lurline. They used to stay at the Royal and then that's People with the money. And at the time when they leave -that's where big tips. Nowadays, it's hard. They come down here on a package deal. They don't have money to spend. You get very, the business here is just bad. The way you look at it now, it's almost at I don't know how you can do it to put it up But still, it's not feasible nowadays to be And a lot of the times now and being a beach guys, guys that are not licensed, trying to And they are just like, you know, muscling Being their friend, you don't want to kick But I think the harbor board should do something those people and get down hard on them. Get them out of there. That's about, you know, the difference in do anything you want as long as you within Trouble is like the older guys and my time cain, which was normal. You get people like John Wayne and everybody That's their time. It was good. But now you don't find those kind of people. That's about it. Waikiki, I sang that around here in 1938 And now they're still singing it now in 1988 It's one of the most performed songs in Waikiki. Of all the musicians down there, everybody (Laughs, strums `ukulele) And the thing about this is when I was in went up there during the summer, but then came the autumn and then came the start of So, by the time we got to a place called Lansing, But to those haoles that wasn't so cold but and all kind. And fog at night. Oh, miserable weather. So right away because of that, I told those right now 10:00 at night, sometimes we go the night. They say, 'What?! December?' I said yeah, December, January, February, Because Hawai`i - I told them - is always don't have any words for, for winter or summer There's no words in Hawaiian language for We have only one kind of season all year long. So (`ukulele strums) I've been put into a place where, not used Thinking, I was thinking strongly about Hawai`i because Waikiki was the most famous Hawaiian a central part -because they never heard of But you mentioned Waikiki and everybody Singing: I hear the rolling surf calling, calling and Waikiki, tis for you that my heart is yearning Out there to you across the sea are ever in my memory sweet and heavenly I miss that magic about you Magic of Waikiki. My feeling of being a celebrity was just being And I thought that if I went overboard and be satisfying at all. To me, entertaining the public was sharing the hula as it was danced properly and sing our elders. The community of Waikiki is now more transient The families have scattered. You don't have a big family living in Waikiki Every block we had two or three, we say, local Everybody knew everybody else. We always knew there was a newcomer. Well, I was too young to remember as a baby, And the first family home that they took me little, little thing was at Dewey Way where now stand. And shortly after that, we moved to Kaimuki is. And the place to go swimming was San Souci what it means. And the water there was very nice next to already been built. And when you got a little older, then you And my uncle would come from the island of other than here, Honolulu, growing up. But Waikiki then had the unique coffee shop, And my grandfather, who was Chinese-Hawaiian, cribbage or they played paiute or they played, And I knew that if I was a boy, if I walked I could go across the street, and I could shop. Or I could get laulau or maybe some pipi kaula So, whenever we went to Kuhio Beach, I always Chinese the good luck gambling, he'd give We were swimming once at Waikiki with a at Kuhio Beach where the breakwater has And we went and we got there and we went over So that inflated tire went further and further And we're young men - boys. So, we don't know how deep it is because we're Finally, we're getting panicky so we both that place. He was a better swimmer than I because he was taught by his friends and his uncle and So, I swam, which seemed an interminable length And that's in those days, it got deeper in got towards the shore. And there was a woman along the way and I I'm drowning, I'm drowning. Well, she started to go under the water. I'm kicking, my father's lying down absorbing Daddy, daddy, my uncle is swimming and he Well, finally I made it but I never thought The Moana is special because it's the first It was a risky venture, as it was stated in It was a business venture, essentially, to per se. There were and I'm not historically accurate there were a lot of there were summer homes, There were some rooming houses I believe. I don't know how else to define them, but The architect came from the mainland, brought in fashion at the time. So, it is built in the style of other structures. It's built in wood and I have come across some of structures of this size would possibly mainland. Why it was built in wood and why, I'm not The goal of the renovation is a long-term Let's put it that way. I don't think anyone can say how long. I'm not sure that, there's some people that years of weathering and alteration and so It's pretty remarkable wooden structure actually. Well, this hotel is unique in Waikiki. Its historic, it has a historic facade, classical what you see along the the beach front in It has a non-repetitive exterior appearance, hotels in Waikiki. I hope when the hotel reopens and the public to see the hotel as it was in 1901 and the proportions of the original. Well, my first memory and my still continuing I grew up in Kaimuki, which was just a stone's And when we were young, the thing we did on And in those days, Waikiki Beach was not Certainly, the tourism industry 30 plus years and the commercial aspect that it does today. And as a result, a lot of time that we spent It was great fun all the time. It was inexpensive fun. The whole neighborhood where I grew up with down Monsarrat Avenue, that aspect hasn't Monsarrat remains the same. The type of fun that people have today seem days. Our days, it was very basic, having very little It was done either in sports or in swimming, It seems like the young people of today want cost more money. In those days also, we spent a lot of time on the beach, the YMCA. I was an active member of the YMCA and I spent and that's where I first learned to swim. And I met lots of kids from other schools Today, I noticed that our sons and daughters their time with just a small group of people group. And I think that's a mistake. I think the broader one can expand oneself them such as Waikiki Beach. That, to me was a lot of fun, and still is straight to the present day. I never expected that I would be working within here I am 30 years later doing that. And I view Waikiki today as a place that the same time. A place where one could come and find entertainment awful lot of people from all over the world. The world has come to Hawai`i and to Waikiki. Waikiki is actually the starting point for they liked the outer islands as a favorite Generally, it all starts or ends here. I recall when I first came on this job that Waikiki people, the hotels, and what have from the coast, to the neighbor islands, that But we have found through our experience that islands, for quiet relaxation, they sort of bit more action than can be found elsewhere. And so, they come to Waikiki for the for go back to where they came from. So Waikiki still remains the center of attention And I foresee that it always will be. Whether we like it or not, Waikiki sort It was not obviously a planned community. And from that aspect, if we could do it over done differently, sort of a helter skelter But it has also been helpful to other planned Waikoloa, such as Wailea and Kapalua, to plan and to plan better access to the sea and to Waikiki, where you have a solid group of beach. I think I was asked the question once, if Well, my answer remains the same. I would wish that there would be no, would of Kalakaua Avenue that from, from point open. Park setting, beaches, wide beaches where could have easy access and ready access to Because I think that visitors who come really the local community and vice versa. I think the local community sort of views a place that's reserved for the visitor, which I would like to see more communication and that are available. The future though is something else. I always found and find Waikiki with its interesting. People think it's ugly. I think it's a work of art. I think if you lie on the beach, it's all in sand, brought in palm trees. Everything around here is utterly artificial. Waikiki was a swamp, we drained it all. You're sitting right this very minute on a Makee Island. If you understand that it's strictly built tremendous changes over the last 200 years, here and and seen it. It's easy to speculate about some of the changes I think that that building materials, building at the repetition, the repetition, the repetition where every floor looks exactly alike. That particular capability is a rather new Can you imagine what Waikiki would have what people would have thought, how can they alike? How can they have every floor be like every This is a style of architecture that was unprecedented as new architectural styles, probably more of the technologies of the 21st century and So, we better preserve this as a incredible Also, when I think about the future, I mentioned again. The future of Waikiki is probably underwater. I think it's almost certain that the one of to deal with in the world, every country every important here is sea level rise, due to the ice caps, the rise of water. What we'll do about it here, whether we will from rising, or whether we'll simply let the of it so that we'll be pulling around the will be much closer to the water then than whole thing up and move on the other side might be the Ala Wai, I don't know, shorefront I don't know. But we have some major challenges and changes I don't think Waikiki will look anything looks now. It'll be quite different. How about the the ozone the hole in the ozone result of human activities? If that hole continues to grow, and if we to be, one of the consequences of that will Why will people want to go out in the sun cancer? So, I think that we better look at and enjoy as we can it's not likely to stay in this Well, I wish I was a prophet and I could see a prophet, my one hope is that they will not in Hawai`i 100 years from now - the thing at that time to remember is to remember all personalities, Hawaiian customs. To be friendly to everybody no matter even Over here even if you don't know, you say You like you like your visit and all that? I wish that will be retained no matter which, in Hawai`i. I wish they'd be smart enough to retain that Singing: Sweet brown maiden said to me as she gave Honi kaua wikiwiki Don't forget what I have taught you on the Uluwehiwehi `oe i ka`u `ike la A he nani la ke hulali nei