This is the Voyager 2 space probe approaching it was the first time that any spacecraft had and very little was known Neptune is so far away that it has since we discovered it back in 1846. The true scale of our solar system and due to the laws of physics, navigating this Nevertheless, in August 1977 the Voyager 2 space probe began an incredible lifelong journey that would take Today the space probe is some 20 billion In this video we're going to look at the and the clever systems it used We'll also be giving away this awesome Saturn 5 framed print so stick around to the end of the video In the mid-60s, a NASA engineer discovered a rare This alignment only happened every all four of these giant planets in a single Mission. and so it was up to Voyager 2 to take on this challenge. But in order to get there, Voyager 2 had to thread the needle through space, perform four gravity assists and escape the Sun's gravity. The planets in our solar system are constantly but since they are also moving sideways very quickly, keeping them in a constant orbit. Without this velocity, objects in space would simply But if an object is traveling fast enough it can outpace the sun's pull allowing it to And so Voyager 2 needed to go fast The closer an object is to the Sun, The Sun's gravity creates a deep well in the fabric of space which we can essentially think of as a hill. will need much more velocity Since Earth is still relatively close to the Sun, None of the Rockets around at the time were powerful enough to do this, but due to this incredible alignment Voyager could use gravity assists to slingshot itself from In order to receive a gravity assist it Just kidding, but these magnets were used to hang up these awesome metal posters from Displate. Displates are designed to last with their sturdy magnet mounted and durable build. They're customizable, collectible and easy to adjust, so you can experiment with different arrangements With just 20 seconds of setup time, Displates can be Whether you're in the market for James Webb The Grand Tour from the official NASA collection, So why not add a touch of interstellar flare Visit the link in the description In order for Voyager to leave our solar system it had to exceed the sun's escape velocity, was about 42 kilometers per second. Despite launching on the most powerful rocket it could only provide a Delta V of around This may not sound like a lot, but Earth was already moving around the Sun at 30 kilometers per second so by launching Voyager in the direction of Earth's travel, it reach around 40 kilometers per second relative to and place it into a very large orbit around the Under normal circumstances, it would remain to get a gravity assist from Jupiter, it aimed itself at the point where Jupiter was going to be by the time it arrived. However, despite the sheer scale of the area through a very narrow 150 kilometer wide corridor, and arrive at a specific point to the nearest second all whilst traveling at 10 kilometers per second. or was a few seconds off, it would have gravity assist around Saturn. In order to achieve exact location in space and control its speed Five sets of thrusters placed around the space probe would allow Voyager to rotate around all three of its axes. This was super important since its large antenna had receive signals. These thrusters would fire tiny 0.3 degrees a second. At this rate it would take Then there was another set of identical thrusters Voyager's speed, allowing NASA to finally control But how did Voyager actually know where it was Located on Voyager's antenna was a device It detected the Sun as the brightest until it locked onto it. This would correctly align was facing Earth. In order to sort out the roll the sun sensor would look for a specific star Again, Voyager would rotate around this axis until it rely on these systems. Anytime Voyager passed by a Likewise, when Voyager rotated to take pictures of facing their reference points. And so to keep track gyroscope which could be used for several hours When activated, the disc would spin and its As Voyager rotated, the gimbals would rotate around its orientation had changed. Voyager then knew return to its earth-facing position. This entire orientation in space. But knowing the orientation In order to plot it trajectory, NASA needed to know how fast it was going. They did this by sending a signal out to Voyager and timing how quickly it would respond. multiplying these two numbers would give them which would give them Voyager's new distance. By out how much Voyager had traveled in that time. how fast Voyager was traveling. With all of these trajectory and see how it compared to the desired could send a command to Voyager which would fire With this incredible system, Voyager arrived at its Jupiter target point just 1.4 seconds late and only 60 km off course. As Voyager 2 approached Jupiter, its speed had slowed considerably to around 10 kilometers per second as it reached the top of its orbit. This at Jupiter's distance, was around 18 kilometers its gravitational pull started to have an effect on very fast in this direction, it pulled Voyager with Jupiter's speed, sending it off at an even than the sun's escape velocity and from this point But the journey wasn't over yet. Voyager went Saturn and Uranus, making incredible discoveries be around Neptune, but this gravity assist would more planets to visit after Neptune, Voyager didn't However, scientists were very interested in flying But Triton orbits at a steep angle and so of direction. And so instead of approaching a tiny bit in front heading over the planet's trajectory downwards whilst also slowing it down. then on began its lifelong journey into deep space. discoveries that Voyager made along the way taught And now for the moment you've all been waiting for. Matthew Cole. Congratulations! Sorry if you didn't Next time, we'll be giving away this epic up at the link below and leave a comment saying test flight. Thank you very much for watching