[Mooji] Give me 15 minutes of your time, [Mooji] Drop all the thoughts, feelings, past, memories, identities. That's your power. [Mooji] Your natural state of presence is felt. [Mooji] It's simply here. Do This and Be This [Mooji] This morning on waking up, I found a strong urge to, just to share a contemplation when I feel it is quite appropriate and quite a ripe time to share something. It will not be different but the guidance offered this morning That, let's say if you began your day, and I ask you, first thing in the morning. And what I would ask you to do, so I'm telling you, when I speak now, everything is now, for me. I'm not reporting about earlier Even as I speak about it's alive now. I'm speaking now. It's about now. And I share that, as you wake up, take a little time. It can happen very, very quickly to release yourself from all attachments that may come in the form of thoughts, [Mooji] or memory, or habits, or so. [M.] And you must be very conscious about it. You make a choice, You're not saying that, you do it! Drop all the thoughts, feelings, past, You don't have to itemize them, actually. The most powerful thing about this, is that you don't have to do If I say, just drop everything have this feeling, just ... And it is easier like that, because if I begin to itemize, But if I say, whatever it is that usually comes up in your mind and day, consciously, let go of them now. So, no items, just say, And we don't have any instruments or in any kind of practical way Just your intention to let go. Trust this. Let go of everything. The more you do this, Just let go. Be totally empty. Empty of identity, empty of story, empty of past, empty of intention, empty of judgements. Like this. When you are as empty, and you don't pick up anything, then your natural state of presence is felt. It's simply here. And you will feel very empty, silent, present, not carrying out any intention, no time, beautiful like this. And this can happen very quickly! As soon as you do not engage with the mind, and your intention is to be [Mooji] you see how quickly [Mooji] And what remains here Just the sense of being. Confirm this. You will know the difference now Being is not an action. Now the mind will come. When the mind comes, like a suggestion, or a simple habit. It could be just suggesting, 'OK, it's time to have a cup of tea, You will watch it. Rather than being swept And in these 15 minutes or so, 'No, not now.' You exercised the choice You are acutely aware of mind. It comes in the form of this, or some habit, or a memory, or some kind of judgement, and you are watching now. And don't log in. Don't be carried off into the mind stream. If you do this, like that, you are very clear what is mind then it will feel very peaceful for you. You will feel very present in a really good way. And you stay like this, consciously. First of all, you are. There's no description, there's no time, just the natural presence of existence, 'I Am'. No story. [Mooji] So, when the mind energy [M.] normally it comes You just co-operate and you're again in the state of personhood. Then you are in time and intention, and in doing and undoing, So, you are to resist that consciously. Stay aware You'll just be aware that you are, untroubled, yet awake. If you notice 15 minutes have passed, and you are feeling so well, fresh, unassociated, unmixed presence, and the mind will say, OK, that's enough. And you feel so well, And by continue, I don't mean you necessarily have to sit down You can, but at some point, action, reaction, interaction, your natural calling for the day happens. This is not just the mind. [M.] Then you will notice that this activity now, happens in the stillness of presence. This will be a very beautiful noticing. Somehow, OK, it's time to do this, and to get ready for work or whatever, but all this activity, all this action is taking place in this grounding, grounded sence of presence and being. Not personal. How well you will feel. Do you see? And you may, if you decide to, or intent to remain conscious it's no effort. You can simply just have this intention, and still your hands, your limbs, your body, and that flow can happen, but it is happening within the space of being. This is very important. This is how life can be experienced. That you do not step into personhood. You are here! Fully. Nothing is missing! Or if the activity of ego is missing, Like this you do. So I ask for 15 minutes, minimum, and in the night, before going to bed. Try it, you see. As you go on, and you consciously reject or the habit, you're conscious of them, but you say, 'No, in this 15 minutes, You are not waiting, The sense of next is not relevant. Next may happen, but it's not ... Everything is arising and playing out in the space of presence, or being. For everyone. except through laziness, like that. So this commitment, you will make today? [Sangha] Yes. Copyright 2024 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.