It was a surprise that my previous hair care vlog got 5 millions views. So many of you have reached out and asked for the shampoo bar recipe. So today I will guide you through the steps of making a shampoo bar completely from scratch. I also will show you a few homemade hair remedies originating from Vietnam. Let's do it ;) Learning how to make your own soap/shampoo bars from scratch is very satisfying. I love making homemade products for our home. There's always a sense of accomplishment when learning a new practical skill. There are 3 methods of making soap/shampoo bar at home. Cold process, hot process and melt &amp; pour. But today I will only focus on the hot process method and will go over the other two methods in another vlog. The following recipes will make 12 shampoo bar (130g each). Set your crock pot on LOW setting. At the most fundamental level soaps are made of 3 ingredients: oil/fat, lye (sodium hydroxide) and water. Each kind of oil has different property. Coconut oil gives fluffy lather, olive oil for conditioning castor oil and sunflower oil for stabilizing the lather. Cocoa &amp; shea butter add hardness to the bars and a creamy texture. The possibilities are endless and that's what makes homemade soap bars all the fun, to experiment and mix all the ingredients to your liking. For hot and cold process method, lye is necessary. Working with sodium hydroxide aka lye is toxic, so be sure to work in a well ventilated area. And wear protective gear, such as eye goggles, gloves, long sleeves... Add lye to water - never the other way around! Stir all the time with a spatular. Be careful not to breathe the vapour that is initially given off. Once the oils are melted, gently pour the lye solution into the oils. Blend using hand blender, the solution will start to thicken. For hot process method, it's ready when the blend is thick enough that when you move through, it leaves a thin trace behind. Put the lid on and &quot;cook&quot; the mixture. It will usually take about 45 minutes to an hour. Meanwhile we can add natural colorants. Some natural colorants also give you benefits, such as exfoliation, antioxidants... For this recipe I use Moroccan red clay. It coats your hair in minerals, that help to strengthen hair roots and prevent hair loss, For those who wants to get in depth into soapmaking, I'd highly recommend the book "The Soapmaker's Companion'. I'll leave a link in this video's description! Now the mixture has a texture similar to mashed potatoes. Stir occasionally. Never leave it unattended! 1 thing that can happen when working with soap at high temperatures is the "soap volcano." When this happens, the soap begins to boil up and may even come out of the pot if not supervised and stirred down from time to time. The next stage: the mixture has a similar texture to applesauce. Almost done: the mixture has a jelly-like texture. Turn off the heat. If you prefer, you can continue cooking the soap to the "dry mashed potato" stage, which will cook out extra water and allow the soap to cure faster. The drawback is that this texture is harder to glop into the mold. Let it cool for a minute or two, then you can add essential oils or scents/salt. For this recipe I use 8 drops tea tree essential oil, 16 drops lavender essential oil, 1/2 tbsp Argan oil. and 8g sea salt. Spoon or pour it into your soap mold. Tamp it down good to get rid of air pockets. Spray the top of the soaps with 99% isopropyl alcohol to prevent discoloration/bubbles. Allow the soap to sit in the mold for 24 - 48 hours. Unmold, cut, and this soap is ready to use right away. Unlike the cold process method, when you have to cure the soap for 4-6 weeks. Natural shampoo bars will not strip the natural oils from your hair, so you will not need the typical moisturizing conditioners that people use to replace the natural oils stripped by commercial detergent shampoos. As you transition to a natural shampoo bar, your scalp needs time to rebalance scalp oil production. That's why during this transition period, your hair may feel and look extra greasy or heavy. We are basically teaching our hair to stand on its own feet. So during transition phase, replace your conditioner step with an apple cider vinegar rinse. This helps balance the pH level of the scalp. Mix 4 Tbsp apple cider vinegar with 500ml water. Work the vinegar into hair with your fingers. Gently massage and allow the vinegar mixture to sit for a few minutes. Rinse your hair and scalp with cool water. Since ancient times, Vietnamese people have used locust as a valuable medicine to fix hair problems, making hair smoother and darker. Roast the locust until they're a darker in color. Crush the fruits. I use 7 pods because of my long hair, but 3-5 pods should be enough for shorter hair. If you have oily hair, don't use the seeds. If you have dry hair, only use half of the seeds. Locust seed acts as conditioner, and makes our scalp produce more oil. Add locust to 2 liters of water. 2 stalks of lemongrass. Bring it to a boil and cook for 20 minutes. Let the locust water cool down a bit, and squeeze to get more of its goodness. And we're done! Use up within 24 hours. Let it cool down before use. Before washing my hair with locust water, I'm going make a banana hair mask. Use 1 overripe banana with a bit of honey. For hair growth, you can add avocado &amp; egg instead of honey. For dry hair, add a bit of coconut oil and coconut milk instead. Cover hair with shower cap and leave for 30 minutes. Rinse with cool water then wash hair with locust water. There are also different versions of locust water with grapefruit peels or ginger or basil leaves... Use locus water as shampoo and wash your hair as usual. I wash my hair once every 5 days! What works for me may not work for you. My hair care routine vlog is definitely not a &quot;one size fit all&quot;. Everyone's hair is different. Study your hair, experiment and find out the best routine for you. Do not dry immediately after washing. Wrap your hair up, wash your face or do skincare. After 20-30 minutes, you can dry your hair. I blow dry my hair with cold air. Check out my hair care vlog 95 for more tips ;) Apply hair oil when it's 50-70% dry. If you have extremely thin hair, choose oils such as jojoba, coconut, sunflower... If you have dry, coarse hair then chose richer oils such as olive, sesame or avocado. And last but not least, a dry shampoo recipe from only 2 ingredients! First, dried herbs of your choice, or some essential oils. I use dried rosebuds for this recipe. And second, arrowroot powder. That's it! It couldn't be more simple. Remember that dry shampoo should only be used a last resort for lazy days, long-haul travel or unable-to-wash scenarios.