There is a tendency to show the continuous march towards the west and infighting within the Islamic lands as grandiose battles were forged between significant in terms of numbers of than the Battle of Ankara in 1402 Emir Timur. In 1396 the Ottoman Sultan Alliance of European Crusaders led by the King of Hungary Nicopolis. Seemingly very little was Constantinople or invading Central he would have to face a threat from the 14th century: the Yuan Dynasty lost controlled Iran, the Caucuses and part of dynasties and the Golden Horde that held stagnating. Central Asia was in turmoil Chagatai khanate and many warlords vied born in 1336 into the Turkified small-time raider, but a capable fighter leader of his tribe. During this period his leg and he received the nickname &quot;leng&quot; - is known as Tamerlane in the west. By Asia and started planning his invasion. in 1378 he helped Tokhtamysh to rise to Timur then continued with the invasion started the conquest of Iran which was came under his control in the next three terror: any city that tried to resist him was massacred or enslaved. Towers made of of defiance. Taking the Caucasus meant Golden Horde and conflict with Tokhtamysh became inevitable. Between 1391 and 1395 Tokhtamysh was defeated twice and lost West was changing rapidly: the Ottoman in 1398 and 1399 the rulers of while some of the leaders dethroned by the Ottoman capital. Bayezid's and other. a fellow Muslim superpower, hence a long leaders began. One of Timur's letters said: you are nothing more than an ant, don't provoke the elephants or you will get trampled. And Bayezid answered: wives divorce me, but if you dare to run to other men. This war of words was west yet again. Armenia and Georgia were massacred. Timur was worried that the might ally itself with the Ottomans, so and Aleppo to take control of the land of 1401 Timur took Sivas from the That was the beginning of the war. When the siege of Constantinople and moved city by June of 1402. Timur retreated to position. The Ottoman sultan knew that the east and that forced Bayezid to troops towards the enemy. The Ottoman Tokat as Bayezid hoped to use the dense advantage Timur's meant that Timur would either have to strength of his forces or retreat from option. His huge army vanished and moved to the southwest and took Kayseri, while Bayezid was still sure that he would find his enemy to the north up behind the Ottoman forces. The Sultan his enemy, when Ankara Timur to ransack his lands and so had no tired troops to Ankara. The Battle of took place on July 28th 1402. Timur's army was a traditional Mongol-Tatar force with a significant number of horse elephants captured during his invasion a mix of old Seljuq irregular forces, army corps created by the earlier led by a Serbian vassal of Bayezid the campaign Timur and Bayezid had troops, but it is said that the Ottoman forced march from Sivas to Ankara. Timur divided his horse archers into on the flanks and one more in reserve, the vanguard. Bayezid had a strong in the second line and sipahi cavalry in Serbian cavalry of Stefan, while his Anatolia and Tatar mercenaries. Bayezid hoped that his flanks, who had a defensible position would hold so that his center. The accounts of the battle present the one that made the most sense while his center lag behind. The battle Serbian troops were attacked by the them and inflict substantial damage. One This time an attempt to outflank them their ground. Meanwhile Timur's left commanded by prince Suleiman. Timur also Janissaries. Something unexpected flank, as all eighteen thousand of his joined Timur's attack on the Ottoman had to send his reserve to help. On Serbian units were now attacked by even casualties held them off. Sources claimed Sultan suggesting a retreat, while it was At this point to save his life, while Stefan was told forces and cover the retreat with the Timur sent his reserve on a deep left flank of the Ottoman army were forces managed to use their advantage in and join Suleiman in his retreat. The slowly pushed towards a hill called along with his sipahis and enemy for hours, despite being severely the encirclement with his bodyguards, but first time in history an Ottoman Sultan a significant number of warriors, it was conflicting theories on what happened but in any case he died a few months of China, but he would die in early 1405. of internal war between the sons of Stefan, the Timurids and the Byzantines be covered in our next video in this documentary on the Battle of Ankara. We our patreon supporters who make the patreon is the best way to suggest a new much more. Devin - don't forget to stop by my channel the Kings and Generals channel and we