- Get rid of that daughter, she's crazy. - Wow - Wow - People are dark. (collective yeah) - Is everyone okay? - [First Speaker] I just... - Hi, I'm Melonie Lynskey. - I'm Christina Ricci. - I'm Lauren Ambrose. - I am Simone Kessel. - And I'm Tawny Cypress. - We're here with Elle, to read some of the craziest, most absurd fan theories for Yellowjackets, Season Two. - Is that why we're here? - That's why we're here. You didn't know? - Misty's bird is named Caligula. Caligula was a crazed Roman emperor that performed a cesarean - Is this post shadowing on Shauna and then they - Oh. - Well, so here's my take on this. Recently, it's been discovered that Caligula was not, in He was a really beloved emperor, and when the new regime of this propaganda, basically, - Oh, she did her homework. - Well, I actually just happened to see a whole show about that. - That's insane (group laughter) - So... - I believe that Caligula because Caligula is someone who has been maligned historically, but is actually not what that - That's so good. - Yes, it's very good - Yeah. - (sighs) What do I think has done so far? I mean, I kind of get her logic, so I really do feel were incredibly pragmatic and made sense. I don't love the idea of just because I can't so I guess that would be the Think you should just kill them. - That just crossed the line. - Okay, so my question is since Lottie's dad rented the had something to do with the crash? Get rid of that daughter, she's crazy. - Wow. - Wow. - People are dark. - Yeah. - Is everyone okay? - I just... - I don't think Lottie's family, I mean, I would like to believe that - Little naughty. - Little naughty, lets crash the plane with our daughter in it, of the team. No, I don't think so. I don't think they miss her that much. - That's a relief. to see a whole lot of Lottie and many different captains. We can expect to see and I think once everybody that's going to, you know, - Also, beautiful performance... - Aw. - Thank you. She had some hard work, - This is such a feral - Yes, also. - Wilderness baby killed Travis. (cast laughs) - Wilderness baby, so came back, put candles Maybe, I don't know The theory about anyone eating any babies, I don't want to talk about Like, that's it, bye. - Yeah, good. Here's a spoiler. Nobody eats the baby. - Thank you. - We've said this so many times. - Let's spoil it right now - Yeah. Spoil... - Nobody eats the baby. - There's no baby eating. - There's no baby eating. - They will behead a dog, no problem. But nobody eats the baby. - That's a lot of work - Okay, here we go. Lauren, oh. (cast laughs) Drop page. What if Van and Taissa grew to rival each other's power dynamic? Maybe that could be why or killed her dog. She could be overwhelmed by the emotions of what happened with Van. Maybe she killed the dog on modern Van, assuming and still powerful. - Well, I think there's some credit to the fact that Taissa and And they all have unfinished business, that's obviously leading in them and around them. I don't know that it's a curse. I think she's happy to find Van again or, you know, that it's And yes, Van is still Well, I am continuing and expounding on the beautiful character Liv made this character, and has so much light and I think that when we find Van as an and has really shoved away what happened, and let's put that into a compartment that's not gonna be looked at until... Maybe it will. - Taissa, in her political to lead the state of New Is that a hint towards her in the group, yes. It's exactly what it is, you nailed it. Ya freaking nailed it. Uh, no, Taissa's fallen I don't think she's in any so, yeah. And as far as the Antler First of all, I know that term was created on freaking Reddit, so I understand that, that is a fan term that we have embraced, but I think that, you know, the Antler Queen can be all of us, maybe. - I think wilderness baby That is pretty much the craziest... - You've added some... you've added some words to it. - I didn't mean to, I - Thanks for watching. - Be sure to check out season two of Yellowjackets. - And for more videos like