Hi all. Weekend in nature - what could be better! And better, maybe only a very unusual project that I will do today. As long as they don't sell it in the store! Everything is as cheap and as simple as possible, because the simpler the better! Hello, friends. Hello. Hello. Let's start! The project will be in two parts. Each of them can be used together with each other or separately. And this is a huge plus! I have the most common bike chain. I decided to wash it and degrease it before work so that there was no excess dirt. Washed it in gasoline, cheap - but the smell of gasoline is present. It is quite long and I do not need such a large length. You will need two equal segments. I measured a little more than 30 centimeters, but the length can be different depending on the desire. I cut it along the inside of the chain links, then rounded off the rest with sandpaper. Cutting the chain is very easy. Here are the two segments. On each segment there are places of articulation folds. By their number, I need small pieces of bars. I will use these. These are inflows for TIG welding machine used as an additive. I have enough of them I don't mind. They come in different diameters - it is these 3.2 millimeters. Copper-plated on the outside so they won't rust. Some are marked - ER 70S-6, I don't know what it means. I divide them into three equal parts, this is about 33 centimeters each. I turn on my welder. I like the ease of setup. You just need to set the thickness of the metal. I weld pieces of rod to each joint of the chain. From the second side, I welded the second segment of the chain in the same way. The first part of the project is ready! It turned out such a folding lattice. You can even just move it, even twist it like a roll of paper. Compactness and versatility at the highest level. But the second part, additional, will complement the first as much as possible. Therefore, we continue. Friends, I like to create things with my own hands. That's why I was drawn to the free multiplayer online action game War Tunder! Where there is an opportunity to bring your combat vehicles to mind, and then test them in the field. Here you will find tons of equipment from 10 nations from the beginning of the 20th century to the present. Armored vehicles fight on land, helicopters and planes attack from above, and large and small fleets exchange fire on sea locations. Recently, the game was updated and added the Yak-141 fighter, the Little Bird helicopter and the brutal Pantsir-ES1 anti-aircraft gun, improved graphics and expanded the choice of maps. And you can download War Thunder for free using my link in the description. According to it, all new players and those who have not logged into the game for six months or more will receive one hundred thousand silver, a week of renting legendary German tanks, and other cool bonuses! Link in description. Let's return from games to the project. For the second part of the project, you will need a square pipe. I took the smallest and cheapest, with a side size of 10 millimeters. Now the little brother of the welding machine, my plasma sword, comes into play. I'm like a real Jedi with plasma in my hands! One wave of the hand and the defeated iron pipe falls on the workbench! I cut two equal segments of about 60 centimeters. Two more equal segments of 30 centimeters. And four equal pipe sections of 15 centimeters. The design is as simple as possible. In the center of the middle segment there will be a hole for the hinge. Lateral short segments will be connected to each other through this hinge at an angle of 45 degrees. You need to cut several strips to make this connection. They are exactly the same. Made in a few minutes. I drilled holes in the center of each part for a through hinge. I did it right away on one lane so that it would be more convenient and faster. Then I just cut them into separate parts. This hinge will be from the same rod for the TIG welder. Since the diameter is 3.2 mm, I took the drill as close as possible to this size 3 mm. Mirror to each other, on each side these parts will be welded to the hinge, so that there is a possibility of rotation. On each side I do one welding point, I think that this will be quite enough. The load on this node is very low. I do everything with the help of a square, although this is not necessary, but I always want it to be neat and beautiful, even any little thing. I also weld short pieces to this loop on each side. In this design, you can generally not use welding and fasten everything with bolts. Next, you will need a few more identical segments for other connections. I quickly cut everything with plasma and to achieve a more accurate and uniform hole location in all parts at once, I simply weld them together to drill everything in one go. I really like to work with this device - a buzz. It remains just now to cut off part of this layer cake. You will get eight identical parts. In the longest segments, I also make holes for the hinges. Everything is the same as on the previous parts, here you need to weld this rotary element on both sides. The legs will be welded after fitting into place. Two such folding legs, 30 centimeters long, 2 centimeters wide and 1 centimeter thick. And two supports with hinges for these legs. You can go outdoors for testing. I'm putting them in the future. It remains only to make a few drops of fastening with a welding machine. Let's go to the backyard - tests! A leaf on the ground, coal on a leaf. In the comments they wrote that the ignition fluid is evil. Therefore, I water with alcohol - do not worry, technical alcohol. And with a flick of the wrist... Friends, if you liked the video - the best gratitude is just a thumbs up. Share this video on your social networks, your friends will like my videos. All links from the video will be in the description. There's a lot of useful stuff in there. By the way - here's a cool life hack! I use them all the time! The result is the most compact when folded, as far as possible, design. It just doesn't get any smaller! Dismantled and installed in seconds! The design is simple, stable and durable. The cost is as low as possible, but will last for many years. Surprise your friends! Takes up very little space with the grille! Good to you and your loved ones. Thanks for watching this video. See you on the channel friends. Bye.