The following content is Commons license. Your support will help MIT offer high quality, educational resources for free. To make a donation, or view hundreds of MIT courses, visit ocw.mit.edu. PROFESSOR: Why do people save? Well, that seems like-- I assume you know the Well, one answer is the standard answers to One is consumptions smoothing. Consumption smoothing what's consumption smoothing? AUDIENCE: It means you're living say one day I purchase all these eat really well on this day, The idea is that I'd spread it that each day I would have the easy as possible over PROFESSOR: Right. So not have too much variation And what's life cycle? It's another code word What's the life cycle AUDIENCE: Special events in a or marriage, [INAUDIBLE] with PROFESSOR: Yeah, so saving for What's the most important event US save for? Retirement. So I think, among other you guys are kind of revealing But retirement is the reason why people save. And that's one life cycle predictable. At least, if you get there, And then as you said, other your child's wedding, own of other predictable events. Any others? Any other reason to save? Yeah? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] or an opportunity. Like, maybe you want to start PROFESSOR: Right. The last reason, very important advantage of opportunities. Starting a business is one. What else could you do AUDIENCE: Buying a home, PROFESSOR: Yeah. Buying home, buying land. Just paying for school fees. Sometimes, many places you have school fees at the beginning have money saved up so that year shows up, you can So there's are all kinds of people save. So now coming to why So sometimes, I'm going efficient not to save. What are situations where AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: Right. So one possibility is that of consumption is very high. You're sick, and you But let's say on a more situation where it makes sense years or something. Yeah? AUDIENCE: Well, if you know if going to get very much back from much point. For instance, if the money you rots or something like that. PROFESSOR: Right. Another possibility is that it's it's just difficult. High inflation-- you have to save in money, it you can't save. But I'm asking an even or, maybe not simpler, but imagine that you could save-- there's no problem saving-- would there be a situation where it optimal not to save? AUDIENCE: If you didn't expect by it. PROFESSOR: Right. So one possibility is that you the future looks very sharp, you But that's something We'll come back to it. Yeah? AUDIENCE: If Social Security [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: Right. So if, for example, you security covers a large part poor, and not a large part of So if you happen to be quite once you turn 65, Social paying you a fair And let's say Social Security You're making $20,000 There's no reason for So Social Security, the $30,000 a year once You are 62, you're making You have no reason to save, you saved, your consumption say, $15,000. And then your consumption after $35,000, but that You want to actually smooth. So the general principle-- what's the general Much more generally, where people not to save? AUDIENCE: When they're expecting might not be worth what where there's not really PROFESSOR: Right. So you are saying there's But let's assume there's I'm just asking the general Security example. Think about it, what's the When do you want to not save? AUDIENCE: When the utility of PROFESSOR: Which means what? AUDIENCE: You're saving less. [INAUDIBLE]. PROFESSOR: When you say usually time, what are you saying AUDIENCE: Maybe that you'll PROFESSOR: You're Imagine you were someone get richer over time-- a lot richer over time-- that person should not be wages are going to grow at 10% business trying to save, consumption tomorrow in any case didn't save any. So I have no reason to save. So if I think the future's a should not save. That's a general principle about you're trying to make If you're trying smooth consumption is going to be you want to counteract So in general, people so here's a fact. I'm not going to actually elaborating on it-- which is, what's the country in the fastest? Or at least, one at of the AUDIENCE: China. PROFESSOR: China. Do you know what the personal AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: 40%, or 30%. 30%, I think. [? Possibly ?] [INAUDIBLE] So you think of all of these at 10% a year, or 6-7% a year, incomes right now. So it's a very, very odd-- economists are completely saving so much. So that's just to remind you went through actually has a very happens to false, which is the because their wages are Our theory clearly said that, they say so. Well, we have some theories. I might come back to But I want to just keep this which is that the one solid expect your income Whether that works AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] essay, that if they want. PROFESSOR: Sorry? AUDIENCE: Meaning an essay with about China's and savings. So if anybody's interested. PROFESSOR: Yeah, so that's Chinese savings is a great topic OK, another reason people often don't save is they don't How could they save? Does that argument make sense? When does it make sense? So it's a very common How could the poor save? They don't have any money. Is savings primarily So let me put it differently. To a first approximation, that there isn't a future where that I have. So if I have money today, unless tomorrow, then even if I'm poor, it's not about whether If I'm poor today, then I'm Then it's no different today, I'm rich tomorrow. We have the same incentives to trying to achieve is efficient between today and tomorrow. So the fact that I'm poor anything about whether I should savings is about trading off consumption tomorrow. And that same trade-off you're poor or rich. If I'm poor, I still And if I have it tomorrow, Because if I'm worried that any money, that's true and somebody rich. So the fact that I have if I'm going to have even less So it's not about how much money money you expect to have That's the same general went through a minute. Having said that, is there a make you not save? What's a case where this AUDIENCE: Well, if your income consume all of it today just PROFESSOR: Exactly. Excellent example. So one reason even the poor they're really so poor that they don't eat today. In that case, there's no then you would, in any So you're desperately poor and shouldn't save. But if you're not that poor, have income should not Or even a lot of income should So another example how many of argument for why people don't have opportunities to save. Like many of you suggested, So imagine that the only keeping cash at home. And prices go up, so cash In other words, there's just no that world, because you're in a and any money you put away tomorrow, why bother saving? So one answer to that is that, bank account, or into an So you buy something that Why don't you buy an bond or something? So there are assets. You could buy gold. So if you still make the particularly handicapped, place to save, you have to make have less access to And that's true. In the world, it's true. It's completely true that the to bank accounts. Most countries-- like below 20% of the poor- have So that's very true. And if you take investment accounts, or other accounts inflation, that's Very few people have But why is that? Why don't the poor have access Why should it be that access to bank accounts? What are arguments? Yeah? AUDIENCE: They might live in a sense to have a bank. Like, if you're in a small-world really not the infrastructure be sustainable there. Likewise, the size of their even if they are in, say, urban be banks generally around them, in catering to them because like we've seen in certain money of their deposit wouldn't be it would involve. PROFESSOR: Right. So that's exactly right. So basic argument is that deposit-taking institution-- any institution that once I take your money, there kind of fixed, and doesn't the amount of money. So if I'm putting in $5, and the your money, nobody's going So you need enough deposits What will be reasons why there's fixed cost of banking? Why does banking have Why should it have AUDIENCE: Well you need to at people to set up the system. [INAUDIBLE] someone working at the bank, all the records. things PROFESSOR: Right. So I think one version of that law to keep good records of And so even if the deposit is we're going to just scribble it So basically, every deposit that recorded in a proper way. Given that, even if it's $5, computer there, open a computer, into the computer, send So there's a lot of reasons fixed costs of banking. And I think that's the single people don't have access Now the alternative is And there are many reasons why One has something to If you keep money and Another problem is crime. You keep money at home, takes it, it's gone. You kept it a bank, it's a So that's another reason And then there are what I'm and spouse-controlled reasons. So self-control is, if I If I don't have it, maybe I don't spend It. So it's in the bank. It's not in my hand. I'm not going to be If it's really in my pocket, I see something I What's spouse control? What do you think it is? What's your guess? AUDIENCE: Your spouse might ask because they want it for based on [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: Right. So it may well be that some this is more general So some people in the family worried that other people in the and lay claims on it. So if you have nothing, you But if not, your husband or your well, you know, I really I feel like I drink, or I How do you say no to people? So one other issue that at least, you hear a lot of that, look, I don't keep money then somebody always shows And it could be a spouse, could be some friend. But if there's a lot of people you, then you may actually not Now the poor have evolved a lot One of them is called a ROSCA. Do you know what a ROSCA is? Who knows what a ROSCA is? AUDIENCE: It's like a type of attributes a set amount And then all the money from the ROSCA. PROFESSOR: And then what AUDIENCE: I mean, it continues where it stops. PROFESSOR: But like, let's of us are in a ROSCA. So we all put in $10. What happens? AUDIENCE: So you all put in $10, the ROSCA gets that lump sum So each individual will get PROFESSOR: Exactly. So one form of ROSCA is one We all join the ROSCA. We have a lottery. And then the lottery decides Somebody goes first, somebody third, somebody goes fifth, let's say. They're five people Now once that's set, then what everybody puts in, And Mr. One gets all of it. Next week, everybody puts $10, And so, in the end, everybody But a lottery determines So if you think of a ROSCA, ROSCA over just saving Is there an advantage? What are the advantages? Yeah? AUDIENCE: You don't need the you're saving money, because people tend feel tempted use it. PROFESSOR: So you get isn't that a problem? AUDIENCE: But you have a larger you can use for a larger $10 you might use that on a PROFESSOR: So you're saying, with the money, then I'm going say I need $50 one Then I'm going to join the price of $50. That way, when I get it, I buy save up to $50, then I'll I'll have $42, but not $50. And therefore, I still can't buy but I now have $42. Maybe I feel like maybe I could some pack off cigarettes And you never reach $50. So the fact that there's a the ROSCA and the want to buy is important. That's part of the reason to is because of this matching. Because once I have the money, If I need $50, if I have to save be a lot of times when And I could say, well, maybe and wait another day, you never get there. Whereas this gives you $50 immediately spend it. So one advantage of it is What's another advantage? Think of the group of us. Let's say we each need $50. How long on average would it saved by ourselves, and we AUDIENCE: The advantage of a immediacy, access to the And even if you're the last amount of time it takes you to would be the same as if you were whereas the guy who's first gets it averages out to half the PROFESSOR: Exactly. So if you save $50, it would you, whereas the expected delay is two and a half weeks, Mr. One gets it today. Mr. Two gets it in a week. Mr. Five gets it in five weeks, So you bring it forward by So it's a large gain. You immediately get a So that's another So one is that it solves the Another is it just brings it Now you know what a Yeah? AUDIENCE: It's when people bid this time around. So if you get, say, an amount of don't know, [INAUDIBLE], but or so just for the right PROFESSOR: Right. A bidding ROSCA is instead of on who's going to So after we each put in $10 opens, and whoever wins. So we basically say that, I'll pay $10 extra And then next week, somebody maybe he'll say, I'll pay $4 And then the guy who gets it And what's happening, notice, is now going up. So I pay $10 into the pot That can be distributed And so, everybody else is And if the person who gets more to get the $50. So instead of everybody paying are paying $60 and some Now why would that make sense? What's the advantage of that/ bidding ROSCA, rather than AUDIENCE: Because that means [INAUDIBLE] rises earlier than you were the argument earlier. PROFESSOR: Right. So you may want to be able to You might be able to say, look, this opportunity if I buy this these shirts, and sell them I need the money now, so I'm going to put in the money for me to pay some extra. What's the advantage So basically, what's the others, it's effectively like I people, right? What it works out to be is if I I am paying more. That's like saying other people on their savings. So they they're paying giving them $10 back. So they're getting some interest This turns it into much A bidding ROSCA is much more way for us to decide, I want the to others to get it. So it turns it into much Now, we talked about the What are the disadvantages? What is a ROSCA not good for? Yeah? AUDIENCE: ROSCAs can be very only goes on for as long So if you're looking to save the ROSCA probably doesn't And it's also inflexible that same amount at the same time. And so, if you have a variable suitable for you to try to [INAUDIBLE]. PROFESSOR: Exactly. So two disadvantages. One is it's inflexible. You are to put in $10 every variable, you may not want And the other is that it's So if you want to save for good way to get there, because it's going to end fairly so. And therefore, you're not going retirement using it. Any other disadvantages or Yeah? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: Right. So the amount in ROSCAs tend they're limited precisely by incentive problem. Once I've got the money, At that point, I have to stay in the ROSCA. So you need leverage over me. And if that was $10,000, you leverage over me. So $50, the ROSCA will be small, amounts with ROSCA. It's going to be hard to save somebody's going to be So one other way people save-- I remember, the house I grew my grandfather used to write And whenever he got a contract, another room in the house. So the house was like-- the first rooms were The last room was 20 years, he kept And that was because there savings products available. And well, for him, it was always have value. And so, for him, it was a very some money, he would another room in the house. So if you look, every has a different floor. And you can tell that the tiles for room one had run out by the because that was five So there was a different or different flooring. So every room had a different different tile, something. And that was very normal in particular period, where assets was very limited. So people didn't have much They usually save in this way. Now if you go to developing notice is this tons and tons Like just in the outskirts of these houses which are Like there's a couple of walls, but then on the roof there are up from the roof, and the It doesn't have any doors. That's a reflection of exactly actually building these houses don't have good credit markets, to build the house, partly savings opportunities. This a perfect way to solve They're getting an asset And so when my mother had car for her, and he would, like, take leave and go build And he didn't even build He would just have He would save up enough money would go build half a wall. And then he's show up two days because he'd been building Then again, three months build the next wall. And now he has a house. He built his whole house. He his goal in life was he will had a house. So he's now gotten married, whole marriage till he could So his whole strategy was this was all an investment So once he got all of ahead and got married. So that's a classic example, And it's quite a nice What's a disadvantage? What's a disadvantage of What's the obviously Yeah? AUDIENCE: Stuff can house before it's finished. PROFESSOR: Sorry? AUDIENCE: Things can house before it's finished. PROFESSOR: Things could house before it's finished. That's true. AUDIENCE: If real value [INAUDIBLE] all of So if you just have PROFESSOR: It's not liquid. It's very illiquid You can't sell usually So therefore, if you need money bad asset to have. If you knew that there was predictable, like this guy who knew that one day he will predictable-- that's an excellent asset. But if something which is very bad asset, because It's like any other Now another similar asset, developing countries, You see very poor people wearing both India and China. You look at poor people, even gold, having a small piece These things are expensive. But again, part of the reason real assets. They are inflation-proof. Gold goes up. Actually, right now, gold is impressive actually. I wish I bought some But it's inflation-proof. It's very divisible. You can buy very, very You just buy a pair That's not a lot of money. And it's sort of nice You get some use value And partly, gold is very of gold is cheap to verify. This is why gold was always And as a result, it's So if you have a gold jewelry, jeweler, and he'll give minutes against it. It's very easy to mortgage is very well known. If you try to mortgage your do an inspection, figure out worth anything or not. Gold is gold. And so, you'll find in very poor countries, a jeweler, and the who's constantly giving It's very much a two-way He's taking gold and giving taking money. And it goes in both directions And the reason why gold is asset-- it has less use Obviously, a house-- maybe not. I don't wear a lot But I suspect it has less use value a lot more liquidity. It's extremely liquid. You can just take it to you get money back. So liquidity is extremely because there are often sick, you need money. The alternative to all of this form or another. Some form of financial Financial savings are banks, or paper assets. Now these are different ways Even if you don't have a bank access paper assets. Does anybody know what Maybe you're going to do your [INAUDIBLE]. Yeah? AUDIENCE: If someone PROFESSOR: Yeah. A money guard is somebody in accesses a bag. AUDIENCE: How does that differ Isn't that basically what PROFESSOR: No, a savings how does it differ from? Anybody want to try AUDIENCE: Is that where they regular basis, collect PROFESSOR: Savings collectors take you to the bank. So the difference is a savings who keeps it herself. AUDIENCE: But I thought in the village, I didn't think she They said-- PROFESSOR: She was depositing AUDIENCE: And not So really, the only where they keep the-- PROFESSOR: Yes, but I think The incentives are So imagine that you deposit all you have no documentary proof. I say, well, tough, I have What do you do? If somebody is putting it in they can steal from you So if you put it in the bank, They put it in the bank, they says that they put I know that essentially all they they collected today, not be the AUDIENCE: So when they put it [INAUDIBLE] in your PROFESSOR: The could either sometimes what people do is let's say 10 of us have to each to put in $10 into the bank. So it's an easy check. AUDIENCE: But I mean, assuming collector-- I mean, if the bank [INAUDIBLE] they still steal everything PROFESSOR: It's not Typically, they can't The accounts are such that account, and to take it to authorize it. So these are different designs, sense, if there's somebody in reliable, you can just Somebody very reliable, they But if you don't have somebody neighborhood, then you often Savings collector is basically the money, and therefore is with the money. What are self-help groups? Yeah? AUDIENCE: It's where a group and they stay together the process. It's [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: Right. But a self-help group, flexible in a ROSCA. It basically takes the money. Whoever gives them money, they to other people within Or, sometimes what they deposit it in a bank. That sort of turns them into So I think the more-- AUDIENCE: But isn't a ROSCA a PROFESSOR: Yes, I guess You're right. ROSCA is a type of self-help groups are much more flexible They allow you to the option I put whatever, either $2, So the trade-off between a ROSCA that as self-help group-- work well-- have to have a good A ROSCA is very simple. We don't need to have We know there's $10. We put it in each. There's $50. Somebody gets it. Requires zero accounting, A ROSCA requires zero Self-help group requires some evidence that when there's no they collapse. Because you basically need to flexible deposit. I'm putting $3 today, you put So somebody has to keep track And that's much harder if you're with reading and writing. So in a sense, a ROSCA is a form of a self-help group, and advantage, because it's makes it quite clear. Nobody needs to know accounting whereas to run a self-help know some accounting. Yeah? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] self-help group without ASCA [INAUDIBLE]? PROFESSOR: Yeah. An ASCA is a broader category. Yeah. Self-help group is an example of so the trade-off between-- so I already answered A savings collector typically It's somebody who comes collects the money. She keeps accounts for it. She's a professional. She charges money for it. People to pay up to 5% per get these things. So huge. So you might get might someone quite a lot. Typically, a self-help group is pay anybody. It's like a ROSCA, where the The constraint is accounting. So saving collector typically keep good accounts. She, or even a money who keeps good accounts. You go and give her the money, keeps exact records of It's not easy to find someone in poor who has good accounting Whereas if you think a ROSCA, that it doesn't require So the trade-off between these they require. So self-help groups are They require that somebody keeps in money, who's taking So if that's not being done depends very much on the If there's no one in the group the group will collapse. If you compare that with like, saving collectors typically accounting, and therefore can be their own-- gets paid for it. So that sort of the trade-off if you have someone around who part of your group, you can If you're willing to pay accounting for you, you can And if you have neither, So ROSCA is the simplest It's the least flexible But it's the one that doesn't do the job for you. So that's the big trade off some of them rely on having the job, other don't. Microcredit is another possible How could that be? How could microcredit be AUDIENCE: It's like savings [INAUDIBLE] your fixed savings PROFESSOR: Right. So in a sense, it's a funny people to save that way. So you want a television. You can either save-- television costs $200. You can save $2 a week That's very difficult. $2 a week, you forget, you You're keeping a lot The alternative is somebody You buy the television, and then but then they charge You pay $2.50 a week. But because you're paying $2.50 to give you the money early. And then it is their job They come and pester you So you transfer the burden of having to do the saving, the saving. It's expensive. You're paying 24% a year It's like giving up 24% of your advantage that you don't OK, so some little math. So all of this we've We've been sort of going back it's difficult for Maybe they don't want to save. Maybe there's some good reason So we haven't shown any smoking is an efficiency in savings. So I wanted to give you an the reason that is actually So how would you make the case So to me this case, we'll have So let's think about The first line in that called the Euler equation. The Euler equation is a optimality over time. What it says is the marginal how much consumption is should be equal to-- so something times consumption tomorrow. What's the question It's asking the question, dollar today. What would it be Well, one thing that's going So it's going to be If the interest is r, I'm going Yeah? But then, utility tomorrow isn't work today. It's like tomorrow I want it now. So that's delta. Delta is a number less than 1. So it says that utility tomorrow fraction delta of And then the last is consumption tomorrow. So basically, imagine that the less than the left-hand Then, what should I do? Well, I should [INAUDIBLE] utility today is higher will be worth tomorrow. Or actually, let's do it the utility today is less than delta prime [? c ?] plus 1, that means give me more utility than I Today I will get $1 will give If I saved it, I would That's going to be worth times 1 plus r. So basically, I'm getting more the future. So that's the standard condition optimality. The next line says, imagine the standard form of the utility form, consumption something divided by something. It's a fairly standard form Actually, you should notice greater than one, that works. Why? Because c to the [? r1 ?] minus in c, but is divided by So it's again increasing by c. So it works even for that. So if I did that, then I sides I would get that the The third lines comes from the to the power 1 minus sigma prime is then what? What's U prime? Take the derivative. What do you get? It's MIT. You know the answer. Come on. All too superior to answer? You all feel like, how such an inane question? Tell me what it is. AUDIENCE: c to the PROFESSOR: Yeah, c to the I put that into the get c to the power. And then you can see that I'm of that if I substitute U prime And then I invert that to Now reasonable values values are, like, 0.9. People use that number I'm taking a low number. You'll see that a low number If I do the higher number, will be even stronger. Sigma, people think it's a That's the kind of number Sigma is a measure of risk measure that, they find So take those numbers. Trust me, they are And then the last thing And I want to say that we looked it said that people were If you're borrowing at 80% That's exactly like having an Because if I borrowed $1 less, So anybody who had an asset 80% is sitting on an interest rate on it. It's exactly the same thing. I just borrow $1 less. So anybody who has a loan which like having an asset So now, I plug that in. So think of somebody who has a 67% of the people-- yeah, we saw were borrowing, had loans, interest rate was 80%. So this is not an unreasonable, So let's take those numbers, consumption growth will That's a huge growth rate. That I would say poverty would 17% per year is a very, What's the logic here? Say, these guys have an pays 80% a year. They're not using it. So there must be, only reason opportunity that's paying that be much richer in the future, Otherwise, you should use So people who are forward investment opportunity which should be pumping all their 80% a year is a great investment Only people who will do it are very fast, because if you're you don't want consumption So that says that if we take then the fact that people are I'll show you this I'm not making this So I'll show you the problem The fact that people are a year means that they must But in other words, since fast, the poor seem Something is wrong with this try to figure out what's But if I take the model how people save, it is clear the poverty should be the basically these guys have such opportunity. You an just save at 80% a year So that's-- yeah? AUDIENCE: What's the logic to PROFESSOR: Sigma So sigma is the coefficient If you look at the utility given that utility function, people react to risk? That will be measured So you can actually actually react to risks. I offer you $10 for sure, or $15 with probability 2/3, and bet are not. And from that, people back And to do that, they get So this is sort of a hint And I want to show you kind of So here's an experiment which is getting at the same point. I showed it to you kind Now I want to show it to Here's an experiment. It's an experiment with fruit in India and the Philippines. Two separate experiments So fruit vending is a very, function, OK? Very, very simple, meaning you sell all day, you get money in Next morning, you come back, You sell it. It's very predictable, very Not very high risk, actually. It's mostly you know what you price, et cetera. So here's a table which kind these people. So most of these people make one This one's for the Indian They buy fruits worth about They sell it, and they get That's the 10% profits Not bad, actually. How do they run the business? 70% take a loan every day. Every month-- 26 days-- somebody So this is to buy fruit. The interest rate on the Basically, the way it works is and he says, you want to Cash price is this, credit Which one's higher? AUDIENCE: Credit. PROFESSOR: Credit price Basically, you get the same buy it in credit. But the advantage of credit is in the morning, you paid You go back in the evening, 5% per day. So most of these people no, I'm missing one table. Most of these people have been They do this day after day. Nine years they've Every day, they borrow at 5%, morning, they take, let's say, but they actually get 950 rupees then they go sell it. They say this is 1,000 rupees, first first, and then Remember that daily income They pay 50 rupees out So if they didn't pay interest, every day would be 50% higher. It would go from 100 So that's a huge Now here's a way to think about Suppose I took the following Drink one less couple A cup of tea costs, currency, 2 and 1/2 rupees. So let me take one less cup in the business. So what I do is I drink one less 2 and 1/2 rupees less today. That means I don't pay interest rupees, so I get a little I reinvest that. I do that for 30 days. Every day, I drink one less At 5% a day-- you should do this It's stunning. Compound interest really So once you do this for 30 days, your capital. So these women could double one less cup of tea every They've been in this business Their earnings would be 50% They could pay down their entire doing that for 30 So your 1,000 rupees are 30 days worth of tea. So that's sort of stunning, So this goes back to the same which is that there's some these people are somehow-- they're not managing. What they're trying to do in two treatments. They basically think that two could-- maybe one possibility is they need 1,000 rupees to every day, so they can't save. And so they're stuck. So it's not clear why one cup of tea less. So they say, well, maybe if So let's say they owe give them 1,000 rupees. Imagine that there's some reason Do they stay out of debt if Second possibility is that I interest is. I explain to them that if you yourself a lot of money. So there are two treatments. They're experimental, so some of get the other, some So do you see what the I either go to someone and say, 1,000 rupees. Here's 1,000 rupees. You're done. Now from now on, you Or I go to them, and I I'll explain to you Or, I offer them both. So what happens? So that's the question. So some of these people, for got into this debt. Let's say they were liberated Some people were educated on compound interest. So training was half a day explained how much they spent illustrations. If you save just one cup be enough, et cetera. So all of that. Skip. So here's the result. This one's from the-- [INAUDIBLE] let's see which country Philippines. From the Philippines. Here's the basic result. [? Force ?] times payoff ignore everything else look at what it says. Do you have a debt? The question is, do you have lender after two weeks? That number says you are 33% debt from a money lender So two weeks after I pay your you're back to having So 33% don't have a loan, loan after two weeks. After six weeks, 60% After 10 weeks, 80% So basically, after 10 weeks, given just vanishes. They don't seem to be able The same results this is the India study. So debt payoff after-- first, follow up. After three months, so this loan, so 90% after three months So even though these the loan within three months. And the training, just There was no effect OK, you can see, people If you look at the training significant in that row. That's just saying that is the effect of-- if you had had a training, probability you have loan? It's positive, meaning you're but it's suddenly not So it's basically no effect have a loan or not. So the fact they would explain have no effect on whether It's kind of stunning, actually, How are people slipping? Why are they getting So one thing that you they get any shocks-- like somebody gets sick-- if your debt was paid off so you are much more likely to deal own money rather than So what these people are doing money to deal with shocks. So basically, there's so much lives that there's always And when that comes up, deal with the problem. And then you're back borrowing, We'll start to think about what Tuesday, OK? So think about them. Do the reading. We'll talk more about