Hey, guys, this is Toby Mathis, and you're listening to the Anderson Today, I have John Anderson on. He's actually an attorney And John Anderson Anderson. But he focuses specifically and has a long history in that And I just thought you guys would these things as much as I appreciate him So first off, welcome and glad Thank you. Just dove right on in. Can you give me a little background how you got into law, all that fun stuff? Sure. Yeah. So I grew up all over, So Texas, Something I was. Oh, my dad was a professor and my dad's a professor of information systems taught me how to code and stuff So I hated it, decided to rebel So you went from coding to Pretty much. Guessing cousins right there. It is surprisingly how they have with the logic and formulas That is true, actually. So so you're so you're moving all over. I jumped into your story So you moved all over So I actually was going to college, majoring in history. I wasn't quite sure what I wanted to do. I had a sister I thought I could do that and I decided to go to law school. Before I went to law school that specialized in asset And so I got a lot of interest in that And then when I went to law school, and then ended up going back to that firm And is that what you do day Is is you work specifically in the estate Correct. How do you like it? Yeah, it's good. You get all sorts of interesting stories. When you're when you're working in estate Because, you know, I need to know family dynamics. You know, what are your kids like? And so I can get very interesting as far as the stories that I get pulled So without violating any attorney like what are the stories that you've seen Like like do you have any that as like, oh, my God, Yeah. So I had one time where a client called who was a trustee of the estate, withholding assets from them. Mm hmm. Come to find out that the asset They really wanted that garbage can. And they were supposed to get it But the brother was being a pain A garbage can. Like Mike put it. I mean, was it was you. Got to understand, it's a stainless steel Mm hmm. It had, you know, a little pedal, or you push it on the pedal I mean, it was I mean, it couldn't travel through there was that garbage Oh, my God. And they were like, And pretty much so you get crazy stories like that What about court? Have you ever had any just stuff or something and we'll get into what what dove into it but anything that oh my God, So most of my job is one But in the few cases where I have had I had one where and he qualified for a simple probate. So it was supposed to be fairly easy. And she went to the court to see if to use to just file it on her own. She was trying to do it without a lawyer and they handed her a stack of papers you go, I'll just fill this out And she started trying to fill it out There's no, like, information about what's supposed to go in the blank And she just got super frustrated with it, a simplified probate and she ended up and I actually fill out the forms for her so she can actually submit the documents All right. So you mention probate. This would be a good segue into actually talking about what So I have a few little questions What is probate and why should Why would you want to avoid it? So probate, as you love So what you're doing is it all comes down to a signature, right? If I own a piece of property I have to sign my name in order If I'm dead, I can't sign. And so what probate is is it's a court process where the court is authorizing to be able But through that process, So you got to go into the court. You got to you know, if there's a will, you got to present the will, You have to go through some extra steps as that personal representative. And then the court verifies wants inventory of assets, wants You have to do publications And it just takes a lot of time because there's certain language that But you hear lawyers Oh, it's not that difficult. Is that true or is that. Well, there is that term simple probate, but it's not as simple So, like simply going down to the DMV. Yeah. during that probate Even within my own family, the father passed away. It was a young family, young kids. And everything was titled Under His Name. And they no widow The only reason why she was able to get was through the mortician. What the mortician for his services and get paid directly. And so what he did than what And then he took that money so that they could have money until the probate could get through So so probate, Is there are there procedures? I mean, I actually know. But is somebody may not know out there, for a surviving spouse, for example, Is or is it always going to be Well, if it's if they have their name on the account, But if they don't have their name on the account, then They can do an emergency filings to get access to it, And so it's okay, you can get access to it. You're dealing with the court. And I guess the way I've always looked at to deal with the court happening quickly Something that's the ordinary course might be two years to four years Right. Right. I mean, then you've got the Hughes, who who died in 1976, So 34 years. 34 years in probate. Right. An entire generation of attorneys made And could have avoided it. Yeah. Let's be really. Is it this is what always especially those of us here in this area, You can literally just draft around this Correct. If you use a living trust, One thing I often see that maybe some attorneys push is they tell clients but what they actually draft for them is a will that creates a trust Michael J. Test is a testamentary trust. Michael Jackson did that. And so the estate because the will always and then it creates But you can avoid all of that while you're alive, And then you don't have to go through My gosh. So how does the trust specifically Like this is just like a and magically How does a trust avoid probate. So it avoids probate You have to do where you're going to transfer. Because we talked about how the And so instead of having me on that title or that on that property, on the deed, As the owner, I still control it the beneficiary of the trust. Basically nothing changes but my name isn't the name on there I'm just the trustee who automatically steps in Now sign for that property You don't have to go through the courts. There's just an automatic process. And so we get around that signature not you personally. And so instead of having to go please appoint so-and-so to you please sign this. Documents transfer it. It's already in trust. And all we're dealing with is now Is it a is it or is this something that can be So it's a written document. It's handled completely privately. Sometimes there are times where you may it's fairly limited. But you can you can manage things most trust, as long as if we're just doing immediate Are there or are there other methods Like, there are other methods You can use So like with a bank account, or transfer on death This account automatically goes to and you're going to name the individual Isn't that similar to a trust though? Like it's a written document me, here's who steps in It's similar, but it is not the same. The situation that I run into that shows is where a family, but they didn't want to incur the expenses They're actually not that expensive, and they just named the kids You can do it on a deed. You can do it, And so they had beneficiary designations And the kids got all their their cash, The problem is, after someone passes away, debts and taxes that need to be paid. And with a trust, through the trustee who's responsible before making distributions. In this situation, Each of the kid got their share going to give my share to pay these taxes And they didn't do anything. And so the IRS being the IRS, you know, they may take a few years, and went after the estate for the taxes And by that time, the fees and the And they just went after every single So did the kids end up losing A chunk of. It, yeah. They lost majority of it. Too many Christmas. So you're still going to say Does it have to be could you have a trustee third party, fiduciary lawyer, accountant, Does it have to be somebody who's interested or can it be So it can be someone who is interested? So depending on the circumstance is if your kids are older years making immediate It usually works best just to have in situations where you maybe it's usually better especially if you're trying it out too, when the kids are older. Because the situation that I run into but they're supposed to hold the money for a period of time for the other kids It just is a recipe for disaster. You know, the kids are upset. And the other kids telling them, when your kids are little, kid in charge older, everything all the time. And so at the same thing happens The name one kid in charge and for the other kids. You know, their kids are going to rebuild. So what do you do? What would you do in that circumstance? Would you tell them to get a third party? I would tell them to get a third party. So there's professional trustee services, Both banks have a trust department Those are actually usually better and they actually charge And so what if you have a buddy who's a who's really close to the family, Would you would you would you ever name or another relative As long as they are okay with being yelled at, screamed at by the kids. Yeah, sure. But yeah, yeah. He wants the money. Yeah, everybody wants the money. They're going to get pressure. And so every time I've ever dealt with for multiple generations and they and I know within 1 to 2 generations You need to have a position. And what would you say to somebody what if the bank just steals the money? Well, So if the bank tries to steal your money, there are bonds in place Plus, if you look at it, they've been around for a long time for a long time. So there's not really that interest There's also state laws and they're keeping you But yeah, we have a few attorneys that dealt with it. And I think they would say to is yeah, you get yelled at by beneficiaries It's not in their best interest. It's almost like a drug addict. You know. They're screaming, You need to give me money. And sometimes the best answer, not in your best interest. Yeah. And those professional trustees, you know, they'll sit on the phone, and then just say, Oh, well, This is what your parents wanted, In their duty as to the trust itself, What about the lawyer This is you have a young couple John Anderson guy talking about how here's some scenarios or benefits everybody to go through probate You know, we have some young children. And in the end, the lawyer says, It's so much easier or you're not. Your estate's not big enough. When you when you built up an estate, What do you say to that attorney to. I would say, you know, do you really want them I mean, right now and Hesh, if you look at her estate right now, They estimated about $500,000. She wasn't actually worth that much money, And right now And she has a minor son and she has an adult son And they're they're going at it in court. And this this minor child because she didn't if she would have had a trust in place This is how it's going to look. This all could have been avoided and the family wouldn't Even though it wasn't They're still fighting over it. And you're trying to alleviate. Like if she had had a living trust, This would all be private. Correct. And we'd avoid all that nastiness Here's the person who's in charge Correct. Yeah. Because most trusts, at least the ones that we drive to have where if someone contests no, I don't think this is correct, So there's an incentive for them the trust, especially if they're What do you say to the lawyer Because because we all see them. I've been saying it for 25 years and I deal with it all the time. I go out and I'll talk to a group from an attorney It's a it's what we call a loss leader. They'll usually charge Will knowing that later on for the probate work collect a much higher fee from your estate because you didn't do a trust. So a trust is usually it's but it saves a lot of money Do you know or have a rule of thumb to go through probate? So it depends on the estate. Some states have a set amount that you can but typically it's a minimum of 5 to $10000. What about the states like California? What do they have statutory amount Yeah, they have a statutory amount where You know, it's more like what's typical for California. I mean, I don't I'm try to think I looked at this a few years ago, I think I think it started about 3000 even a small, like all you've I know the percentage percentage for the attorney that it scales down But I know the AARP did a study and they were in that state, probate completely with the appraiser, And it may sound like a lot, maybe 100,000. So you're probably looking somewhere if you're going to go through I'm just wondering how accurate that would be Lower, sideways. They also said 18 months was the average. I think, for a complex probate. That's probably about right. Some states So those are usually a bit Now you're still looking at 5 to 10. 5 to 10000. And what would it be? You know, is a is a trust more than that? Less than that, somewhere in that range. So for a trust, you know, your upfront costs, After that, you might need to get an R You might need to get an appraiser, and other professional fees. You might need to file it That's about it. So 2 to 2000, maybe, and that's pretty high now. Now, you'd mentioned something and it's been essentially a living trust Is that a fair statement or do you look at a dynasty trust So, yeah, it's a trust that continues on Instead of distributing out the principal, the principle and trust And then you distribute out typically a What is when do you think I'm just asking you personally what what Multiple generations. So I look at it more on the side of what you would consider So, you know, your typical risk curve, low risk, you're typically going to have Your high risk has a much higher When you're dealing with a dynasty trust, you're going to be expecting just because of the fiduciary standards So you're not going to get a great rate of return, So your principal is going to be protected Whereas if you want to do more, or quicker distributions, is much higher because the kids can go out But there's also that chance So if you're the type of person then I would say a dynasty trust may be If you're someone who's a little bit more risky and you like to go that maybe don't consider a dynasty trust kind of distributions What if you're worried about the decision So like maybe you have a son a spouse that you just don't like, You're not too happy with. Or maybe you have a child or they just Is this a way to It is. So, yeah. If you have a child who has substance then we can protect the assets from the decision and also not enable their behaviors. So you can retain the assets in trust and then have it skip And then we can kind of assess it what are the beneficiaries Now what about we're talking a lot about somebody's passing, but what's the difference trust or things that happened Like, what if I my father had Alzheimer's, What if you have dementia? What if you get hit by a car Just the Living It does. So if you become typically when you set it up, the trust will have provisions that allow As trustee, you're still the beneficiary, so they have But we don't have to go through in order So you don't have to be Britney Spears. Britney Spears is set us up. She could have avoided Also, when we do a trustee, So we're going to name someone that may not be in the trust if you become incapacitated. And we do a health care power of attorney who can be appointed to take care of you if you are incapacitated Now, does a will do any of that? No. Will not avoid any of that. A will only has power in probate court It requires you to pass away Right? Right. Yeah. Do you still Yes, we always do a will. It's called a pour over will. All it does is it says any assets while I while I was alive Now, we don't want to have to use that But there are circumstances will had a situation with an older lady, got in a car accident and they all passed away. Now there's continuing liability from that accident So we actually took even though you had and we took them It was just like a bank account Because she would have a claim On, correct? Yeah. Yeah. Because she would have a claim We had that pour over will in place once this problem the assets Well, once that probate was closed, off against the estate. And so against future claims from that accident. Fantastic. So it's a portable will. It grabs anything that's not in the trust because a lot of people They're going to say it's complex. The attorney is going to say, oh, And yet the fund them and all this stuff, that's a stopgap to say, hey, you know, if you screwed up, if you did everything It's still going to be private. And I guess I should say that does that does a living where everybody can see who's getting So it almost always remains private. Unless there are some kind of a contest, someone challenges the trust, then that trust But even then you don't have to file You may just have to file certain So we typically it's all done privately. We just saw that actually in Kobe where I believe that he had a situation where he left her daughter we draft, we say descendants So if you have more kids, But in his situation of the seeing the court filing the trust but they were able to go through add to the child that was left out. Here's another one. In a past life, John, under certain circumstances representative for a guy And during that 11 years, I had phone calls with doctors who wanted to end life She was she was in a hospital when I took on representation. She had said, don't let anybody kill me. They're all going to want to kill me. Like she was a little bit bonkers She was a very interesting character, But she was just deathly afraid that because she did not have monies that her life was worth less and And I can tell you, On three different occasions, there was where I refused to withhold life And because I had a written directive the extraordinary measures no matter what, I want to use whatever to preserve life. And under all three of those, I only say that not to tick off because somebody may say, I have a representative Let's say you have a family and you're you're brain dead saving measures for months and months against your state, which is, you know, And it could deplete your state. Maybe you want to have to give somebody the power to pull that plug, but able to have a conversation Is that something that's also in a living So it's not necessarily in the living but when we prepare a trust, what's called a living will or sometimes it's called an advanced or directive to physicians. It depends on what state you're in, to the doctors on what type of care if you're unable to And so there was a situation that I saw where the father he was, he was basically brain dead. And they to all get there, to say their goodbyes. And then they were going to pull the plug and the problem was there's a lot of kids, and it took a long time for everybody And by the time they pulled And so he was actually a vegetable, but a stable condition for many years and required constant care whereas if they had if you had a document, no, I'll just pull the plug on me, That whole situation Oh, wow. Did the hospital preserve it or did that that enabled So the family of a hospital as much as possible from either a person appointed by or a living And I guess they, without getting too far into the weeds as a will cover that. No. Yeah. So I guess the reason I ask is because there's a misconception when in reality Either And when when I like you, But when I hear somebody say, well, how does how do you usually react to that? Do you do you try to do an education animals? How do you respond? So I usually try and understand but probably 90% of the time I'm There are a few circumstances or beneficiary designations I may steer someone, but 9090 5% of the time I'm going to end up I'll let them know why that is. So it's like if you own any real estate, then they're just going to straight up But it doesn't matter how much it's worth. If you have real estate that automatically kicks You might as well have a living trust. What if you have like, what if I'm piece of property, let's say in Hawaii, You know, I'm I'm doing pretty well properties there or something. Are you probated If if I have a will and is it the same if I have a trust? So if you have a will, yes. You are opening a probate. They're called ancillary probate. So you'll have a primary probate and then any assets you have probate to then be opened within that with a living trust. On the other hand, and things are just being ancillary process. Your trustee is just taking control of it So the living trust, I'm not having I'm to do that Banter and you never know what the because each state may have its own estate tax and it applies to So if you own property, but you own property in Oregon $1,000,000, unless you do some type of extra planning, Wow. So you still can do it Even even in the case of Oregon, you could try to get around that. Interesting. So hopefully this is I always find these conversations interesting John, this is going to be But if you were going back maybe somebody who is in high school or whatnot, what kind of advice if you can, if you're able to let's say it's 16 year old John and you're able Now, what would you say. Ethan? Bitcoin's one thing that got me into estate planning was actually received Wasn't a lot. It was something. And it was So it wasn't a ton of money. But I took that money and I invested it. And so one thing and it's grown about 20 times since and it's been about 15 years since I was young, about 15 years And so, you know, And one thing I would consider But also, maybe give something to your grandkids Let them play around with it. Are they going to blow it? Probably. I mean, I have a brother and it was gone in two months, but So take the training wheels off. Let. Let them get out there, huh? Fantastic. Well, and I think we appreciate the candor Lawyers are sometimes difficult to sit in. You were very, very straightforward. So I really appreciate that. And if somebody is trying they want to reach out to you How would they get it? How would they get a hold of you? The best to get a hold of me So estate My assistant usually takes care of the emails, but then it'll get dark to come directly Fantastic. Thanks for joining me today.