- These are my prescription pants. They were made to fit my body exactly by using a 3D scan that They were made by this company, and now, they've developed a 3D robot loom that can basically make - We can produce products differently than they're made to fit me. - Every single person who's &quot;My legs are too short. &quot;My calves are too big.&quot; - They're fantastic legs. - It's the pants that have been the problem. - What if the future of to buy clothing that fits Why do this? Well, it turns out fashion is one of the most wasteful - Apparel has just been built because that's really all we - There are significantly deeper issues that we're talking about here- it's not just a pair of pants. - Technologies like this mean that fit us perfectly - It's really difficult because we haven't made it. We're missing that whole picture. - Come see how it works. This is &quot;Hard Reset,&quot; a series about rebuilding I came to visit the folks at unspun, where they've reinvented one in human history-the loom. - The whole system that we're creating is trying to go back to the beginning of why clothing should exist and how it should exist in the world. - This is Beth Esponnette, and you could say unspun - I planted a dress form in my garden, and there were chia seeds all over it, and it grew into this it depends on who you ask. These snails thought it was - They're a market too. Yes, they really ate it up, literally. - The chia vest was not but it got them moving - It brought us back to additive manufacturing that felt right, building from the ground up, but the materials that we were using weren't the right ones to be commercial. - This is Kevin, one of and as far as we know, he - So unspun is building a very different method by fundamentally just rethinking all of the steps involved in the process. The specific approach that is three-dimensional weaving, going from very flat conventional weaving to a much more 3D and seamless process. - The core of our technology takes yarn, three dimensionally builds the so it's an additive process, - This is Walden, another co-founder. Normally, we spread out our introductions, but we're doing 'em all at the beginning, so we can weave 'em Get it? Weave them together- nevermind. Anyway, it's tempting to think of this as something like a 3D but it's not that. It's just a loom that works - The difference is really that we're taking the exact same yarns that are in your jeans or your dress shirt or your jacket, putting those into a machine, and just building a seamless - The loom can weave seamless tubes. Those tubes get sewn together Also, this is a Jacquard loom, each strand can be that allows for intricate patterns to be woven into the cloth. - It's a 3D weave, so it doesn't have any so it's just kind of a full piece. &quot;Jacquard&quot; means that every single yarn that's on the machine is controlled individually, so you're not stuck with a plain You can start to build You can even write your name in it. - This is a bit of a full circle: The first Jacquard and the punch cards that were a foundational technology that helped inspire Thank Ada Lovelace the next because all the electronics are the distant descendants of software she wrote Thank you, Ada. Now, software is powering and coordinating little robots inside a loom to do things that were previously unimaginable. This is such a new technology to film the guts of it, but I was able to look at - Basically, it's like that are taking a whole ton of threads and weaving them up and down really fast as these carts of thread circle around and weave it all together; it's actually really hypnotic to watch. - Weaving is a very precise technology. We are communicating signals within millimeters of each other in terms of weaving instructions. - Rather than things we're now timing everything Our machine operates much in terms of the control than the even advanced - We've got some product and I would describe this, as just denser, really good coverage, so that's really the biggest difference is they're about four times as many yarns being used in this product, - The result is that this that produce far less waste and can be custom made to fit your body. Eventually, you could upload and have garments woven - This is where we're finally getting to that economical point, where 3D weaving is now just as affordable and significantly faster than a very manual cut done on the opposite side of the world. - One pair of pants is like - Yeah, it's 10 minutes on machine, and then we have finishing steps that are fewer than 10 minutes. - The way clothes get - Apparel manufacturing, conventionally, is cotton grown in a field that filters and processes the fiber, twists those fibers, spins them, and then that factory sells putting 'em on these big beams, and then weaving them together to create fabric to another factory, who's buying that fabric, laying it out, cutting out these like Waste just gets thrown away at 10% or 15% of all of the fiber up to that point. Cookie cutter pieces and you have a pair of pants. - Each step in this process There's water pollution from and overproduction that gets - The weird thing is there is so little transparency that nobody can really Depending on the sources that you trust, the fashion industry accounts of global human carbon emissions. - Apparel is top three, top five dirtiest industries in the world. The bulk of that is not necessarily billowing smoke out of factories. It's an industry that has just become so standardized on waste. - During any season, you typically are 25%, even up to 30% of the garments, because there is a mismatch - 30% is a lot. Like, imagine building houses and then burning 30% of them or just erasing 30% off See? No bueno. - This becomes hundreds spent to make something, move it around the world a couple times, it doesn't get sold, and is ultimately shredded - And people in this - Seeing that was super devastating for me because I had lived my whole life thinking it's this glamorous industry; it's really good for everyone, - If you were going to you might start by making an automated three-dimensional loom. I mean, that's what I would do, but the folks at unspun did it first. Anyway, with this approach, a yarn can be made directly into a garment in a single location, and it can be made on-demand There's no scraps, no overproduction, and a lot less international shipping. - In clothing, we saw an opportunity to build something additively so that you could do it you could have it on demand. And by changing the manufacturing method, you could also inform what So if you're very thoughtful about let's weave these yarns together and not really hurt the then you could go backwards and unravel those back into So this is an example of material that was woven and then rewoven again, so the yarn stayed intact and then was able to go - That's really fascinating. This is on its second life as a product? - Exactly, yeah, it was a skirt before, and now it's a pair of shorts. - Environmental impacts aside, how will this affect the Well, for most people, the biggest impact might just be clothes that actually fit them. - One of the original I was passing through They have a picture of all the Olympians, and it's really shocking how If you walk into a there is no way you can for every one of them. These are people top of the game, and still you cannot find fitting garments for this small group of people. And if you extrapolate that then it just becomes a shocking problem. - Does every product need to just fit you? Probably not. I'm relatively happy with my socks. Most of the time, a medium T-shirt or a but just about everybody of not being able to - For example, me. Fat guy in a little coat - Also me- And this too, is me. - Nothing fits me, god damn it. - Currently, clothes are Shockingly, this system to make it easier to manufacture uniforms. - Originally, it was because they were the to take all their measurements. And then, in the late '30s, the USDA paid money to survey women, and that became the standard for decades. - Standard sizing, at the end of the day, isn't even standard. It's not about helping it's about making them cheaper - The whole reason sizes exists is because manufacturing things, or a lot of slightly different things, adds a lotta complexity to the process. It's so much more manageable when it's just software and than trying to align of hundreds of humans - What if your clothing What if everyone had that fit like they were That's possible, and not just in a &quot;Back - 'This thing doesn't fit. - 'Size adjusting.' - unspun made a proof of which allows you to scan They use the 3D data to create a custom-fitted pair of jeans. I tried it, and it was really delightful to put on a pair of jeans that just fit. Hopefully, this is what all shopping will be like in the future. - Our vision is on-demand manufacturing, and for us, it came to, we can prove on demand is here through this custom fit where we take a 3D scan of your body and then build you a - This proof of concept was developed before the 3D loom was ready to go. So, these jeans were but in the future, it's possible to combine to create truly personal We mentioned earlier that the loom is one of our oldest technologies, but an even older one is shaving. Just like unspun has rethought the loom, our sponsor for this has challenged all our Razor companies have spent decades and millions and millions of dollars convincing you that you to get a smooth shave, but they ignore the impacts on your skin. Well, Henson turned that around. Imagine a nice smooth shave 2/3 of men say they expect some but it doesn't actually Henson's research shows that most modern razor blade cartridges are just not supporting All those little variances on the quality and consistency of a shave. Well, with their 20 plus years of experience in aerospace machining, Henson made a razor that is super well supported and precise. Personally, I insist when I put a sharp blade You should too, because it doesn't just it allows you to get a good shave without damaging your skin. I really love my Henson razor. It's easily the best It uses standard affordable blades that are totally recyclable, so there's no waste like If you want a precise shaving experience that protects your skin, go to hensonshaving.com/hardreset. If you buy a razor and a just enter the code &quot;reset,&quot; and you will get the blades for free. 100 blades like this, by the so this is a great way to 'hard Sponsored section over, let's So, picture a scenario where on demand and they always fit perfectly. These robotic looms are small and nimble, and with minimal labor, they can distribute clothing manufacturing to more places around the - So if we're closer we're close to where the it makes that on-demand model possible. - In a world where we have this distributed all across the United States, we can produce 100,000 but we could also produce So I think the shift is gonna move away from these big mega to a much more distributed world of lots of different design and expression because that fundamental starts to be lowered. - Imagine walking into a and walking out with a that was made only for you. This isn't just about it could actually change with your clothes. - Currently, how we think about With our technology, the so that in two years when fashion cycles, inevitably they will come back, but you can still have that optionality of self expressing in a - What we have should have value, no matter if it's day one Is there a way that we what we make in this world not being trashed at the end of life? Can we kind of reframe that?