A piece of furniture made for the most distinguished citizens of its time. And that didn't leave this piece untouched. It has survived more than 200 years. Definitely worth taking care of its restoration. Eberhard Metzner is an expert. He and his team will take care of the preciousness. We got a chest of drawers that comes from Leipzig. Over 200 years old. It is to be restored. - Mmm. There's a lot for us to do there. Alright, let's drive them in, shall we? - Let's drive them in. We'll discuss the details later. - Good. His journeyman, Jan Kobelt, is to devote himself to the demanding task. I looked it up, it looks like the chest of drawers is from the famous first furniture factory Friedrich Gottlob Hoffmann from Leipzig. There are two chests of drawers shown. Also in the same wood. Once here and once there. Which are still preserved. It could be something like the one shown here. Then we'll just take a very rough look at what to do for them. We definitely have loose veneers, the old paint has to come off. There are wrong fittings on it. They are later, they came up 100 years ago. Then I saw that feet are missing. One is still there, but it's pretty dilapidated. Then we have to see that the drawers follow suit. Because they run very hard. The back wall has also disappeared. The back wall has to come out, there's a hole in it. And it doesn't fit properly anymore. Finally, the surface, the shellac surface, would be renewed and restored. That would be the worst for you. Then it's time to get to work. So now we're going to take a look at the runners on the chest of drawers. Because there is usually a large part of the work involved. Aha. So, as you can see, a lip is missing. The bottom has shrunk a lot and got a huge shrinkage crack. You can already clearly see that the runners have run down quite a bit. This is due to the constant opening and closing. The two pieces of wood run into each other and a small piece of wood is always scraped away. At some point, after 200 years, it looks like the rear ones have leaked a lot. We'll probably have to add that. We also have a small shrinkage crack here. This is because the bottom of the drawer, as you can see here, is nailed on and therefore the wood cannot work. It is always held at the corners, and when the wood shrinks, shrinks, cracks automatically form on it. Here, too, we have to loosen the nails and close the crack again. (He groans.) Okay. We 're going to remove the back wall, which unfortunately was nailed down in a very unprofessional way. The nails are also driven through down here. We will try to gently drive the nails outside. So now we could catch him. (quietly:) Ui, ui, ui! Dismantling brings the first important details to light: We noticed that you can't remove the running rails to the rear, which is relatively untypical. Because normally you pull the runners out to the rear. i.e. for us that the trusses have to be removed at the front, but before you remove them, you practically have to first iron the veneer on the edge on the sides. Here below you can see the ridge connection from the traverse to the side. Then we can practically simply remove them to the front. Then we can pull out the runners to the front. So things get more complicated. Steam and heat dissolve the old glue. Even after more than 200 years, you can still get to the substance. (quietly:) Oh dear, oh dear. Jan Kobelt has to proceed very carefully step by step, because the valuable veneer must not break. The trainee Cara Kreutzer immediately washes off the loosened glue with plenty of water. After all, the valuable veneer has to go back to its old place, but with new glue. (Hammering) The old treadmills have to come out, but with great care. Damage to the side wall would be fatal. (Rhythmic hammering) (Rhythmic clicking) Done! The first bar is removed. The loose veneer must be glued again. But now old mistakes are coming to light, which means additional work. Here is an old restoration. The piece was probably inserted after the . But they both have to go. (Hammering) Slowly it becomes clear how much time has taken its toll on the old piece. More and more abysses are opening up beneath the surface. The veneer is closed again with contemporary fish glue, an unappetizing recipe . A few repetitions are necessary for this, because the detached veneer is stubborn and remains in the position it has once taken. The glue is applied to all loose spots with great care. The furniture is forced into the old shape with screw clamps. Even the smallest spot is glued and squeezed with great care. Many hours pass with this work - well. This process must be repeated several times before the wood retains its old shape. (clank and clink) with this work. retains the old form. When the surfaces are finally finished, it's time for the edges. Here you can see a nice corner, how to demonstrate the shrinking of the wood nicely. Here we have a dovetailed body made of solid pine wood, which is practically doubled with an end strip to artificially create a panel overhang. It's structured in such a way that we would have this record here, theoretically. And here in front the crest of the brain would bump into it. The wood works more in width than in length. As a result, we can now see here on the corner that the crest of the brain has worked its way free as a result of the disappearance. And now we're going to trim it here since it's already loose. Then we can practically press the veneer in such a way that it gives a nice finish again. So, now the overhang is marked with the square. We used the veneer knife and now we're going to cut straight down. (sound of sawing) So now we're going to back the veneer with glue. With fish glue. (Inaudible mumbling) While the glue sets again, it's time to find the right wood for the new runners and back wall. Apart from the corresponding type of wood, the main focus here is on aesthetic aspects: Are the grain and color correct and is the length of the fiber suitable for the object? Once the selection has been made, a rough cut is made in the wood store. (Machine whirrs) The timber is further processed on the circular saw. It is slowly becoming clear what is intended for what. But the final shape is only stamped down to the millimeter on the planing machine. The square is used to measure one last time, then comes the finishing touches. (chat and laughter in the background) A special plane will cut the groove to fit the furniture. The new running track is ready and can be installed for the next 200 years. (Machine whirrs) The woodworm did a great job on the back wall. Some sections need to be replaced. Although the back wall is made of simple wood, it is not unproblematic with regard to restoration. First, what can no longer be saved is cut off. The woodworm may have long since left the wood, but its traces remain. (Machine noise) The repair piece is planed to the correct thickness. If the angle is also right, the gluing can begin. Hold on, wait, wait. - Like this. The workpiece is clamped again so that the glue can set well. (Metal clatter) (Chatter) The excess glue is simply washed off with water. Back to the body. The bog oak edge needs to be touched up. The old wood is removed and the surface is meticulously prepared for the new piece. While the glue dries it goes to the damaged lip of the drawer. Again, precision work has to be done here so that the repair ultimately blends invisibly into the overall picture. (Saw noises) The ends of the new lip are processed with the help of the miter gauge. Then the piece is glued to the final position. In the meantime, the glue on the bog oak edge has tightened and further processing can begin. After the overhang has been sawn off, the edge can be adjusted with the small planer and sandpaper . (grinding noises) Almost invisible! The film prevents the alcohol mixture from evaporating. This is the best way to dissolve the old paint. &quot;Washing up&quot; is what the professional calls it. What is revealed now is the wonderful grain of the old veneer. The color and structure of the wood still fascinate the viewer even after more than 200 years. Original veneer is required for minor repairs to the front . After all , the repaired areas should no longer be noticeable in the end. Here and there we still have veneer chips here and there on the trusses, which we will now practically repair with old veneer. The old veneer has several advantages. First, it's an original veneer from the period, and it practically has the surface patina already. And if you have found a piece that is practically identical, also in terms of grain, you can use it invisibly. The piece is practically adapted in such a way that you only have to cut away a small piece of the original veneer. So that the most is preserved. It's practically just a form now, I'll put it over here. Then I cut it with the knife to fit exactly. (grinding noises in the background) Alright . Now comes the big moment. Fits perfectly. (Machine whirrs) We continue with the almost 4,000-year-old bog oak. A real feast for the eyes is made: Tooth frieze. (Machine noise) We've now cut the bog oak edging here, and maple edging as well. We will now glue them in layers, alternating on top of each other. When the board is glued, we will cut it into 2.5 millimeter strips with a circular saw and then glue them together to form a flat board. (Machine noise) (knocking in the background) And again the freshly glued workpiece is clamped. After a few hours of waiting, Jan Kobelt can mark the right length. (Saw noises) All that's missing is the right patina. First, damaged areas of bog oak are repaired with wax. The excess is removed with a chisel. Then the grinding follows. And finally, the color is reconstructed with the appropriate stain mixture. Such fillet woods are also embedded in the panel. Here the repair is even more complex because the neighboring veneer should not be damaged if possible. After cutting, the strips are cut to the exact size. Everything has to fit exactly. There is only one try when inserting. The groove is worked out carefully. And glued in the repair piece at the end. The rear panel is prepared for reinstallation. The glued wood is processed using the same method as the rest of the back wall 200 years ago. Well, a foot was lost, unfortunately it's no longer there. So now we have to build a new foot. Now it's about building a sawing aid on the circular saw, for which you first have to take the rough measurements. We have to consider that we first make the foot as a blank, made of pine, which then has to be veneered again on all sides. Now you just have to take all the measurements. I built a template here to cut the feet on the circular saw at an angle. The template works in such a way that I have marked the sloping measurement here at the back. I made a small notch here, into which I can then put the block, lock it and then tighten it with the clamping lever. So the template now cuts the wedge evenly from here in front to here. After that I can open the lever and turn it around. For the second notch, because one notch has already been cut away, I need another point further forward. Otherwise this wouldn't work. Then the foot would not become evenly symmetrical, conical. (Saw noise) This is the finished foot, with a square surface at the bottom. We used the template for this, so that the bevel is cut evenly from practically all sides. The repair work is almost complete. The rear feet are reinstalled along with the back panel. So. ( Squeaking noises ) (rattling noises) The locks and fittings are still missing. This is again about authenticity. The spare parts should definitely be contemporary. A specialist company like Metzner has a large pool. Otherwise you would have to search for a long time on the Internet or in specialist markets. A suitable key is still missing. I'm ready to make the key. We have a blank key here. We put it in the lock, but it doesn't close yet. That is, we have to file it in width and height so that it goes past the lock case. The lock also has a tumbler. That means we have to cut a groove in the key so that the key can slide past the tumbler. (Squeaking noises) I put a bed of wax on the key here to make an impression of where the tumbler should sit. I just put that in, turn the key slightly, pull it out and I have the exact imprint here where the groove should be. The groove for the tumbler is cut out. Now we can see if the key fits. Yes fits. We will now install the lock case. It has the recess for the key guide here. Now he is plugged in like this. Then it is attached with the original hand-forged nails. We chose these rosettes. They are exactly the same diameter as the old ones and are also practically contemporary, like the originals. We have this box from the estate of another restorer who had it from an ancient carpenter's workshop being closed. They were wrapped in greaseproof paper, that 's why they look so incredibly new. But they are really original fittings from the time. You can see the hole from the lion's head was still down here. And up here was the hole from the pull ring, from the lion's head. There was another small hole from the lion's head on top, but we closed that up. And the rosette now practically covers the larger hole. And then the pull ring comes on top of it. On which you can then open and close the chest of drawers. We bought the pull rings some time ago, also from an inheritance. But they fit very, very well with this model. A very special template is made on the lathe . (Whirring machine noise) I made a negative mold here to drill the rosette. It was a bit difficult because you couldn't take the exact shape. I had to approach the shape by the millimeter until the rosette fitted right over there. The rosette is stamped from very thin sheet metal. If you tried to drill a hole for the keyhole, it would tear and it would bend. The keyhole can now be drilled on the drill press. The crowning glory is the polish. Nothing creates greater depth in the gloss than shellac. You now have to notice when the bale starts to pull. The shellac is evaporating now. So, the alcohol evaporates, the shellac stays on. But that is extremely sticky. If you stayed there too long, you would tear everything down again. You now do this 1,000 or 2,000 times over each digit. After that it is a closed, high-gloss surface. Only a few specialists are still able to process this stubborn material so perfectly. Those who do an apprenticeship here, like Cara Kreutzer, are still learning an ancient craft. (quietly:) I might have a chance up there. So now several polishing operations are over. The top polish is done. Now we have to polish off the oil, which we need for polishing so that the bale runs well, using high-proof alcohol. Now only the fittings are missing. When nailing, you have to be careful not to press the nail too deeply onto the fitting, so that it doesn't dent, because they are stamped so wafer-thin. (Inaudible mumbling) The fittings are installed. And the furniture begins to shine with its old beauty. When the drawers are back in place, this elaborate restoration is finally complete. The furniture shines in old beauty. Ready for master's approval. Let's see how it turned out. Did it turn out well? - Oh cool. Yes. Tell me what was done. Filet ribbons here and there. And back there? Its done? At the corners and here a piece in the middle. Fittings, locks. The feet in front and behind... - Replaced, right? We repaired one and replaced the other. The back panel inserted. - Ah yes. The bog oak edges all around. They were missing or had been eaten away. At the bottom of the traverse, the veneer work that had split off. - Yes. And on the toothed frieze here. - The piece that was missing. That looks good, wonderful. Very nice color. Then drive them out into the window. A place of honor in the shop window was specially reserved for the presentation of this feast for the eyes . (traffic noise) SWR 2018