[APPLAUSE] Thank you. Greetings, everyone. I am Suzie Clark, the Director Center and the Morton B. here at Harvard University. Welcome to tonight's event, in conversation with Scott Tong. Tonight's program between the Harvard Bookstore series at the Mahindra The Mahindra Writer brings significant to speak on campus, with literary conversation. It is convened by is Associate Director here at Harvard University. I am grateful to Duncan to the Writers Speak series, together today's event. I'm also grateful to Director of the Mahindra and Mary MacKinnon, the as well as the rest of at the Mahindra Center. And I am absolutely thrilled has this opportunity to Bookstore. It is located, as I'm and if you don't, it's located on 1256 Mass. Ave. And it is locally I absolutely love the And if you are any-- yes. [APPLAUSE] And if you are anything like is always a wonderful My favorite section is the staff book choices. And any time I'm passing I always have to in new in hardback window or And, in fact, when I walked past PM last night, I saw in the window. And that filled me with for tonight's event. So today, we celebrate of short stories, Old which is hot off the press; shelves and in the newly in your possession. And so now I will to Cassier Riva, who is at the Harvard Bookstore, Margaret Atwood and Scott Tong. Please join me in welcoming her. And I hope you Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Hello, everyone. Welcome. We're so delighted to My name is Cassie Riva. I'm the Director of Events On behalf of the store, I'm to tonight's program. And I just want to thank Humanities Center, for helping to make our wonderful ASL [APPLAUSE] --the lovely folks for allowing us to use [APPLAUSE] Real quickly, all of the have been signed. Margaret came by earlier at the so you guys could all We have additional signed We also have some of There is no signing So once it's over, in your seats for a few going to release you. And you can either purchase And, lastly, I just want to from Harvard Bookstore. Your purchases support our and help ensure the future of so Thank you. And now I'm thrilled to Margaret Atwood is the legendary Her 1985 classic, of which the popular was followed in 2019 by a was a global number and won the Booker Prize. Atwood has won numerous including the Arthur C. and Service to Society, the Award, and the Dayton among many, many others. In 2019, she was made of the Companions of Honour She's also worked as a playwright, puppeteer, good at using a flamethrower. [LAUGHTER] Tonight, she will in the Wood, her dazzling new In a rave review from they say Atwood in this brilliant mixes fantastical stories about She's writing at the top Joining her tonight is Scott Tong, co-host of Here &amp; and author of A So now, please join me in and Scott Tong. [APPLAUSE] Thank you. OK. Many, many years ago-- I love you. Great. Many years ago, a colleague of mine, said, can I give you And he said, number starts complaining about [LAUGHTER] And he said, number two, So I know my job here tonight to hear from Margaret Atwood. A little sneak peek-- we for an interview that will And she did sneak you snuck in, that and I remember your word-- trash So if we're nice to her get some additional I first want to actually engage to just get a sense-- I think we can see somewhat. You are out there. How many of you have [APPLAUSE] OK, that looks like a good-- I don't know, maybe half or so. How many of you have [CHEERS] Yeah, way more than half. How many have read The [CHEER] Good number. We're at Harvard here. And how many of the significance and Gilead? Well, that's where we'll start. Oh, naughty. All right. Yes, Harvard was not amused when The Handmaid's Tale. They were not amused. They did not think bodies hanging on or the Secret Service They took a dim view. But they have come around since. [LAUGHTER] Otherwise, they This isn't in Florida. Hey. [CHEERS] We have choice words for as well. Before we came on, about how you came as you were researching Maybe just tell us and how it relates to Gilead? Well, yes, every single is a building in this area. And I particularly I was writing The that if you stood on that you can actually see from that point, that if you don't somebody's going [LAUGHTER] It will not any longer be a with blue and red crayons, It'll will be someone shrieking You can't see Widener Library [LAUGHTER] Like that. Yeah, so you have Yeah, I understand. We have some of your questions, We'll certainly talk But let's talk about your new Babes in the Wood. And another be for sale after this is done. And we talked about These are concentrated and memory, and time passing. And it's punctuated by and fun all the way throughout. Many of your books are in time, to what the future-- what a dystopian Does this one have a little Well, yes. I think you could say Or let us say, that it's a lot easier to do that You got more scope, So it always quite I see a memoir written by [LAUGHTER] --there's more. No, I'm a consultant. I give advice. I know. I guess, speaking of looking in this series of have two characters, to readers in the past, from Tig and Nell, a in some of these stories. They bear a fairly close Yes. Let's cut to the chase here. [LAUGHTER] Yes. Did I really take our St. John's Yes, I did. Oh, that's the first I've taken it now. I'm not very good at it. Were you any good at it? Let's find out? [LAUGHTER] That sounds good. Yeah. I'm really, really, really good And I can say, stand back. Give them room. I can do that part. This book is dedicated to Can you talk a little bit more is in here. Well, you're just going to have [LAUGHTER] --which you've already done. Yes. So various episodes-- I think at the beginning. So that we've got Tig and And then we have some less so the interview with I do want to ask about that. England was very They wanted to know So there's that one. There's one in which finds itself in a It's challenging. I have different And I got a chance to &quot;Patient Griselda,&quot; which is Decameron-- but this of the sadistic, evil husband. I've always been very because this woman was held wives should be. So I've contrived a [LAUGHTER] And this is a story narrated is on an entertainment holed up due to COVID. He's there to entertain them. He or it-- we're not sure. And the Decameron was it not, during Yes. The frame story is that a bunch have all died, go off and entertain one another by taking turns telling stories. And it is a great It's one of the wonderful Chaucer used it, for instance. Canterbury Tales. He used some stuff from Yeah. Is it &quot;The Pardoner's Tale&quot; Oh, my goodness. --the pandemic? OK, I get one point Did you look that Yes, preparation. I want you to tell asked you to read earlier today-- but a great out of the country. And they learn from Nell's You don't have to I would like you to read But what's happening there? Well, this is a beloved cat-- so more beloved by And she is rewriting Tennyson's because she finds So King Arthur is the dead cat-- and then all of the So Sir Bedivere And it all rhymes-- A quick read. --it all the rhymes and scans. Yes. But at the end-- I'm not going to tell you Tennyson really knew his deaths. The Victorians were I think possibly because so many But he was very good I once read The Morte of hardened 21st century And I made them cry. But that was Tennyson He's just really good at it. So Tennyson is infused And then there's also-- I stunning Tennyson not in this very theater, because I was a graduate student That's what I was doing I wasn't reading witchcraft [LAUGHTER] It's down there. And yet, in Margaret you managed to include the dead The dead cat did end And that's a detail Yeah. So the sister, who was because she has had to has decided that she is so that Nell can give So she wraps it and puts it in the freezer. I point out that but she's got two roommates. And so it is unknown whether she told in amongst the sausages there was a very ceremonially And Nell is on the Is she in Ireland-- Well, there's a better --next to the hamburgers, Yeah. There's a really good not mine. I used to-- talking about trashy you could get these Now, there were of people who had been found So they're often quite stupid. [LAUGHTER] And one group of people in the freezer, gone to Florida, or so they could continue They hadn't murdered her. They had just frozen her. I'm not giving Yeah. Can I ask you to do Maybe I can read with you. This is the interview with So this is part of a series It's run by a magazine called who are still alive, are of their choice So I get to interview I've always wanted to do. And the connection isn't great. You talk about that, right. She's a medium-- Yeah, yeah. --in a trance. I mean, how else And I'm happy to is allowed to smoke because you can He's hacking. He is. He should never have done it. He had bad lungs. But he was a demon smoker. Can we go to page 84, and And I'll be George Orwell. Oh, aha. Dramatic inclinations, Where would you like to start? How about the-- so this at the top of 84. Yes. And I will say top of '84. You'll be interested to know is still being in the United States. I'm not surprised. The way they tried to paper the Jim Crow laws. You can't have those kind of If indeed that country You're not going to [LAUGHTER] Yes, but no. I've got public radio. I think that's all You'd be amazed on the minimum. There's a lot of disinformation You'd be amazed be manipulated into believing. Actually, it may be even At least still and didn't try from outer space. [LAUGHS] Taking lessons from that have they been? Possibly his early fiction. But at least he like a lot of Anti what? It's complicated. [LAUGHTER] And the rest will have is delightful to read this. And can you talk about-- and you mention this, about this-- the influence on your writing. Yes, and that's why I chose him. So first of all, he because I read Animal Farm. And then there was-- Animal Farm, I to be like Wind in the And then of course and the pigs go to the behaving very badly indeed. And the worst part is when they to the glue factory. Let it telling him he's facility for faithful workers. But they're actually going And the other and they run down the road come back, Baxter, come back. But he can't. Hmm. Yes, I made Australians cry [LAUGHTER] It's hard to make [LAUGHTER] Hardened cases. [CHUCKLES] Well, this passage refers to about the rewriting of history. We're talking about that Whether it's the rewriting or the teachings of How do you think about today on that? Which public conversation? There seem to be Some are pro, some are against history to a certain extent. Of course, because to be favorable to their side. Whatever that may be. And sometimes, they So for instance, in high the Canadian history book It was about wheat. Because they hadn't put in because some of those So they thought we, child, were better off not knowing So I grew up thinking Canadian And then I found out stuff. Right? Your book, I read by a county in my Oh, yes. Well, that's not the only one. OK. No, that has a long And way back when I a book called In is about science fiction I put in a letter that I had in Texas, which at that But the students had and they had debated it. And the students had won. They got it reinstated. So I went to some pains to point they banned it was they thought But it is not anti-Christian. It is anti the use and the as a tool of totalitarianism. Not that that's ever [LAUGHTER] Is that the given reason of your book being banned? The newest-- What is the justification? I think the justification in it, unlike the Bible. [LAUGHTER] Wait, time out, there's There is a lot of and there's also a lot So if you want people you must ban the Bible. It's a very shocking why it's held people's It's got good action in it. Totalitarianism, you You have spoken about it. And about two leavers two of many, I control of the judiciary. Oh, the way they got To enforce what they're trying Absolutely. So if you're going the first thing get older the radio stations, and the newspapers. But I'm not advising So that's your first move. And your next move is to so that the judges rubber stamping whatever it to do. And then of course you eliminate that you can get your hands on. You either shoot or scare them enough so So you don't want Do you see any happening in the United You're not there yet having this evening together. We're still going so far, yeah. We're still going so far. They have not And they're still letting I have been banned from Russia. Congratulations. [LAUGHTER] Yes, me and 99 We're not allowed into You were in what was then I was. --in the '80s when you were Can you talk about what you as you were writing that went into the So there's a lot of background and some of it is from that part is from history going And some of it in 1978. We went around the world. And because you could and we were going to We stopped in Iran eight months And we stopped in before Dowd was assassinated. So we were some to see it before all of this So some of the background and what is it like in a allowed to be seen? But the Iron Curtain stuff, You probably remember a film Yeah. That was part of the atmosphere. It was pretty tight The next one was Czechoslovakia. And we were able to but only in a field. Because it seemed that anything inside was going We needed a light bulb and the Bellman had said, So we stood underneath we need a light bulb here. The light bulb has gone out. Two minutes later, knock [LAUGHTER] Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. And the next one was Poland. And Poland was much So we were even in the was supposed to be a and our writer friend Which is forbidden literature. And we said, sure. They said, wait here a minute. They're keeping it on the So things were partly because there And that opposition was And it was too big for them And it was in a state because a priest murdered in the trunk of a car. So there was a power and it was in Poland, that the cracks first appeared. Yeah, mm-hmm. So very interesting to talk And they had to trust because you couldn't and say everything that you Because that would get Mm-hmm. It reminds me, I was based in and the situation being comfortable or being you talk to is-- and this is back in 2009 in where the minority Uyghurs are. And the only place that many was a cabbie inside his cab, or Outdoors. Yeah, outdoor. And he said, do you have a-- I want you to pull Do you have a hidden microphone? I said, yeah. And I mean, it was that And I guess my how much were those to describe Gilead? Well, the Gilead has the It has different symbols And on the Central you never pulled down a pyramid. If you wanted another on top of an existing one. So societies are like that. They build on top of They change the names, the But it's a structure that And the pyramid underneath the pyramid is 17th century Puritanism. [LAUGHTER] I can say that land They were 17th century So then you had the 18th You had the enlightenment. You have the revolution. You have the Declaration You have all of that. But underneath it then resurges in is something called And this does tend It does come back. But when it comes about that people are familiar with. So yeah, you'll be very Red Memory, which I bet It's coming out and it's people talking and what it was like to live of view. But it's clear that you can't without truth. And you can't have allowed to talk about it. So like that. It's a very interesting book. So my parents, when they got out of China just And so many of their speaking of the And when I was living there, about the famine of the late to survive. And the Cultural he told me was, because to these ethnic Chinese on in Taiwan, right, they were Targeted. And he would talk about because she didn't And she was forced in the winter Sorry. And where the icicles and she would stand And in the course of just history, I'd ask And he didn't say too much but that was kind of it. And I guess what I to your short stories, about the value of telling and of mourning. Because in many cultures, My uncle would say I can but what's the point? Why? Practically speaking, it's I mean, a lot of the way they stop Well, especially if the now has decided that you There was an opening up got out of hand. There was too much opening up. So then, there was a And that's what she talks Anyway, this is a whole conversation, and you on a book called The World is about this thick, and by footnote account went on behind the scenes like why Mao did it. What was he afraid of? And how the-- --power struggle his return to-- Well he was afraid that-- --relevance. So Stellan had been some was afraid that Maybe while he was still alive. Let's go to some of Stacy E from Boston, what are you reading now? Oh, I never tell. I kind of did tell, and then my Don't talk about that. So here I am not that I'm not supposed Yes. You have not done a good I have not. Well, they didn't that that's what they wanted, They should be able That is what you're working on. How about what you're reading? What am I reading? Well, there are several One of them is on One of them is on the floor. One of them is on the desk. One of them is on One of them is downstairs Which one which one you like to talk about? [LAUGHTER] There's a lot of them. Did you want some recos? Yes. Recommendations? I just gave you a couple. Yes. Yeah, I gave you a really That's good. Yes, so one my just I read a book by Vincent Lam, and is now an It's a novel. He is a novelist as well. And it's called On The and upsetting about of treating people who to various things. Once the best It's horrible. So I just finished that one. What else is going I've just got chemistry lessons. I think the author is coming. Either it has just come through which is it? One or the other. Yes, anyway, that's Yeah. And I'm a big fan of Kelly Link. Do you know Kelly Link? I know. Kelly Link writes I think she has a fairly about to get around to reading. Is that enough? Do you want me to tell Yes, no. Stacy, wherever you --interested in the Anybody? [LAUGHTER] Yes. Yes? OK, then you'll want to read is 24 hours in the life of. The beginning of And at the end of-- [LAUGHTER] The end of which, he It was very sudden. [LAUGHTER] Yeah, and it goes into Why people turned against him? Why they felt that he was-- well, for the usual afraid he was going to send send them to the And that was the same with It was that kind of thing. The other people that they were going to be so they decided to Yep. So that's Fall by Robespierre, any Napoleon fans? OK, you know what? [LAUGHTER] I heard some little screams, back there. Napoleon the Great, a really good battle of Waterloo Yeah, yeah. OK, so in the Duke of got shot in the leg. And if you got shot in you had to have because the bullet would go You would get germs. You would get infected. You would die of gangrene. So he said, by God, sir, Wellington looks my God, sir, I believe you have. So they cut off the leg. And an enterprising Belgian gets He built a memorial to and charges money to get in to Isn't that a good story? [LAUGHTER] That one? [CHUCKLES] Michaela of Saint I don't know how to follow that. Michaela of Saint what qualities do you find to in your protagonists? Or put another way, to be the most interesting and Well, the thing that I am is that they're alive. So some-- Minimum requirement, yeah. Minimum requirement. So some people kill off I've never actually done that. Maybe I'm working up to it. But, no, I think that So somebody has to be there how dismal that story may be. So I think there's that. And I think I'd like enough so that they don't and give up. And that is helpful for a story. Because if their character and gives up, then [LAUGHTER] It's a short story. Very short. Yeah, they just given up. Oh, well, what's the use? So the only person who's ever like that is Samuel Beckett. [LAUGHTER] He's got quite long stories Do they have to be likable? Do they have to be likable? Who's doing this liking Earthling. So what I might find might not find likeable. But you are not-- stories and books with they shouldn't be stories The qualities you and hello, old roommate. I know you're out there, Susan. [LAUGHTER] So the qualities you are not going to make a in the book, because you all the time. And that's not what we wish Anyway, it wouldn't So there is that part in a who ate my chocolate That isn't what you want an Would you like to story about a chocolate cake? [LAUGHTER] I think that means yes, so, yes. He said yes. OK, so these people, there kids, students. And one of their were pretty sure who the foods of the others So they got a cake, they and they iced it with Perfect. [LAUGHTER] I'm not giving you any ideas. [LAUGHTER] I'm just going to let that sit. How do I segue into [LAUGHTER] Pause. Paragraph. Jerry, Jerry W of asks, how much training did you and how did it feel? I don't know this OK, the flamethrower You're one of the very doesn't know what this is. OK. It's a meme that you can So if you look up Margaret if you look up so it was a group that came with the idea that they would of special materials, be a copy of The Handmaid's And then I would try to set And they would film this. And I said, I think but it has to be for something. No, it can't just So we have to do And I thought we should do has been a very strong freedom And I think they've been doing So we were going And they did manage to It took them about five tries. The first four all caught fire. [LAUGHTER] You burned-- No, no. You set fire to all of them? No, I didn't set They had the one that So then they set had to put on this fireproof mitts. And then they gave and they were quite I just pointed out the book. Just the book, Margaret. [LAUGHTER] OK, we've done that. Give that back. So we did the shoot, We launched it at the PEN and people were wildly But it had the It was short. It was funny. It was visually spectacular, And that's why it went that it did. What do you mean I think you get social media. You mean like I Yeah. Yeah. Not totally. Nobody quite And don't ask me [LAUGHTER] Somebody said, Going to write a I said-- I quoted Lord The part where the guy is attached to his sledge. I said, &quot;I'd like [LAUGHTER] So you're bingeing that. We know that. Cassandra M from asks, what is your greatest when writing? Wow. Hmm. My greatest source when writing a novel. So, oh, what a question. I don't go by hour I go by pages written. Because you have to never going to get done. You have a daily quota? That's my idea. I don't always stick to it. My greatest source is, if I do my three be able to goof off [LAUGHTER] Sorry, it should have [LAUGHTER] And three pages, generally, As long as it takes. Takes as long as it takes. Double spaced. Everybody here knows that if [LAUGHTER] Oh, it's cheating. But sometimes, you have with the typeface. Abigail of Boston feel to see so many ideas come true in real life? Well, how did they fiction in the first place? They got into the dystopian because that's where those And with The Handmaid's that I wasn't going into it that hadn't already by someone. So it's all got and that was to avoid what Oh, Margaret, you have such a imagination to make all I made none of them up. OK, precedents for everything. Same with Oryx and Crake, I knew to jump. My brother is a biologist. He's a neurophysiologist. And I knew that he is in the and correcting the typos. He's an older brother, and-- [LAUGHTER] I have one of those. --I knew that if I got stuff He's a person of few words. Here's what he had to say. I think you did a pretty [LAUGHTER] Thank you. But I'm not so sure I have given these genetically to purr on the theory in part a self-healing, And science since that We are told that if you and you put a purring [LAUGHTER] It would be quite soothing. I don't know how you're Yes. How they collected data No, they count sperm when But they also purr and feeling Anyway, I think he's Well, coming back to The I'm sure many of us here know, how is it Genesis 30 is part of The Handmaid's? Well, the question some people is, how mean when you say you I don't think they've read it. Do you? They voted to ban it. Yeah, well. Yeah, so what you that's quoted at the beginning You have two wives, and then you And the wives enlist and the handmaids have claim as theirs. So that is part of the structure Very biblical. And I want to ask you is one of the centers, I Yeah? Yes. In the Old Testament, and one and Leah-- As it would be. --center. Yeah. Yes, as it would be. Yes, exactly. The Rachel and Leah get the idea of re-education? May you ask. Yeah, so there's a novel Woman on the Edge of Time. She's very frank about it. Because the visitor from the says, what happens if And they say, well And she says, well, what if He says, well, we kill believe in the prison system. Oh. [CHUCKLES] Very frank. Yeah. What is your role You think I have a I see your name in I know, yeah. Isn't that weird? [LAUGHTER] Yeah, so I have a cameo That's me whacking Elisabeth We had to shoot it four saying, come on, hit me harder. I said, no, no, I'll hurt you. Come on. Give me a whack. So they added a sound effect strenuous enough apparently. Yes, so here's the real truth There was a 1989 film which we actually launched just in Berlin. And we showed it in the West, and the reaction In the East, they looked at it this was our life. Meaning, not that we had but we didn't know who to trust. You couldn't trust anybody. So in that contract, that had to do with This is 1989. In 1989, and television or it would be of And I thought, the made into a television So film happens. Got sold to a distributor. After a while, distributor Assets are dispersed. The contract is lost to view. It's like the ring of power. It goes into the and nobody knows where it is. And we didn't know where it was. And we had no idea So people would come can we do something with And we would say, we don't But then, just as series a beam of light came and shone down on [LAUGHTER] MGM and a psychic employee this is a sign. No, I'm sorry, I made that up. They opened a drawer that somebody had put lost track of it themselves. And they thought, this might television show right about now. And so they did a first which I did not approve of. Why? Because female guerrilla guns were going into And that didn't strike me So I said, why don't And they said, it's television. I said-- [LAUGHTER] --that is not a good excuse. So that didn't happen. Yeah, yeah. And then Hulu, was fairly down the being stuck with movies that rolled the dice, and had into The Handmaid's Tale. They went straight They didn't even do a pilot. And they hired us the when he was 19, vow that when he grew was The Handmaid's Tale. So he was very, very He knew everything. And he talked And that would be Bruce Miller. He used to introduce we were first promoting it by I'm the showrunner of and I've got one penis too many. But-- [LAUGHTER] Then he said, but I hired a He said, I thought they would [LAUGHTER] She was very sweet. So we would have about this and that. And that's about all the I did say at one point, don't [INAUDIBLE] I said, I said, well, you and threw her in the banister. He said, she'll recover. [LAUGHTER] It's television. Yeah. Well, also, it's the testaments, I couldn't have her killed off. Yeah. No. Yeah. Is The Testaments, to be incorporated or a next season of the show? Do I know anything? Oh, you do. Yeah, I do, but I'm not telling. Oh. [LAUGHTER] So Ann Dowd, who's just She's such a wonderful person. And she turns herself She came to London to help And she walked onto was this wonderful And then something happened. And before our very eyes, she I guess it's called acting. Yeah. But yeah, she does Oh my-- yeah. And she reads the Lydia Ooh, she does. That's her doing it. Couple more questions. We have a little bit more time. Leo from Southwick, asks, what has been your biggest in your writing? Ever? Around censorship. Hmm. Well, I think just having And it's been a I think Handmaid's Tale is in the United States. And it's usually or have really misunderstood it. I fondly hope that is true. I fondly hope that's the truth. I fondly hope they wishing to install a and they don't want Maybe it's that. But I think it's usually-- it's got shocking things in it. How about translations? Have you had any issues? It's been translated You never know if there really you can't read that language. Then a long, long time from a Chinese what is the smile button? We know smile and but what is a smile button? So I had to explain that. And then they said, [LAUGHTER] Well, sometimes, don't have the and you don't know But I have a great deal of And I have an essay about And you are in their hands if I know enough French and German but other languages, And you have to rely upon the They will usually let a good translation. Yeah. Yeah, they'll let you know. They'll say you need to get a like that. Two more quickly. Ruby P from Cambridge asks, why as opposed to other genres Is this, along with on finding yourself you hope to get into in Oh, I can say, I never should Oh, yes, it will be about I expect. But I've always written Ever since I started writing nonfiction prose. I started writing poetry. I started writing short stories. And I also wrote dramatic in the '70s. I was writing screenplays and Nobody told me not to. Nobody said you can't You're not supposed to. You're supposed or you might confuse OK, so I didn't know I was Because when I creative writing were much more seat of the There wasn't a lot of about these things. So you just did whatever. And look at the early life of Ray Bradbury. He just wrote whatever. He was a freelance writer. He just turned it out And I have a lot with me because that's This afternoon in the studio, If a novel is akin and short stories are come more naturally to you? None of the above. Because if I only were I would just do that one thing. Would I not? The thing that I do as a is book reviewing, of And it's hard, because have to read the If the person has I feel anyway, them, too, or enough of them. In my case, I don't But it was the Red want there to be book reviews. We want there to be Because someday, you may So if there aren't any there won't be one for you. If there isn't any book that when it's time for you there won't be So I felt that I to the pool of book reviews so there would be a reserve, So to encourage the others quotes community an I reviewed a lot of books in because I just felt it But it's the hardest part. But then I got to review expecting me to review, and Elmore Leonard. I reviewed one of and I put a footnote. It was for the New And he wrote me a letter. He said, oh, Margaret. My friends are so impressed. It's my first footnote. [LAUGHTER] You're welcome. Oh, he was making fun of me. Last question here. Michael F from what is your favorite Oh. Let me count the ways. Yes, very shameful things. I have to stop playing [LAUGHTER] It's very bad for me. So too much time on Shouldn't be doing that. Should not be-- well, gone through them now. So I did all of Hercule Poirot, which is the best. Yes. The Miss Marple, it's Miss Marple is the And Midsomer Murders, I wouldn't wish to live People are just getting It's remarkable nothing has been Yes, there were two or It's amazing [LAUGHTER] Somebody is killing Yeah. A very sweet series, It's very adorable. Not everybody-- I think a few people. But other people find Yeah, so somebody why do you do this I said, it's extremely soothing. Because the people get caught. You know? We found out who did it. That's very comforting. Because in a lot of real But if you were writing a murder and Hercule Poirot [LAUGHTER] I just would be Yep. [LAUGHTER] Yeah, I like Inspector Maigret. but I don't like any My last question for that you did asked, what is it like being-- you're over 80 now-- And your answer? Yeah, more fun than you in moderately working order. If you see what I mean. Yes, yes. Yes. No, you don't yet, [LAUGHTER] But fun, fun how? Well, for instance, I Yeah. I can flirt with you. Nobody's going to [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] And not worried going to be on social media No. Yes, they'll just think I'm Big encouraging to you. I'm helping you Yeah, yeah. Yeah, so and at this You can either be a wise old Those are Carl Jung's terms. And why not both? [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] Well, you've already done it. [CHUCKLES] Thank you so much. Again-- --Margaret Atwood. [APPLAUSE, CHEERS] Thank you everyone.