(bell rings) - [Narrator] Depending on your age, your earliest memories of Some of you might remember or watching flash animations. But I am sure that for your earliest memories - Hello, there. - [Narrator] It was in 1999, to this new computer program BonziBuddy. Innocent looking enough, but was that this cute virtual responsible for more than $1 But how? Just like many pieces of malware and internet spyware, to attract many people with with all its malevolent It was a facade of user convenience, designed to assist users and understanding of the But in reality, the program for advertising purposes, as with irritating features and BonziBuddy was a wolf in sheep's clothing, or purple gorilla clothing. But how was such a strange program able to get away with all this? What is the story that gave BonziBuddy the legacy that it has today? The events of this entire tale date all the way back to the mid 1990s, particularly during the Microsoft had gained tremendous success with its new operating system, marketing the product in a way that could appeal to the masses. Computers were no longer or only for businesses. Now your grandmother could use a computer. Microsoft made the bold move of making their target audience everyone. But now it was time for them even easier and they The answer was within their Their approach with this by a research project conducted by Clifford theorizing that people subconsciously treat computers like human beings. Microsoft had to figure out And that is exactly what they did with introducing Office Assistant. Clippy was the answer Whether you have heard or experienced it yourself, It seems that Microsoft took a little too literally. Clippy was universally hated It took a while for and Clippy was ultimately removed from future Office versions in 2003, being mostly ignored during Microsoft had been working for quite some time before Office 97. with Microsoft Bob for Windows 3.1. and it's Microsoft Agent characters, such as Peedy the parrot and Genie, sort of prototypes of Clippy. So what does this all have Well, Microsoft may have but other companies thought and that they could do better. About a couple years prior to Windows 95 was the formation of Bonzi Software, created by brothers Joe and Jay Bonzi. Bonzi Software's existence of timing and pretty brilliant marketing. It popped up during a time where people didn't really or know what direction it was going in. Because of this Bonzi a whole lot of ingenuity to What helped them take off was Rather than sending text over email, you could send a voice This might not seem very practical considering that you could using the exact same phone but it didn't matter. It was a thing on the This allowed them to that would enhance your internet speed, as well as protect your PC from These programs didn't really do anything, other than create a firewall and just change basic But this didn't stop Bonzi and establishing a name for itself. By the time Clippy was casually sitting on most Windows desktops, Bonzi Software had released the program all of you have been It used technology very and even used one of its characters, Peedy, the talking green parrot. This version of BonziBuddy And a character change Whether it was due to from Microsoft's end, or simply a desire to be more original, we All we know is that the would introduce Bonzi a talking, purple gorilla. Most of the other parts of the program would remain unchanged using and a similar user interface. But what exactly did the program do? Well, as a virtual desktop assistant its main features would for the user's convenience. This would include keeping track of and reminding you of your calendar events, basically a virtual secretary, reading your emails out loud to you, telling jokes or fun facts, that allowed you to use the program to search for things on the web, and a custom text-to-speech tool, where the program would Some features might've or just over complicated, but the big selling point Well, not exactly a selling point since users didn't pay for anything, but there were premium users could purchase to get Anyway, BonziBuddy was from a huge range of demographics. All kinds of people were using it, but over time things started Since BonziBuddy was going of course it was going to This would create a warm introduction to the program for the user and allow it to optimize your PC. It would ask for your name, Yeah, it seems a bit obvious now, but it took a while for to realize that BonziBuddy In actuality, the program was to take this information and put it on the Bonzi Software database without the user's consent. This would allow them to install certain pop-up again, without consent. The real kicker for this your typical annoying ads. Bonzi Software did something that, while a bit obvious and fake looking now, was at the time quite new and unsettling. These were ads that would appear telling you that your computer was at risk unless you installed Bonzi programs. BonziBuddy would also to the Bonzi website, as well as your default built-in in search engine, again, without asking you. So not only was BonziBuddy but it was also malware and adware, just about every bad name in the book. With this news coming more apprehensive about they were downloading from the web and we're now on the lookout Though depending on who you talk to calling BonziBuddy a virus as the actual program is. In order for software to of a computer virus it has to be capable of replicating itself in a harmful way that can allow it to spread And since BonziBuddy it would not fit this term. But not everyone agrees with this. By installing a backdoor, BonziBuddy allows other such as viruses, to get into your system. Because it was equally people just might as well call it a virus, as its behavior is indistinguishable to most computer users, any program that is bad is a virus. At the end of the day, this is purely an argument of semantics and doesn't take away that BonziBuddy actually caused. It was a lot. In 2002, Bonzi Software class action lawsuit for where they were ordered that encountered one and another Adding all of this up, of dollars in reparations. Considering that was more money than the entire Microsoft this amount didn't seem very realistic for a third-party internet company. Consequently, Bonzi Software Things were becoming a bit Finances were tight and the company was essentially walking on eggshells, removing the misleading pop-up ad designs and laying low to litigious eyes. But the final nail in the where the company would BonziBuddy's spying tendencies didn't stop and the once cool feature would be the kiss of Because many users were BonziBuddy's practices violated COPPA, collecting the information of children without parent or guardian permission. When Bonzi Software was forced it was clear that this was the end. Bonzi Software's 11-year and the company had gone under. And Joe and Jay Bonzi went off So as you would expect, led to the death of BonziBuddy. It would quickly lose full support for future Windows versions, and despite it being for another four years after would quickly be forgotten. Though, as time progressed, The program had a sort when it was repopularized from the Vinesauce channel, on destroying Windows XP It didn't take long for the program to become an internet phenomenon, the butt of many online jokes. BonziBuddy seemed to serve as a testament for how quickly things Just 10 years prior, using this program, which now just looked completely Ah, yes, BonziBuddy, I remember that. Fortunately, because Bonzi BonziBuddy can no longer making it essentially benign. It is now available to download from multiple third-party websites, allowing it to truthfully that it was superficially No more danger, right? Well, let's find out. We could talk about BonziBuddy all day, but I think it would be more interesting to actually put it to the test. With Bonzi Software now I don't suspect that going to be capable of doing much harm. But I would like to show you just some of the minimal the ones that were primarily The program is already So I will save you all the Everything is looking good on my end. So let's give it an open, shall we? - Well, hello there. - [Narrator] Hello. - I don't believe we've I'm Bonzi. What is your name? - [Narrator] This is where get to know BonziBuddy. I will promptly fill that out. - Nice to meet you Brian. - [Narrator] Here's some that I will go ahead and fill out. Okay, now let's take As you can see, even now there's you can still do with the assistant. Probably nothing particularly but they still work for the most part. What shall we try first? Let's have him tell a joke. - Not a problem. What did the digital clock Look Pa, no hands. - [Narrator] Beautiful. That is totally my kind of stupid humor. Let's do another one. - Not a problem. Which is the saddest tree? A weeping willow. - [Narrator] These are actually good. Or maybe the bar for comedy is just really low for me, I dunno. Go ahead and tell a fun fact. - Here's something for you, Brian. Did you know that the at 66,641 miles per hour? - [Narrator] Huh. - Who knew. - [Narrator] A thing like that. Let's go ahead and play some games. (crabs click) Okay, it works. - Let the games begin. - [Narrator] This one Games like these don't really get old. Sadly, I can actually find so we should probably cut it short before things get outta hand. Oh, okay. Not sure what I did, but that's cool. - Okay, Brian, where do you want to go? (keyboard clicks) (Bonzi boings) - [Narrator] As you can see some features simply just don't work anymore. And others like the calendar feature have just come to show their age, seeing that you can just built into Windows 10 and ones on other popular From the things that I've just shown you, it seems that BonziBuddy is quite harmless and might be a bit hard to imagine as being malicious software. But as we discussed, this is because most of its It would install a backdoor making it more vulnerable Basically your computer has a and BonziBuddy picks that lock. It would enable Bonzi Software to add its pop-up ads to your computer. Based on their appearance, these are genuine Windows errors and would end up installing likely without giving any second thought. And of course, anything that you put into the registration form would go straight to where they could basically do anything they wanted to with it. Of course, as I've already mentioned Bonzi Software doesn't exist anymore. So these programs are more than likely no longer doing these things. So, final verdict, just an outdated virtual and is mostly fine by today's standards. But regardless, any modern, will immediately block So with that said, you should about downloading this program if you are considering doing so. Please download it at your own risk. - Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed this and click the notification bell, so that you never miss a future video. Check out my Patreon to get access to exclusive content and Goodbye.