(narrator) Inexplicable events, places shrouded People don't want to believe because this means a world without soul. They are the mysterious legacy Myths come from an oral tradition. The heroic become more heroic Researchers worldwide are working (Willis) So advanced is modern historical research we just need to keep looking. One culture that has provided is the old Egyptian civilization. Powerful pharaohs ruled worshipped as gods One such pharaoh Tutankhamun, The Valley of the Kings, 1922. Archaeologist Howard Carter He's looking for treasures: After years of searching, One of his workers comes across Right away, Carter sends a telegram &quot;At last have made wonderful discovery A magnificent tomb Re-covered same for your arrival. Stop. Carter.&quot; Two weeks later, Lord Carnavon It will be his last journey. Carnarvon and Carter are looking at one But soon, With every piece they take out the Golden King's anger The first casualty shakes Lord Carnarvon, the financier, dies. The world press reports First, the discovery of the tomb The curse gave the press a juicy story. It led to mystery, which excited not just the journalists, but their audiences. If you want a story to be 17 people die, Among the dead is Arthur Mace, Is the tomb really the cause Does the ancient corpse have sinister (in Arabic) (dubbed in English) The facts surrounding The young king He took the throne when he was eight Tutankhamun was the son of Akhenaten, He and his spouse, Nefertiti, After Akhenaten's death, he was succeeded Ten years later, he is also dead. Tutankhamun completely disappeared So without finding his tomb, we'd probably still not know The Egyptian Museum in Cairo. Valuable artifacts from Some are particularly impressive, like these large wooden shrines (in Arabic) (dubbed in English) The shrine was located Inside, they found four sarcophagi, Just like the Russian Matryoshka dolls, Four large rooms, one built into the next, The last one contained the four coffins. And was in the shrine back there. I'll show you. This shrine was inside this one. Which was inside that one. And this last shrine is the largest. It contained all the others. Carter has to take apart the shrines They were just too large. All tightly placed into one another, Carter needs to build special tools not to destroy Finally, it emerges: But because resin was used to embalm Carter finally just rips The Zurich Institute Professor Ruhli has examined (in German) (dubbed in English) Carter cut off its Carter disassembled He thought this was (dubbed in English) Some of the parts so the damage They wanted to make it look more or less intact Time and again, scientists have tried Why did he die so young? Based on their research, experts agree There were no signs he was murdered. So why did he die? (Ruhli) There are theories that he was Based on current findings, I believe most of these injuries that took place in the 1920s. But we are unable to prove that. State-of-the-art methods about the young king... who history had almost forgotten about. The beautiful golden mask hides Tutankhamun's body shows The young pharaoh was probably ill This would explain why archaeologists In addition, This mixture of disease, genetic defects, and a potential accident (Machin) His story is fascinating, partly because he was such a young king but also because we are by this civilization that existed and has practically We love to hear these magical stories Add a curse and you have an amazing story But what about In fact, the discoverers died much less spectacularly The majority died of natural causes. The curse of the pharaoh: no magic power, Humans have always sought explanations and they often find them in myths. Some of the oldest myths of humanity were In the fourth century BC, as a splendid island nation Was there actually such a civilization What is the myth of the lost island Atlantis, the magnificent island nation. It is said At its heart, Poseidon's temple. It was home But the Atlanteans were also arrogant, Atlantis was completely annihilated The myth of Atlantis is important to us, of a once highly-developed culture, It's a story of hubris. It's a story of punishment. In the modern world it serves as a pretty powerful warning. We can read In 360 BC, he describes Atlantis which had ruled over 9,000 years earlier, The story has enthralled generations worldwide. To this day, many people but also the superhuman power SS Chief Heinrich Himmler that the Teutons He hoped archaeologists would find Their search took them as far as Tibet, The search for Atlantis is also fueled Troy was long thought to be a myth described in The Iliad In 1870, Heinrich Schliemann finds Can Atlantis be found, too? We have so many stories about Atlantis. If you were the archaeologist you would go down in history. But is there any truth to the myth? Did Atlantis really exist? If it did, are there any traces? Greece. The island of Santorini. This Its ring-like structure that has shaped the local landscape Geologist Evi Nomikou is familiar The island attracts myths like a magnet. Before 3,600 years at this place, there was a small island with the same composition, And at the top of this volcano, Santorini is located When it erupted thousands The crater became clogged A natural catastrophe, Scientists look for evidence Using modern technology, they're examining This is a small robot. This is a small ROV. We call it Jason. And we will explore the sea floor very close to Nea Kameni that is cooling down on the sea floor. Eight engines and three cameras. The robot replaces the divers It passes by lava Just like the islands, the volcanic eruption And at last, a discovery. Underwater stairs. Could they belong to a former harbor? An entrance to the city of Atlantis? Evi Nomikou is one step closer But she will need to conduct more dives to find out whether these steps I believe there was a magic city in the middle of the caldera. And that city has been But we need to search more And when we find not something that we will find on land, then I will be completely sure But something doesn't add up According to Plato, Atlantis is located behind Gibraltar. US researcher Richard Freund is convinced he'll be able to unearth Following Plato's descriptions, His search takes him He believes today's dunes and the ring-shaped islands. He suspects the coast line We are at Ground Zero for Atlantis Freund visits a 1920's excavation site. The dig was never finished. Today, the park is protected. It is impossible A rock formation is sticking out We're gonna measure this this edge. This is a right angle. There are no If his theory is correct, this wall might have once belonged There should be no major stone in this area... and yet it's there. But so far, there's no evidence Maybe Atlantis will be discovered one day. Until then, it remains Myths often go hand in hand with faith. The greatest legends therefore Like the famous Grail relic, that is inextricably linked to Jesus and Did the Holy Grail really exist? The eve of the crucifixion. The Bible says Jesus handed his disciples a cup of wine, saying "This is my blood." He promises Those who drink from the cup and can hope for a life after death. The Holy Grail is like a condensed conduit which can be used to heal, It comes in the form of a cornucopia, in the womb from which life comes. You name it, the Grail, in its essence, The chalice is lost for centuries. In medieval times, however, They want to conquer the Holy Land Vessels that prompt speculation Which goblet is the real Holy Grail? Bowls made of wood, or of precious stone? The Nazis are looking Himmler, head of the SS, The mass murderer firmly believes But his search comes up short. All sorts of people because it's such If you were the one after centuries of being lost, the legitimacy, That's exactly why Hitler and Himmler It would prove they had a right Valencia Cathedral has been the home Believers think it is the cup But is this the true Holy Grail? Many details support the theory could be the Grail. Examinations have shown it was made But is that enough According to one widespread hypothesis, the cup came to Rome There, an early and persecuted maybe in the catacombs And indeed, the catacombs of Rome show The first popes used this cup to celebrate It's the era of Christian persecution. However, the subsequent path until an ancient Latin text offers a clue. It says Jesus used this precious chalice. They probably meant the Santo Caliz. For 20 years, Michael Hesemann His key to the Grail: the medieval verse romance Parzival The protagonist allegedly saw (in German) (dubbed in English) Parzival is a treasure Hesemann stumbles across The castle where the Grail is kept Michael Hesemann sets out to find His quest for the Grail In his theory, the Grail was taken from and later brought to Spain (in German) (dubbed in English) the Pico de Sant Salvador. In the local Occitan language it was called Montsalvatge. And later, this became the name The text comes with directions: &quot;At the foot of that mountain turn right.&quot; At the end of the path lies the monastery of San Juan de la Pena. If the Grail had been here, Michael Hesemann wants to take The heroic epic provides where Perceval sees the Grail. (in German) (dubbed in English) and in between a giant fire was ablaze. We can see one, two, three, and one, two, three spaces in between There is evidence and that there was a cup that was Is it the one in Valencia today? Spain isn't the only place Many believe the Grail was hidden in the first century. After Jesus died, Joseph of Arimathea collected his blood He's said to have where one of the most influential was erected, Glastonbury Abbey. A painting in the Abbey chapel tells how Joseph of Arimathea It has never been found. There is a legend around King Arthur, who is said to have been buried Some believe The legends of Arthur and his Round Table Finding it is the top mission The myth of Arthur is a very important part It makes him more powerful. It gives him the divine anointment into a true legend The only thing that we can be is that knowing and believing Where things lie hidden, Treasure hunters don't only set their eyes but also on places The Song of the Nibelungs It tells the story of the legendary But where is his gold now? The Rhine. Center stage dating back to the late antiquity It's a saga of greed, treason, and murder, and a huge treasure, Legend has it that the Rhine There Siegfried marries Kriemhild, The King's adviser, Hagen von Tronje, 40 cartloads of gold and silver, Hagen turns At the king's behest, he kills the hero The river has kept the secret ever since. The Hagen monument in Worms But without the treasure this tale would have We're fascinated by treasure, but the treasures that we see They have a magical value to them, they're a character in the story. Think in the Nibelungen We like the idea of there that connects us It's a magical power. But how much historical truth St. Gall, Switzerland. There's an important clue here. The Benedictine monastery houses of the Song of the Nibelungs. It dates back to the second half Joachim Heinzle knows He believes the text is based many centuries (in German) (dubbed in English) Heroic legends a form of passing on history. According to the saga, after the death of her husband. She turns away from the Burgundians Upon her invitation, travel to the court of the Hun king. They all die in an unparalleled bloodbath. The Burgundians really existed. At the start of the migration, the Burgundians set up And the heart of their Empire is exactly And just as in the saga, In around 435, they are defeated (battle cries) (horse whinnies) King Gunther's character is based And King Etzel Attila, legendary leader of the Huns. Like Etzel, Attila is said to have The Nibelungenlied There were people called the Burgundians. This is a story We also have the Hun, who are mythologized as being scary. The fact that it means we can actually which makes it more powerful. If the protagonists then the Nibelung treasure But where is it hidden? The Nibelung treasure Between the third and the sixth centuries, particularly precious metals gold, And indeed, silent witnesses of the era The last sensational find when dredgers came across Heino Neumayer, safeguards the treasure, (German dubbed in English) It's the biggest hoard from Roman times Richly adorned weapons and vessels. The value of the raw materials A huge treasure like the one The coin finds date it 250 years before the events It's not Siegfried's gold, The real treasure may still be The possibilities are unlimited, because the course of the river What used to be the bottom Amateur researchers scour the woods Sometimes with great success. In 2014, Benjamin Czerny worth more than a million euros. The find of his life. (in German) (dubbed in English) We felt an adrenaline and saw how they shimmered, The best outcome for any treasure hunter. He films the entire hoard at his home (Czerny) The most beautiful piece. Unfortunately, the gems are missing, The video attracts the attention of the It ends up in the State Museum of Coblenz. Experts determine It's not the Nibelung treasure, but it's proof the Huns at the same time as the Burgundians. Another find that keeps and raises hopes that the Rhine Myths often revolve After all, human history like Attila, the king of the Huns. Feared during his lifetime, Where is the great leader buried? It's the year 453. Although Attila has already suffered he is still the powerful ruler His marriage to Ildico, is supposed But the honeymoon phase doesn't last long. Attila dies the night they were married. Was it an accident? Or murder? Today, it seems likely that the king died The greatest unsolved mystery: His dead body is said to be protected Allegedly, Attila's followers and scratched their faces to mourn But where could he be buried? It's like looking The Huns were on the move In the West, they enter the stage In bloody battles, the warrior horsemen Their greatest enemies, the Romans. We don't know exactly Perhaps it was climate change for their growing number of horsemen. We are certain, when they started to move, they pushed in front of them and they fought those tribes, pushing them up against the walls Attila was probably He knew how to unite the feuding tribes. Today, we don't even know because there are no written documents. The Huns were an illiterate people. The only reports about them The former Hun empire Remains of the warriors on horseback To really understand the Huns, Archaeologist Gabor Wilhelm Only recently, Wilhelm's team discovered It is the skull of a warrior, He was buried in a Hun ritual. (in Hungarian) (dubbed in English) because there are still Thanks to written tradition, but finds from this era are rare. Even the smallest artefacts help us But who is this mysterious Hun warrior? The tomb is unusually exquisite. Golden jewelry, No doubt this has to be Unfortunately, it's not Attila. The warrior died young. Attila, however, probably Experts believe Attila was gold, silver, and invaluable riches He is said to have been buried Riverbeds are wonderful locations There is no air and that means the There's a chance Attila's burial chamber But how could a king With islands to shorten the dam. A natural barrier would mean the water while the other side Later, a wall This way, Attila's men that could be flooded afterwards. The Danube has changed Where are you supposed to start looking? We found Roman materials I don't see why we wouldn't or even Attila's grave. Not all researchers believe They're looking somewhere else. Budapest. This is where the life's work The Hungarians refer His work is titled the Gesta Hungarorum, The 800-year-old manuscript But where is this ancient royal city? Some think it could be Sicambria is believed to be lost. But its ruins might be found Ecologist Imre Lanszki and is convinced he's found the remains (dubbed in English) The wall was already here back then. If he is right, somewhere among these trees and rocks. Lanszki starts drilling into the ground. He hopes to find a cavity An endoscope camera probe (Lanszki) This is a fragmented stone. And the rock is not the same. But whether Attila was really buried The same goes for the question a cruel barbarian The only way to find out But great myths are more Some ancient myths and are echoed The infamous werewolves have become They are the epitome of evil. We have an innate fear of horrible beasts and we crave danger 18th-century France. An eerie creature wanders the woods (she screams) It is soon dubbed the Beast of Gevaudan. It targets women and children. They have claw marks. Bernard Soulier is a writer He knows everything (French dubbed in English) like the time they found Her name was Agnes Morgues. The beast decapitated her. They found her dead body and her head, which had been severed Those beheadings are what I think there's a resemblance but there's one major difference The beast is said to have killed at least Some of the victims were naked. People start panicking. A creature half man, half wolf? Werewolves, they are Their transformation begins at full moon. Fur grows all over the body, finger nails turn into sharp claws, (snarling) The werewolf has the upright posture but attacks its victims The werewolf is an ideal figure of horror: It reminds us of our animalistic side and the fact we are Also they are the embodiment of evil. The way we picture werewolves today has primarily been influenced But the descriptions In about 700 BC, Greek poet Hesiod Zeus is said to have punished King Lycaon The Roman author Titus Petronius Nordic legends like Egil's Saga The Germanic word "wer," signifying "man," gives them their name "werewolves." By the early modern period, the concept The Church also chases so-called The witch-hunt is based on a book. Malleus Maleficarum, &quot;Hammer of Witches&quot; by Dominican monk Heinrich Kramer. He declares that witches, magicians, The Church adopted stories of werewolves to try and keep people in line. So as a man, if you misbehaved, if you made a pact with the devil, And this was the ultimate sanction The probably most well-known close to the German city of Cologne. The man is said to have Historian Utz Anhalt knows (in German) (dubbed in English) Peter Stubbe, is said to have committed He confessed to killing 16 people, hungry for their flesh. He also admitted to having and to committing incest Back in his day, Peter Stubbe Keeping a low profile, he lives discreetly A vigilante group chases Before the beast manages to escape, one of the farmers Afterwards, Stubbe is said like the animal that lost its paw. He is arrested and confesses He admits receiving a belt from the devil, His fate is sealed. A court sentences him to death. A leaflet from London from 1590 (Anhalt) They broke his arms and legs, They went on and tore pieces of flesh They beheaded his mutilated body, and in the end, In ancient myths, the lines between fantastic tales Is it possible that a human being The mysterious beast is eventually His name, Jean Chastel. One single shot and it's done. The bullet pierces the animal's heart. The murders stop... It's the miraculous shot Chastel was about 20 meters away and killed the animal with a single shot. A level of precision nearly impossible Unless the beast didn't move. Maybe because it recognized the hunter. Bernard Soulier has his own theory. (in French) (dubbed in English) Wolf hunters of and cross-breed them with hounds. They wanted to breed animals more resilience, more strength. Such a hybrid might not fear people, The murders might really half man, half animal, a hound and its owner. The greatest myths also emerge in places cause fear in people. Bizarre lights in the sky, ships Natural events like these People have always found in the Bermuda Triangle terrifying. But what's behind December 5th, 1945, around noon, five US torpedo bombers It's a routine training flight. Targeted bombing Halfway there, the squadron leader The pilots are disoriented. Then radio contact breaks off. To this day, all 14 crew members Flight 19 became so famous, it wasn't just one ship, It was an entire squadron When they disappear, the men are in the middle For centuries the waters between Florida, have been shrouded in mysteries. Over the last 100 years, are said to have vanished here Exact numbers are unknown. Time and again, eye witnesses report Charles Lindbergh, also had an unusual experience. In February 1928, he takes off to his home, St. Louis, Missouri. (actor as Lindbergh) The liquid compass card Could recognize no stars Liquid compass card kept rotating reached the Florida coast. So we know the compass He wasn't able to navigate by the stars. When he found out where he was, near Bahama Island. One of the most spectacular cases is the A gigantic US Navy vessel. In their official report, "There has been no more baffling mystery than the disappearance No radio messages. No distress signals. No signs of life. How can a ship of that size Part of the fame to do with the event So she was lost during the war. There was fear over what the Germans The Cyclops was not in waters but perhaps the Germans There's fear associated with the war, For the first time, people start talking Rumors linked German saboteurs, and giant sea monsters Author Marvin Barrash has been He is familiar with the myths However, he does not believe in a miracle. Rather, he is sure to have found There is this there is a large weather system that could have indeed traveled into the area But if the Cyclops really was in distress, why didn't she call for help? I suspect a rogue wave, the type of thing Without warning, no time to prepare. And I suspect likely at night. Monster waves develop when several swells Long waves travel faster As the wave heights combine, Did the USS Cyclops fall victim Could the myth of the Bermuda Triangle like unpredictable weather? But what about the compass anomalies The Bermuda Islands are formed more than 30 million years ago. Witnesses of an apocalyptic moment Nick Hutchings is exploring If we were standing at this exact spot we would be under 3,000 feet of lava. This was a big volcanic island then. Over millions of years, the volcanic rock and washed into the sea. Today, a layer of lava sand covers the ocean floor around the islands. Hutchings believes the volcanic floor seen in the Bermuda Triangle. Magnetite is the most magnetic The magnetite in these minerals here Just this little bit here. And as you can see, it moves. It's not a lot, three or four degrees, You can imagine what According to that, Bermuda is a huge magnet A magnetic compass This can cause ships The Bermuda Triangle it stands out in our imaginations. It becomes a place If your myth is that everything If your myth is that also is gonna be what you project History's greatest mysteries. For millennia, intrigued us, or served as a warning. And so they will continue