Hey, podcast listeners. Mark Cole here. I'm the CEO of Maxwell Leadership, and I would Podcast. This is the podcast that adds value to leaders Did you know that one of the greatest assets we lead? Did you also know that one of the most frustrating people we lead? See, today, we're going to talk about how Anyone who's led a difficult person, you know to us. You also know that leading them successfully So when John Maxwell is done with this lesson I'm just kidding. I'll be back with my co-host, Chris Goede, throughout our own leadership experiences. That way, you and I can apply these principles We can add value to our life and to the life Every week we provide a bonus resource, which John's lesson. If you'd like to access that PDF, please visit the bonus resource button. Hey, if you're listening to the podcast today, video version of the Maxwell Podcast. In fact, you can go to maxwellpodcast.com/youtube, break down what John is saying and apply it But whether you're listening, whether you're Now here is John Maxwell. Today I would like to talk to you on the subject: So let's get in our lesson. You've seen your notes. 90% of the art of living consists of getting Gang, underline the word understand. Because what we're going to find out in dealing going to really find out is the reason they're It's not even an issue many times of right In fact, I wish I could go back and have another you something. A lot of them that I failed in leading, I Is there such a word as unleadable? I guess there is. Not only because they were unleadable, but Is that fair? Let's go. Yep. Let's fill in the first blank. Leadership is influence. Always has been, always will be. But it's very important for us to understand Leaders influence others by knowing their... Here we go. I call this the Big Five. By knowing their personality. In other words, ask the question, &quot;Who are Their temperament: what is their style? Their heart: what do they love? Relationships: is there a bond? And dreams: what do they want? Now, I promise you, I just gave you the key personality if you and I will take every difficult you. I call it the Big Five. So to lead difficult people successfully, You see, the leader is the quarterback of Now, what does the quarterback do? Two things. One, calls the plays: direction. In other words, the quarterback gets the guys run this play.&quot; He makes the plan for the direction. Number two, the second thing quarterback does That's delegation. Now, when you think about this whole process, personalities. You've got to give direction to these people, to hand the ball off to, and I'm going to Notice in your notes, these two functions which the leader, knows two things: the situation Now, think with me for a moment. This is a powerful thought. Listen to me, leaders. You're the quarterback. You're calling the play, you're going to give You're going to delegate, you're going to You're going to throw a pass down. Here's what you have to understand. You've got to understand the people around You've got to understand who that powerful the ball off to. And I want to tell you something. If you need 17 yards because you've had a one down, you don't give it to that wonderful, out there and you run a play. In other words, you've got to know what the also have to know the strengths of your players. And the number one failing in dealing with difficulty of their personality so strongly of that difficulty to understand them so we In your notes, when we cannot effectively lose. I spent three days with 30 other guys with And he compared, as he sat there doing some compared a leader to an orchestra conductor. And he talked about the fact that the orchestra understands the significance of utilizing And that bass drum or that symbol or that are places for them. And that leader conducts that orchestra and out at certain times for certain functions, beautiful. But if you do it incorrectly, you have havoc That's exactly the way it is. I can think back when I was pastoring at Skyline, I had my board around me and I had 16 players Can I tell you something? I knew them all. I mean, when I say I knew them all, I knew In fact, if the two of us would've taken a they would've scored on themselves. And you know why? That's my job. And so therefore, when my vice chairman, Bob see creative happen in the church, I always Remember, when you ever get a group of people that has that strength. That gets you started on a positive note, And so when I wanted something creative, I is the maker of Taylor Guitars; he owns the And Bob Taylor loves creativity and he loves And in fact, his goal in life... You know, Bob Taylor's goal in life is to that's never been made in the history of music. And he is the top guitar maker in the world But he likes something creative. And if I wanted to get to a bottom line quick, I'd say, &quot;Gary, tell me what you think.&quot; Gary Barlow would go bottom line so quick. He left everyone else. Just absolutely in lurch. He'd get, he, he knew how to cut through the And if I wanted, if I wanted to have something because Jim Fletcher could process all day. He could process all week. He could process all month. He could process till Jesus got, he was a And if I wanted, if I wanted somebody to do I would call on Dick Bower, find a dentist. And if I wanted somebody to ask questions, was born to ask questions. When Bob Whitelaw came out, his mother's womb, Now, all I'm saying is, all I'm saying is go back to the big five, the big five I've Personality, temperament, heart relationship When you could, when you go back to the big becomes amazing how well you can lead them. So to lead difficult people successfully, And number two, I must develop a game plan then gives the ball off. I must develop a game plan. Now, here is the game plan. Are you ready? Lead according to their dream, coach according potential, delegate according to their strengths, and their temperaments. Chris, welcome back, but I told you, I want I don't want to talk about it. It's a mic drop moment for me, especially And so I'm looking forward to debriefing and We'll apply it to our life. And if everybody's watching or listening, to our life. You know, there's a real good quote. I don't know who to attribute it to, but I It says, "When you need help in life, pay excuses." And I love that because a lot of times we making excuses or not effective, yet really about that makes excuses. He's talking about the people that we need I love debriefing this with you today. Well, we talked about before we got started Like not only do we need to apply it. There's just a lot of meat here. And I love how John just vulnerably starts my leadership career, I just didn't know how Yeah, we have them in our lives. Right. We have those difficult people. Now, if you're listening to us or you're watching me back now that we're on YouTube. I was concerned once we went to YouTube, I But one of the things I love about this is If you're sitting here saying I don't have Yeah. And by the way, what I love about this too, by the way. So it's not us just looking at other people. And I think this is just a great lesson for as we get started, what I want to do is I areas on this, how do you practically apply What does that look like for you? And then I want to talk about how you handle as you talked about in the intro. One of those is me and we have many others. And by the way, you should have that. You should have that type of tension in your And you call that out on us. You say, Hey, we need to hear from different And there should be that tension. And so we're going to dive in and we're going I thought about John's leadership book in a soloist to a conductor. Tons of great quotes in there. One of them makes me think about Steven Covey's, before being understood. Just this is in our wheelhouse of so much And the other thing I want to just mention alike, when you have similar traits and as understand them and know them, you're like, them, but what we got to be careful about is when where we identify them as difficult. And what ends up happening is we disconnect We're like, we just can't deal with them, created and they're people. So with that as context, I've seen you lead job at that. Some of them are difficult. Talk a little bit about like, when you are individual that is maybe opposite than you difficult in the way they think, and the way Where do you go with that? How do you, how do you approach that in a Chris, I'm going to take a couple of minutes something you said really made me reflect of weeks with my wife, Stephanie, and don't Just keep it right here. Yeah. But, but first let me, let me say this in done this over the years, I'm a relational So one of the things that John really has our podcast listeners for a long time was, And at times in my life, I've wanted to please And I, if you haven't heard that go back to to it a lot. But in that really, I just wanted to win with I didn't want to win the day. I didn't want to win the argument. I didn't want to win necessarily my way. And my will now come back to something. I learned about myself with Stephanie. I'm going to go back to that in just a moment, so that I would have an ability to influence So a lot of my working with difficult people natural. Yeah. In my desire, my relational bent toward connecting with them. So difficult, not difficult. I want to win the day with them because tomorrow And I just think like that. Yeah. Well, what happens is sometimes I miss the come to a better revelation of themself in trying to patch it to get to tomorrow. And so as complimentary as you have been through I've heard you say, I'm one of the best at I don't feel, I don't give myself that same John's been very complimentary on to me on But what I will tell you, I've learned since more? Which one figure it out because there's going out, do you want to be a leader or do you When I began to apply that into dealing with things that John talks about in our lesson. Know their personality, know their temperament, know their dreams. And I began to pay attention to that. And then I would walk into a meeting trying toward their bent, and then begin to take conversation right there on the spot rather them. Okay. Now let's have the difficult conversation. It caused me to be faster as a relational So one example that I can think of is a very that, to be honest with you many years ago, the organization, a pretty difficult leader. Well, I had an infrastructure, a silo organization insulated. So every once in a while they'd come and ruffled But what I understood is that leader respected John never had a problem with that leader. Other people may not have had a problem with my relational, how you doing? What's going on? Let's hug it out. I would leave. And no change was happening because that leader And I'll never forget a very particularly to where I dropped three or four things that things. And I came back and I laid it on the line. And I said, let me tell you this, you keep And this is the last day. You'll go that direction. So figure out another direction because we're And I'll never forget when that leader that like that. With that leader, that leader looked at me had. Let's go this way over here. And if you're watching by YouTube, which all direction because, because this leader really And I'll never forget the moment, Chris, to respect and relational equity by doing something they would have lost it, felt like I was dishonoring And it's because that leader needed that we leader needs to be understood. That's right by their leader on how to be Now, let me, so I told you I was going to I'm working on this. So everybody in podcast lamb, when you come to the podcast, mark. Thank you. Here's almost Chris. What I hear all the time. Thank you for your authenticity. What they're really saying is thank you for junk fall out. And this is going to be one of those moments. And I'm not sure where to go on this, except other. I asked my wife Stephanie, a couple weeks I said, do you think I love conflict. And it was that quiet right here. And, and I would ask you that right here on But I don't, because I think most people in I'm a contrarian. I like to, I like to come at it. And she said, no, I don't think you like it. And she said, I think you hate it. And of course she was applying it to our relationship. And when we get into moments of conversation, trying to lead me a difficult person. And she said, no, I don't think you do. She said, I think you like control, not conflict. Now, dude, that rocked me because I think sometimes because I do love a good argument, And if I don't win and if it prolongs and that because I want the situation to be controlled And I'm working through that, Chris. But the reason I felt like that was employ right there. Is leaders need to understand what it is that and I thought conflict, iron sharpens iron. I have a consulting firm, the Iron League, I was like that conflict statement with me. But I really think that conflict is a tool because some people conflict with one another control. I don't, I use conflict to get into control And I'm not sure if that's bad or good, I'm person right here as you try to co-lead with What do they call that? That's a mic drop right there. Matter of fact, can we have Stephanie [inaudible That is brilliant. And I think that's, I think that's spot on say don't mistake my intensity, right? For my passion. Well, your passion's driven by what you want You know, your purpose behind things, which And so I think that's awesome that you were Now I want to take that example. And the one you gave previously with another because I think what you're saying to everybody need to be led. And so many of us just lead people. How either has been modeled for us in the relational. So what do we do? We go straight down the relational in order And we just need to begin to understand our about this in that first point where he says, John developed this methodology, the five influence with people is level two, where And the great thing about that is adversity wired connects, and then you go through their he's laid out. You have to know that about your people in You knew in that example, prior to the one could drop the bottom line. You knew you could do that. And you would gain credibility for that individual. And I think what's your underlying statement And John has given us incredible tools here. Comments of beginning to understand people. Now, I want to shift you a little bit on this, spot on and your, and you're really good at I've also seen you do it in a team dynamic. And some of us are leading teams, leading different departments, different verticals. And I've seen John teach you this and model team in one way or another. And they're a difficult, difficult personality. And he's like, but just trust me. They need to be here. But just trust me if there's a values and difficult personality. And so you have, you have been riding shotgun With bringing people onto our team with leading and how that affects the culture and how you Well, and you are, co-leading, you know, what's You may not know this, but when I joined John on the team. And he was leading about a third of the company And so, so you've led for a long time, the But you're seeing a little bit different side And, and when we were listening to John, I of his talk and just said my drop. I mean, that's so good is because we've grown two years. Yes. Grasp your breath because I do every single I grasp my breath here. Here's what I'm discovering Chris, the bigger and we've got some people leading four or podcast, the bigger the organization, the the systems that you have created to become leaders on your team. That's a problem guys. It's a problem. And I'm leading like that. Chris, I told you a little bit about this I'm realizing that I have opportunities and And I'm expecting those opportunities or those in a system that we have created. And yet that system, that division or that greatest strengths to attack that opportunity And I realized during this lesson, listening in your strategic plan or, or your organizational the personality, the challenges of people their ability to help the entire organization. Good. And it struck me, Chris, as we were listening If we apply this lesson and you help me with me with the trajectory of our organization. It occurred to me, I'm going to quit telling, And I, and the rest of y'all can listen in It occurred to me that you and I can never people and minimize their difficulty. Their difficulty is on your team as John laid Their difficulty, their challenging aspects not for the solution group or the little team And I'm not exploiting the difficulty. And I said exploiting the difficulty of the have, and I'm not allowing them to soar because And I guarantee you, if I will get a return going to see that done differently in the leader that started leading more from our people that are on our team, despite their What I'm hearing you talk about, and I agree to have cross-functional impact, even though across your team, whatever that might look And it's interesting when, when John talks and they're exactly what you're talking about, or empower according to their strengths. That's not just for their vertical, their It's for the good of the enterprise or the you're leading. Is that easy? No, but as a leader, it's your job to be able ago, connect with them on a one on one level then secondly, be able to do that on their And, and so I think that's, I think that's Now. I'm going to let you wrap up, but as I wrap a second. John gives us four very powerful questions And one of them kind of struck me and I want Hey, if the individual that has a difficult just opposite of yours. So it's just a different, not a difficult, He says you got to have yeses, okay. To these in all four of these questions. One of them he says is will they change? And I was struck by this because I thought, Or do we want to mold them? Do we want to shape them? When you bring people onto the team, and John to see you do this. You don't necessarily want them to change. You want them to shift and to mold and to Talk a little bit about your expectations difficult and your expectations of them on wrap up for us today. Yeah. So man, Chris, once again, I love this podcast. We could go on for a long time but Jake is He's already wrap it up paper. Let me say this. Let me define change for a moment. Growth is change. Do I expect anybody? Everybody absolutely. Anybody potentially somebody, anybody will Cause growth has changed. Yeah. Now do I expect change? But here is what you're asking me. Do we want to change the personality or the on our team or utilize them and set them free And the answer is absolutely. I don't want you to change. The one thing I want the world to see is I So I don't want Chris, the methodical, the I don't have many of you on my leadership I don't want to change those attributes of Those strengths, those skill sets, those personality But do I want you to change in that you know You know how when to step up and insert yourself. Absolutely. so knowing the things that you want to change part of the art of leadership, not the skillset And so there are things Chris, yes, that I There are things that I don't want to change. I want to explode into the world because it's And it's the things that the world will be Love it. Change equals growth. You know, John did a book called, I love this Everyone Communicates, Few Connect, and I'm I've been with some of the best of the world the best in the world and they didn't connect They gave a great speech, but they didn't There was no heart to it. And John has written a book called Everyone really help people that want to go to the and say, how do I connect better with a difficult And here's what I'd like you to do. If you'd like to take that next step and grab I want you to go in the show notes. I want you to click on that link, use the And we're going to give you 15% discount on And I can promise you, it will help you. I want to close as I always do with a podcast And I, and I can't wait to get this, Chris, I mean, this is just since you and I have what sometimes you have to do when you drink And so I went to the restroom and taking care And somebody walked by and went, are you Mark And I said, I am. And he said, I'm, I'm living in Atlanta now And it's because of you. And I go, oh Lord. And he says, not only that, I brought all because of you. And I said, now I've got some people really He said, every Wednesday, we listen to the We take notes. And when I cast the vision that we needed said, yes, we want to go because we love what And Chris, I'm going to tell you that was I love what we get to do. Another podcast listener that we have, his And he was listening to the Building a Diverse He said a great podcast and really relevant, challenged my leadership and made me realize a better leader. The closing quote by Edward Kennedy is also Here's what it was, if you'll remember &quot;What us.&quot; Steve said, it makes me think that with every a uniting factor. In other words, common ground. And if that uniting factor becomes the driving it can be immensely impactful. And Steve, all I want to tell you is your building a diverse team. And we'll put the show notes. We'll put that in the show notes. If you want to go back and listen to it, Steve, And if Chris Goede was not so difficult and person, Steve, I would've had you as the cohost That's all I can say, Hey, seriously, whether And by the way, I hope more of you will go But whether you're viewing or listening, I today on the Maxwell Leadership Podcast. This is what we do at the Maxwell Leadership We develop leaders who make powerful, positive well.