- Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science for everyday life. [lively music] I'm Andrew Huberman. And I'm a professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today my guest is Dr. Kyle Gillett. Dr. Gillett is dual and obesity medicine and practices out of a clinic in Kansas He provides full-spectrum medicine, including hormone health, which is the branch of with childbirth and the care of women giving birth and pediatrics. I first learned about Dr. of all things and was immediately struck by the breadth and depth of his knowledge on all things hormones As you'll see very soon today, Dr. Gillett can teach you how to optimize your hormones nutrition, exercise-based tools, supplementation, and hormone therapies if those are appropriate for you. There are many professionals out there including many medical doctors of course, talking about hormone health. What really sets Dr. is his ability to understand that I described before, nutrition, supplementation, exercise, how those interact with and most rational ways to approach hormone optimization. During today's episode, you will learn how to not just testosterone and estrogen, but also prolactin and that impact your mood, mental Dr. Gillett is also an avid in other aspects of health. He does this on zero cost such as Instagram and other social media. On Instagram, he is kylegillettmd, that's K-Y-L-E-G-I-L-L-E-T-T, So kylegilletmd on Instagram. And he is Gillett Health including LinkedIn, Twitter, If you go to his Instagram you will learn a lot about hormone health, about the latest science impacting obesity and metabolic health. He is a wealth of knowledge. And again, he's providing at zero cost to you, the consumer. What you are soon to hear and Dr. Gillett about all things hormones and hormone health and We dive deep into mechanisms, but we are clear to or set of concepts mean. So if you have no background I'm sure that you'll of valuable knowledge. We also talk about specific to lifestyle factors, and where appropriate, I know there's a lot of Dr. Gillett is very thorough and female issues and for people at all stages of life. I'm sure that you'll come with the same impression that I did, which is that Dr. Gillett is an extraordinarily clear communicator and that he has tremendous and that he has a deep love and medicine in ways that can benefit you. I'm pleased to announce that in May, 2022. The first live event will take place in Seattle, Washington on May 17th. The second live event will take place in Portland, Oregon on May 18th. Both are part of a &quot;The Brain Body Contract&quot; during which I will talk about science and science-based tools. Many of which overlap on the Huberman Lab Podcast, but most of which will not and and tools never discussed publicly before. Both live events will also include a question and answer the audience can ask me questions of science or science-based tools and I will attempt to answer them. Tickets for the two events, again, Seattle on May 17th and are both available at Before we begin with today's episode, I want to emphasize that from my teaching and It is however part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer and science-related tools In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is Thesis. Thesis makes nootropics. In fact they make custom nootropics. Now what is a nootropic? Technically nootropics means smart drug. Frankly, I'm not a big fan because what is smart? I mean, there's creativity, there's focus, there's task switching, different aspects of our brain and body engage different aspects of cognition, many of which we can call smart. There's emotional intelligence, there's analytic intelligence, there's logic, there's creativity. Thesis understands this and has designed custom to bring your body and brain into the specific state that you want. So for instance, they have specific other nootropics for focus, other nootropics for motivation, In addition to that, each nootropics is They use only the highest things like alpha-GPC which I've talked about They also use ingredients which many people use, However, there are also people like me who can't take ginkgo biloba, because it gives me terrible headaches. I learned that a long time ago. And so I simply can't take any nootropic or any supplement for that matter that includes ginkgo biloba. I'm sure I'm not alone in the fact that some ingredients work Thesis has solved this problem by creating a brief quiz. So if you go online to and take a three-minute quiz, and then Thesis will send you that match your specific preferences. Again, that's takethesis.com/huberman. And if you use the code HUBERMAN, you'll get 10% off your first Today's episode is also InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that impact your immediate can only be analyzed from There are a lot of blood but a major issue with many of them is that you get numbers back metabolic factors, lipids, et cetera, but you don't know what to InsideTracker has solved that problem by creating a personalized dashboard. So you take your blood you get the results back, and where certain values for your preference, you can click on that and it to lifestyle factors, nutrition, that can help you bring those numbers back into the ranges that are ideal for you. So it not only gives you information about where your health stands, it gives you directives as to If you'd like to try InsideTracker, go to insidetracker.com/huberman to get 20% off any of that's insidetracker.com/huberman Today's episode is also ROKA makes eyeglasses and sunglasses that are the absolute highest quality. I've spent a lifetime And I can tell you that your visual system is incredibly sophisticated. It allows you to do things like move from a shady area outside and to adjust your visual system, so you don't even notice that transition. A lot of sunglasses and with those sorts of biological ROKA sunglasses and Every one of their glasses of the visual system in mind. First of all, they're so you don't even notice Second of all, they were designed to be like running and cycling, et cetera, and they won't slip off your And they have a terrific aesthetic. So even though they as active eyewear, they look great. So you can wear them out to dinner, to school, at work, et cetera. If you'd like to try ROKA you can go to ROKA, that's R-O-K-A.com and enter the code HUBERMAN to Again that's ROKA, R-O-K-A.com, and enter the code HUBERMAN at checkout. And now for my discussion and optimization with Dr. Kyle Gillett. Dr. Gillett, welcome. - Thank you for having me. - Well, I'm super excited to talk to you, because I found out about you on a podcast and it immediately became clear that you are an encyclopedia of knowledge about hormone health for men and for women across the lifespan. So I have many, many questions, but before we dive into those questions, I'd love to just get a in terms of your medical training and what your particular orientation is toward treating your patients. And how do you think that we call hormone health? What is a hormone? How do you envision people If you could just kind of fill in a few of those blanks for us, I think a lot of people - Absolutely, so I'm dual board-certified in family medicine and obesity medicine. I've kind of tailored my what I call a balanced which includes body, mind, and soul. I recently saw a podcast And Joe asks Mr. Beast, &quot;How do you become such and have all these great clickbait videos, and how did you become good at it?&quot; And it turns out he just became obsessed when he was a teenager. And that's essentially how I've tailored my education as well. I've become obsessed with their body, their mind, So I attended med school at which is one of the few med schools that still emphasizes full-spectrum care. They emphasize exercise is medicine. They emphasize food is medicine, of which I was active in both In residency, I was active in a lot of mindfulness curriculum. And then also things like Walk with a Doc where you emphasize preventative medicine. That's something that we've And that niche led me to hormone health. It didn't really start as hormone health, but it's a very important that many people don't emphasize. - Great, well, this idea I think, is starting to really take hold in the general population, especially given the events people realize that they are at a bunch of different levels. And with some people feeling very robust, other people feeling back on their heels. When someone comes to you as a patient, what are some of the to know about them? I mean, obviously you want You want to know something and family history. But in terms of hormone health, what are the sorts of probe and what are you looking for? And I ask this because I'd some of these very same - Yeah, so when you do a physical exam and a history, you have You have your history of present illness if they have a complaint, maybe the patient In that case, things and their family history because that gives you an insight into their genetics and an insight into their hormone health. So patients will tell but it helps to ask them, Let's say the patient is 50. How are you now versus when you were 20, and what has changed? So I've gotten the question the lot, how do you get your doctor or to even include your basic hormones? And there's no magic answer to that, but what really helps is you tell them, my energy is not as good as it used to be. My focus is not as good as it used to be. My athletic performance is So you don't have to have a pathology in order for a lab to be indicated. You just have that pertinent symptom. - I think that's going because for many people, the idea of getting a blood test to look at their hormones just seems like such an enormous hurdle to get over, and many doctors won't prescribe them. And would you say that it's, using the approach you just described, that it's equally or do you find that, for that men and women have and advantages in trying to access their deeper hormone data? - Yeah. It's slightly different. With women, there's a So if they're having if they're not havin' a period, if they're having too heavy of periods, then those are things that they talk about very frequently with their doctor. Men are more hesitant. So men really want to know but at the same time, they really don't want how their libido is or because it's almost like or they feel less like even if they're just talking - Yeah, I think that that which is that the whole is a bit of a barbed wire topic, because in many ways when we think testosterone and estrogen, we think notions of And of course testosterone in all sexes, right? All chromosomal backgrounds. And just varying degrees in ratios. But it also raises all these it's kind of interesting, 'cause I'm surrounded by medical doctors in my lab at Stanford. And the more physicians the more open is the and reproductive health. But in the general population, I think some of these topics or against kind of barbed wire. And so I think that people are seeking a lot of this information on YouTube and through communities that may or may not be very educated So along those lines, we could probably assume across the lifespan, right? Certainly from childhood If you would, I'd love to just kind what you think everybody or doing to optimize their hormone health, male or female, in, And then maybe we could migrate But before that, could you just tell us what for their hormone health - Yeah, the law of So doing a little amount of what I call lifestyle interventions over a long period of time is or efficacious than doing a or doing a lot and then doing nothing. So I talk about the big six pillars. The two strongest ones are For hormone health, specifically resistance training For diet, caloric restriction especially with the epidemic that is continuing to and in developed countries in general. So those are the two most powerful. So number one and number For the last four, I have a So there's stress and stress optimization. That has to do with cortisol, that has to do with your mental health, that has to do with societal health, and collective health When you're a member of a family trying to achieve optimal health It's the same thing It's the same thing with If you do it as a household So after stress, you Sleep is extremely important, especially for mitochondrial And then you have sunlight, which encompasses So you move more, you have cold exposure, you have heat exposure, that's sunlight. And then last one is spirit. So that's kind of the If you have all the other five in, they're dialed in completely, but you don't have your spiritual health, whatever you believe, then that's going to and your mind as well. - Yeah, and we're definitely of spiritual health, because I think for some people of certain things that may but I know a number of that are focused on this and a number of, not just functional medicine clinics, but research clinics and that are achieving some not just in people that are quite sick, but in healthy people who are trying to further optimize health. So we will definitely touch back to that. If you would be so kind a little bit more detail about So when people hear diet, now we get into the combat around vegan, But I think that my general view of this is that most people as few highly processed foods, highly palatable foods as possible, which doesn't mean eating foods that don't taste good, of course. But what other sorts of in the realm of diet? And then I also want to know because my understanding can actually support certain So how does one combine and still optimize hormones? But what would you say to think about an approached diet? - Yeah. Diet should be an So if you have a car, each car is made different and requires a different sort of fuel, whether it's a race car, they have different fuels for different performance outcomes. So if you're trying to tow something or you're trying to go fast. So it's the same way with athletes. It's pretty well studied. The more intra-workout carbs ultra long distance athletes take, in general, they do better. I think they've studied this It also depends on your genetics. So you can have a genetic polymorphism and you metabolize carbs and sugar better, even when they're unopposed by fiber. - How does one determine whether or not they have such a polymorphism? I mean, I'm an omnivore, so I do eat some high quality meats, not in huge quantities, but I also eat vegetables I've never done an elimination diet. I think I did a very low carb diet once and all it gave me was a lot so I backed off. I probably didn't do it correctly, but I know a lot of on a very low carb or zero carb diet. - Yeah, particularly those because you have less glucose that can be easily uptaken into cells. And then also people - They tend to do well on auto- - On lower carb diets, yeah. But yeah, as far as the how do you know, basically you can use your biofeedback, how you're feeling, to guess or you can just get genetic testing, which can be fairly it requires a physician to interpret the test accurately. - And if someone had the means or would you say that getting is a good idea? And if so, what is regular blood testing? Is it every three months? Of course the backdrop of life is changing too, - Yeah, every three to six at times you need blood tests at faster frequencies than that. And then you should also get a blood test when you're fasting and So if you're looking you don't just look at low tide, you look at high tide and at high tide as well. - I think that's a great way to put it. And in terms of general I mean, I'm of the mind, based on the data that I've seen, that almost everybody should, or everybody should be getting of Zone 2 cardio per week that kind of could continue but if one were to exert any more effort, it would have a hard time At least that, right? For cardiovascular health and musculoskeletal health Is that more or less the - Yeah, that's more or less the contour. The more you're doing your the slightly less of caloric restriction is. - Interesting, and that brings So it's very clear that can allow one to lose weight, right? This is the classic CICO, C-I-C-O, calories in calories out. We are not disputing But somehow that always in any forum because of whatever follows, people I think will anchor to, and assume that we don't mean that, but I know you and I both agree as a fundamental law of thermodynamics. But it's clear to me that that when one is in a that hormones like but is that true for with excessive body fat? How does this all work? Because body fat is manufacturing enzymes that convert testosterone to estrogen. So in other words, how does someone know if they or avoid caloric restriction? - Yeah, here's how to parse that out. So before I delve into the as a board-certified obviously the laws of And then in addition to that, there is nothing special or caloric restriction or exercise when it pertains to losing body weight in general. When you do lose weight, about 33% of that is lean body mass. And about 10% of fat cells, adipose cells are actually because it has proteins and water and things like that in it too so the reason for exercise and the reason for caloric including intermittent That's how you increase your health span. It's not necessarily on a scale change, but that It's been fairly well studied It's much easier to study in mice. So that's a precursor to the ones that care about mice studies and the ones that care But if you correctly restrict mice by 40%, than they can have improved testosterone parameters, but only if they're obese to start. And it appears to be that So the easy way to think about it is if you're obese or you caloric restriction will There has been a study and they in a systematic review from in March of last year. And they note that there is a study in young, healthy men and and their testosterone does decrease. So if you're young and healthy and you don't have metabolic syndrome, then caloric restriction will likely decrease your testosterone. - That clarifies a lot for me. And I believe it will clarify a lot for other people as well. And I'm delighted that you about intermittent fasting to achieve caloric restriction. There are a number of young, healthy, or older, healthy people I know who like using intermittent fasting, even if they're not trying to lose weight, for a couple of reasons. Some believe that it I think that's still a It's a bit of a hard experiment to do, because the control group is, no one wants in the - It does in mice. - Right. Exactly. - Exactly, and the other a little bit tricky is that many people like intermittent fasting the clarity of mind that the increased pleasure in and here I'm referring of the sort where eating from 8 to 12 hours a day. Not extended fasts of 24 hours or more. So the question therefore is, for the healthy lean enough person, right? Non-obese person, is in terms of hormone health? Is oscillating between this period of kind of feast and famine if one is getting sufficient - Yeah, so if they're in then it's not going to be, it's not going to be deleterious. It's not going to be bad There's a couple different We can talk out testosterone. We can talk about DHEA, which And then we can also talk which is not a steroid hormone, So it's a chain of proteins, amino acids that are put think of sterile hormones So intermittent fasting, you do get a little spike in but you also get a huge a more significant, less And that is improved if you So it's probably going to and subsequently IGF-1 levels, which will help more than younger age groups. - And I like to eat dinner. So for me, that means sometime sometimes eight o'clock. I confess last night, I ate pretty big, it was basically my only meal That's a rare thing for me. Can I still achieve a high if, let's say I avoid food before going to sleep? Or does one have to be very to achieve the increase in growth hormone? - There's still pretty even if you eat two or three It's just the law of diminishing you get slightly more and slightly more. - Right, and I know a of growth hormone in the context of the exogenous growth that that can, in some cases, I've been asked many times before, can the increase in growth or intermittent fasting cause that are so high that they cause cancers. My impulse is to say, no, it seems like it's not like to happen, but I should probably verify - Yeah, so quite unlikely. I think about growth hormone, And there's actually an IGF-1 and IGF-2. But I think about it in mostly IGF-1 that's and released in the liver versus IGF-1 that's released classically. An example of this would be after resistance training or exercise. And that's more of like and they have more local action. So that IGF-1, it's pretty well studied that it's not going to, at physiologic levels, it's not going to improve However, that IGF-1 that's just working in those is likely part of the reason why you get a improved body composition - I see, and just to clarify what can we say are the and IGF-2 that are distinct Are they just kind of the The kind of the pickaxe end of the assembly line? So they have a much I believe the half-life of IGF-1 is several days almost a week, whereas growth hormone has of only hours. So growth hormone acts to produce IGF-1. So it's around in the serum in the blood long enough to where it's producing an - Very interesting. - Well, and then your we've talked a lot about and tools for managing stress. Sleep obviously is a big one. I think, if nothing else, I will either put people Certainly not one, but my solo episodes or that sleep is the foundation of mental and physical health and performance. Are there any aspects that can improve sleep? I know sleep can improve but are there any aspects that can improve sleep? And for people that are suffering of going to sleep and then in the morning, we know that can be but are there any hormonal to that kind of situation? - Yeah, there's three big ones. The first one is not super common, but it's a very direct correlation. If you have a growth hormone whether you're an adult or a child, then your sleep is likely And let's say you're a child once that is replaced with therapy, your sleep is going to The second one that's is if you're having what's of menopause or vasomotor which are also applicable. And that's where your so your main progestogens are progesterone and then and pregnenolone and then 5-alpha, - Where are those - So they're manufactured in a few places. In men, they're manufactured in the Leydig cells. In women, they're manufactured in the ovaries until menopause. And then they're also So if you're pre-adrenopausal where your adrenal glands are usually still have a decent and this can be measured too. So after menopause, women make progesterone or sorry, from their adrenal glands. If that progesterone crosses especially if it's 5-alpha so it's modified a little bit, then it is both a GABA agonist, which helps sleep just like GABA does, gamma-amino butyric acid, the main inhibitory neurotransmitter of which lots of things work on, alcohol works on GABA as well. Gabapentin also works on GABA. Migraine medicines, many Benzodiazepines, and also non-benzos. So an example of a benzo would be Xanax. An example of a non benzo would be Ambien. So those all work on GABA. So GABA is also helped by the progestogenic activity as well. That's why a lot of women in is much worse is because of those progestogens. - And for men in so-called andropause, low testosterone, is that of poor sleep. - Low testosterone can lead to poor sleep, nut my third scenario is actually, if a man begins TRT, then they develop poor sleep It drastically raises is going to have sleep apnea. And then a lot of people, especially when they first started in the first month or two, it puts them into this because they have overactive especially after a long Then they have a physiologic dose of TRT and that causes the sleep issue itself. - Interesting, I have a testosterone replacement therapy. I should just mention that when you say it increases sympathetic activity, you don't mean that taking testosterone increases sympathy for others. It may in fact do the opposite. Although it's very clear with my colleagues in the endocrinology side and also with the great Dr. Robert Sapolsky that increasing testosterone merely exacerbates existing So the jerks become bigger jerks, kind people become even but I want to get into TRT in depth, but it's very interesting to me to hear that testosterone the risk of sleep apnea. And I want to make sure that I ask that is that also the case in who are not hypogonadal? Because in the classic situation, if somebody isn't making they're below 300 nanograms they go in and take TRT. But many people nowadays, let's be honest, are taking doses of testosterone even though they are in because the range is so large because of other symptomology, is that right? - Yeah, I do love the about monks taking testosterone and making them more and more generous. So that does appear to be what is it exacerbates, if you will, So it's not going to But if you're eugonadal - Meaning? - Meaning you have normal testosterone, and then you start TRT or self-administered TRT, steroids, however you want to look at it, then your risk of sleep in a dose-dependent fashion. So the higher the dose, the more risky. With the sympathetic and the the sympathetic is the fight the parasympathetic is So if you have too much fight or flight, and stress can cause that too, then you're not going to - I want to touch on there is testosterone in women. I'd like to know where that which tissues, I'd like to know whether or not testosterone replacement I'm hearing more and more And I'd like to know a woman's testos, for her to know her less than or more value progesterone and estrogen levels? Because I think there are a the roles of testosterone in women. - For health optimization, testosterone is just as important to know. For pathology prevention, for example, breast cancer, osteoporosis, estrogen, and progesterone So when you're thinking about women, women think that they of testosterone, because you test it, most people test a free testosterone, so a testosterone that's unbound, which is by far the smallest proportion of testosterone. Any androgen is bound by lots of different steroid-binding proteins. But the ones that are most or sex hormone-binding globulin. And that binds the androgenic steroid, for example, DHT or dihydrotestosterone. It's associated with prostate enlargement, it's associated with It binds that the most strongly, and then it binds testosterone and then it binds things or DHEA, dehydroepiandrosterone. And then it binds the estrogens, the weakest, like estradiol. So if you look at the total women actually have, almost but almost all of them have than estradiol, but it's because it's in different measurements. So estradiol, a lot of as opposed to nanograms per deciliter. So women have more and significantly more DHEA than either. - Interesting. Do women - Yeah. - And where does this Because they don't have testes. - Yeah, so most testosterone in women that are premenopausal can come So theca cells are cells in the ovaries that can produce testosterone. And a lot of people have actually not the term itself. But a lot of Olympians that are, their chromosomes are XY, they're females, and they're not taking any- - Wait, they're XY, but they're females? - Oh, okay. So they're XX, they're not XY, and they have never transitioned or been on any sort of hormone but they naturally produce a as much as many men. And some of these women, I believe they were from Botswana, were banned from competing in the Olympics in certain distances. I believe they were banned from because their natural testosterone was deemed to be too high. - So they mistakenly thought - They actually knew they They knew it was their theca cells were just genetically gifted, I suppose. And they still made them change distances. - [Andrew] Wow. - So one or two of these I believe it was the 3K or the 5K, and they still did quite well, but it was not their best event. - Interesting, yeah, that's turning out to be a very interesting of this notion of hormone in hormones on different Fascinating, we should probably do a whole episode about that, 'cause it's very much of the times. So men and women both make DHT. I'd like to ask about DHT in men. So often we hear about testosterone in men and free testosterone being But dihydrotestosterone, where What is the cascade of events to dihydrotestosterone and what are some of the quote/unquote positive and negative effects of, here I'm only referring to And in fact, I'll make it very clear whether or not I'm talking about taking something or one's own natural production. Here we're just, I think up until now we've just been talking about So tell us about DHT in men, such a powerful hormone But what is it doing? - DHT is a very androgenic hormone. So whether you're talking about DHEA, which is a weak androgen, or testosterone, which is a or DHT, which is a very strong androgen, they bind to the androgen and in women. So the effect of all by the androgen receptor. There's a couple different and alpha-estradiol receptors, but there's only one androgen receptor. Intriguingly, it is on the X chromosome, so men get their androgen Women get one androgen receptor one from their mother. Often the one that is more and people with PCOS, that's The other one is methylated and inactive. - Can I just pause you one second? Sorry to interrupt, but I have to ask this And I know a number of people I've heard that whether or not one develops male pattern baldness, whether or not a male develops just to be very precise, you could get some information at your mother's father, and that would, in keeping that the X chromosome, which of course is handed is carrying the genes that encode for the number and distribution of these androgen receptors 'cause of course, I think as you'll probably tell us, that DHD is a responsible for male pattern bald and Should I look at my to determine what I'm of my DHT-ness, is that a word? - Yeah, it's the best guess that you could make Now you can measure your genotype and get a better idea of that. Assuming that it's true it's related to the gene transcription of the androgen receptor. So I like to think of androgen receptor gene is So if you have an which usually means you which is basically just a certain, CAG encodes and if you have very few of the repeats, then your androgen Think of it as a corollary where if you have very few of, then it's not as severe as a disease, but after you get more which by the way are, in the population you're getting so it's a natural selection of process that has been ongoing for a But anyway if you have more repeats, then that gene activates in the cytoplasm and moves to the nucleus and causes gene transcription more often and hair loss more often. - So does that mean that we're to elevated levels of DHT - Probably not. The hair loss 50 years ago, but 500 years ago, was probably more significant, because on average, 500 years ago, people were more sensitive to androgens. So there's a syndrome called androgen insensitivity syndrome, AIS and that syndrome who have the copy from their their AR gene, or androgen receptor gene, is completely insensitive. So think of it, it's not related to the CAG repeats, but think of that receptor So there's a continuum, so everybody's receptor or a little bit worse. And the better your receptor works, the more likely you are to - To zoom out from this, but what do you like to see to optimize DHT? And here I'm talking So we're still in this We haven't yet micro-dissected which we will do, but what do you like to see But before you tell us that, could you tell us what when it's in the proper range? - Yeah, so DHT helps a lot for, it's the same reason it activates the antigen receptor gene. It helps effort feel good. So it can be motivating. So that's how it's active in the CNS. It also is active in So if you look at someone or if someone has cardiac hypertrophy, the level of DHT can matter to the androgen receptor in the myocardium or in the heart itself. So you think of the It's an easy example to make. They have very thickened muscle. Their muscle is very strong, because they're pumping blood and that DHT and the testosterone and any DHT derivatives like preamble and also bind to the heart, and they cause even more hypertrophy or enlargement of that muscle tissue. So then let's say the person and they're trying to which is where you take and cardiac remodeling's important in a lot of different cardiac pathologies, but if you give them which inhibit the enzyme that to DHT, so making less activity at the androgen receptor gene, they have cardiac remodeling, and their heart health improves. - I see, so for the non-body builder, the typical woman or what sorts of things support Presumably DHT she is involved that testosterone is famous Things like libido, as you mentioned, making effort feel good. So motivation, drive and vitality is, I guess, could be the general phrase. What sorts of things support DHT? What sorts of things - There's lots of dietary that you're probably doing right now that's affecting your DHT. - You mean me personally? All of the listeners. Because let's say you have a diet high in plant polyphenols, many of those inhibit the enzyme that converts testosterone to DHT. - Could you give us an example of one of those, either or in food form? - Curcumins, certain curcuminoids, depending on the structure, will inhibit the enzyme that converts testosterone to DHT. - Turmeric? Black pepper extract. So it's used often to It's also called BioPerine. It's also a 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor. And on top of that, people So some people, they're there's three of them. They're on chromosome two, but some of them are some of them are active in the brain. And so it depends on which tissue, they're tissue-specific how much DHT you convert. - Do you recommend that and turmeric for that reason? And is there any specific recommendations for men versus women. - If a man or a woman, by the if you just ask your it's the same units as in men, so it's essentially undetectable. So you have to, especially if they're which is a front topic, their DHT is very likely undetectable, especially if it's free DHT. You can measure both a DHT and a free DHT. But if someone's DHT is already low, or if they have somewhat via genetics or via lifestyle, then I recommend they avoid like bioavailable turmeric, and they might be a good Creatine, like creatine monohydrate, can significantly increase the conversion of testosterone to DHT. - Interesting, there's also a lot of really interesting the role of creatine as a brain fuel, and maybe even as a The data is still ongoing, but some of the studies in at least to me. I'm glad you mentioned and black pepper. I wish we had had this because I had the experience of the excitement around turmeric, and I took a turmeric supplement. It was a couple capsules and I think was high quality turmeric, and I've never felt as poor as I did in the subsequent few days, flat line of, let's just say everything that one would want to have just it was a cliff. And a friend somehow knew that curcumin could inhibit 5-alpha reductase. It converts to testosterone I stopped taking it, it was the only new addition and things bounced back But it was remarkable. I mean, I felt like garbage. And it was actually kind of frightening to experience the sharpness of that cliff. But I know that some people like turmeric for its antiinflammatory Sounds like people either and if they do, obviously to approach that with caution. Anytime you add or remove something, you need to talk to your doctor. You're a doctor, and I'm guessing that if one were to experiment, would you say that most of these effects of things like curcumin are Or is there any potential if people have been taking - The effects are nearly always reversible when you're talking about so what turmeric does, but stronger. The most common story a supplement known as saw palmetto, which a lot of older men take for their prostate health or finasteride, which you can take for your prostate, or your heart, or your So if you're having side effects on these, then it's probably because of One can be your ratio of and that needs addressed. Another one can be it's of your progesterone to that the 5-alpha, 3-alpha, that that's helping with your and your calmness. And that's definitely an effect. Another one is depending on they inhibit different isoenzymes So if they're just inhibiting one and two, then that's going to be if they're inhibiting two and three. So finasteride does two and three, saw palmetto does one and two, and then dutasteride does all three. The third one is active in the brain and dutasteride inhibits that third one a little bit weaker in vivo, but strongly in vitro. So it's really hard to parse out. You can use biofeedback I do think with supplements The time that it takes to set in is usually about three months. So the risk of, and this is anecdotally, there's been lots of if post-finasteride And it is real, but it's one of those things that's a combination of Almost kind of like fibromyalgia And there's lots of things that but it's very unlikely to occur if you stop taking your after you have side effects. - Interesting, well, I when I'm taking five grams of I know most people take and tissue repair and things of that sort, mainly I think brings water et cetera, but I take it and also because I like a little bit of a DHT bump my blood charts when I've done them. I know many people want that can sometimes be associated with DHT levels going too high. And so I've been asked many times, does creatine monohydrate cause hair loss? It would make sense that and DHT binding to the androgen receptor on the scalp can induce hair loss, that that would be the case. Is that that true or are people just overly that's trivial or non-existent? - Each male and fem, so yes, I don't like to say it causes it, but it can be a little So just like everybody has of their androgen receptor, they have a different that is going to cause That's an arbitrary threshold. So you don't really know - And if somebody takes to increase their DHT, maybe for the cognitive enhancing effects, or for whatever reason, and they notice a bit more and they stop taking it, you said death of the follicle, Are those little stem cell niches that reside in the follicle, are those then abolished, like there's no going back, or can one rescue at the hair? - It takes months, if they're still there, the hair will come back. So the loss of the hair itself is a normal part of the hair cycle. So you have your antigen your telogen phase, and and then a new follow. in the hair follicle. Think of it like sharks have teeth. So shark loses a tooth, and they have a new Or losing your baby tooth, but your hair just always So it's natural for it to die and lose. That's that's why when you start 5-alpha reductase inhibitors, often you have a big shed. So what happens during that big shed is all of these cells that are unhealthy, they immediately jettison that hair and then they start making a So a lot of the hairs that are at the end of their telogen phase, then they have what's which also happens after pregnancy, also happens in thyroid pathologies. So you shed it, a new one in place, and you think that you're having a horrible hair loss or whatever you're doing. And minoxidil does this too, but you're really just having If you go a really long then those hairs might come - So for simplicity's sake, if or is experiencing hair what are their options of that are not going to negatively impact other tissues sensitive to DHT? And what I'm basically saying here is, I could imagine taking a DHT inhibitor, a pill of some sort, or an injection of some sort, maybe even stimulate more hair growth. It's clear that I'm not doing that, but I know people that do, but then experience some of of blunting DHT, reduced reduced drive, disruptions or even sexual function generally. So what can people do or grow back hair, but they don't want all What should they avoid and what should they to their doctor about? - Yeah, there's a whole host of options. I try to separate alopecia or hair loss into two different categories, or androgenic alopecia, also known as androgenetic alopecia, versus other types of alopecia, And if it's androgenetic alopecia or male pattern baldness, perhaps say PCOS, something like that, then you want some sort of of that androgen receptor. - So women can get male pattern baldness? - [Kyle] Absolutely. - Okay, I'm going to have to wrap my head around that one, but okay. - So there's a lot of different that are topical. The most promising is called Essentially what it is is it's very localized injections in areas that are prone to male pattern baldness, whether they're female or male. And it acts locally only. And you repeat these it decreases the conversion just in the scalp. - So that can avoid prostate effects. And what are some of the negative effects of blocking D HT in Meaning not on the scalp or in the brain? Where is DHT doing its stuff? - Yeah, so it's both DHT, and then also that 5-alpha, which is called THP or dihydroprogesterone or tetrahydro, trihydroprogesterone. So they're active in the but it's also just active, again, binding to the androgen causing them to have that A lot of women that are sensitive to DHT, 'cause women can be feel very different when they not because it alters It does to some degree. Because the negative feedback inhibition in the pituitary and less but it increases SHBG really high. So because their SHBGs their free DHT is way lower. - I see, how does a woman polycystic ovarian syndrome? What are the issues with What can be done about PCOS? I confess, I was naive to PCOS. That wasn't supposed to I do confess I was completely naive to it. And I started getting a in various forums. And I think that's actually the reason why I initially approached you. I know you have treated a lot of PCOS. What age women should be Teach us about PCOS, please. - Yeah, so PCOS is And this is one of those conditions which is underdiagnosed. So its prevalence is much There's been a lot of studies. And some studies say a It's not completely clinically penetrant. So most people don't know they have PCOS until they have infertility - And is PCOS happening at this frequency in 20-year old women, in 40 and onward? - Most women find out they especially, it's on a like a lot of things, where or a very severe version. - What are the symptoms? - There's criteria called And in the Rotterdam criteria, there's a couple different You're looking for androgen and you could also look You don't actually have to to get an ultrasound of your If you have androgen excess, for example, androgenic acne, or hormonal acne. If you have hair growth, like a hair growth on the Or if you have, like deepening of the voice, any symptom of too much. And male pattern baldness, that's a symptom of PCOS as well. Then you can also have insulin resistance. So this is obesity. It's pre-diabetes, a high fasting insulin, a HOMA-IR over two, a fasting insulin of over six. So if you have significant and also androgen dominance, Androgen dominance often leads to what's called oligomenorrhea. So if you're having more in between a period or if you then that can be a sign which means too little, So that's a very common sign of PCOS. If you have infertility, so if you're under the age for more than a year, or if and you've been trying then that can also be, it's a very common presenting complaint when somebody presents with PCOS. - And assuming that a woman is doing all these other things is paying attention to the six pillars that diet, exercise, caloric Not everyone needs to Stress, sleep, and sunlight, spirit. Assuming that they're what other things in the realm of diet or supplementation can if they have subclinical PCOS or they have not developed it, but don't want to develop it? 'Cause it doesn't sound like a good thing. - Yeah, so depending on where they are, if they're very strong on the then optimizing their body composition, decreasing their body fat, and treating that metabolic So a lot of people ask, well, does everybody that's on, like does everybody need to Not necessarily, but that can help with insulin sensitization. Other tools that can help are inositol, so myo-inositol is an insulin sensitizer. Its cousin D-chiro-inositol is a weak antiandrogen. A lot of types of inositol So depending on if and you're on inositol, the - Yeah, this is a very important point. Just today I said I'm trying this new supplement inositol for its role in perhaps enhancing sleep even further. My sleep's generally pretty good. Lately it's been a little bit So I took it for the and I said, I thought it helped, and just subjectively, and you said, &quot;What kind of inositol is it, because inositol is a very It turns out I was taking myo-inositol, which is not an androgen inhibitor. The other type that you mentioned, which is an androgen inhibitor is? - D-chiro-inositol. It's usually in a ratio in a much lower amount - In a supplement or in the body? - In a supplement to - But for women who to try and reduce androgen, then they would perhaps want that reduce the androgen Correct? So if you're a woman to your doctor about getting or spironolactone, which but it happens to be a blood pressure medicine as well. D-chiro-inositol might be a better option. DIM or diindolylmethane is another kind of weak antiestrogen, antiandrogen that a lot of - You mentioned oral contraception. I've done a few posts on these. Let's just call them, they really are perceptual effects whereby it's been demonstrated in and what appeared to me where women that take oral contraceptives, there is both a shift in 'cause these studies only the sort of arrangements here, where women who are on oral contraception, because it blunts some of hormone output, no longer experience the in their assessment of So it sort of flattens their They still find certain men attractive and certain men unattractive, but the degree of difference And likewise, men, these data say that men they still see women on oral but a woman taking oral this kind of peak in her attractiveness that men would otherwise perceive. In other words, oral the way that we perceive each other, at least in terms of these What is going on with that? Is that because oral contraceptives, blunt the increase in just before ovulation, or is it because of a complex cascade? What is going on? I find this fascinating. - Yeah, so there's and I wouldn't use the but alter the severity or alter the peak, as you said. So just like TRT is not going an oral contraceptive will It will just change your day libido and attractiveness. So one of the main effects almost all of them have and a synthetic progestogen in them. One common type of synthetic There is another new synthetic estrogen that's out there as well, that seems to have even more side effects. So this ethanol estradiol than endogenous or bioidentical So it binds to the estrogen and it's going to increase which secondarily, as you mentioned, decreases your free testosterone, and especially your free DHT. So that little testosterone when you're a female that's ovulating, that's really flatlined and it's a pretty insignificant difference. It's not negligible, but it's a little bit of a hump and you have significantly less of that when you're on - And does that blunt the that normally would occur from - Yes. And what about other forms 'Cause there are, there's copper IUD, there's various implants. There's rings, there's a huge number of different forms of these. So what we're talking it is only the effect of oral contraception that Is that correct? - Yeah, there's a lot of For example, your choice will alter how high your It appears to be the higher your platelets and the higher your SHBG, the your higher risk of a blood clot. So a lot of women know that if they're on a oral contraceptive and they're already or a venous thromboembolism, in their vein they have a blood clot in either their leg, or their lung, then it can increase that chance. So you can choose a synthetic to have as high of a response, but there's various pros and cons. Some synthetic progestins are For example, there's one known as Slynd, which is made from spironolactone. So some women are on which is made from spironolactone, which probably isn't unless they need it for a - I see, I'm just going to and I apologize, but specifically because there is this notion that oral contraception taken can disrupt fertility in of just the age-related Is that true? - It depends on what 6 to 12 months, it's possible. Past that, it seems very unlikely. However, the persistently elevated SHBG can be present for quite some time. - Wait, so if a woman for 6 to 12 months and then stops, will she essentially be aware in terms of her fertility at that age? Or are you saying that it - Her fertility would be equitable as if she had never taken it but probably six months off. - And what if she... I know of women that have for many years are, in addition in fertility that occurs of course the slope is going on the individual, but are they quickening the transition to infertility? - Probably not, you could make a case that because they've been on they may have been to insulin resistance But that's probably going to compared to their resistance training and also their caloric restriction or caloric maintenance so- - And of course there are also - Yeah. Right, I mean on all 'Cause it's a major That obviously people contend with and have since the beginning I want to ask some questions and male hormones generally. But before I do that, I have a couple of burning questions that I get very often that Marijuana, I've heard that in men and women. I've heard that it can Alcohol, I think there's general consensus that high alcohol intake, high barbiturate intake does What about modest increase of alcohol? I'm not a drinker, so I'm not I don't smoke pot, and whatever. I just never really liked They're not my thing. But many people want to And the data that I've and conflicting, so what about marijuana, does it reduce testosterone to - Cannabinoids itself, are not going to reduce If it's smoked marijuana, then it's very likely to which increases your estrogen. And that's going to, it's aromatizing from testosterone. So that is going to decrease testosterone. When you have an increased that's going to work on your pituitary to make less hormones that So you're going to have So it's almost kind of like opiates are well known to, opiate agonists, they're and subsequently testosterone. Smoked marijuana will as well. As far as alcohol, high alcohol will decrease testosterone as will any very potent GABA agonist, whether it's a barbiturate, or benzodiazepine, or they're definitely going to. Moderate alcohol, I guess it of that is. The American Heart- some people I know that at least by my assessment, will have a glass or two which to me seems like only because I don't like alcohol. I don't have a problem with but I think for many people or moderate intake. - Yeah, I would consider that low intake. The American Heart between one and two - They recommend it? So around one per week. - Wait, so I'm making by not drinking alcohol. - Yeah, they recommend a very low amount of alcohol intake for men. For women, they recommend zero to one. So that's kind of hard to But the protective effect of alcohol, especially if it's a red wine with polyphenols in it, outweighs the deleterious effect. - Interesting, 'cause I've to the idea that even over a prolonged period of time might actually decrease brain volume or at least volume of But of course we don't of decreasing the volume of I mean, one can imagine of one's amygdala and Although there's no I've been told that I need but I always reply that I in order to speak my mind. So again, individual differences. Very interesting, so it sounds in fact reduce testosterone or at least increase the conversion of testosterone to estrogen, correct? - Yeah. - And with alcohol and GABA agonists, it's important to remember So one drink of alcohol a day is actually very mildly immunosuppressive. So it's better to have two of the week and then two more drinks of alcohol another day of the rest of the time. The same could be said that have GABA in them. A lot of sleep supplements which is GABA, so- oh, sorry to interrupt. I occasionally take 100 in order to enhance sleep. But I do it maybe every No more than three or four nights a week. - Yeah. - That's perfect. - So there's a lot of sleep supplements that should not be taken daily and GABA's one of them. Another one of them is Trazodone. And melatonin is kind of arguable and it depends on the situation. But in general, if you're it should not be taken every night. - The sleep supplements that every night or nearly every night are things like magnesium 3 and 8, apigenin, if that's not true, correct me. I certainly take them every night unless I forget them back - Magnesium's one of the exceptions. L-theanine is also another exception. - Great, well then at least into the world that's And hopefully I won't. But if I do, I'll correct myself. So let's talk about testosterone in males. You see these headlines all the times now that testosterone levels are dropping, sperm counts are dropping. Phenotypes of men are changing over time. And I can't quite follow because obviously those are to do, because techniques and sensitivity of But regardless, I'm aware are considering increasing their testosterone by taking testosterone. A few years ago that was and it was really extreme kind of stance. Nowadays it seems like there's First off I'd like to know does testosterone supplementation, and here I'm talking about does it make one more That seems to always be the - Yeah, and there is a huge amount of misinformation about this too. So testosterone is not going However, normal aging and testosterone will So if you're a 80-year-old and there's at least say 50% a prostate cancer, if there's at least a 90% chance. So for humans with a prostate, it's only a matter of time So that begs the question, do you want to take something for sure once you have it? So it's an individual assessment and it's important to follow - So a PSA of four or less, I mean, ideally you wouldn't be at four, 'cause that's kind of the upper threshold, is the simplest read out of whether or not there's excessive prostate growth. There's benign prostate hyperplasia where the prostate is growing, but it's non-cancerous, correct? And then of course there like people have they have sexual difficulties, et cetera. I'm always struck by the correlation that people draw between testosterone and prostate health and the fact that, or I should say the claim that testosterone makes Because if you think about it, young males have high testosterone often, if not always, or certainly often. And you don't see a lot and cancer in young males. So something's going on here. How should we conceptualize this? - So if you have a PSA of 3.9 and you're a 25-year-old male versus a 75-year-old male the 3.9 PSA is significantly So think of your prostate from, not only testosterone, but also estrogen and also growth hormone. So that's why obese individuals have higher incidences of is because they don't have where your immune system takes stop replicating as fast prostate cells. Let's see if there's any atypical ones and then it finds those and it prevents them from reproducing. That's why immunotherapy is because they can target So the older male is going to have that cumulative damage happen already and arguably prostate cancer is a normal, with aging, fast aging is abnormal. Very slow aging is normal. There's a fine line to But there's a lot of to decrease the turnover, decrease the inflammation, and decrease the congestion There's also a lot more than There's prostate MRIs and things like that that can look at the structure and the function of the prostate. - So what should every male do to maintain the health of their prostate? And I realize that younger males probably aren't thinking about it at all. Although it seems like what I call cryptic questions. I think women are more comfortable talking about their hormone and sexual because of menstrual cycles. They're used to fluctuations the experience of what it's of progesterone, estrogen, But I get these kind of in my direct messages where what I think people are asking is, is there something wrong with my prostate? What should I do for my prostate? These are often indirect questions for other aspects of their And I don't say that ingest. I think more direct So what should all males do to maintain prostate health - Maintaining prostate health how you can maintain a good So you look for things that can hurt it. You don't necessarily look for one thing that can improve it or boost it. So for young males, those are prostatitis, so it goes hand in hand with epididymitis. So different infections of the prostate. The younger the male is, the more likely it is related to something that could But another very common cause is what we call gram negative The prostate is right So if you have chronic constipation or if you have colitis or if you, even just an E-coli is very likely to cause an infection of the prostate as well. - What should males do to prevent that? - Have a diet that has good, healthy prebiotic fiber, Make sure that they're having that they don't have chronic constipation. Have good sources of dietary fiber, which is also as soluble fiber, Most people get enough So that can help prevent the which is another type of infection. It can also decrease the chance of colitis and decrease the chance of - Are there any foods and/or supplements that men should take or avoid? What about, you hear yeah, supplements for, or supplements that support or cause issues for the prostate? - Yeah, if there's a strong to enlarged prostates, or even just really early then they could consider or even curcumin as an anti-androgen, as long as they're able to tolerate it. It's an individualized basis As far as making sure that there's an interesting and having prostate cancer. - Having girl offspring? - So if your offspring are females, then you're slightly more There's hypotheses that link rather than testosterone. So if you have hypoestrogenism, your prostate has more atypical cells. In general, the higher which is the general marker we call it CRP, and the or high-sensitivity CRP. If your CRP raises up very high, if you have an autoimmune disease, like if you have a Crohn's or an infection or a sexually or even a colitis, or even the flu, your CRP is going to raise significantly. - That you would detect in a blood test of course. Yeah. - So you want to get a baseline CRP when you haven't had any And if your CRP is higher, you also have more female offspring. If your CRP is higher, then your reactive oxygen species, which are causing mutations in the prostate are also likely higher. So you want to keep a very low CRP. - Interesting, and what about blood flow, and pelvic floor in general? We should probably do a whole There's so much interesting the fields of clinical I realize it's kind of the Netherlands of biology and medicine. People probably aren't but pelvic floor is obviously a confluence of a ton of of vasculature, of nerves, and of course the prostate resides there. And of course the genitals So I would imagine that exercise, being able to to those regions is key. What about just postural things? People sitting too much, you mentioned avoiding constipation. What are some other things, including medications that can over time and maybe even both in males and females over time? - Absolutely, and this is something that's rightfully getting The way I explain the pelvic which includes your of your organs are, your Think of it as a box. And your abs are the front of the box. Your back muscles are the back. Your diaphragm is the top of the box. And your pelvic floor, that's where your port Especially important, And you can do exercises. Pelvic floor physical and more utilized, but in other situations as well, including by men getting So you want to both strengthen and make sure that the to the outside world but they're not too loose. They're not working too well. So there's a lot of medications or negatives for your pelvic floor. We kind of talked about your gut and colon health in general. As far as your prostate health and as far as your bladder you think about a couple So you have your phosphodiesterase. You have your tadalafil. Basically this is going to in the prostate. A lot of people take it for ED, but it can actually - Could you define that? - A lot of men take to has a much longer half-life Its half-life is almost a day. So you can take a very low dose of it. Instead of taking 20 milligrams, you take two or two and a half milligrams. - So you're saying that for erectile dysfunction? - But that at it at lower doses, it may have served purposes independent of erection? - Correct, the most common is waking up twice at it'll cut that down to once. So if they're waking up then it can cut that just because you have easier blood flow. We used to use other which is tamsulosin. That's an alpha antagonist, so it basically binds to a and it helps relax that. There's several other alpha antagonists. And then you also have your medications that are hormonal like finasteride that a lot of people to decrease the enlargement The periurethral area, there's several lobes of the prostate, that tends to be especially - BPH? - Prostate hyperplasia And if you are able to shrink that area, then at that point, it's And the urine is able to get by easier. - Yeah, my understanding is I don't want to say a movement, [chuckles] but the idea of taking very low dose, like 2.5 milligram or even daily is becoming pretty common for many men who do not simply to either maintain Is that correct? - Yeah, that's correct. - And do you see any negative - There can be negative effects. It can lower blood pressure. So theoretically it can of vasovagal syncope. A lot of people take it because it kind of works or different pump products in pre-workout, and it can certainly help with that. But if you're about to go do a deadlift where you might pass out anyway, it can certainly increase because you don't have hypertension response. - Could someone just take - They could, if you took tadalafil, then that's going to be, has a long half-life. Whereas Viagra and Levitra tadalafil almost today. Some interesting studies on It can potentially alter your So the usual recommendation to have red-green discrimination with very small indicator lights is to not take Viagra. So I usually say if you're a pilot and perhaps hold off from that for a while. There's also studies with which is also known as it can increase eyebrow hair growth. So potentially what it and relax the veins, And when those veins are relaxed, you have better blood flow. That's one of the proposals or theories behind why older men get the You're having less So theoretically it can but it's not going to- increasing blood, oh, because it increases throughout the body? - Not just in specific tissues. Well, I find it incredibly there are these online around low dose tadalafil, daily use of low dose tadalafil, again, not for sexual or erectile dysfunction, but for sake of longterm prostate health. Is there any reason why women might want to take low dose tadalafil? - tadalafil is also a weak kind of like L-carnitine, where the density of the to bind increases slightly. So there could potentially but most of the time it's used in men. - Very interesting, we about testosterone and Assuming someone is paying there's kind of a gap as, I see it, between doing all those things and TRT, hormone replacement therapy. And again, the R, the replacement in TRT is a little bit of in quotes nowadays, because a lot of people in that 300 to 900 nanogram to take low dose testosterone anyway. My understanding is that of movements in this area not doing big, large doses but rather low doses quite frequently, obviously prescribed by a doctor, monitored by a doctor, et cetera. Is that generally what you if they're going to take this route? - If they're a hypogonadal patient whose benefits outweigh risks of TRT, then you want to have a It's not going to be exactly the same as producing pulsatile from your own body. When you have a steady state, you don't have a peak or a trough. And when you have a peak, that's when the antigen that's when you get more and that leads to a lot of the so higher hemoglobins, and hematocrits. And then when you have a So it's definitely not optimal. There's a lot of ways to get around this. So when you're doing if you're someone that needs it, you can have different types of esters, or you could do topical testosterone. So the Ester is basically something that's attached to increase The most common ones are there's also a very which has almost no clinical relevance. And there's also very long-acting ones, decanoate, and undecanoate, and different mixtures of all those. So if you're someone who you're going to have trouble of regulating your serum testosterone in the long run. If you do it topically, then the testosterone is and then a lot of times or once daily, but you So for most people, especially for people that's not going to be a great option. So injections would be preferred. Most people end up injecting, because they have either too low, or just too much of a varied dose when they do topical. There's also a capsule with a So it's not being absorbed it's not hepatically metabolized, but it's absorbed through the lymph. And it's essentially and then put into a capsule. And that's taken twice daily. It has fairly steady half-lifes, but you have to take it at So that being said, and it's new enough to where of data on it, but it is FDA approved. So it is brand name now. But the injectables in general, the lower your SHBG, the because when you inject it, whether it's intramuscular just talk to your doctor about the risks and the benefits of those. Subcutaneous has slightly because the esterases take longer to reach that supinate or an estered clavate. So most men, a lot of what a usual dose is. For most people, it would to 120 per week for an - Milligrams? 120 to 100 milligrams per week administered two to three times per week. - And you're not, so you're or three, right? 'Cause I'm sure a bunch of oh yeah, 103 times a week, which is actually quite a high dose. Yeah, there really does seem to be a shift toward spreading these dosages out into, dividing them into two And then along those lines, 5, 10 years ago, it was common to hear through aromatase inhibitors. Nowadays you hear, and I think it's true, at least by my read of the literature, that inhibiting estrogen can cause connective tissue issues, and even can cause reductions in libido. So a lot of people think they estrogen, if you crash estrogen, that but actually the opposite is often true. You don't want estrogen is that correct? And for that reason, do you shy away from people - Yeah, very few people truly There's almost always It can just depend on which gene, how active your aromatase gene is. Some people's aromatase A lot of times these individuals which is breast tissue growth in males, even despite no other risk factor. - Even if they're lean? - Some people get it if they're lean. - I remember growing up- - There were a few kids of gynecomastia that were transient. Like it's sort of like and then it went away. - Often it's unilateral on one side too. So growth hormone a lot of - Oh, interesting. - Yeah, there were a couple of kids. I mean, they took some there wasn't online and things like that, but And they were, the people I'm thinking of So they weren't overweight, which of course can cause gynecomastia, because adipose fat tissue can convert testosterone into estrogen. So it sounds like, that avoiding aromatase inhibitors is probably going to be a good idea. - Yeah, there's several other ways that you can control at a healthy level, which There's a lot of patients who assure me that their estrogen's going to be sky high and it's actually very low and vice versa. But calcium D-glucarate is a supplement that can help with estrogen control. - What's a typical dosage - 500 To 1,000 milligrams. - But is there the risk is in normal range and that their estrogen will go too low? Is it that potent? - It's not that potent. It's not near as potent So it helps with excretion of the estrogen receptor itself. And it kind of like helps outcompete it. Some people will also take DIM or different cruciferous vegetable, they get 'em from cruciferous or broccoli and that and an antiandrogen. So if you're on TRT and you're on that, then you're probably just on too much TRT. - Yeah, I remember a few and it truly is, it's not 'cause I'm very cautious just about which supplements I take. I think people might get the impression that I'm very cavalier I always alter one thing at a time. I talk to physicians. What I suggest other and have done for a long period of time. And I recall wanting to take back then you hear, okay, reduce estrogen. My estrogen levels weren't out of range, so they were fine, but I thought, well, what would the experience But someone I know is quite yeah, exactly what you said, which is that DIM can reduce estrogen, but also testosterone. So I just never opted to try and take it. I do want, we're sort of but we went straight from or to what some people which is basically code language for saying taking exogenous testosterone even though one doesn't a semi-super physiological like 900 to 1,000 nanogram And people always point out, well in certain countries, the high end range is 1,200 In the US, it's 900. And so if you're 1,200, are All that aside, I neglected to ask about where individuals could meaning non-prescription approaches to increasing testosterone, and here we should probably is it true that ice baths Lifestyle factors that for increasing testosterone. If you could comment on Supplements that are useful. And it'd be wonderful if you could mention where some of these same practices and supplements might be to increase testosterone for all the reasons we - Yeah, so this is where a true individualized approach comes in. When you're talking about what one thing to keep in mind is Quality of life is a subjective thing and it's different for each person. So some people are more willing to give up a little bit of athleticism Some people are more willing to give up, or not willing to give up And as we mentioned earlier, everybody's androgen receptor So you can make a case that if is half as sensitive as somebody else, the person with the less a level of 1,000 or 1,200. There's no great way to know that. And you can alter the sensitivity with things like L-carnitine - And we'll definitely because I'm really intrigued both for women and men sperm quality, fertility, and a bunch of other interesting effects. So we'll come back to L-carnitine. - But a lot of how you feel, I feel like this, comes from the ratio of your androgens to your estrogens. And a lot of that is lifestyle. So if someone's also on hCG, that could upregulate aromatase as well. - hCG, you might want to just, - [Kyle] Yeah. Used to be found in pregnant, is still found in pregnant women's urine. - Still found in pregnant women, yeah. believe it or not, for pregnant women's urine before this stuff was So in other words, what would buy pregnant women's urine through black markets in order to get the So in other words, men were using pregnant I do not want to how they Let's just skip to what you - Yeah. So that's hCG. There's a lot of other things Alcohol significantly increases aromatase. So if you're very sensitive to estrogen, then you probably shouldn't even consume two glasses three times a week. High fat meals also upregulate aromatase. So if you're on a ketogenic diet, but you have hyperestrogenism, then you should take - All kinds of fats or - I'm not sure if it's but fat definitely increases, both fat and your body and consumption of a high amount of calories - So the it's the ratio of I don't want to break your flow, but since we're talking since estrogen and testosterone from the cholesterol molecule, I've heard that ingesting can be useful because of can serve as a precursor Now I once said on a podcast that I occasionally eat pats of butter. Somehow that got misinterpreted to mean that I eat entire many pats of butter. I'm saying like one or two and I have no guilt or shame about it. My blood lipids are in great But is it possible that people who are ingesting too could directly or indirectly reduce or somehow disrupt the to estrogen in men and women? - It's theoretically possible, but it probably doesn't just like it's theoretically possible to have not enough omega-6 fatty acids, but that probably does not - So I don't need the butter pats, but I'm going to do it anyway. I'm just curious. - Yeah. - Grass-fed butter has good So grass-fed foods in general. It's not the end all be all and everybody doesn't but they are one of the only So a naturally occurring trans So ruminants, think of like cows and the rumination in the different stomachs can change your omega-3 and omega-6 to trans-linolenic and - Which are healthy for us. So it's actually omega-3s and omega-6s that just happened to have a - And these healthy in ruminant cheese and milk and butter from ruminants and the meat- - And the meats? - And for people who are following or mostly plant-based diet, are they at risk of not of fats or other nutrients to of testosterone to estrogen or not? - If they're a vegetarian, If they're a vegan, they Most vegans are aware of this very acutely and they'll supplement with algae or they'll supplement of healthy fats. - I see, so the takeaway is that less so than it's key to get these healthy - [Kyle] Yes. - Or the food products of those ruminants as well as to get proper - Yeah, and to be clear, you It just happens that those are in a trans-isomer. - I see, okay, so that's nutrition. What other supplements can to estrogen ratios? - Anything that alters aromatase can support healthy And your testosterone to estrogen ratio, think about it as how do you have at the beta estradiol receptor and your alpha estradiol receptor. - How would I know that? - So [chuckles] it's hard to tell, but depending on what you're eating, if you have a lot of plant-based many of these are beta People know about Turkesterone which are two ecdysteroids that are beta estradiol receptor agonist. So they activate the So if you have a very low you're probably a better candidate for it. - For taking Turkesterone or ecdysterone? - Yeah, ecdysterone. but I know my understanding is that they work tremendously - Yeah. And so one just simply has to try. But in promoting the activity is there a risk that could cause some of the with increasing estrogen activity, like reduced libido, water retention? - Water retention, yes. Reduced libido, probably not. Closing growth plates in the bone, no, because that's the - I've talked before on a couple of podcasts about tongkat ali, which is Indonesian herb, I guess, is also made and found in Malaysia. But it seems to be the that's most effective for potentially for reducing sex hormone and thereby freeing up testosterone. Whether or not the effects through another pathway, a lot of people report and maybe androgen-like phenotypes, right? Feeling more vital, et cetera. And of course, some of that But what are your thoughts on tongkat ali? And please challenge my if they're incorrect. I'm not looking for validation here. I just really want to know Do you ever recommend Men, women, one or the other? - Yeah, so tongkat ali or longjack has multiple mechanisms of action and there have been several placebo controlled studies on it. Some of them show decrease in SHBG, at least one of them did However, it does act on Probably not so strongly to be concerned of hypoestrogenism. - So it reduces aromatase and thereby can reduce estrogen. - Correct. - It's also a weak, it's not SERM, so it's not a selective but it's probably a weak, or a non-selective And that should help with decreasing negative of estradiol in various locations and also increasing testosterone. - Interesting, yeah, the dosage that I've been it's 400 milligrams taken once a day, typically early in the day, a mild stimulant effect, very mild. And I know that some of recommend dosages that are much higher. Anytime I've taken more than I don't know how to describe it other than it's just a little overly of makes me kind of, it's like drinking too much coffee. - [Kyle] Yeah. - So that's interesting. And so would women ever for any reason? - Yeah, absolutely. So there's a lot of women and unlike adrenal fatigue or andropause, there's actually ICD 10 - ICD 10 codes? - That's doctor speak, right? - Okay. to where your doctor can actually diagnose you with something. So if you go to your doctor and you say, I have adrenal fatigue, they Or if you say I have andropause, they also can't diagnose you with that. But if you say you have hypoestrogenism, the most common complaint is endometriosis, which is of the uterus. And those people could potentially, I think, that's one tongkat supplementation more and more, because not only does Like we mentioned, testosterone in females is higher than estrogen in females. So a lot of females get estrogen Peripheral estrogen is because it's not directly But they could be good if that's the case. - Very interesting and my understanding is that people should of Indonesian tongkat ali in particular. - Correct. - Another interesting I'll call it a PCT, but essentially- - PCT means, I'll defined - Physicians love acronyms, military love acronym, but we, yeah. PCT, post cycle therapy, so off hormone therapy or steroids. - This would actually be for of their birth control pill, because perhaps it can help which is sometimes persistently elevated, and then it can help prevent the subsequent - Does tongkat ali need to be cycled? When I first started taking I would do a few, three, four months, and I would take some time off. Now I've just been taking - [Kyle] Yeah. - And I should say I do blood work to check my liver enzymes I don't see any reason for me to cease taking it. - Yeah. Probably not. There's been human studies And full disclosure, I did help design Derek's new testosterone optimization supplement, which has both Fadogia agrestis and also tongkat ali in it. - Yeah. Let's talk about But let's say someone is for whatever reason, do - Likely not, but I would just to be safe, because it does both affect your aromatase and it's an estrogen receptor modifier. - And what would be a So how long to take and how long to stop before taking it again? - Yeah, there's a couple that you can do, but 11 months on, 1 month off for tongkat is pretty reasonable. Now I guess this is, we'll talk about this later too, but if it's combined with Fadogia, the protocol that I would one week off. - So that's tongkat ali. But I'm curious what your this Nigerian shrub or this that at least in my experience, in my read of the literature, has the potential to increase testosterone and probably other hormones as well by way of increasing luteinizing hormone. Something that we haven't up until now. What are your thoughts What are your ideas about or mechanisms and where for people on or off - Yeah, Fadogia agrestis where we have enough evidence till we know it probably helps both with which stimulates Leydig to produce more testosterone. And probably with LH receptor sensitivity as well, which is a good It does come from the Nigerian shrub, but there is not quite to be able to say it's safe for someone to which again, full disclosure, that's why I recommended that we recommended for people So three weeks on, one week The only toxicity studies in general are in rats and in humans, - My understanding is in rats showed toxicity so that's certainly concerning, but that the dosages that the dosages used to humans would lead to a situation where would have to take would So the amount of, I no but I took it at 600 milligrams And I ceased taking it with other things and I didn't Not because I had any In fact, I was monitoring blood work, and other biological parameters if there was testicular Let's put it that way. - Yeah. I think it's extremely safe. And I'm just not convinced that there's enough overwhelming evidence for longterm consistent administration. - So do you recommend this to and do you recommend to men and women? - Yeah, so if you have a really high LH, then there's probably a gonadal issue, whether it's heat damage to a history of testicular cancer where your LH is going to be higher. So if your LH is already very high, increasing it even more is However, if your LH is low, then obviously try to find out is it low? Is it deficient or is it If it's low and you don't you don't have an issue with and naltrexone can actually that to increase LH as well, especially in people or likely even alcohol. So you're looking for a which is essentially, just So in people with that lower and their prolactin is fine, then Fadogia is a - Interesting, so three weeks on, one week off for 600 milligrams Fadogia, 400 milligrams tongkat could potentially you be good. And of course, everyone with their physician, clear this, do blood work, et cetera. I always say we don't just We say that to protect And it's very, very important. You don't want to get, you don't want to fly blind You want to do blood work, right? - That's the catch-22 with supplements is most of them are but the only difference is one's prescribed and one's not. - And oftentimes with supplements, it's unclear whether or not is actually what's in the bottle but. - Yeah. - But I think there are a The other supplement I want to talk about in terms of testosterone What is boron thought to do? And do you ever recommend boron? - Yeah, so boron is actually an element. And you can find it on the periodic table. It's more plentiful in rich soils. So frequent farming can It's very plentiful in like Greece and Turkey, so a lot of people will that are grown there. - I thought you were going but there are people who eat dirt. who eat dirt. called pica, right? Where people in a, and that's - Often assign a iron deficiency. - Okay, but they're that were grown in soil that Is that right? Yep, so boron can help regulate SHBG, but its effect is mostly acute. So it's unlikely to have a bad effect, so a lot of people take boron because it's probably not going to hurt and it will lower SHBG even if it is for a short period of time. So I guess you could make a can help too. - What sorts of dosages are useful for boron supplementation? - Three to six milligrams - Oh, interesting, so that's that I've been taking. I've long been doing this again, I stopped taking Fadogia, but for a long time I think it was two to but maybe I could afford to go higher. Although my blood work is So circling back to Fadogia. Fadogia was attractive because I saw increases and free testosterone. My estrogen stayed in check, but I also did not see when I would cycle off. Whereas with hCG, human which does now arrive in forms not from pregnant but the synthetic forms that, as I understand, it can actually suppress if one takes it for a long period of time. So why would a man or And what are the potential risks - Yeah, so hCG or human is actually very similar to TSH. - Thyroid stimulating hormone? - Correct, so when a woman is pregnant, she produces more hCG, especially in the first trimester. When you take a pregnancy test, whether it's qualitative or quantitative, you see the hCG rise, and it actually doubles every 48 hours. So if you're five weeks pregnant, And then two days later, you can see your hCG, and maybe it went from 500 to 1,000. So it precipitously increases. It does a few things. One thing is it prevents hypothyroidism or hypothyroxinemia of pregnancy, which is one of the most It's also why if you are, if you have hypothyroidism in the first trimester, you want to increase to keep your free T4 And the reason why you have to do that as opposed to somebody who is if you have hypothyroidism, then likely your thyroid will not respond to either TSH or hCG. So the increased hCG does So if you take hCG, then it can potentially So that along with selenium that you can do for thyroid health. - hCG and selenium? - Well, I definitely make by eating three to five - Yeah. the taste of also. Who should take hCG and can hCG suppress one's normal luteinizing hormone output? - Yeah, it suppresses LH So the higher the dose of hCG you take, the more it suppresses LH. A common dose for fertility, fertility is usually - In men or women? - In both, is 10,000 IUs all at one time, which is quite a bit. - That's a tremendous dose. - Yeah, in fact, some formulations, some brand names of hCG to where you cannot even at a time. - Wow. - But I know a number to maintain testicular function while on testosterone therapy or Does it work to do that? - Yeah, some people It can be slightly better on your lipids than being on TRT. - Oh, so people are using hCG alone as a kind of neither sort of a indirect hormone augmentation. Some clinics advertise it as to TRT, but it is suppressive of LH. - But it could also increase - Yeah. - And is it true that can improve sensitivity of the genitals? And is that true for men and women? Yeah, I've heard this anecdotally. People say hCG makes sexual for people because of some, is it a direct effect on some of the nerve cells in the genitals? - Yeah, so LH is also an and in genital tissue in general. So it's a very common treatment for post-finasteride syndrome when you've blocked the conversion of DHT for a long time, it - So someone who's been taking finasteride to prevent hair loss, comes off it, maybe 'cause they felt lousy, but then feels even lousier for reasons that you talked about earlier. And then they might use hCG to transition back to Is that right? - It's extremely helpful in many cases. Now when you come off the hCG, then you need to have a to your normal as fast But it will upregulate those You have, in your genital skin, both scrotal skin and penile you have, I believe what's It's skin layer that is very, very thin, but it has the highest So you have a lot of activity. And after you've been on something the 5-AR enzyme in those tissues, then you do something else whether it's waiting and taking time, whether it's trying tadalafil, whether it's trying creatine even, or whether it's trying HCG, a lot of times those are the go-tos for post-finasteride syndrome. - Any risks for women to get pregnant or risks generally? - Yeah, obviously it'll make So that's a risk that - So one could, in theory, by injecting hCG. - Absolutely. - Interesting. - I have no motivation to do that. I was just curious. [Kyle chuckles] - Yeah. - What about prolactin? The simple version of because I was taught mainly from the neuroendocrine perspective was dopamine is a kind of close and also estrogen for that matter, drives appetitive behaviors, including pursuit of sexual motivated behaviors generally, then postcopulatory, post-orgasmic states are accompanied by a prolactin increase. That's the refractory and maybe even in females as well, involved in milk letdown, et cetera. What are sort of the general contours of syndromes or things that people of having too much prolactin And I'm aware of a number of people who take dopamine agonists, things like that, to really And that isn't always a Oftentimes people become and so they have the drive to do all these appetitive but they don't always have the ability, because it seems, just as testosterone in the proper ratios, dopamine and prolactin need to So how should we think about and perhaps act on our prolactin systems? - Absolutely, the way I describe it is the dopamine wave pool. So if you're increasing you're going to overflow and that wave crash too much. So you want to have nice even waves that are not going too far above the pool of dopamine and prolactin will follow. So prolactin and estrogen Estrogen upregulates a or prolactin gene that directly increases So prolactin is going to also inhibit the release of testosterone So if you're using a dopamine agonist, then you're to help decrease including if you have a in the pituitary. - How common are those? Because, I mean, I hear a lot and of course that can be due or hypergonadism could ovarian syndromes and the brain side of it where the signals aren't Not enough gonadotropin, not And there are ways of teasing this apart with an endocrinologist in fact, right? Using stimulating hormones, But how often does one actually have one of these pituitary tumors? I have heard that people that play a lot of high contact sport, people that headed the sadly people whose jobs force could be military. And so they were firing 50 caliber guns and the kind of woodpeckering of the brain inside of the skull. And construction workers can cause the pituitary Is that really common or is a rare like 1%? - Yeah, it's extremely common. It's another one of those conditions where a lot of people never know they have it. They just feel a little bit more fatigued. They have that high prolactin Pituitary microadenomas can So your prolactin can be totally normal. Your growth hormone and That's the second most common is growth hormone causing which is growth of cartilage or gigantism. - This is the big brow. - Yeah. - So those are fairly but a lot of people that much less than one centimeter, it's hard to see on imaging even if you have a contrast at the pituitary and many So it's one of those and pre-diabetes that when it comes to prevalence, the percentage of people that have it in the general population. - I'm glad you mentioned I know nowadays there's a lot of interest in augmenting dopamine. I know a number of people that do this through prescription drugs, and those drugs of course but dopamine is certainly involved. People taking antidepressants into that system. And of course people are and promote serotonin or reduce serotonin. To me, it all seems like a I mean, to just imagine the a arousal arc for mating behavior, is such an in an elaborate and parasympathetic drive, even with across the I mean, I've talked about that the arousal is kind orgasm in itself is a a completely different set of neurons. And so where do you see just trying to hit the and where do you think there is a place for people who perhaps and motivation, not just to increase the amount in their brain and body? How do you think about that, given this wave pool analogy? - Yeah, so it's important to parse it out and start with the least So if someone's concerned about dopamine or maybe they have a then they eliminate things that could be increasing that prolactin. - Such as? which are mu opioid receptor agonists or any mu opioid receptor - Casein, so milk protein? - Correct. - Correct. - Interesting. - In addition to that, they should, if they need a pituitary MRI, then they should get a pituitary MRI. If they don't have an adenoma or if they don't have a to where they need an MRI, if they're having visual symptoms, or if they're having olfactory then it's more likely that they do. But if they don't, a lot of times a prolactin under about 40 is not too big of a deal. They can take dopamine agonist like P5P, which is essentially vitamin B6. It's pyridoxine-5-pyrophosphate. And pyridoxine is vitamin B6. So that can help, 50 Vitamin E can also help, especially if it's mixed to tocopherols. A lot of people have but low levels of the So that can also help. - Fascinating, I'm so glad you I have heard that one can shorten the refractory period after orgasm, essentially to to be quite direct about it, by way of vitamin B6 blunting which turns out to quite potent. But I've also heard that especially in the periphery, that it can cause peripheral neuropathies if it's taken at high doses. But that P5P is the safer form. Is that true? - It's pre-activated, Think of it as a allegory It's not methyl folate, but it builds up and it can Or if you have too much vitamin B12, another water soluble B vitamin, you can have too much So depending on what your to the active form of the enzyme, often it's just safer to take - Yeah. Very interesting. - Okay, well, at risk of going down every hormonal pathway and talking about supplementation, I think touching on, as we have, testosterone and estrogen, I'd love to chat a little We talked about this earlier, but I want to raise this not in the context of L-carnitine itself, but in the context of fertility. Because my read of the can be very beneficial for and egg quality and even What forms does L-carnitine come in that people can reasonably consider? Again, talk to your doctor, folks. What is it doing? And do we know how it's doing it? And do you often use - Yeah, so the way I and I'll try to tie this in with creatine, and other things as well, is if your cell is an then L-carnitine is the into the motor to use the motor. The motor is mostly due So like your diet and your exercise. And the type of fuel itself is NAD+. We don't need to get into or NR, anything. And then the accessory fuel So creatine is your accessory fuel tank. Your NAD status, which is largely determined and quality sleep and exercise along with supplementation as the fuel, the carnitine shuttle is carnitine palmitoyl coenzyme A. And that takes medium-chain fatty acids, it takes different molecules of fat. You have two main energy You have your glucose or carbs. You have your fat or fatty acids. And that takes it across the so that it can be utilized. So upregulates that, that's why things that the flagella are going to - The flagella being anything, sort of the wavy little of which they're everywhere, right? In the gut too, right, yeah. - Yeah. - So those are going to And in general, you're mitochondria So the worst your the better they're going to that shuttles them across. It also slightly increases the density of the androgen receptor as well. - Is that a local effect? So if an L-carnitine is injected will it increase the density in that muscle? - Likely so. - So how are people taking L-carnitine? There are capsule forms and Most people are going to be because that's all they're And then we should also ask, can you get L-carnitine from food? - Yeah, so L-carnitine it's actually a very small peptide. So glutathione is just L-carnitine is the smallest peptide, two. So peptide is just a between two and about 200. And L-carnitine is just two amino acids. - Amazing, so it's like a micro-peptide? - Yeah, so your body synthesizes enough. It likes to absorb the And then if it puts them together, there it makes L-carnitine. It's not very bioavailable if you take it. A lot of people take or a acetyl-L-carnitine, and that's about 10% bioavailable. So if you want 1 gram or 1,000 milligrams of L-carnitine, you can take - Is the one gram the typical dose, you recommend one gram per day? - For fertility and androgen - So that means taking 10 - Yeah. So it's about 15 to - [Andrew] That is a lot. - It can also potentially increase TMAO. - Yeah, I want to ask about that, because TMAO on your blood chart is, when that's elevated, that's going to cause some concern. You taught me a trick, however, that one can take 600 for the allicin. Is that what it's called? - It's like the name - Yeah. And that had a remarkable So that's quite potent and also was it just coincidence that it really brought my LDL down as well? - I'm not sure if the but depending on your gut some microbiome beneficial bacteria will convert carnitine and also choline. So any choline precursor like Alpha-GPC or phosphatidylserine, it'll will convert them So TMAO is something in a blood test and see Some people might not even need allicin. - Interesting. do benefit from it. - Interesting, although I think it was you that also told me that allicin in garlic on cardiovascular tone Is that right? - Yeah. So is 600 milligrams or can I just eat garlic? - You can just eat- I like eating garlic. - Yeah. So, okay, so one could If one were going to take how much of that is bioavailable? - 100% if you inject it. It is in a aqueous solution, so it's bacteria static water essentially. So it's not in a carrier oil. So it's going to burn a lot if So it's going to be absorbed and also just hurt a lot into a muscle. - But one could then just or divide it up into a couple doses? - Yeah, or 500, the minimally efficacious around 200 when it the androgen receptor upregulation. So it really depends on - In terms of fertility, and in terms of blood tests generally, I always say that if possible, either by way of insurance affording it, it would be great for people to have blood tests to know what their hormone of other things like metabolic in their 20s, also in their I think there's this idea that when you have a problem, one can't actually do the comparison that you mentioned earlier or state the comparison to one's physician that things are changing over time. And it seems to me that at least a once-a-year blood test. Is there the hope that insurance will someday just cover it for everybody? This will be standard care? I would think that everybody of things are floating and what they need more - I doubt it will ever In many cases, you could make an argument As insurance begins to cover more of the population for pathologies, the things like FSAs will likely cover this advanced testing, which it continues to come So it'll be affordable, - Got it. Yeah. I'd like to shift gears slightly and talk about social interactions and relational effects on hormones. Something that I just find fascinating. We touched on this a little bit earlier in terms of oral contraception, but now that we have the backdrop of what these various hormones do, some involvement in neurotransmitter and pro prolactin and associated pathways. Prolactin of course being a But there's a phenomenon in human beings where people a new partner and that excitement no doubt is related to the dopamine system And that excitement can be And here I'm talking about attraction, but I'm also talking about in the sense of novelty, because that's what Given that you work with human beings and they have lives and and they have hormones, and what are some of the ways adjusting our relationships as opposed to just thinking for sake of our relationship? Because it's bidirectional of course. And this assumes, I should say, that one is already paying attention to the six pillars talked about earlier, that people are doing most things right. How should we think about friendships, romantic relationships, new partners, longterm partners, yeah, how do you think - Yeah, so if you have a new partner, then it is largely regulated which changes over time. So people may have heard to go through a full calendar year with someone that you're in a relationship so that you- by the way. you really know what to But because you experience in the holidays and all But I would argue until had a baby, and then raised that baby, because that's when you you haven't really gone through Now you can't really do that you're considering. - Well, some people do, but it can be quite and finances and emotionally costly. - Yeah. - And then here, I'm any personal experience of having done all that many times over, but what would you suggest people do or think about as they for people that are in where they feel like and indeed those shifts of different hormone systems It almost certainly has - Yeah, so just like women who whether they're coworkers or whatever, a lot of times their There is a lot of pheromonal including prolactin between men and women. So spending 100% of the time together, this is why people think and live together. They're around each other 24/7. You don't have the reprieve where you let that dopamine settle down, and then you're excited A lot of guys know that if they've gone on a hunting trip or if they've they come back and they see their partner, and it's like a new, not but almost like a new relationship. And they have that excitement again. And purposely building that can help significantly, especially if you choose to or be breastfeeding, because you just plan ahead to be high and both of And both of your testosterones to be low. So there's a lot of Essentially every relationship And that crisis is personal And you can plan ahead and figure out a way, maybe Maybe it's not even the from each other. But plan ahead to have good times if you know you're about - Got it, and so it sounds like time apart and time together, which is actually built where men and women will purposefully avoid each avoid physical touch and then will reconvene, and yet those are very stable Is the inverse also true? For instance, for people that are in long distance relationships, where they're only seeing each other three or four days a week or two days a week, does this explain the fact that can go on for a very long period of time without ever actually entering the, let's call it the hyper-prolactin phase of actually moving in together Like in other words, is that a way in which people are spiking and troughing dopamine This kind of elusive, this sort of, what is it called? I think it's called like a cat string. Like if you play with a cat they'll keep reaching, but you throw the string on they're totally uninterested in it. Is that what's going on? 'Cause that's a dopaminergic phenomenon, the cat string example. We know this experimentally. - In those cases, the relationship in many of those cases, past the dopamine spike, the fun initial stage, honeymoon stage, whatever you want to call it. So it's almost kind of like a roommate. If you're looking for a roommate, if it was for college or you can fill out forms and but until you're actually together a significant proportion of the time, you're not really going to know if you're going to be compatible or not. - And is there evidence of an infant changes, obviously there're going We know actually that for there's a prolactin increase when couples are expecting a child. It's almost like a brooding phenomenon. You see this in birds where and it's caused by prolactin increase, but it turns out this And some people would argue this causes the dad bod phenomenon, prolactin is involved in preparing for sleepless nights. And presumably that spike to suppress sexual activity, because there are periods near childbirth where sexual - Yeah, you see a prolactin So if you think about it, you'll breastfeed, put the infant to bed, and then immediately go which is not particularly conducive. It's almost like trying to And it's very difficult. - Because of in the prolactin sense? - Yeah. - Low dopamine, high prolactin. Oxytocin is also increased significantly to help with milk let-down as well. So yeah, as far as brooding, there's definitely a human Some humans call it nesting but it's not necessarily a It's just a change. And as long as you know that it's coming, you're going to do better with it. Just like any medication. If you are aware of the side effect and that it might happen, then when it happens, it's not only less severe, it also happens less often. - Very interesting. - Well as a neuroscientist, I come from the framework that of course hormones impact but perception and behavior I find this fascinating. I also really like the example you gave of people taking time apart, but also these affiliative bonds can serve as kind of a reservoir to replenish dopamine that is then released upon to one's partner or some sort Very interesting, and of on both sides. I'm guessing that from both there's an interest in kind as the theme. And I guess the frequency will vary for different couples and - Yeah, and I don't want to is all bad, so prolactin does help with the nesting instinct. It helps with breastfeeding as well. A lot of women are diagnosed which is basically the but before a period or giving birth. A pregnancy's kind of a And a lot of them will go Progesterone can also decrease is also helpful for the So it helps the sphingomyelin So if your prolactin's it spikes up very high during pregnancy, then it can lead to increased risk of respiratory distress of the newborn. - Really interesting. Yeah. So we certainly don't where prolactin is the Without proactive, none of It's so vital. I realized that earlier I raised or not cold exposure could in particular whether or to specific tissues of the one way or the other, can change testosterone In other words, does taking increase testosterone and/or estrogen? - Yeah, so taking a ice or cold exposure in general, it's not going to correct or a metabolic syndrome. So there's a lot of things that are causes of hypogonadism but it will help acutely, specifically the application of cold to testes that are too warm. So if you have a varicocele of a primary hypogonadism, which is where testosterone but your LH and FSH signals then you'll likely respond And there's actually undergarments that are designed specifically And there's probably going in the future. You just need to be careful because it's a particularly - Noted. Could you define varicocele? You've mentioned it a few times. That's a varicose vein? - Yeah, so it's essentially It brings warm blood and the venous flow or the flow back to the Just like in the legs, it Usually about 20 to 25% of people have one grade of varicocele. There's grades one through And most people just have a very mild one, usually on the left side to go through further to And it raises the Temperature is the enemy of testes. So they like to be 5 to 10 degrees cooler than the rest of the body. - So are saunas particularly - They can be, yeah. - When you say can be, I mean, how long could one safely be in the sauna, or would you want to go the cold and sauna? Are there any data? - If someone is having infertility, then I tell them to avoid If someone has, if they're not infertile, but they have a low sperm count, However, it's mostly warmed water that can raise the temperature than the sauna. - So hot tubs and things of that sort? - Yeah, so hot tub and a jacuzzi. Those are enemies number - What about ice baths and Any evidence that it can - Yeah, it can. It increases the activity of even in the central nervous system and the astrocytes as well. So it can do a few things. It can slightly decrease the drive for food, which astrocytes and beta some medications that also do similar things. But it can be beneficial in women too. - But no evidence that it in women, correct? - Not that I know of. Peptides, lot of discussion Peptides of course just as you mentioned the very small ones like two amino acids like L-carnitine all the way up to polypeptides, which just mean many amino acids. There's so many peptides that we should probably just do an but I think one of the reasons I'm hearing so much about peptides these days is that they are not called steroids. The name steroids I think has come to be associated in the context of acne, testosterone rage, et cetera. But of course testoster, excuse me, estrogen is a steroid hormone, right? There are other steroid But peptides are gaining I am willing to go on record saying that you can be sure that many of the incredible in Hollywood are the And I'd put my name behind that because that use these to prepare for And then everyday people For instance sermorelin, to stimulate the release of growth hormone rather than taking growth hormone. BPC-157, which is essentially that normally repairs the gut, being used to treat injuries. And there are other are ones as well. What can we say generally Are they not safe? What about sourcing? And are there any peptides of particular use for people? And we should probably that people shouldn't go anywhere - Yeah, definitely, so peptides There's very dangerous My favorite peptide is which is insulin. So insulin is a peptide and less than 100 years ago, there was a scientist studying insulin. And at some point, they its diabetes cured by by insulin injection. Less than a year later, they were injecting insulin because it was saving their lives. - And yet insulin can kill you if you take it at the incorrect dose? - Yeah, so just like by a doctor, there is ReliOn or NPH, but ideally your insulin is for your diabetes, as it's lifesaving. Peptides should be prescribed And there's several that are FDA approved. So you mentioned a lot of different ones. Let's start with tesamorelin. So tesamorelin was recently FDA approved for something called lipodystrophy. It happens where body fat is often as part of aids or And it helps redistribute their quality of life back. Tesamorelin is a GHRH, which I kind of loop into so growth hormone-releasing peptides. So it's only a couple from endogenously-produced So growth hormone itself It's a peptide hormone. So you have different somatotrophs to growth hormone. Another fun fact is that HPL, which is human placental lactogen, we love acronyms, right? Human placental lactogen to growth hormone. The growth hormone in pregnancy is not what causes the sugar It's the human placental lactogen. So if you look at twin pregnancies, if they have two placentas or more placental tissue making more human placental lactogen, the risk of gestational diabetes So this HPL is only a from growth hormone. It is interesting that and GHRPs actually have pretty different Ghrelin is also a hormone that's released when you're hungry. This is probably one of the reasons why you have more growth And there's a lot of peptides to ghrelin, so these peptides but they just have a couple So they're almost identical be used in the future for including in kids, they've been studied. - So if somebody wants to increase their growth hormone output, in addition to not eating getting good, deep sleep, doing all the other that you mentioned earlier, especially resistance exercise at some point earlier in the day, what are the risks and benefits of taking a growth hormone-releasing hormone peptide like sermorelin prescribed What should one be concerned about? How long could one take these? I've even heard that they so that they really are in very long lasting ways. - Yeah, there's definitely a lot of risk, tumor growth and cancer. So you look at a type one diabetic, they have very high incidences They have very high growth hormone, but low IGF-1 paradoxically. So they would likely give to a type one diabetic that However, the benefits of it, you think of lipolysis, increased lean body mass. A lot of those, you can use other things So then you don't need growth It just leaves cosmetic benefit to which you can usually Your hair and your skin and your nails, there's a lot of other other than growth hormone. So a lot of people just if they don't have lipodystrophy or if they don't have There is other uses of them, So I know that they've been studied, I'm not sure if it's in the military. We mentioned the woodpecker So that obviously. and forth and the brain basically slamming up against the front of the skull. - So- in soccer, definitely people who use the 50 caliber in military, although that's a fairly small population. And I think anyone that's more than once. - Yeah, we can talk GHK-copper peptide for a bit. TB-500 or a thymosin beta-4 analog. And then we can also which is melanotan III. They have melanotan I and II, and then they also have - Yeah, let's talk about 'cause I think those are the ones that most people are eyeing, so to speak. - Yeah, so BPC-157 is body It's identical or bio-identical to gastric protective compound 157 that's produced in the stomach. So as you age, you get That's why you have less intrinsic factor, which is kind of another peptide That's why you can get So that's one reason why more or diverticulitis as you age. You don't have that gastric It increases VEGF vascular which basically makes your So that's what causes your So another medication known as Avastin. It's on the WHO's list of essential medications for cancer. So many different types of you treat it with Avastin, So if you have cancer you probably don't want that's the exact opposite as your essential anti-cancer med. - In other words, if you have cancer, you're at risk of cancer, avoid BPC-157? - Correct, a lot of people prescribe it for six weeks and BPC-157, so bremelanotide, that is FDA approved for a hypoactive sexual disorder. Tesamorelin, that's also Interestingly another is also approved for lipodystrophy. And also deficiency in So the receptor that receives the alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, it's a very rare condition. It's also approved for that, then you get obesity. But BPC-157 is not FDA approved, but it is essentially standard I would say it's, if you're not counting insulin or growth hormone as peptides, it's one of the most commonly and in some clinical literature, it's fairly well tolerated I'm not in the camp that to three times a week or even daily for six weeks no matter what. The major benefit is when you're because it's going to allow to the injured area, and for example, cartilage, ligaments especially as people age, it's going to make a So I would wager that that Russian gymnast that achilles healed in one a full rupture was likely taking BPC-157 or something very similar. - Yeah, I'm willing to a remarkable recovery. And so because it is prescription, there are non-prescription forms, my understanding of the and the danger of going is that oftentimes they will contain what they claim they contain, but they are not adequately the lipopolysaccharide which In fact, in the laboratory, we use LPS to deliberately to study systemic inflammation. So this is a warning to people. If you're interested in peptides, you absolutely need to in my opinion. - Get it from a really that cleans out the LPS. Because if you're buying a lot of people, I don't but there are these common that everyone knows about. They're buying these sources, they'll ship it to anyone essentially. But then the LPS is really and many people experience or tingling from that when they oh, I can feel it working. That's probably LPS action, which is not good for the brain. I don't know about on I haven't heard of people but I certainly wouldn't any LPs unnecessarily. So would you agree that you After all you are a doctor. Definitely talk to your doctor about this and talk to them about So if they have you ask 'em why am I doing it for six weeks? Why not two weeks or why not Can I just stop it? Yeah, there's a lot of that you should ask your doctor. And if somebody's trying to prescribe you a bunch of different things, then see, is this what they prescribe everybody or is this individualized for me? There are peptides like GHK-copper peptide which is produced at younger ages. That's why the liver can regenerate fully, is this, the GHK-copper peptide helps. And if you're copper deficient, which not a whole lot of people are, but a lot of people that are copper deficient, GHK-copper peptide can help significantly with your nervous system. And it's also synergistic. So any growth agonist in kids in the thymus, which shrinks. That's another reason why That and GHK is somewhat but if you don't need all And if you don't need you don't want it for more than a week. - I really appreciate you saying that. I often say that sometimes to take is zero. It's often the case that You mentioned melanotan. There are several kinds of melanotan. I find it a little bit because I first learned about melanotan from reading about peptides and discovering that people were injecting melanotan to get tan, because it's in the They also discovered, This is reading about this and peer-reviewed papers that it could cause things like priapism, like sustained erection, that might be the last one because of damage to the vasculature. Also women taking melanotan as a way to get tan and lose body fat. So this sounds all very recreational. Are there any clinical usage of melanotan? So separate from the kind of extreme biohacking cosmetic world, which is really not the main more in terms of health, - Yeah, there's actually three believe it or not. Not many people know about this, but there's three well One of them is the and more in women, - So- that have essentially no libido whatsoever? - But other hormones are in check? Yeah, classically it's before menopause. So those hormonal issues And when you give them this peptide, it's also known as PT-141, A lot of times you use it in nasal spray. It goes straight into the and acts centrally. You can also inject it, and you can also take it via troche. - Men and women take it? - Correct. It's approved for women. But it can also help men. And it's relatively safe. The only relative contraindication and a lot of people say, oh, there's no side effects that I know of. But if you have a family or potentially have a melanoma that's why I'm a big advocate on regular skin checks, then theoretically it's going to increase that alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, and it can grow that. So that's definitely not a good a thing. So be very careful about It's also approved for lipodystrophy, which is the same exact which I believe is also And then it's also approved where your receptors or your as well, so you usually It's not true albinism, with morbid obesity and from that in childhood, so - Interesting, well, peptides but thank you for that deep We will probably return to you to talk about peptides because I know there's a lot more there. And a lot of interest. I want to talk about the So just to remind people, you said diet, exercise, where appropriate, caloric restriction, managing stress, sleep for everyone at all ages to manage and optimize hormone health. Then you have the sixth category, which is a really intriguing Which is kind of unusual from a medical doctor, except that I have many former director of the Francis Collins has talked We've talked about belief effects on this podcast before with Alia Crum, how one's understanding and their world in general really creates an important effect on everything at the level of physiology, So as a physician, how do you conceptualize And how do you talk to given that people walking into your clinic presumably have a bunch and not a religious backgrounds. I'm sure some are atheists. Some are probably strong believers. How do you deal with that? And how should people think about this? - Yeah, I believe it is You wouldn't think at first wants to talk about their spiritual health with their doctor, but the way I think about it is it's like a Venn diagram and you have a body and a mind and a soul. And you can't have one healthy even if your mental health is phenomenal, and even if your physical the mental aspect of spirituality, if that piece is not there, then that's going to affect your And Alia Crum's done some excellent work. There's also been a lot of And I'm a Christian, I believe in God. And that gives me a lot of It gives me the cornerstone how I can interact with life. And regardless if someone's an atheist or regardless of what someone or the origin of the species, they can know that their a profound effect on their mental and physical health as well. People like to compartmentalize it. So they like to talk to the physical health 'cause They only talk to their pastor or a mom or reiki healer for their spiritual health. And they just talk to their therapist or psychiatrist about their mental health. But you need to bring all It's well known that to improved patient outcomes and that's just disciplines So that's just doctors in this or this. So this takes a step back in the upper part of that tree before you've reached those You have your body and so your spiritual health and your physical health. So if you're in line in that builds the cornerstone and the rest of your life. - So if someone comes into they're feeling one way in their body, they're feeling one way you run their charts, and they're an atheist what are some of the that they can consider that are in keeping with their atheism or agnosticism? Because I have to assume that or feel that they belong to will have particular prescriptives that will direct them towards But how would somebody who doesn't have a prescriptive coming to what could they do or would they do? - Yeah, so I certainly don't force prayer on anybody or anything like that. But it's my belief that being, it's almost the hardest thing, then you have some groundwork and you have some spirituality, even if it has to do with the with the environment, things that can't be phenomenon like the work But if you're agnostic, you're So I hope that everybody does in as far as their own spirituality. But yeah, that's a personal journey. From a physician's standpoint, and even if I'm friends with them as well from a friend's standpoint, I don't like to push anybody So I don't think that what I believe. And I don't feel like there for them to believe something different. So I think that there can be excellent physician-patient rapport, regardless of what we believe - Yeah. That's wonderful to hear. I can say without revealing any names that I have close colleagues that, in every bin of this spectrum, like hardcore atheists, hardcore religious in different domains, different religions, I don't know, I don't know if I know many agnostic, as to whether or not I know It's not something that but in the context of but it's starting to happen more and more. And certainly this issue of spirituality is one of the areas in a lot of questions. Like what spiritual experiences really are in terms of how they're or not grounded in the brain. I think it's a really And I appreciate that you bring it up, and you bring it up in the I think that it will which is ultimately the Well, I have one final question that a listener insisted I ask, and it's a very straightforward one. It's not at all a curve to what we were just talking about. But it was the most common that I was going to be is caffeine problematic for hormones? It's amazing, I received hundreds of the same question about caffeine. And since it's probably on the planet, I know it's taking us back but in closing, we're not quite there yet, but in closing is caffeine having an effect, one way or the other, on testosterone, estrogen, or other hormones that is - Only if it affects your sleep. So it works on adenosine and it can actually slightly but negligible effects otherwise. - Great. - Well, sorry to end on type of question, but I did that I would ask that question. Listen, I want to sincerely thank you. We covered basically an a neuroendocrinology textbook's a ton of practical tips in there. Where can people find out more about you? We will certainly provide links. And I guess the other question I'm sure you'll hear that where people can contact you. But where are you active in - I'm active on Instagram, kylegillettmd. I'm also active on the social which is Gillett Health. That's @GillettHealth on - Great. We'll provide links to those. And I should say that the content you've been is terrific because you actually pointed to specific studies and you put things into actionable context, which Kyle, Dr. Gillett, I should say, thanks so much for your time. I really appreciate it and I - Thank you. My pleasure. - Thank you for joining about hormone health and As you just heard, he is a treasure trove of And again, you can find him and other aspects of health that's Gillett with two kylegillettmd on Instagram and Gillett Health on all other platforms. And if you would like more you can find that at gilletthealth.com. If you're learning from please subscribe to us on YouTube. That's a terrific zero cost In addition, please on Spotify and Apple. And on Apple, you have the opportunity to leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions or any episode of the or if you'd like to suggest to cover or guests that you please put that in the In addition, please check at the beginning of today's episode. That is the best way We also have a Patreon. It's patreon.com/andrewhuberman. And there you can support that you like. During today's episode and of the Huberman Lab Podcast, we discuss supplements. While supplements certainly many people derive for things like optimizing and indeed hormone health. Anytime you're considering you want to make sure of the very highest quality. For that reason, we've T-H-O-R-N-E because Thorne to have the highest levels of the quality of their the amounts of the ingredients Meaning what is listed on what's contained in those supplements, which is not true for many If you'd like to see the you can go to Thorne, that thorne.com/u/huberman, and you can get 20% off Also if you navigate deeper so go to thorne.com/u/huberman, but then pass into thorne.com, you can also get 20% off in the Thorne catalog. If you're not already following please do so. It's Huberman Lab on both And there I cover science some of which overlap with the contents of the Huberman Lab Podcast, but much of which is of the Huberman Lab Podcast. And again, we are hosting two live events. One in Seattle on May 17th. Another in Portland on May 18th. That series is called where I'll talk about science some of which I have never And there will be an open for you to ask me your questions, and I will do my best to Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion And as always, thank you for [energetic music]