Caltek, a steel forging company located in Gimhae, Gyeongsangnam-do, South Korea Established in 2005, it produces high-quality large gears and bearings. Today, it produces heavy equipment bearings used in excavators, automated robots, and special vehicles. Steel blooms, the raw material for bearings Steel blooms are moved into the factory to cut the material. Here, an average of 500 tons of steel is used per month. A large crane loads heavy blooms into a metal cutting machine. High-speed metal cutting band saw Check the length to be cut. Start cutting Cutting oil is sprayed on the cutting surface to ensure smooth cutting of the metal. A long saw blade spins at high speed to cut the steel. It takes about 25 minutes to cut one block. Cutting speed - 10.4 mm/min It's amazing how hard iron can be cut smoothly :) Cutting complete Move the cut bloom with a magnetic crane. Lift heavy metal with strong magnetism. Metal cutting surface Hot forging line Move cut blooms to the kiln with a manipulator mounted on a forklift. Electric kiln Carefully place blooms in the hot kiln. Put the heavy blocks in first. A single kiln can hold up to 20 tons of bloom. Now heat at 1250 degrees Celsius for 6 hours. The temperature of the bloom just taken out is about 1150 to 1200 degrees. Even at this distance, the surroundings are extremely hot! Transfer the heated bloom to the forge press. It was really hot while filming. Large hydraulic press Remove foreign substances attached to the metal surface. A strong press machine is important for making forged metal products :) This is the operation that determines the stability of the material. Press to make a round shape. Press evenly. 'Punch' for metal forming First, press the top surface to make a donut shape. Turn the bottom surface up. Punch the bottom surface to make a hole. Hot donut shape is complete :) A worker steadily removes foreign substances from the metal surface with an air gun. A person delicately operates the press machine in the control room :) A very hot and ripe pumpkin :) The press forming process takes about 5 minutes per block. Unnecessary metal is recycled in the steel mill. Secondary heating The metal is fired again in the kiln to form it into a ring shape. Heating for more than 30 minutes. Ring rolling mill machine A machine that can quickly form metal into rings of various sizes. Various tools press and turn the metal around to stretch it into a ring shape. Lubricant is automatically injected throughout the machine. Coolant Removes foreign substances with high pressure water. The foreign substances that are produced when the heated metal surface meets oxygen. It's becoming a big ring! Products produced by ring rolling mills have strong strength and durability. Measuring the diameter Outdoor Loading The ring is cooled in this loading bay for more than a day. Heat Treatment Kiln A single kiln can hold up to 15 tons. Close Kiln Heat treatment takes about 15 hours. Open the furnace Forged steel ring completed! The following is the process of cutting this metal ring to make a bearing. Vertical turning machine Lift the forged ring with a horizontal clamp. Dial gauge to measure center, diameter, and position before cutting the ring. Outer diameter cutting processing Cutting a forged ring with a metal cutting blade. Spray cutting oil to lower the temperature and protect the cutting edge. It takes about 2 hours. Inner diameter machining Cutting the grooves inside the ring. This creates a huge amount of scrap iron. Machining the inner diameter takes about an hour. The scrap iron is recycled through scrap metal companies. Be careful moving it because it is very sharp :) Remove the residue with an air gun. The bearing groove is well cut :) 'Gear milling' to create gears Before starting work, replace the bit that cuts the metal. Metal Cutting Bit Fit the bit to the saw blade. Machining the saw blade Make several teeth by cutting the outside of the ring. It takes about 6 hours to machine the teeth. Very consistent and accurate teeth! Clean the scrap iron. Bearing inner ring Remove the plug from the hole where the bearing ball goes. Bearing outer ring Combine the bearing inner ring and outer ring. Bearing ball and ball supporter Insert the bearing ball through the hole in the inner ring. Insert 250 bearing balls Inject grease Grease injector Adhesive Attach a rubber band between the outer and inner rings. Prevent foreign matter from entering the gap. The bearings turn smoothly :) The weight of the finished bearing is approximately 800kg. Here, an average of 550 tons of forged parts, bearings, gears, etc. are produced per month. We completed the large gear ball bearing!