This is probably the worlds simplest audio in a previous video and which basically only And yeah, it still sounds pretty I mean who nowadays still uses wired modern ones don't even have an audio jack and So my low power DIY amp here But since I love the simplicity of this design I thought why not revive it by making it And while we are at it why not scratch the such a common MOSFET can handle way more meaning it should be a way better and Well, in this video let's find that out and powerful and sounds awesome. This video is sponsored by Nordic Semiconductor the successor to Nordic's popular nRF52. featuring an integrated microcontroller and Thread, Matter and Zigbee. Their nRF meaning you can get wireless connection going leader in Bluetooth LE for over a decade performance and efficiency of previous click the links in the video description To get a starting point for all of this, I a loudspeaker which as you can hear In fact, if I would simply hook up my phones then the volume would be pretty much the same. class A audio amp here that I rebuilt and The answer is of course to let more path which is very close to our loudspeaker. flowing and now I want to crank it side that it will get loud enough. that the so far used Bipolar Junction So I looked through my Power Transistor drawer and which is a TIP142 Darlington In case you are wondering, such a Darlington put together which therefore increases Emitter voltage and Collector Emitter voltage. noticed when simply replacing the old As you can hear not only is the audio volume up to the max then it also sounds like having a look at it on the oscilloscope. minimum voltage drop across this thing is around very little space for the audio waveform. was my initial plan to begin with, everything looks much better on the oscilloscope. noticeably hot meaning we should now Since we want this point here at roughly half space up and down; we basically take half 500mA to get a value of around 12ohm. basically drop around 10% of 12V meaning when The closest resistors I had lying around in the circuit, worked for maybe a minute Yeah; we of course forgot to find out what power in the worst case; meaning that the transistor So after soldering these new resistors but I quickly noticed that now the transistor But now everything finally worked and we is honestly not much when we compare to So to get a truly big boost, all that was left not only add a DC offset to our AC audio input, And that base current now needs to be quite had a current gain of 170, while now the And since that is quite a spread, feel here to get optimal results which in my case, by in resistor values of around 680 and 220 ohm. small 10uF output capacitor with a massive And yes; I think this audio quality not only loud enough to entertain an entire room. better with a generic MOSFET; the IRFZ44N. they can not only be used to switch things But unlike BJTs for which you can on for example google images, there But why not? I mean they are nowadays And according to the datasheet it can handle tons with a tiny resistance which equals a tiny voltage So let's see what it can do, by firstly adding the same two big resistors, After powering that up, nothing exploded and because as already mentioned; the voltage So all we need to do now is injecting Only problem here now is that we can not really You see the BJT works in controls a bigger current on the other side. the gate to control a current on the other side. voltage of around 2 to 4V things should start you can see that at around 1.9V the MOSFET starts current limited by the resistors got reached. graph and here you can also see where we so that the current changes accordingly. can be quite tricky though which is why I made Here is the final schematic and by we should eventually find a sweet point at which And what can I say? This audio quality sounds louder than the Darlington transistor before That doesn't mean though that it is the transistors are used as variable resistors But besides that the MOSFET right? I mean it is simpler and we get Well, firstly we are lucky to get a louder lower gain aka amplification factor than Bipolar Besides that, more importantly to note is often time not that linear. wave created by my function generator whose basically what the human ear can hear. amplifiers, then we obviously want the same exact And at first sight, it really seems like there But that appearance is deceiving because like this already create harmonic distortions Basically the more and bigger hills we have here, in the total harmonic distortion value. always pretty low no matter what frequency we use. a few hills and the THD also increases noticeably. amplifier which performs pretty sine wave and features very low distortion. sounds bad because our imprecise ear can not And there are of course many more differences BJTs are usually better for amplification. I will certainly not use it for my hopefully a similar audio amplifier though. video and maybe learned something new. subscribe and hit the notification bell.