- This is my friend Tyler's car and it recently stopped working. So we thought it'd be a Fill it with slime. His car just got slimed. Blow it up. And then take him to the Now I needed Chuck E. Cheese tokens for an up and coming video. So I paid Tyler to drive all day to the nearest Chuck E. And while he was gone, this - Hello? - Hey, so for that Garret video coming up, we need some Chuck E. Cheese tokens. Can you run to the nearest one? - Yeah, where's it at? - I don't honestly know. I think there's one in but obviously it's gonna So if you could leave 'Cause we do need that tomorrow. - Yeah, that's cool. As long as you know, it'll - Yep. We just bought a Slow Mo camera. So let's see what a bullet looks like going through a window. - Shoot. - Good boy, way to stay in place. What gun you got there? This is the Nerf Blaster that we use. - Yeah, YouTube gods. This is a - We probably shouldn't say that. 'Cause it's not a Nerf gun. - It's the water gun. - Yeah, there you go. - Three, two, one, two. - The bullet didn't even go through. - So. - It got stopped by this really heavy boy. - The window disappeared. Hey Chris, how many minivans - I guess, one. - There's glass on this door and. - Pro window removers here. - Did they teach you - They did, second grade. - Alright guys, we got about two hours till Tyler comes back of destroying cars but you So have fun. And Jake, please don't kill anyone. - Stand clear. - Aw, hey car, give him It took my - Fortnite's a lie. You see Fortnite cars taking pickaxes? Wow Jake, that's a lot of force. - Giving it all I have. - Oh, man. - Oh yeah, work it ladies. - This might get our female viewership up. - Jimmy, what radio station do you like? - I kinda like Pop. Give me some Taylor swift. - Alright. This a good song? - Nah, this is a bad song. - Alright, ow about this? - Nah better one, man. - Hey actually I do like this song. - Good. - - This sounds like my outro song. - It's stuck on this one. - Alright, well it looks like they're stuck listening to it. - Oh God, it's terrible! Okay, I really can't get it out.. - Alright, let's have a competition. Let's see who can Chris, you go first. - Oh God. Viewers, rate Chris's swing. Window, that's stealing. It's not your pick ax, give it back. Jake is now, oh ladies first. Katie, it's your turn. Nice, nice. Chris, her dent's a little That was. - Wow, oh my God. - Here, can I just see that ax real quick? Just throw that over there. Alright yeah, you can go home. - I think there's like some - Yeah. You wanna go work at the - Anybody remember this - Nah, last video was funnier. Cut to the last video. Oh God. Chris. - Yeah. - This car called your mom fat. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding, said - You what? - Do you think your brother will care about what we're doing to his car? - Nah. - That's a really big headlight. I really wanna smash it. Just 'cause it's so large. - Wait! Chris headlight matters lives too. Jake, are you not part of the headlight matter lives too moment? - This is because Toyota - For my next trick, I'll [Chris] You gonna cook us lunch? - Yeah guys, you've Everyone knows the best way to My hot pocket's still not ready. - Hey, give it one more throw. See now it's plugged See, ding they're ready. - Hey Chris. Remember when you found - Yeah. - Let's see if we can find some more. - Oh yeah lookit all - Dude I see some red ones. Does that mean it has tomato sauce? - That's the tomato sauce. The yellow ones ain't got no sauce. - I'm allergic to spaghetti. Close that up man. Oh, geez. Viewers, sorry about that. Wait, is that a speaker? - That's a speaker. - Dude speakers are really good at Jenga. - Yeah, they are. Let's see if they're - Can you tell us something really embarrassing about Tyler that he wouldn't want the world to know? Did he poop his pants in - Our first grade we were homeschooled. - Was your teacher hot? - Oh wait, there is a sunroof. - You just break it open - Okay. - Moon roof. - Now we have no roof, dummy. Are you the mailman? - Yes, here you go. - You sound like Mario. - Oh my goodness. There's a golf ball in here. - Oh, we're doing it. - We're gonna hit that golf ball in there with the Slow Mo camera. Alright, Jake show us - Oh, are you ready for this hole in one. - Yeah. - Two, one. - Jake, you missed! - The car has a tail now it's a monkey. - Look, it's happy. Look it's wagging it's tail. - Good boy, who's a good boy? You're a good boy. - I'm gonna blow this entire bumper off. There we go. - Yep. - Wait, so you're telling me all I have to do is scream - Yeah. - Hey Jake, let's hear you scream. But see we didn't edit - What? That's not how you scream? - My scream sounds like. - Nice. - What you doing? - Looking for Blockbuster gift cards. - How many you got so far? - Zero bro, they don't sell 'em. So like I'm trying to go - Oh, okay. I'm gonna talk to Delaware and See what he wants you to do. - Alright. - Alright, I'll see you. - To make it not obvious, I wanted you to call him 'cause I've already called him twice. - Yeah. - Alright, Jake, I don't want him to die, but I think it'd be funny if we put it on the front of his car just 'cause. I don't know, it'd just be funny. But obviously I don't mean and he'll think it's really funny. - Um. - We don't have that much slime and obviously we don't So what we're doing is and covering up certain parts so we don't need to use tons of slime and we just need to fill that he can see, like the So what they're gonna do is pour slime in the car tipped over. - Get over the windshield, yeah. - Dude, Tyler's gonna be so pissed. - He's gotta be surprised. - That's for sure. Alright, his car just got slimed. It blends in with his car. This was a horrible idea. - Hey, hello? - Hey, can you head over here? - Yeah, Jake just called. - Okay. Yeah, we're at the farm. - Alright see ya'. - See ya'. I've done something similar And Tyler's probably seen that video. So to spice it up, we're we destroyed his sister's car and that we're gonna buy So he is gonna be really confused 'cause he is gonna be like, Why is my sister getting a new car?&quot; Because you know, he So if we just showed him his &quot;Oh I'm getting a new car&quot;. So we're gonna prank him and act like we're getting his sister a new car. Yeah, we wanted to show you something. Come over here. We took your sister's And then we're gonna go buy her a new one. We just wanted to get - Oh my gosh. That is all jacked up. Wait, why does she get a car before me? I don't under, I was - She said she really needed it. She said her car didn't - Are you joking right now? - It doesn't work. - Oh, I oh that's oh man. Oh you want me to die bro, come on. - That's for clickbait. I don't want you to - It's her car. - This is her car? - Yeah. - We totaled her. - I drove this to school No this is like, this is I - You have that car, that's your car. - Yeah. Tyler, what car? If this isn't your car, - Illuminati confirmed. - That's right. - She said she wanted a new Camry. So we're getting her a new Camry. - Alright well, let's go buy her car. I'm, it's getting late. - - Are you for real right now? - Yeah. - So funny. She have my job title now? Does she get my pay? - Hey she got one before me too, so. - That's messed up. - For me. - Jake, can you just and tell him something. - You're not getting a car. - Rejected. - Alright, we can stop the joke. Yes of course Tyler, we're - Thank you. - But wait a minute, we gotta do something with this car. - Yeah, we're gonna blow Is that okay? - - You're not mad at me - No, please do it. Can I do it first? - Well, what was your car worth? - This? - $500, it was terrible. - And it didn't even work. - No, I couldn't drive it. - I just don't want people And the other thing is Like I don't want you to die. - I am no longer the Soccer mom. So happy right now. - Viewers, still refer to in the comment section of every video just like Chris is Moisture Actually let's upgrade you to Soccer dad. Everyone refer to him as Soccer dad. Before we take Tyler to we thought it'd be a good idea to blow up the car We smashed. - Two, one, shoot. - Alright. Time to buy Tyler a new car. Alright guys, we just got Obviously you saw the Now we're gonna take him to the dealership and he has $10,000 to put Which, - Shopping! Just like he said, his old car was $500. So I think that's good for him. Right Chris? - I don't know. That's, we should probably - So Tyler, what car are you getting? - I'm gonna get the 2015 Lincoln MKZ. - Ooh, Fancy Boy. - I don't know anything about - It's very nice. It's better than the Soccer dad's car. - Oh yeah? - We're still gonna call you Soccer dad. - Do I get to stop - You're moisture boy. - Okay, there we go. - Moisture boy, Soccer dad, Mr Beast. - 150 K likes, I'll get another spray tan. - What was that? I got that. I got that. - Did you really? Don't put it in. - Ethan, put that in. Put that in, a hundred. Dude, I did not tell Chris to say that. I swear if we get 150,000 - I'll get another one. - The video gets 300,000 likes, we'll all get spray tans, which we can easily get 300,000 likes. Wait now I'm switching it or no spray tan. So Tyler picked out the car he wanted. And ironically, this where we bought my brother - You smashed another one? - We smashed his car. This guy worked at the Nissan place that we pranked three weeks ago. And now he works here. - You just can't get enough of us. - That's why I was just messing with him. And he said &quot;a customer&quot;, I said, &quot;they're not our customers, - You got some slime on your leg. - Thanks Tyler. - We took his car and we smashed it and filled it with slime. And now we're buying him new one. - Hey, that's the best deal that you can ever get right there. - You should tell them to subscribe, so they never miss one - Subscribe, so you never miss Mr. Beast. He's A-OK with me. - Yeah, thank you. [Jimmy] So they gave Tyler So shout out, shout out to Tony. This is his store right here. I said I'd put the sign in the video if he gave him a little bit of money off. So this is their sign. - Go see it. - Yeah, go visit the sign. Okay, touchscreen control. Alright we get it, you're cool. - I know. Max A/C. Now they can't hear us. We can say anything. - My viewers suck. Aw man, I didn't mean it guys. Maybe it's just 'cause like So now it's time for our interview. Tyler, how many wheels does the car have? - Four. - Is that how many you wanted? - Four is what I wanted. - Think we did a good job. - That's everything a car needs really. That's everything a car really needs. - You just said that. Now you might be wondering where the money for and the answer is shopmrbeast.com. Home of the funniest Every shirt we sell on And the money made off to do nice things like this, You know, even Twitch streamers. Chris is wearing a shirt which is the sponsor of this video. - Hey! - We sponsored ourselves. - Dude that's - - Nah. - Okay, see all those shirts - Look at that. - Those are all hilarious shirts. I'm intelligent. - That's my favorite. - That one's your favorite? - That is. - That one's my favorite. - Gotcha, gotcha. - Yeah, all available at shopmrbeast.com. They're reasonably affordable Every shirt available on - School's coming back. Don't you want people to You can wear these shirts to school. - Well, not that one. That one would get you bullied but there's really cool - Life is unbearable. - Yeah, that one was really funny. - That's my favorite. - Me and Chris thought and we made 'em ourselves. So if you go to shopmrbeast.com, you can find some pretty Tyler, you're getting a new car that is funded by these shirts So what are you gonna tell them? - Definitely buy the shirts, because this is like literally amazing. I'm so grateful. - Wait, that shirt's not a merch shirt. You should rip it off. Yeah, get off the, get outta here. Dude, what are you not Dude the funny shirts and you're not even wearing it. Is there anything you wanna say as you enjoy your driving the car? - I absolutely love this car and I could not have So buy the shirts because They're soft, and they're gonna make all your friends like super - It's funny because, - Please buy the shirts - They probably think - No, I swear I didn't. - You guys buy shirts, we - Yes, I'll take another car. - Alright, well then buy shirts so we can buy everyone else a car. - Yes, plus you're gonna love 'em. They're literally amazing. - What's your favorite shirt? - I'm a big fan of the - Dude, I used to like that, but now I really like What about you, Chris? What's your favorite shirt? - It's my absolute favorite - Yeah, same. - I'm sick of being called a Meat lover Stop calling me a Meat lover. - Flash back to that. Alright, we're gonna get you a Life's Unbearable shirt, Chris. - Alright, thank you. - Alright guys, that's it for the video. Make sure you subscribe, because that was sponsor of this video. You should take this turn right here, and yeah I'd appreciate if you subscribed, you know how we supposed to pass PewDiePie and become, you know, meme lords, if you guys don't subscribe? - We could just take him out. - Oh yeah that's true. - To dinner. - Hit us up. - Yeah. Mr. Beast, oh. Mr. Beast, oh.