- [Announcer] Middle Ground that brings humans with These discussions may contain viewpoints that are the result of misinformation. Remember to seek out of your own biases while Please see the humanity and as always, we encourage empathy. - So when you say we're just you have to understand you're that has kept the human race and got it to where it is today. - But do you see the It's not perfect. And it's been led by men and look where it's gone. (mellow music) - [Announcer] Step forward &quot;Masculinity is disappearing in America.&quot; - I think that masculinity I think that it's a concerted effort, to emasculate men, I think that some people feel and the typical way that leading families and So I think that there's a effort to mitigate strong men in America. - There's a few different ways But just looking at the definition You had people like John Wayne, you had Martin Luther You think of like masculine hairy chest, big muscles being rugged, being a provider. Today you have people like Harry Styles and Timothee Chalamet. You have people that to what we were looking at back then and those values of those are completely devalued. - I do believe that especially if you look at Now the testosterone levels compared to generations before us. So, yeah, I agree. (whoosh air) - Hi, I'm Gilbert. I'm 24 years old and With my beliefs and having We don't really talk about politics. Someone being trans doesn't make me like them any less of a person. As far as pronouns, when I don't really use the pronouns I just say my friend or I say their name, just because I feel like I'm that men can be women and women can be men if I use the pronouns that they want. - I do see that masculinity But my definition of has a lot to do with the traits As a gay man (chuckles) of all of us, I'm not the most masculine man. But I do think that the are definitely under attack. But I don't think that it's disappearing, it's just being channeled - It depends on how you look at it, because a lot of the traits can also be embodied in So when we look at masculinity, I think that we have to also look at what is the actual definition And if we're defining or muscles or body parts, then is it really masculinity? - A lot of times when you you associated with men being manly. But I think more women are Masculinity is still there. I mean, just other genders are using it. Being courageous, being powerful, more women are standing in their power, which is again associated masculine, but it's not specific to just men. Women are no longer submissive, Women don't need men. And I think that most that anyone can be powerful on their own. - I believe that the masculine and men have to take a position. You made a really good point by saying women are now They feel as if they don't need men, which I think is the problem here. I think that the way we been is that men are to lead, men are to be brave, men have to take their rightful position. The way our country has been have been because of strong who have fought wars. Now I feel like it's getting so lopsided that our families are degrading, people don't know where - Now in 2022, masculinity And I think what happens when things start to change. I think that nobody ever wants I think that what we want is start to understand And it's always been this very machismo space. And now there's different There's not just biological men. There's also trans men or people who wanna be masculine. So I think what's happening now is people are pushing against change. 'Cause change is scary, and And so I think men, biological men, feel under attack, when I that's - The point that you made is 100% correct. There are different phases and people are experiencing The feminist movement is, I think, they are attacking masculinity within men. I don't want a man to open a door for me. I don't need a man in my life. I can do all these different things. What they're doing is attacking men and that's what's causing a problem. - What part of the feminist 'Cause I know that most feminism is like wanting equal pay or- - Well, you just said is somehow empowering. Having a man is somehow less empowering or being an individual is somehow less. - But that's how women feel. Women actually are saying that It's like- how every woman feels, that's just an assumption- saying every woman. Women speak for themselves. So all of you are gonna as biological men. Women all have different opinions. You'll see a very specific - You did just say that's how women feel. So are you speaking on - No, I'm not. Let me take that back. The women who are saying - Why do you feel that women - No, I don't think in general. No, no, no, that's a You can't say that, I said women- - But you're the one- I said the women who say that. - You associated somehow, women are now embracing masculinity, which means that they because they don't need a man or if- - They don't need a man. Men feel empowered when women need them. - But I don't think comes from having a man So why is it always associated that a woman's now empowered A woman has always been empowered. Women have never been- - That's not true, that's not true. to the 1920s, if you're gonna do that, but that's not- - We're talking about society right now. - Right now, you actually think women are empowered right now? - Absolutely, women are empowered. - 'Cause of the vice president? And how long did it take for (whoosh air) - [Announcer] &quot;There is a right and wrong way to be a man.&quot; Take a second to think about it. - I think that when I originally heard the question being but men are not abusive individuals. Men are not to be cowards. Men are to lead their families. And men who do not display that, I don't believe that they And all of the qualities is what I believe a man should be. - All of those characteristics And when I see a man be and just speaking the truth or especially today in America, I'm like, those are not men. (whoosh air) My name is Clarkson. I'm 24 years old and My biggest question for the other side really is are you happy? Anybody that wants to and change gender roles, And if we wanna fight for acceptance, we need to start with acceptance, which is accepting society for what it is. - At the end of the day, we're all men. And I don't believe there's We're just redefining - But there are things So when you say we're just you have to understand you're redefining a fabric and society that and got it to where it is today. So just like aimlessly throwing out, &quot;Oh, well we're just redefining That's not just like a light subject that we should be talking about. - But why do you think Why do we need to have the same thing for 100s and 100s of years? - Do you not see the state- - It's just the same. the same qualities. - But do you see the It's not perfect. It has been led by men and look where it's gone. - So we're talking about redesigning what it means to be a man. So what do you wanna - I think it's embracing I think that a lot of men strength, strength. But men are people. And I know that men have feelings. - Being a man and masculinity, those are two different things. And I believe that we can to anybody by including other types of men or other types of masculinity. I, myself am a father. I have a child. Some people would disagree because I am transgender. But that being said, I present My child sees me as a man. - There's proper ways You don't have to break down in front of your family and cry. It's okay to suffer in silence as well. Strong men, I believe exude the qualities that you guys are referring to. I think the problem is Some people believe that men need to cry and lay on the ground and (whoosh air) My name is Brandon. I'm 34 years old and I had a lot of curiosities about what it's like to be a person who believes that they're trans man. I feel like God has created And although I have beliefs and I follow the Bible to the tee, I still wanna know from other people what their experiences are, but I really want to know from the person who's (whoosh air) - [Announcer] &quot;I have male privilege.&quot; - Oh, sit over here. (both laughs) I've lived both lives. And I can tell you firsthand I am taken much more since I've transitioned as a man. Prior to transitioning, I if not harder for the same The minute that I transitioned, I am immediately taken more seriously. I can give you an example. Obviously with COVID there's So I have to tell customers all the time, it needs to up your nose, right? All day, my manager who's above me, who is a woman will have to go to them, tell them they give her a fight. But the minute I just look It doesn't seem like a privilege, but it is, because now three times harder for - I think the word privilege is the thing that turns a lot of people But that being said again, myself, living my life as a female, and then now half my life as a man. There is no way I could not that my life has changed drastically, also being a white man. That's also a conversation a lot of people don't wanna have, but I have privilege of being white and privilege also of being a man now. I can walk into any room in a heartbeat because And I think the thing are born into that space, so Why do we now, as women get to have this thing? It's 100% because we are nobody would ever know, no one would ever know So it's actually a real lived experience. - So I agree with a lot as far as like transitioning. But as a black man, privilege Because if I'm walking down the street, then I'm seen as a threat by police, by women, by anybody else. Being seen as a man is and where everything else begins. So I don't see it as privilege. - Okay, I got a lot to First of all we have to be transparent and honest with each other. I think that not everybody on this side presents a 100% like a man. Like if I saw you in the streets, I wouldn't think you were man. Men have it really hard in this world. And they always had it hard in this world. The wars have been fought by men. They've died in the 100s of 1000s. Men commit suicide more, men If somebody broke into who are they gonna expect It's gonna be the man. If your family fails, they're They're not, they're looking at the man. I just want people to understand it. There's some advantages that men have. And then also men do struggle of different things. I 100% agree with you as a man now, right? But I think my perception of 'Cause you were born male, You have a whole other space in that. And I totally respect And I believe that that as a born man. - Yeah, and let me add with the black man, because we have a different, a total different reality in that. In no way form or fashion, and I feel like I'm lesbian. I think I command presence because the way I'm dressed and I'm tall. I go in the streets, I've never had a person across the street. I've never been attacked I was a police officer. I've been pulled over probably three times in my entire life. - My biggest question with this and why I don't necessarily 'cause when it comes to privilege, there's not really a way to quantify it. It's very subjective. So like your version of male privilege and your version of male - So it's hard to see the other side 'cause you never lived it. - Yeah. and us, is we see it, because we've lived it, you have not. So it's easy to speak and be Well, how would you know? - Well, I'm not saying it doesn't exist. I think everybody has certain privileges. But I think the question here is what defines male privilege over women, 'cause women have privileges too. So is there a graph that to make men have more than women or what? - The privilege is not that comes so easy. - So do you think that your fear, because you live both sides, do you think your fear is in your mind or you think it's a reality, because no one- - Lemme say this, you never You're the same person as you were - So you have the same physical when you were a woman. - You don't? - No, my strength is taking hormones- would you say? - More than a 100%, I weigh like 100 pounds- probably as strong as me. - But it's not about strength. It's that women are targeted. Men are not targeted. I mean, maybe sometimes, we're not saying it's never gonna happen- - They're targeted by other men- - Right, right, but women I think women have less of a safe space. - I disagree, men don't have a safe space. If you go to certain cities- - They get murdered by other men. about certain cities. I'm talking about everyday life. - Yeah, everyday life. - Have you ever been attacked as a woman? - I have. - I've been raped, I've been attacked. I can go on and on and on. I was homeless, living in the It happens, it's a real thing. I didn't see the guys on but you- - But men do get raped. - Do you get kids down the street, like- - I mean women say things to me. When I was the police officer- - Do you feel threatened? You feel empowered though, right? - No, I don't feel powerful - But do you feel scared? Do you feel threatened - No I don't. But I don't feel threatened - 'Cause you have that male privilege. - Right, as a woman, you'd feel different. - What if a man was whistling at you when you were walking down the street? - I've had it happen to me. I had gay men whistle to me but- - And how does that make you feel? - I don't care. - I mean, as long as you You may think I'm attractive that's fine, that's cool, I get it. - I think women will say the same thing. As long as you're not and I've seen it, because I go to clubs with and I have to tell the men to literally leave them alone and they're predatory and for women that are drunk or She could say no 1000 times and they're still gonna bother her. But the minute that I - Women are not as strong as men and they get targeted. Sure, yes, that is a privilege But that doesn't mean because of that one situation. Men commit suicide way more than women do. - Because if we're gonna go that route, trans men commit suicide twice the rate. But that's not- - I think what's important here is to distinguish the fact that yes, no one is negating the fact There's situations where No one's gonna deny that. But we're also just trying to say that it's not like a one-sided coin Like men are just... We just have it good and We we can't even be the 'cause we- (Buck laughs) - But again, I live as a man. So I see the difference. Now when I said I have privilege of course, but then there's other things that are expected of me now as a man that I would never knew - So would you guys agree that women, that there's such thing - Absolutely. - My wife has privilege - That's right. - So, so you don't have because I'm there. - I don't believe that as a man, there's marketing for women-owned brands. like I said I can't be the Women are very much more empowered today, which I think is... I don't have a problem But I think that the man I am, I probably have privilege like no one's picking on me I used to live in Chicago and I used to walk home But like, it was that smart? Probably not, but I felt a little safe. 'Cause you, I'm not five I'm Max, I'm 29 and In today's society, women and and can be successful or strong, or as big of a leader as they choose. So I'm just wondering in a society that is so seemingly level, more level than ever before, why are we transitioning to and what are we looking for. - [Announcer] &quot;Biology determines gender.&quot; - So sex and gender people try to argue that they're different, but sex and gender And our biology being a man comes down to every fiber within our body. So whether that be DNA, chromosomes, testosterone levels, bone density, there's a whole bunch of And it all has to do with biology. - So biology, I a 100% believe in biology. Today we talk about biology I disagree with that as I was born biologically female, And today I live as a male. Now that being said sex and gender, they are trying to separate those things. Gender can be... I've chosen my gender, I think, probably understand Now, many people do, like you just said, believe that sex and gender are one thing and you can never change those. I'm not trying to change anything. I'm trying to show the world by presenting the outside. But I think denying biology is where we get into a lot of problems. - So if you wanna be - [Buck] Right on. I don't care, you do But I think we get... It becomes a slippery slope. It's like, how are we going Like there's transgender. and it causes problems for me. - Yeah. I start denying your biology, now you feel attacked by me. - Right. to feel attacked by me. I never want you to feel, if that makes sense. You don't have to agree with my choice of how I live my life. But all I ask for is respect. - What do you have on your driver license and your birth certificate. Did you change it too- I transitioned to live So that was way before And I had to acknowledge That being said, my license, I travel the world it has to say male, can you imagine if I they're like &quot;female,&quot; (laughs) &quot;dude, there's something But I actually got my birth I was the first person to But that being said, I kind of think that it to do that now looking forward today, because I never thought we would be having this conversation. - I'm glad you said that because I love that people can express themselves. We live in America. It doesn't matter what I I love that people can I never in my life protests or try to go against a The problem is, is when you begin to and you begin to try to change reality. And therefore it changes on the children. And all of that becomes problematic. If a person says, &quot;okay, I acknowledge I'm but I want identify as this.&quot; Cool, I respect that. And even if I didn't and some people may be I wouldn't never disrespect you I'll call you by your name. - That's right. that you wanna be associated And I think if everybody in the country can get on that same page. I think we'll see less division. - I've noticed in a lot that I've met, the older generation in society to be accepted is a lot more willing to - We didn't have social media. I didn't have cell phones. I didn't have computers This is how you build bridges. (whoosh air) I'm buck, I'm 59 years Because I'm an elder trans man now. And there's a much newer generation. There's a definite space where I have a different way of being And why I tend to call And I believe in biology, So it really does not necessarily align with a new thought with a newer generation. - So I love this question. With trans folks, biology does change. Our bone density does change. Our muscle structure does change. Our testosterone levels do change. So biologically, we do change. Anatomically, now that's where So when we're talking that can't be changed. Our biology, absolutely - Not the DNA. - DNA is not changed. - Yeah, DNA is not - So you acknowledge there's between males and females. Because some people on there's no difference. Like I could look like a but I'm still a male. - Some people are male, some people are female, chromosomally. But when we start to take testosterone, our bodies do biologically change. - What about trans men who - Then their bodies don't biologically. - That their biologically - Well, and gender in itself That's just like you said- - In your life, you get to choose, you don't get to choose it for the world, but you get to choose- - I've been a testosterone for 10 years. Okay, going on 11 years. - But there is some anatomy - That's right. - You still have ovaries. You still have- - The female reproductive system. You said that you had a child. - Yes, I've given birth. I no longer have female reproductive. - Right, right, but you, you had that. You will never get male productive organs. - Now, when you think about it, the male and female and they're nearly the same... They're different, - Even if- - And they are different - Not necessarily because are very much similar. One an egg, one is a fertilizer - But I never can produce sperm. - You're absolutely, - And they can never produce ova. - And you guys are saying that genders like a social construct, is that you could change it. But also if you wanna age is a social construct. Your ethnicity and race And I'm Hispanic, I can't say I'm Chinese. 'Cause I like Chinese food (Buck laughs) I could bleach my skin all I want- - No race is not... How is ethnicity gonna be a construct? - There's all social construct- - How exactly- is race a social construct, ethnicity a social construct, Everything's a social construct if you wanna think about it that way. But we have set truths and If you wanna say you're trans man, that means you're a biological - No, I am a biological male. I'm an anatomically, anatomically- - See he's have a different and I think it's a really what're gonna- Because biologically I have shifted, okay? Transmitting going from one to the next. - Biologically and all these things. I know that there's importance you're seeing me, you would never know. So why is it important? - We no, cause just- - Just say if I was a woman, and I wanted to date you, what are you gonna tell me? - I would tell you that I'm trans- - No, no, I'm saying you can't - I mean, I'm still a man. - No, no, but you gotta tell me, you gotta tell me that You have to. - Well, 'cause if I go down, I'm gonna see something different and that will be troubling to me if had expectations. this is like leading off the topic. But I mean to answer your I do tell the person that I'm talking to or interested to that I'm transgender. I don't think that you need it to... You don't need a penis to be a man. And I know that you may disagree, which is fine, I get it, - No, I have a question for all of you. Do your penises make you man? - Yes biologically - Is that what makes you a man? - Say being abandoned grain within every part of your body so our cells are- But If you had to look at and between you, now, would that difference - If we were naked- if we're gonna minimize being a man to that particular anatomy. - We didn't we didn't minimize. - No, no, no, I'm asking If we minimize it, because this is where we're Because that's where we've gotten- - A basic biology. so do your penises make - It's part of what does. or less, we're a biologically man. You are not a biological man. - It's not a spectrum. So it's not a question that we can answer because you're saying on the spectrum, would this make us more of a man than you? But no, it's because we are - Well, we're different- - We're different- what you just said. you guys are appropriate the gender and you are living as a man, but biologically you are not a man. So to me you can't say, okay, well does that That's not even a question to ask because you're not a biological man. When it comes down to asking questions that make me start to and what the truth isn't, putting it on a spectrum That's where I draw the line. - What's the biggest it doesn't make what The biological truth is the truth. And why can't that be the truth? And you also say, &quot;but I feel like on the and I'm gonna present that way.&quot; - The argument is that who we are with that. I'm not saying that you but a lot of society Well, biologically you're a female. What hurts trans people what they're doing is it's very harmful. You gotta be aware of what you're saying and what you're putting out there. You know what I mean, like- - Yeah, yeah, no, a 100% I would... And that's why I think we all agree. We would never try to offend To be honest, if I saw I don't care. It is not gonna bother I would know unless I pulled Why do you feel like you have facial hair? Could you be a man without - I mean, yeah. you're a man. - I'm in the early stages of testosterone. I haven't hit one year yet, but personally for me, I like these fine gentlemen, like, I crave it. (all laughs) But I do believe, like not having this little small (mummers) have going on, it does make me feel more dysphoric. It makes me feel like, oh, this is how it presented - Do you feel like it's something that has gone wrong at birth? Like you're born and you say, &quot;well, genetics and evolutions says this. Why do I feel like this yet I have this?&quot; it was something that I always wondered, because sometimes lot people say like, &quot;oh, it was a choice,&quot; which I hear a lot on the Like it was a choice, I was legit born this way. I could remember from, I think four or five years old where I didn't feel like a And I can't tell you why that happened, it was just my path in this life. And it's something that I honored and it was really hard especially when puberty hit, like time of month comes in. Obviously they anatomy changes. And that was the biggest okay, I can't do this. It's like you're not in your own home. (whoosh air) - [Announcer] &quot;Children should - Well, I was gonna say, that you and I are the especially since we're younger. - You should allow children because I felt the way that I felt for as long as I can remember. And it's something that I cannot deny. - Yeah. - Although my mother is I wasn't allowed to wear boys clothes because that wasn't right. Now, I know we're talking It doesn't always have to be hormones. It's like transitioning in society. So being able to dress more masculine. I did when I was younger, but kids change, people are mean, so I dressed how I would in society. So I dressed like a girl or whatever, but I think that children to express themselves in whatever way makes - Kids are struggling to be who they are. And there's more rates of because there's literally to prevent them from being who they are. And that's not right, that's not right. (whoosh air) - Okay, so I work with children. This is where I have with the trans stuff is with the children, because people like... I'm sure you guys would agree. You wanna inject them with puberty, their normal puberty. They haven't even developed And you wanna stop their to affirm their gender. And then later on they regret it. I think that's not a good thing. - See, that's why this because transition can mean Now I totally, as a transsexual person, disagree with giving children, hormone blockers, medication, surgery. What I do agree with is which means why... 'Cause I did that, okay. And I did that in the 60s and 70s. My parents dressed me I didn't have any problems We used to call it a tomboy, right? So that was totally... And I went through puberty I do not believe children And I do not believe it's okay and ethical for a parent to make But I do believe gender I had it a 100% it's there. But to give medication to a that you would actually... Exactly what you said, you're stunting brain growth, you're stunting all of these things. They don't have enough research on it. So I'm in agree with transitioning, is okay for me. But I do believe in a social space. - When you say a social transition, it's interesting to me because we can't control what happens - That's right, that's right. - So to me, and we talk among young trans people. This whole ideology is telling people to derive their value is saying about them or what So we'd say that society is the problem and we're not allowing and that's why they're committing suicide. But maybe it has to do with the messaging that we're sending to these kids that you derive your value from if somebody uses your correct pronoun, or you derive your value. If this person accepts be who you are, but tell them to be empowered about it, and not get that empowerment - That's right. - I feel like that's really to say that someone would take their life because what someone else says to somebody that is important to somebody, I have friends who their family does not use their correct pronouns and they transition and they This person struggles with Could you imagine living in where you're no longer validated? That's coming from your own parents. - But if you base your this is a hard truth. But if you're sole valuable- - No, you definitely have to listen. (cross talk) - I do what I want. But for everyone, that's not the case because everybody has - Right, but that doesn't make it any... That doesn't mean that we should be- - But we're not acknowledging though, is that in that environment, - I'm acknowledging that. We're saying that for some reason, they should look for that - When you love somebody you want them to- - But you're focusing on the individual. You're focusing on the people You're focusing on - But part of being a person You don't need to be From your family or your friends. - I get my validation from - Right, but if we're Okay, I was an eight year old, when I found out that I wasn't I was eight, when I found out that I wasn't And so going through that process, I attempted suicide four times &quot;well, you are a girl.&quot; When you're eight and you're 12, and you don't have anyone when you don't have anyone else that lives in the same houses Where are you supposed to go? How are you supposed to garner If the people that are raising you, don't validate who you are. - As a father, my duty the away I believe is right. And if my child, some which is fine, we'll But I'm going to let it play out the way I believe it should be played out. And at 18 years old, you can If you don't wanna wear Just wear it, if you don't make you wanna be a boy. Don't mean you have to be a boy. My mom was a tomboy, and my mom had me and my And she lives like that. But you may wanna dress Maybe a boy wanna do cheerleading But that don't mean you need to transition to something else. So I want that to play out, to make that decision on their own. Also, you have to teach your children to have balance. Because if you just mommy and daddy to acquiesce to everything You have to understand that mom and daddy may not see me this way. They love me. I see myself this way and I disagree with how they speak to But I love them as well. I love... Like my son, if he said it, he was... And I'm a Christian. And I don't believe in homosexuality. I don't, I don't. I respect anybody that feel that way. I never protest you at all. If my son came to me, it to wanna go to his wedding. I'm just gonna be honest. But I think that my son should understand, this is the way my dad feel, I love him. This is the way I feel, And that don't mean I hate you, And I wish that same sentiment would be. And I think it it's There's no hate in any of this, I love every single person on this side. And we may think of things differently, but we love each other, (whoosh air) I'm 41, and I'm a trans man. One of my greatest fears as a trans man is my life being taken from Transitioning in a black neighborhood with gang members as neighbors. They weren't having that. So the more that my body started I was challenged on a regular basis, I was beaten up because from prior to my transition. And approached me and confronted and told me I was a (beep). And I out of safety was like, &quot;I don't know what you're talking about.&quot; And they cold-cocked me, - [Announcer] &quot;I grew up with - This is good. - I think for me it's surprising because I would believe Or a person who's born as a woman who now identifies as a man, didn't have a positive And therefore they felt which makes 'em feel a certain way and wanna be a certain different person. Maybe they want to be the man whatever the case may be. And so it was very interesting. I'm being honest. It was interesting to see of you guys come forward. - That's so great. I think that's really because I do think a lot of about guys like me, right? That our fathers are... We didn't have the right My father was amazing. I grew up really like a little boy. I always felt like a little boy. My parents actually raised me, So that was in the 60s and the 70s when we didn't even talk But my parents actually felt it from me. So I think that that's a misconception that people think about people like us. - Any good father pushes their child to one be feel self-love. And to feel like they do what they want, and have life liberty in the Like our founding fathers. So it's fatherlessness or having a missing dad is one a pandemic on its own. And it's one that obviously It's so critical to have because kids get lost And having a father and someone you can rely we're all comfortable with who we are. - I had several different So it wasn't... I had a dad, but then I had my grandfather and I had my uncle, it takes a village to But all of those different as a well rounded human. If we take the masculinity out of it, just as a human, I got to And so now as a father that and that child being a male. I'm able to raise him that I'm able to identify because of the father figures that I had. - I didn't have my father growing up. He was not present in my life at all. So it showed me that like my grandfather and my and showed me how to take care of myself, how to be strong and dependable. And all I've been able to do is give more love to all So it was really important - I think this is a really important thing to show people that are watching this. 'Cause a lot of times I feel in society or anything that that came before us. So any issues that arise in our society, it's like, there's not always We just need to address - I grew up with all women. My parents were divorced I had my aunts. So I was raised by women, but And then my stepdad took me in as his own. So I had my stepdad as a father figure. - I grew up with all women as well. My mom used to tell me, I have to be your mom and your dad. So like there'd be times where I got both. She was super sweet with And she taught me a lot as well, it taught me a lot of vulnerability. - When we were talking to you I was like, I relate to you - (whoosh air) I Jacob, I'm 27 years old and I'm a trans man. So the relationship with my has been a challenge for me. But it's something that And I encourage everyone that even if you don't have a to still be authentically yourself, because your life is And I think that choosing has made my life that much better. And I wouldn't change anything. Even though he wasn't supportive. I still wouldn't have him here. - Listening to all your guys' points. I would definitely say, yeah. I did have a father figure. He was in the Marines, and he has this very A lot of anger built up that I can definitely tell he suppressed in the Marines because that's That's what the Marines are about. He always carried that with him. And I think that's what and my siblings at a very young age, which made it hard for me to And I just saw a lot of anger issues that were very violent sometimes. And since coming out as trans, I feel like he's been more and trying to figure out And because of that, I feel like our relationship a lot stronger since then. - Okay, and imagine if it was to come home and then try to be so much pain and hurt for years. So it's good to hear that, he's learning and kind of That's something where about vulnerability, right? And it's like, there's times when it's good to be hard. - (whoosh air) &quot;I don't show - I definitely have sense and noticed since transitioning has made me cry less, which is very interesting before I transitioned and I feel like not being able to cry as much, it makes me feel, I'm like, &quot;damn&quot; I wish I could cry right now, but it's not gonna happen. - (whoosh air) Hi, I'm Before transitioning I guess But since transitioning, I've been able to be more I've definitely seen on A lot of conservative men, And it's interesting they say that they don't identify as gay or within the community. And yet they're fetishizing my community. - So I don't know about you guys, but I always speak my mind I'll tell somebody. And that probably costs but that's just how I am. (laughs) - I Don't think there's anything wrong, I know we talked about I don't know there's anything I think like we said, there's knowing when it's okay to be vulnerable, and being self-aware of that. And then being strong when you need to, and being sad when it's appropriate. But I certainly am not as vulnerable, or not as emotional as probably I should, just 'cause it's not something but I don't feel like I have I just feel like I kind of - Yeah, that's great, look at it like that because I believe for me Because I was one to And my dad being in the he would see me being vulnerable &quot;well don't you wanna be a man?&quot; And that would make me feel like, &quot;oh, am I not supposed to Now that I'm gonna transition. And it was just like very hard for me 'cause like I said earlier, it was hard for me to at that time of my life. - My process of digesting and I use that time to self-reflect. So if I'm feeling angry or if about something or Sometimes I pull back and because I'm reflecting on it, and trying to understand why it's there. So I think a lot of times aren't showing enough they're just self-assessing in order to see what - Right, I think for myself, when I was female, I was much more angry. I was just reactive, angry. Like, (roars) and then as I became a man, I cry more now as a man And I think it's 'cause And so before I was just so and everyone calling me and I'd just be... And I was a fashion model. So that really just took And then once I became a man, it was like, &quot;whoa, I can actually relax.&quot; And I think I do the same thing. I self reflect on myself. I want to be this type of and that is more - [Announcer] Thank you everyone. - Right on. - That was cool, that was cool. (men chatting distinctly) - Can I take a picture with you? (cool music)