Hey guys, I'm website strategy expert excited to team up with Semrush once again outrank your competition in local search. If you're running a local based Like literally, if you can appear business like yours, that'll impact just including the revenue So you'll want to pay particularly close going to be showing you exactly what biggest possible difference to where Because here's the thing, there are could obsess over in your quest to rank. But time's a limited resource, right? Especially when you're running a business. So, this is going to clarify for can focus on those things rather And again, I'll be going in on your ranking potential. So if you prioritize these improvements, working your way down over time, you'll Then you can start chipping So when you put them all together, it's profile, making it very hard for your And of the seven big ranking factor page, and citations, by far the biggest the most is your Google business profile, So our list of priorities is going to So here we go. Ranking factor one is choosing the best Right now, there are over 4, 000 different are going to have multiple options, but if For example, a yoga studio that sets yoga studio, this would be considered really reflect the specific services that make it harder for potential customers to So you want to choose the category that But also the one that's the that you're trying to rank for. Okay, ranking factor two Now, it definitely helps if the keyword in your business name itself But this allow you to stuff keywords in your actual name of your business Okay. Ranking factor three is all about your business to the searcher, as in the city that's being searched. Not a lot you can do about those. Actually there is one thing you can Next in the number four position, business profile categories. So Google lets you choose not just one know, secondary categories as well. And ranking factor number five, make listing is as complete as possible. Okay, so now we're moving out of and into all the other ranking that'll also help you the most. Starting with Number six, Google reviews. So the single biggest factor here In other words, it's more helpful to to have hundreds of mixed reviews. Quantity is definitely helpful down that list of priorities. It also helps to have reviews with simple star rating and even better phrase that you want to rank for. Okay, and at number seven, you want making sure you're following the using all your keywords correctly in Next up at number eight, So getting good, reputable, relevant always been one of the most powerful It's important to regular organic search when you're trying to rank in the map. Because this is actually a site get to any page on your website And to be clear, this factor is those backlinks, not the quantity. And at number nine we have citations. So a citation is really just any and it's usually comprised of your number, otherwise known as the NAP. Okay, so that's what you should you not really be worried about? You know, things like geotagging photos. That used to work, but it's a huge time to be any kind of ranking factor anymore. Okay. Also keyword stuffing your So some people think that the more you can description and your services, it's So just write it naturally with conversion focused copywriting instead. Oh, and Google lets you write these And you're free to do so if you want want to announce, But it's not going really sneaky things that will help now. These two tactics have flown under the they can make a really huge difference Intrigued? Let's get right into it, but we Your location is one of the biggest And location actually plays three main Starting with city borders. In almost every case without exception, searches, Your address must be physically For instance, if you're trying to rank is in Cambridge, you're not going to rank literally no competitors there either. Next, the city center. So, not only does a business need to rank there, preferential treatment is closest to the center of Of that town. And that doesn't necessarily mean It's just wherever Google has decided Usually it's that downtown area or most densely populated. And finally, proximity to the searcher. So you know how when you search for a or even on desktop, and you usually see Yeah, that's because they Regardless of whether you need the usually what they're going to show you. So, now that we know how important the different ways they factor it in, I mean, it's not like Or can you? Now, if you're a brick and mortar this is going to be harder to do and However, if you're more of a service out to customers or if you just work loophole you can take advantage Here's what Google says. Service area businesses can't list is staffed during business hours. Now, there are two interesting First of all, they specifically which by definition is unstaffed. A virtual office is pretty much business uses on paper, nothing more. So this could never really work, a co working space, however, That And depending on your area, there might where it would do you the most good. And the second part of that being staffed as a requirement. So, as long as you or a representative out of that co working space during themselves, you're playing by their rules. Now, how often they would check on you So all I will say here is you want to keep your listing up. And I know you're wondering how So what I found here is that the U. S. average for what you'd pay To get yourself a basic membership enough to satisfy Google's rule. And obviously, this needs to you can physically be there. So, you know, P. O. boxes and virtual mailboxes are And when it comes to deciding on it's pretty simple, really. Remember, you want to be of the town you want to rank in. And, you'd probably want to go as possible to the city center. And so you don't have to guess, Google All you have to do is Google the name of the town is placed is where You might just have to zoom in So if you were to get a basic co working It'll cover almost all your bases. It'll likely even help you with that you know, statistically speaking, when naturally be closer to more people If you follow that strategy, you're over your competition while still My next hack, however, is all about It really sucks when you do all the hard search the right way, only to be outranked And one way your competitors might be you in the process, is through If you watched the last video, you business inside of your Google Specifically, if you add keywords that you And you also know, according to should reflect your real world name. But that doesn't stop people actually getting away with it. Just check out this map result when Take a close look at the first Sounds legit, but wait a minute, That doesn't sound right. And sure enough, when you click extra words aren't a part of their And here's the results I got So, the first result is actually an name of his business, so he's good. But check out the next two. Job Done Locksmith, Denver Locksmith. Highlands Locksmith, Denver. Pretty suspicious, wouldn't you say? If you go to their websites and aren't their actual business names. And of course, maybe your competition this isn't even popping up as an But if you find yourself in a situation that are getting a little, shall we have to do is report them to Google. It really is true what they And the way you would Just copy the name of the business Then, a panel like this should pop Right under their information, you'll Just click that, then change you'd remove the spammy parts. Now, it's important to note here that You're just making the suggestion if that change is valid. And if so, they'll apply it. leveling the playing field, giving you The thing is what you think you want money, but if it's just based on your you might not be reaching anybody at all. And there are a few reasons for that. First, the keyword phrase that not get enough monthly searches. That can happen when the words that you field don't match up with the words that maybe less knowledgeable, would use when For instance, you may be the best pest typing in exterminator instead, Maybe Or maybe the phrase you want is just better off optimizing for something else And that's where keyword And it's actually pretty through the steps in this video. Step one is where you're just going to or offers that you'd ideally like So, if you're a home cleaning business, cleaning, post construction cleanup, maybe exterior window cleaning too. Or if you're an accountant, you payroll, and tax projections. So just write it all down in that, it's time for step two. Use Semrush to uncover your To do this, I'm going to show you two So first, we'll be using You'll just find that over in you'll take your first service and And since this is for local SEO, name either before or after. Next, you'll just let it work its magic, that initial seed keyword that you put in. And here's the list. You'll notice there are a bunch of you a quick rundown of the really pay especially close attention to. First, we have intent. So people do searches for all kinds searching how to do something themselves. general information, trying to find a and yes, to find a business like yours. So what you want to look for here are which stands for commercial, right? They're looking into and T for transactional, meaning actually pull that trigger. The other two really important shows how many monthly searches which stands for keyword difficulty. So that's represented by both a number color coded for really easy skimming. And just like you'd think, green to rank for, Yellow is slightly red is just really, really hard. So the trick here is to find the score that's easy enough to try enough to be worth the trouble. What I like to do here is some So first, I'm going to toggle over to what it sounds like, and show me related but maybe my customers would be using. Next, let's eliminate the ones that that in the easy to possible range, Then under intent, I'll just choose And because I only want local it to include the city name. And here's where it gets super So I want to only see search terms Now to get that, I'm going to features, and choose local pack. Now, I'm left with only these really super But depending on your situation, ton to choose from, right? Well, if I just order them by visually what my best bets may be. All I need to do is start at the top and here I see these greens, and they have these would probably be my top choices. See So from here, I would just go a spreadsheet or a simple Word or them a little later on in the course. And once you've done all that, then you rest of your services, so you're left with phrases written down for each of them. So that's the really in depth way opportunities, but I want to show you This method's going to help you see to be, then reverse engineering the Super easy to do with Semrush. But before we can use it, we need the map for your business category. So obviously just head over to guess, for what you think customers for you, your type of business. Then just see who's at the But you do want to be sure that they're result isn't actually a local business ad. So pick the first organic Then just copy their URL and Specifically, we're looking for domain Then, just paste your competitor's URL in Then you'll scroll down to where it you'll see a short list of keywords. We're going to click the Now you've got the full list. Depending on who your competitor results, or maybe just a few. Now to whittle it down and prioritize positions drop down and choose top three. This will show only the search terms three for, then go to SERP features Now we have a crystal clear picture seeing success with that you I'd just order them by highest volume on search volume and difficulty score. Write down the ones that And now we're ready to move on to the your Google business profile, the it comes to local search success. So we already learned. That your Google business profile factors that are going to determine And here's where I'm going to walk you so that it can do you the most good. So we'll maximize each individual element. But more than that. This lesson will show you how to as possible, which is in itself And I'm sure a lot of you watching already But again, these are all the optimizations even harder for you than it does now. And if you're a brand new business up yet, we'll quickly start there. So all you need to do to claim your google. com. Then click on manage now. So you are going to need If you're not, it's going From there, you're just going Then you're going to click on continue. Okay, so here they're going to ask So if it's online retail, basically website, you would check this, but This is mostly about local businesses. So if you're a brick and mortar your business in person, You would business where either you travel out to remotely, you would choose this option. And by the way, you can choose both. There are some businesses that Think of a restaurant that people Or in the case of the business, we're it's a rental car company where people We'll pick you up at So this is what's known And just click on next. And then you would choose the In our case, I'll just start typing That's probably the closest thing to it. And then click on next. And here's where you'll put in Once you put in your address, if you could put it on this same line. But it's generally recommended that So you'd put in here, you It just helps Google format And then from there, you'll click number and your website if you already Okay, so now it's going to ask you to They have to know that you're actually So it's going to prompt you, it to verify, get verified by phone. Now that generally doesn't work. They'll try to do it. They'll ask you to put in your address So that's generally the So just go ahead and I'm just going to click And it's going to ask you for all But for the sake of me being able information together, regardless of new profile, I'm going to recommend Then we can all start together from here. So if you just set it up or if you've had signed into Google with the email that Then all you're going to do is Google bring up this little panel right here. And I'm just going to click going to go bit by bit here. So You've got all these choices here. We're going to start with edit profile. So the first thing that you can So is your keyword phrase in Now, this one comes with You are not allowed to just add for to the name of your business For instance, if your business, Glen Devon Motors and you're trying car rental Los Angeles, you can't luxury car rental Los Angeles. Unless that's the actual name They can remove your listing But what you could do to move the think about possibly legally rebranding keywords or at least some of them. For instance here, I feel like this We may not be able to include that. So, but we could probably rebrand this And if you were going to change it everywhere, including notifying your business name, changing it with Any existing citations that you already your logo, website, and signage. Now, only you can answer if that's worth likely rank higher in the maps, which include things like, your business name as in the example here we had, Glen Devon Sounds spammy, right? Not to mention the fact that, a ranking factor in the future. So, if you were to go this way, I'd sounds good and like a real business name. You know, it's much harder to do name of your town, as we saw there. So, I'd recommend against going But I'm just going to click cancel here. We don't want to actually Okay, next we have business category. So you've done the research to see Now, what we want to do is pick And one really easy way to do this is along with your city name into Google. and just see who shows From there, you can easily see what which should give you a pretty big So right now it's set to chauffeur So I'm going to click on the to get rid of chauffeur service. So we have car rental agency, Click on save and then after you've your primary, now is your chance choosing up to nine additional ones. Just make sure they're actually relevant search volume coming in as a result. So in the past, SEO experts have they called category dilution. You know, the idea there being that the less impact each one's going out to not really be a thing. At least not anymore. However, there is such a thing as So if you were to choose a bunch of actually offer, not only is that not going your ability to rank for what you want to doesn't really know what you do at all. So we want to keep them relevant people with our categories. So The way we're going to choose those Now we're going to click You know, maybe car leasing And we might be able to go for that pick people up at the airport as well. So maybe if people are searching for that, be like, Oh, I actually do want this. So I'm just going to choose that. And I think that's probably enough. And next we have the description. So, so this is super important. You definitely just want to write a business, including the problem you solve results that you get for your customers. And I should say there is absolutely It's not going to help you anyway. It's not a ranking factor. You could put car rental, you know, many times as you want here, it's not However, it is going to be Okay. Next we have opening dates. I'm going to click on this. If you haven't filled this out yet, you really nice for people to see that If you have, if you haven't, Just put in your actual It's going to show how many years going to look better every year. So just put the year you were day, and you're good to go. All right. Phone number, straightforward. Just make sure it's You know, if you have a website and you this, this is where you would put that. Okay, so now we have kind of a biggie. This is location. So we went over the various ways that in lesson two, but here's where you And or your service area. So, um, this one is set to a physical storefront, but if you're a service would add that in right down here. And remember how we said that where there's a storefront. People can come in to rent the car. And there's also the service where So what we want to do here is just So, so I'm just going to type in. Los Angeles. And probably set it to Los Angeles cities, states, zip codes. You can get really granular and So it is really important to mention business and your address won't be up here so that Google knows you're a you in most cases, and whether your this is still the address that Google location based ranking signals that So in other words, if you're a you specify your service area, That ability to rank within that area. It's just there for customers with them where they are or not. So we'll put in all your service areas, Be realistic because it's not And in the spirit of giving you all your own choice here, I do want to you to list your physical address. If you're a service business, right? If you don't expect people to come your physical address publicly facing. However, you may have noticed that your competition, and the reason why generally rank higher than ones who don't. Now I'll just leave that information you'd like to include it or not. Just weigh out the risks versus rewards worth it to you, even though technically Okay, so next we have business hours. So you definitely want So if you don't have any main hours, you most businesses have working hours, right? So I'm going to click on open lets you choose every day. So Monday, you know, nine to And obviously you can change these, you just go one by one and make those changes. And if you have any specific This is where you can go in and make don't get surprised if you're not Kind of going down to more. So here's where it lets you choose that may be beneficial to certain So these are going to be Things like identifies as Asian And these are things that can knowledge graph over on the side. So if you can identify with any of those So I'm going to go back. Down here, just to show So there's things in the Um, it's going to be Like I said, you know, restaurants insurance agents would, for instance. And this can actually help you rank searching for a specific attribute. Like, you know, if someone's searching for for instance, that could help you rank Okay. So now clicking out of I know there was a lot there. Um, next let's talk about photos. Now, according to Google listings 35 websites than businesses who don't. It's even been shown that by adding business type can help you because in the photo and it helps to really So to add photos, you're just Now there's a few of these you want So let's start with cover photo. You're definitely going to want This is going to be the And you want to go for something sized to be 1024 by 576 pixels. And you want it to be non stock. You want it to be a custom photo. Snapshots are okay. It doesn't have to be But stock photos, they can They know what a stock photo on other people's websites. So they will take those That's why it's really And then from there, So that's really important too. That's going to generally show up And you want that to be sized And then in terms of just normal photos. Bring in as many as you Start adding photos of your services, interior of your space, your exterior, are going to be really important if Okay, moving on, let's go So we'll just start with products. So basically, I'm going to click on try to fill this out as best you can. It's going to help you rank for people But again, there is no need You just want to add a relevant descriptions for each of them. So that's for a product. It's very similar with services. So it's just going to But I will say this product listings are Now let's take a look here on this. What's called the knowledge There's no products or services listed it would be shown right here with images. It doesn't really do that for services. So if you're a service business and Meaning it's here for you. Sometimes it won't be here depends on where it says edit products, I highly services, even if you provide a service. No, Google's actually on the So you're technically not breaking It just gets you a Okay, next let's talk about bookings. So this is basically letting you set website where people can schedule If that's one of your So you just click on, add a link, and then or if your website is linked to like a get right on your calendar, you would Okay, now let's talk about Q&amp; A. So, over here, those are If people have questions, those will So, I'm going to click on Q&amp; A. And generally speaking, if there for you to get the ball rolling. Think of this almost like an FAQ know, your top three to five questions you about or emailing you about. Then just answer them completely here. So I'm gonna click on ask a question Now, can you pick me up from LAX? Then you'd click on post. And then you would answer it Easy as that. And you would do that for your Okay. Moving right along. Now there's another really important So this is a way they let you post updates that you want to share. Now, I highly recommend taking advantage at least one offer, even if it's just put the offer title right here. You'd set the start date, Now the end date, um, you can So that makes it easy to just kind You don't have to change it every week. Just change it once a year. You can even put it right You can even use the same You just have to remember And then you would add a photo, highly a little bit of extra visual punch in Now once we're done setting everything up we can actually take things a step further So this is going to help you publish directories in the US and over 40 in So this way you can have even higher So here's how it works. From the left side panel you're just SEO and click on listing management. Now I'm just going to type So if your listing is already live on I'm just going to click that information is up to date here. And then just, this is So we'd put that in, just update the So obviously there's some work to do We would just click on, try it now. So now we just want to accurate here within Semrush. So this is actually in Woodland Hills. And you can choose, you know, to hide or we deliver to local customers and And from here we can choose categories. So all we really need to do is choose categories that we already chose In our case it was car rentals, car service, and car leasing service. Make sure everything's right. Then you're just going to click So while that's going, I want to show think it's a really good idea to do a see how you're ranking currently so that And sure, you could just Google in the maps, but the problems with Google results are always a little So, if you've already been to your you probably have, it's likely to your own rankings for you, meaning your average customer would see it. Problem two, you'd only see wherever you do the search from. And since obviously not everyone's sitting in right now, you want to stack up From various spots around there with its really innovative heat We're gonna go over to heat map and then to show you is how well you're doing represent someone actually searching. And if these circles are green, If they're yellow, you're Okay, so the first thing we need to phrases that we want to rank for. So they already have it set as the to rank for different search terms car rental, or luxury car rental. Car rentals, you know, it's a basically that you want to be ranked for. And then here's where you're So you can choose from kilometers S. And you can scatter this out as much The further out you are, the less So, I'd cap this maybe at about 7. And then you can do a grid size a more kind of broad range. Or you can get super Now, each of these circles So, someone who's searching here, Someone searching here, how do you And then we're going to I'll click on start scan. And that's just going to take Okay, so now we have our results and, you So there's still a lot of work to you're doing to start with so that and you can track your progress and keyword phrases because it's going to where you're doing in any given moment. So I recommend just taking screenshots of And that's pretty much it. So while I know there are a lot of pretty easy to just go through each And it's generally really good updated and very current over time. So, you know, do things like add new and promotions from time to time as well. When you do all of that, Google knows active and that you care enough and that can go a really long way Remember way back in video one where that influence which businesses show up Well, you may recall that reviews play those four and five star reviews. But let's just pretend for a into your rankings at all. They'd still be pretty important, right? Because those star ratings and the have make a pretty big difference would be enticed to click on. In other words, the reviews that you found more often, but they'll also help So, Yeah, they're pretty In this video, I'm going to give you ones and stick around till the end of to show you a really cool trick that best reviews, you know, those five star any negative reviews you may have. Or get down. Now, the first thing you might want inventory of the reviews that you work there is to be done in this step. And Semrush actually makes this super So you're going to find that under So just click review management, in the name of your business. As long as it's already listed in Google, to show you a few really important stats. Things like your overall star reviews you currently have. And coming up pretty soon here, against your competitors, so you'll many more you need to be competitive. So now let's talk about how you'll those four and five star ones. So first, and this should go actually earn them, right? No hacks or tactics or tips I'm going five star reviews if you deliver a I just want to make sure we're So, okay, you're a high quality But even so, the way to ensure lots making it as easy as possible on your Because I really do believe that people a business that helped them, particularly But people are still people, and I'm not can certainly be protective of their time. So, to help make it super easy on them a direct review link that brings them star rating and can write their review. And the way to get that is to just Profile, Read Reviews, then click From there, they're going to give people right where they need to go. So you've got the direct review your customers in a way that will It's all in how you ask and when you ask. So the very best time to ask for a review know that they're extremely satisfied. The less time that passes, the better the goodwill that you just built up by Microsoft Not only are they more that point, but when it's recent, Meaning, the content of that review and contain all the little things And in the end, that's going to make And the other side of this So this is pretty much going to So do you interact with them in person? If so, ask them face to face as soon If you work with customers remotely, the very best way to ask in And the reason that works so So, the average open rate of emails open rate for an SMS campaign is 98%. And by extension, response rates for text Just make it personal and then give even if that reason is nothing more to help us out as a local business. Again, people really And if you make it easy on them by texting get some really high response rates. So that's the best strategy for getting But. There's more to the story. When potential customers are not only looking for what your past They're also paying attention And that's why it's so important to When you get a good one, awesome. Just respond back without a Thank them for being a customer and means to you and for your business. That simple response is going to responding to reviews can also help, by any potential negative reviews too. So let's say the worst thing one star review, you know. You've basically got four possible One, you could ignore it. That's a mistake because it just benefit of your side of the story. Plus, it makes your business look Not a great look. Two, you can lash back. Also not good. So while I totally get how satisfying negativity that they're giving you It's just gonna make you look willing to make the situation right. You know, take a look at this star review that was left. Does this look like it's de No, it's actually making This owner just comes across as not, a response like this is very likely one star review would on its own. So that brings us to option three, to what went wrong, and more importantly, So if the complaint is from a real you are that this happened and what Even if you think that they're in the can't be salvaged, you should still do the benefit of all your future customers And trust me, they're reading it. People can't resist this So use that to your benefit. And if it's a fake negative review from customer, which happens by the way, it's respond to that in a really calm manner, you don't have any record of them or their more details so we can help you out. And they're probably not And if you suspect that this review is You can try to have it removed. And I say try because you're pretty They do have a process to request review review in question goes against certain hate speech, if the review is off topic, So, if you have a review that you just read Google's documentation you believe the review violates. Then, you just click the little blue But, really important to know here, just because you disagree with it. And even if you can't get a you're still not out of options. First, you can try to bury that More often than not, the most recent of the list, so when you get a bad put a few five star reviews above it. Now, to do that, you can either already know how to do that. But what can work even faster is to or family who may have already left a All they really need to do is change a few the recency bump up top, effectively And if you wanted to take this tactic trick you can use to make sure that the top for as long as possible. So if you have a really particularly compelling story of how you've helped objection, what you can do is is reach and ask them if they wouldn't mind That not only pushes it up to the top up there for a lot longer because Google And before we wrap this video this about negative reviews. Embrace them. A few negatives sprinkled in with actually a good thing, and here's why. They're authentic. They make the rest of your People are naturally going to be a little tons of perfect five star reviews and real and just doesn't seem quite right. But if you have a, you know, 4. 7, 4. 8, that's actually the sweet spot. So embrace them, keep them and respond see that you're a real human business and you're going to do just fine. All right. And our next lesson, I'm going to show to line up perfectly with your Google So you can not only rank higher in the get so that more of your casual visitors Specifically, how should it be organized that everything lines up perfectly with on your Google business profile and to Now, there's a whole lot you can but I want to start this lesson Don't overdo it. Almost every YouTube video you'll optimization will encourage you to Now, I don't know about you, but a page get the click, but it isn't really So here's what I want you to remember as Always write and optimize And for Google second, okay, Google's need to do all the keyword stuffing and If your page hits on all the right get people to stick around longer, then So now that we're on the same So remember way back in lesson three, phrase or possibly phrases, well, this Now, depending on your business, or service you're trying to rank Going back to one of our examples, you may want to rank for general bookkeeping and tax preparation. So, if you have multiple offers to organize your website into That way, your homepage can talk which would be accounting. Then your bookkeeping service page Because if you try to rank for all that's just going to confuse Google. So, So let's keep your keywords or keyword groupings. And when I say grouping, I like keyword phrases together. For instance, your homepage might Chicago as well as Chicago CPA So these are all really close So they would belong on the same page. So starting with your first page, you're just going to go through the want to do the same for your additional First of all, you should have your primary Now this is the one you best ranking opportunity. Got it? Good. So you're going to want to use that in pages title tag, and that's what's going So right here, it just, it So that's where that would go. You also want to use it in the main So that's usually just. The big headline at the top of any page. But here's where it can get a So remember, you want to And when you add your keyword phrase here, it can feel a little utilitarian. So just do your best to try to work And if it really doesn't We can move on to the And you'd also want to use it So this is a good example They're basically the sub headlines if you can work it into one of them You're also going to want to use it a throughout the page where it makes sense. I've got one here and here and right here. So something to keep in mind Generally speaking, the higher up on harder they're going to work for you. However, it's also really important the most sense to include them. So, I'm going to leave it up to you write for your customers first. You're also going to want to include your page is, so this is at the You want to include it in the This is the highest, most prominent just the text description that you usually control that in the media And if you're working on a non homepage, instance, it would really help to use For instance, let's say you run a cleaning like to rank, you know, one of your You'd likely want to name com slash windowcleaningmiami. And you'd want to separate Now, obviously, that doesn't really it works great for all those other Okay, so we're still working on that in all those primary phrases in it out with your secondary keywords. These are the ones that you found to be good ranking opportunities related words and your city name. And for each of these, I also like find little opportunities to include Again, making sure it still reads You know, no stuffing, But if it makes sense to CPA in Chicago, add it in. And just like before, the higher to these, the more they'll count. So I have it once here in, And you can put it again Thank you. And remember, you've got multiple likely, and all these related phrases. So, you can use them in your various And a great place to include You can see I've got a primary maybe a secondary keyword here. It's just a really natural And then once you've done that, you're the images on your page and you're going that coincides with those secondary related words that make sense to use. Now it can always look a little name over and over again in a page. So I do have a little trick up my few extra times, and that is gonna be So all you need to do, and this the city and the state on the line Looks perfectly natural that way, and Okay, so that's going to handle your still a few more things you need to on page SEO dialed in just right. So the next thing you want to add is number, otherwise known as the NAP. So make sure you're using it exactly And all you really need to do is put the bottom of every page on your site. And ideally, you'd embed a Google and I'd recommend also including And just to be clear, this is It's an actual interactive map from embedded in it, and then you would Now this isn't going to be necessary your address on your profile, like if out or works remotely, but you can name and phone number in that case. Now there's one more thing you can ranking standpoint, and it can help which is just yet another ranking a strategic video on your page. The thing is, it doesn't really It could be a business overview, you solve and how you solve them, supercut or going over your top FAQs. Whatever the video's content focuses because remember, Google owns YouTube, video from YouTube right onto your page. Then you're just going to want to video with your business name and that page you're going to put it on. And then in the description of that video, address, phone number for your business. When you use all that metadata on your owned by Google and you embed that strong link that you're creating between enhance your ability to rank locally. Okay, so that takes care of what you outrank your local competition. But there's still another really And that's getting other We call those backlinks and getting Otherwise known as citations. We've already covered a lot of ground control in terms of helping you rank by more potential customers in your area. And now there's one more thing we can do. That's pretty easily under your control. Creating citations and one thing building backlinks to your site. But don't worry, I'll still show favor to really help encourage Now, if you remember back in lesson ranking factors when it comes to And both of these elements do play Google business profile reviews and But you'll still want to do what you you want to outrank your competition. And that does include So let's start out nice and easy with Now, if you don't know what a any mention of your business online, That business name, address, and phone And citations usually will come or even a social media profile. And the good news is they're generally ton of websites and directories that And the game really is pretty simple. You want as many high quality in mind, citations really aren't They really only account for about 7 So, you know, don't spend a crazy opportunities and building them out. And in general, you want to be listed in your industry and your location. For example, if you're a veterinarian in many veterinarian or even pet specific Nevada specific directories as possible. And Semrush actually has an amazing to create a lot of citations all at you currently have are always current It's called the Listing Management your Semrush dashboard right To use it for the first time, you just to get to work finding all your listings It'll even show you all the all of your missed opportunities. You know, listings that you don't have, this as a guide if you're using the to Semrush premium, they'll actually All you need to do is put in your then click start distributing info. So that handles your citations. Now let's talk about the harder counts more as a ranking factor. That's backlinks. So a backlink is just a link And it's one of Google's oldest websites would rank on top. So think of them essentially as votes for If there are two competing businesses, 50 or a hundred, then you're Google has way more people who think it's it probably deserves to rank higher. Now that's a simplification, of course, factors at play here, and the quality of lot more than the quantity, but that's And ideally, you'll want to your competitors if you can. Now, I'm not going to sugarcoat it, And I don't suggest that you spend a crazy But in the rest of this lesson, I'm backlink building tactics just to try And the first thing you want to do here your backlink profile stacks up against already doing just fine and you don't if you're falling behind you'll at least some really great ideas for where to And the way we're going to find this out So looking at the left side just click on Backlink Gap. You'll enter in your website URL and up Then you'll click the button to you can click on Charts to visually profile and each of your competitors. And if there is a gap, You'll want to work So once you know what you're up you should be trying for, I've can use to try to narrow that gap. And my first strategy is just competitors already have. The general idea being that if they chances are you can get one too. And when we're basing this on a pool one, we could, with some hard work, All you'll do here is stay scroll down below the charts. Here, you can see a really comprehensive to all your competitors websites, as So, to clean this up and get a opportunities, I'm going to make This is just going to prioritize than one of your competitors first. The idea there being, the more of your to, that probably means it's going to Now let's apply one more filter that's websites that, if they were to link to I'm just going to click on authority So you may want to be even more cautious in general, the higher the authority the link will be, but the harder the Now we're just going to click on clean spreadsheet for us that you And all you're going to do is just kind of website it is and how they're Then you just want to go one by one either manually or they may have some It's going to be different from going to be a lot easier to pitch It's all pretty much a numbers Okay, now for strategy number two, This is an amazing way to build your those quality backlinks in the process. Since anytime you appear on a podcast, you before you even record where you to your social media or your website. And since local rankings tend to recommend starting by reaching out I know local real estate podcasts on their shows, so I would just start podcast that's based in your local area and then start going after more national dedicated to your industry or niche. podcasts for just about every But when you reach out, make it personal. Don't just use a template. They can spot that from a mile away. And don't pitch it as a value add Pitch yourself as the value And let the host know why your topic you'll have a much higher success rate. Okay, my third strategy, the one lot less on outreach and And a helpful, unique, linkable content. So this is going to be a much more because it's actually a lot less work to that people can't find anywhere else. Then just run some traffic to them and And even better, the kinds of links much more valuable than just about any They're earned naturally and trust and authority by Google. So what kind of content What can you create and put on kinds of natural editorial links? There are countless options would be an Ultimate Guide. You know, what could you write an guide about within your industry? If you're a gym, maybe it could be exercise broken down by muscle group. Or if you're a dentist, it could The trick to this is, you want to make it's going to earn more links just based Thanks. According to a study by Backlinko, 2 percent more backlinks Or you could put together a swipe file or resource list. So if you're a local marketing agency, Facebook ad examples that you've ever or If you're a wedding planner, you vetted vendors that you've worked And this one works great if you're a any kind of unique research, data, I'm personally constantly scouring what I talk about in my videos and So if you were to do a poll or report research, other people in your industry research, cite you, and yes, link back And don't forget here, even those even when they don't have a link. Can still help build your So I love this tactic. And if you have the type of of calculator or tool, those can For example, mortgage calculators, or trying to calculate a ballpark range of Or a fitness calculator, you know, Once you've figured out what that made calculators or create your own You can actually even use the AI something like this that you can then So whatever content type that you it's going to begin to get noticed But fair warning, it can take a while. So here's one last tip that you results and get a jumpstart. I recommend spending as little as simple Facebook and Instagram ads. To that content with a So that's going to put it out there You know, as Facebook starts seeing to get more and more targeted. And that means. More and more people will start And yes, it's going to reach a your local area, but that's okay. You're still building your site authority so much more engagement on your website. And a certain percentage of those to that content in their blogs and on You're going to have to figure out a way that looks very natural to future proof your SEO from penalties Okay, I want to thank you for the end of this training. Again, my name's Wes McDowell, and if like this, head over to YouTube and as well as my channel, Wes McDowell. I wish you all the best in ranking your Now, get started, and I'll