ANDREW HUBERMAN: Welcome where we discuss science for everyday life. [MUSIC PLAYING] I'm Andrew Huberman, of neurobiology at Stanford School of Medicine. My guest today is David Goggins. David Goggins is a served in Iraq and Afghanistan. He's also a highly accomplished For those of you ultramarathons are than 26 miles and, in than 200 miles. For his achievements he has been inducted into Hall of Fame. He also held a Guinness World completed in 24 hours. I should mention that not only SEAL, but he also graduated David is also a highly having authored two books, the and the second entitled &quot;Never are best sellers. David's books cover his autobiographical be described as an and young adulthood. His home was abusive. His school environment He essentially had no positive In his 20s, he found himself more than 300 he despised for minimal pay. And it was at that point that that forced him to explore of his childhood but also the in as a young man and to navigate that dialogue and SEAL, the ultramarathon and the extraordinarily that he is today. As some of you may done various public lectures. He's a familiar face many clips of him on YouTube. And he has done podcasts before. However, I'm certain that to be very different that David has been featured on. The reason is get into his accomplishments. We talk about the him to achieve those things. But, today, David really He lets us into the that he has to has to grapple with on a daily throughout the day to impose the sort that he is so well known for. We also get into some of underlying willpower. And we talk about that include, for instance, and medicine for which he and practitioner. I should mention that multiple discussion you will Now David and I both isn't for everybody itself is different than Nonetheless, we do realize perhaps especially, might If you don't want well, then this podcast episode However, if you are or if you can tolerate today's discussion Before we begin, I'd that this podcast is separate roles at Stanford. It is, however, part to bring zero cost to about science and to the general public. In keeping with to thank the sponsors Our first sponsor Maui Nui Venison is the most red meat available. I've spoken before and there's general consensus to consume approximately per pound of body weight. Now when one strives important to maximize the to the calorie ratio want to consume an when trying to get per pound of body weight. Maui Nui Venison has an to calorie ratio. So it makes getting that 1 of body weight extremely easy. It's also delicious. Personally, I like I also like the venison steaks. And then for convenience I like the jerky. The jerky has a very high So it has as much as 10 grams and it has something so, again, making enough protein without If you would like to you can go to to get 20% off your first order. Again, that's to get 20% off. Today's episode is also AeroPress is similar to a but it is, in fact, a much I first learned about AeroPress And I've been using AeroPress was developed was an engineer at Stanford. And I knew of Alan built the so-called Aerobie at one time, perhaps the Guinness Book for furthest thrown object. And I used to see Alan, at parks around Palo Alto Frisbees. So he was sort of for developing these that turned into Now I love coffee. I'm somebody that drinks coffee about 90 to 120 in the morning, Sometimes if I'm I'll drink coffee first But I love, love, love coffee. And what I've personally found I can make the best possible I don't know what exactly allows the same into a cup of coffee that tastes to any other form of the traditional French press. The AeroPress is And it's extremely compact. In fact, I take it with And I use it on the road, I'll just ask for and I'll brew my coffee or If you'd like to try to aeropress.com/huberman. That's A-E-R-O-P-R-E-S-S dotcom any aeropress coffeemaker. AeroPress ships anywhere and over 60 other Again, that's 20% off. Today's episode is also Eight Sleep makes smart mattress and sleep tracking capacity. I've spoken many times about the fact that of mental health, physical Now a key component of is that in order to fall your body temperature to drop by about 1 to 3 degrees. And in order to wake up feeling your body temperature to increase by about One of the best ways to make changes occur at the appropriate and throughout and at the end is to control the temperature And that's what Eight It allows you to program the and sleeping environment and stay deeply asleep each morning feeling incredibly I've been sleeping on cover for almost And it has dramatically improved If you'd like to you can go to $150 off their Pod Eight Sleep currently Canada, UK, select countries Again, that's And now for my discussion David Goggins, welcome. DAVID GOGGINS: My man. Good to see you again, man. ANDREW HUBERMAN: It was late 2016, when you were in DAVID GOGGINS: Yes sir. ANDREW HUBERMAN: We did a down in San Jose. And, gosh, see you everywhere, So great to have you here. DAVID GOGGINS: Thanks for ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. You embody discipline I think we should just DAVID GOGGINS: Yeah. Let's just go there. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But right before we were talking about learning. Right now, you're spending some that I think most people associate David Goggins with. DAVID GOGGINS: Right. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Why don't DAVID GOGGINS: Well, look at me as the guy that While I do that to but people don't understand into segments. I work out. I eat. I sleep, but I spend So like I'm in I'm a paramedic in Canada. But I spend a lot to nuke every single thing trying to just be a and arteries, and how the heart I'm trying to learn I can save someone's life. And even though paramedics are I'm trying to be that dissect exactly what's going on goes where, just trying to going on, man. So I spent a lot ANDREW HUBERMAN: I because when I teach anything that's related the human body, I need But it's the verbs that matter. And that's really what Just saying that sits there, doesn't tell you how So what does your process If we dropped a brought a microphone into gosh, wouldn't we all love that. But if we dropped a microphone are you waking up looking yeah, fresh day, let's learn or that you've talked about is that coming up DAVID GOGGINS: You know I'm going to keep it real. I'm going to keep it real. So I'm not a real smart guy. And what I mean by that is Like my brain cannot I'm not some genetic freak when it comes to I am absolutely the And people will And they can just whatever. Believe what you So when you ask me this question like for me, I have to go over and over, and over again, while while she's quizzing me, as she's-- she didn't She will quiz herself as she's quizzing me. It's the most frustrating how my brain works. So what I do is I literally And I have my books. And I go through and down every single day. I will study the photographic memory from And then from there, I'll go again. So I'll learn the bulk of it. But then I'll go through within that. So if it's a medication, I'll First, I'll learn the medication because like albuterol. No, it's very big words. So I'll go through, learn Then I'll go through Then I'll go through-- and So it's not like, oh, I got it. Let's just go through-- Every single thing-- to get in this conversation I do in life, it sucks. Everything I do That's why when I was 300 it wasn't like I had some go be a Navy SEAL, and No, I knew my entire to be a struggle, which And I said, I'm not even trying and learn how to read, how how to become But through that process, And I realized-- this is In this podcast, they're because people that I am maybe lying or No, I am literally-- I was the lowest form on Earth, And I literally know what and to build that up. So that question about And I don't have to do it. Just think about it. I'm 49 years old, and I don't have to do anything. So all I thought about is, man, I can't wait to where I no longer But what happened it became a way of living. So how I do every day It's a discipline. It's a regimen. It was a choice I made. And the choice I made was what and what are you willing to you are as a human being? And I was willing to give So studying is no joke. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I love I recall a few years ago, I with you. And you just threw out like I Maybe I'll be a scientist. And I went yeah. Because I knew-- because And I see your work had met before, that you were going to do it-- and learning medicine, learning human physiology DAVID GOGGINS: Very. ANDREW HUBERMAN: have to understand when and you see the veins and the when the body is open, DAVID GOGGINS: ANDREW HUBERMAN: So have different color like it's all labeled DAVID GOGGINS: Exactly. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And so the by hand is important for you. So you go back and Do you think about too or are you like when you're done studying, and thinking about other things? Or are you still rehearsing DAVID GOGGINS: So when I write and I'm able to-- I'm actually looking right now because So I'm actually there right I write it down in a way So I'm writing it down. So then writing it down and that So I'm looking at the book That's just how it works for me. And I have to do it So that page is So I'm literally as I'm taking these tests. And I'm taking these national or become an advanced I'm literally as I'm taking And I'm like-- now I'm where that page was. And how I do that is and how it's on the page. When I run, I can't I cannot bring any of How my mind is wired now is that Because the focus it takes for I'm not like a great runner. I'm not like injury free. So like my first 20 minutes I'm literally had several knee surgeries. And my body was twisted. And so now it's untwisting. So people look at me, oh, looks, I am limping when I run. My body is jacked on how to get the best So everything I do on what I'm doing at ANDREW HUBERMAN: So it trained away or somehow that you mentioned is like a deep trench. It's like a V shaped trench. I'm imagining like and it's like, phewp, and it can or back. And it goes forward. It's not like sliding around zip-zip-zip, like a tension. So it's like you Is there a similar in the full focus of running Does it kind of that's the same groove but just completely different world? DAVID GOGGINS: It's a Both of them for but it's suffering a Like when I was going through I think I was in third grade. And back then, ADD, ADHD, or here's this thing. They want to put you So for me, I was so that their big thing in a special school And through that don't want to be in I don't want to be treated like I never took medication. I've never taken That's why right now you see What the hell is Huberman And that's why I don't feel who have learning disabilities. And some are impossible But a lot of them you can. But people don't want to go of teaching yourself This is where my It gets lost because I may the passion that It takes everything for So when I speak I can't speak about David just calm and cool. Because when I wake that it takes for me And it's hard. Nothing is easy. Nothing just like, oh, I or I do that or it just-- go through life, For me to be where I'm at So when I speak about it, you'll start seeing me-- The passion will come out I'm doing what I do every And so nothing is easy. Like running is running. It sucks. But you have a choice to make. Do you want to sit down and go No. So this is what it takes. It takes that And they'll never get it because So that is what it takes It may take you So for me, everything Everything has to be into this. Everything has to I am it has to be there, That's why you're I've done since Rogan, I don't have time for that shit I'm not trying to maximize money I do these things because understand me and get it and and others just won't. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Sounds you're very familiar with. It's a word just I feel right now in bold face, letters. DAVID GOGGINS: ANDREW HUBERMAN: Friction, And I imagine David Goggins stretching out, good And you're telling me from DAVID GOGGINS: Yes, and that don't-- they don't fucking get. The biggest misunderstanding of all time-- it's like whether you I do-- he put this lab rat, and said let me fucking abused kid who can barely who has a twisted body, messed and that, let me that pretty much disqualifies But back then, it wasn't as-- and see what comes out of it. So to do that, friction-- you don't wake up and go to the coffee maker. Matter of fact, sometimes What it requires 2 o'clock-- it's 2 And my brain is thinking And I got to get up to see what that drug And this is every day That's why when I train a I'm like, you have no fucking are because you are minimal of what you have. And if people can learn to While it may not people want to do a I go no. I don't want to do because I will have normal apart. Oh, his life is miserable. Who wants to live like that? It's crazy how he-- it's He's psychotic. The most frustrating is when normal people on what it really takes to It takes every bit of who you If you don't, Merry Christmas, But, yeah, all these like I told you, man, I'm I'm not coming here to talk because I go through-- when I write these I try to dumb down How can I give normal But I found something that How can I speak to something from this crazy developed? How can I give them that? So I sit down with and write down perform callus your mind, armor the accountability mirror, shit in their lives. No, no, I'm glad it helps you. But the barbaric life that I the almost obsession that you can't put that shit You can't put in a book. You can't. You can't write about it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: It DAVID GOGGINS: It has And you can't even-- after you experience it, it would seem like he ANDREW HUBERMAN: Too gory. DAVID GOGGINS: It's too gory. Doesn't make sense for every second of the to extract more from something. He's constantly thinking. He's constantly, never going off the path. Whatever is injured on It's a conquerors mindset. And very few people, if any, can Like I'm almost 50. And I've been this way Like what do you do for fun? These questions, I don't understand them. I don't-- so yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I get what do you do for fun. I start listing off all this working out. So some of that resonates. But I think what's so you're describing, your process And I have to ask was being 300 I'm using the words DAVID GOGGINS: No, do it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You had a tendency at one on tell lies, try and DAVID GOGGINS: Lied my ass off. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Crazy and yet all of that that now is extraordinary. Do you think those necessary to flip the switch? DAVID GOGGINS: I don't know but it was something I didn't feel good. It was easy. The brain that I was it was easy to go how do I want to How do I want to show up to It didn't require me going home it's going to take me all year So instead of I learned how to And maybe that character that 300 pound, used to fake it till let me become your until you like me type of guy-- when you have any manhood, a soul, a spirit, any-- I must have just this much what opened the door for me. Because every day, Every day, you were a clown. Every day, you opened that book or English book, It looked like a And you're saying, Where do I start? And, obviously, The more I talk about it, it happened is I became that this is my existence. And you got to live with that. And I lived with it And so I sat back and I know what this takes. And when you sit back, and I had a laundry like this of what I just a human being that that can make $1,000 a month. Just to get there was like, I'm 16, 17, I can't read. I can't write. Oh my god, I'm so And my brain is about And my dad beat-- And kids are calling And I'm like, oh my god, And it wasn't like someone hey, man, you can do this. This is all me. Some people want to know where I'm not trying to be cold. It's the reality of my life. It's the reality of a And so, yeah, that had to to be haunted, to the guy that I am today. That haunting is something because no matter no matter how much you it's not permanent. You don't just wake up you're David Goggins. You break records. You do this. You do that. People want to know, how are Because I never turn Because once it turns to the David Goggins that is. And that's the guy that I'm And it's a choice. And that choice makes It makes you crazy. That's why I hate In 2013, people wanted I did it in 2018. Took five years. And the reason why I sat at the table, This was before she I started dating And all these people were there. And they're like, man, you And I was like, fuck you, man. It's poison. It's poison because I knew And I'm going to these normal, everyday exactly who I was judging me. Because I know it All my hard work, I'm going to have his little brownie, his little sit there with his Oh, he must be unhappy. Do you know how hard it on every damn morning? And I'm gonna have So, yeah, there's so that I was like fuck this. I never wanted So anyway. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'm But knowing your story what you've said and elsewhere, podcasts and amazing to me, and, at my heartstrings realize that's not what but that in the course of your adulthood that no one ever I forget where I heard it person that believes in them-- and I had my trials But I had great I attached to them. I found them if they But I'm realizing that your said, hey, I'm going to or get in front of And so it's almost like it's all you, but there's that like you knew social that I have the wherewithal '17 to get in front all this because I've already Is that about right? DAVID GOGGINS: That is right. But I had developed And I still have it. And it will never go away of this world because when like I was in-- and please, come out and announce There was no one. There's no one. So when you know that-- and then I'm with all these smart me what to do and shit and now when I'm 40 It's 2000-- I don't know Now I'm 49. And I'm looking at them all. And they're now on what's right on this poison. And so, yeah, what But for me, it was I don't need you I know what's good for And for me, it took every And I know social media-- that's why people love to go on you the good side of life. I'm not teaching So I had to figure I came on 2016 of teaching for the majority of us is hell. And so while people love to show and the vacations and All that's happy. I'm going to show you the are going through. And people hide very well. I don't want to hide anymore. I hid it for 24 fucking years. So that's why now we can talk about because as human beings, the I also stuttered So if you hear me stutter it's because that was So it's funny. Human beings want to And they want to For me, I'm going to be vulnerable because that's You don't fix yourself and me selling you That's why I don't have them. I forgot them. I'm glad people got I want you to learn that is how to look at like I did, table longer than to do to get somewhere? There was nothing good Yeah, I loved I left that out. That's something I love to do. I don't care about that. That didn't make because the list was the very list that was with you to talk to you to I once was, about how you can It looks very ugly. There's no fucking passion. There's no fucking motivation. There's no, oh my no, it's every day of no passion, no discipline, no I hate that so many people because it's watered. Someone sitting in and they figure themselves is going to fucking suck. Where's passion when Where's the motivation when Where is it? So how did this happen? I just fucking did. I just did. I said maybe at the there will be If not, I can read. If not, I'm 185 fucking pounds. There was no magic potion. There was no, oh, let me wake No. All those words are overused. They're bullshit. It's all bullshit. Just do. You're living. How do you want to live? How do you want to die? How do you want to That's it. That's it. Period. ANDREW HUBERMAN: As I've been taking AG1 So I'm delighted that they're AG1 is a vitamin that's designed to meet all needs. Now, of course, I try to get and minerals through whole foods and fruits every day. But, oftentimes, I simply But with AG1, I'm sure to get and the probiotics that I need. And it also contains adaptogens Simply put, I always feel I have more focus and And it also happens For all these asked if you could take just I answer AG1. If you'd like to try AG1, go to a special offer. They'll give you packs plus a year's Again, that's The word haunted is DAVID GOGGINS: Yep. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I think DAVID GOGGINS: Yep. ANDREW HUBERMAN: it seems like a huge part the entire process, is you talk about the carrot, And then there's the stick, the I feel like it's-- the way stick and gas pedal. DAVID GOGGINS: That's it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You're not imagining, oh, the book is published. And, obviously, you and you make those targets. But it's all stick. DAVID GOGGINS: All stick. ANDREW HUBERMAN: No carrot. DAVID GOGGINS: Think about that. I'm waking up Like I have a test tomorrow. I already passed Think about that. Every day in my life, to retain what I learned. Four hours plus a day, I There's no stick. Or there's only a stick. There's never been is why when I speak to a way to resonate with them. Because all I want is let me teach you the The reason why you're a loser fucking making it and trying to go to all these-- I go to all these speak all the fucking time. I look in the fucking audience. And these people sign up fucking every thinking they're going to learn No, you're lazy. You know exactly what to Because even me in my state I knew exactly what to do. It just sucks doing it. It sucks to do it. It sucks to wake up every and say, god, man, So guess what I got to do. I got to study the same shit scores in the nation on and and do it again. It's not just there. It's not just there So, yeah, it's all stick. It's all stick. The only carrot you have Because whenever I take these the back of my brain you're not going to This ain't you, bro. This ain't you. You weren't born like this. This ain't you. The real you, bro-- study all you want to. But the second that comes on with 150 questions, And somehow, comes back. I passed. I passed again, passed again. But that real me back is saying that ain't you, bro. That ain't you. And I have to When I'm taking to a question I don't I'm like fuck, man. And then say, see That ain't you. You're 300 pounds, man. You sit at home. You figure out how That's what you do, with the reverse That's you. So there is no get This is why I say stay hard. Because when you the only thing you can And I know people They can't stand this talk. This is all you can do. There's no magic pill All you can do is that God created And what that looks That's why I said, do not because people will They will see what I don't want to live like that. Good, good. And you will live you live now, wondering what is what you are capable of doing. That's how that looks or you I don't know. Never really thought about it. Don't really care about cared about was when I looked I saw a piece of shit. Happiness wasn't on the mirror It wasn't like, I'm No, I'm looking at myself in motherfucker, you You're a bad boy I have about a couple of minutes The second I lay down and because I'm waking up all the work I did that day. Did I get this drug right? Did I get this right? Did I get that right? What did I do? Oh my god, fuck, I'm Stick. ANDREW HUBERMAN: That DAVID GOGGINS: Haunting me. ANDREW HUBERMAN: It's So no picture of You're not listening to DAVID GOGGINS: No. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Those would [LAUGHTER] You're not listening to just to get rolling and then It's all in here. DAVID GOGGINS: All in there. I used to do that Rocky, I mean, Round 14 was my thing. And as I got older and older and And I started to create-- I had all these people Rocky was one, Barnes, Jack from &quot;A Few Good Men&quot; when I saw a lot of these and I was like, man, I But they were characters. After a while, I lived that every body to, these fake characters, And when I was younger, I of what does a man And I got all these people And in my mind, I became that. And that's what kept I had this pipe dream of and a little bit of you have no parents have no role models growing You start to create a reality And after becoming is the biggest thing I I became that guy. That I once looked at I look at myself like, god, I can. But what it takes that no one can ever even-- they don't understand it. They don't understand it. But everybody has but they just don't want to. They want to keep and keep going to seminars. And the greatness And that's why once again-- I say this a million times here, I will not sugarcoat to say to you because what I'm saying is the truth. Everybody knows it's the truth. This is what it looks like. And you know it too. You know it too. If you ain't got nothing, I hate It's ugly. It's not a documentary. It's not an HBO special. You ain't going to you guys gotta watch this. No, it's like, oh, god, this It's like a nightmare. This looks like this guy's got-- Hard work looks horrible. It's not motivating. It's not motivating at all. It ain't like Rocky round 14 and goes like this Looks like a man being And there's no fucking way out. But you have the fucking key. But you refuse to use it. And that's nothing So, yes, no documentary ANDREW HUBERMAN: The real life-- DAVID GOGGINS: The real life. ANDREW HUBERMAN: --David It's already being written. You're it. DAVID GOGGINS: Right. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, I'm going tidbit. DAVID GOGGINS: Love it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: that you'll appreciate. Most people don't a brain structure called the As we pointed out It's a name. It doesn't mean anything. We could call it But what's interesting area is there are in humans, not some mouse study, something they don't hours of exercise or when people who are trying resist eating something, that they, and this that they don't want to do, It's about adding more work This brain area gets bigger. Now here's what's especially area to me. And by the way, I'm recently because it's new data. But there's a lot of it. The anterior is smaller in obese people. It gets bigger when they diet. It's larger in athletes. It's especially in people that see and overcome some challenge. And in people that this area keeps its size. In many ways, to think of the anterior as one of the seats of the seat of the will to live. DAVID GOGGINS: See, ANDREW HUBERMAN: about the anterior I was like almost And I've been in the since I was 20. DAVID GOGGINS: ANDREW HUBERMAN: And I was so pumped because I've prefrontal cortex. It's planning an action. I could tell you every I teach neuroanatomy But when I started on the anterior mid-cingulate this is interesting. And all the data that we can build this area up. But that as quickly if we don't continue to invest that we don't want to feels so Goggin-esque to me, Like if you love the ice bath-- and you go from 1 guess what, your anterior grow. DAVID GOGGINS: None. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But if if you're afraid of drowning and put your head then the anterior mid-cingulate But if you don't do it the next day and you enjoy it because, woo-hoo, happy me, Merry DAVID GOGGINS: Right. Merry Christmas. ANDREW HUBERMAN: --guess mid-cingulate cortex To me, this is one of the that neuroscience has that I don't want to do that grows this area. And it's almost like-- I have a friend. He's been sober 30 And he always says, the is there's a cure. The problem is it only And so you have to DAVID GOGGINS: That's right. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So the anterior when I learned about it, two Whoa, this is super interesting. And, two, I got to tell And I waited until now-- DAVID GOGGINS: I'm glad. ANDREW HUBERMAN: --to tell for obvious reasons and I wanted to tell you here. DAVID GOGGINS: Well, I how I've lived my entire life. I don't know But people go, man, you It's something that you build. Like I never forget I was And this dude goes you were Like the hell are was blessed with a strong mind? That's something that You develop that over and going back into the suffer. That's why a lot of people who they want to know-- I talk about it very A lot of guys don't want don't want to go back And maybe not-- anything in life, once you get through Like how many POWs you know None. When something sucks this is on this that very few people want to go back. They're happy they graduated. I realized I'm the same way. I don't want to go back. I have to go back. I must go back because that is of my life exists was back what you're talking about. Well, I didn't know But how I grew a will was to now it's just life. I wake up. While it still sucks, You don't sit back Like I have days I But I know I'm going to do it. I know from years So that's beautiful. And this is why I came And I'm glad that you're talking need to hear this. They need to stop hearing There's no fucking hack, bro. There's no fucking hack. Yeah, you may this and that that they-- yeah, it's great. There is no fucking life hack. To grow that thing-- Do it, and do it, That's the hack. The hack is going And that's what I realized. That's what I realized. That's why I wanted I didn't want to about no fucking and how to get the and how to hit a all this catchphrase bullshit I lived, wasn't how I lived. I lived, I woke up like and goes fuck, man. I'm a fucking piece How the hell is this And you fight that. And you fight that. You don't override it. There's no override button. It's the conversation So how do you do that? We don't have enough about the real conversation that And they have no idea But they do is that You got to build your will. How you build your will? Exactly what you said, man. Exactly what you said. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, the name of something, doesn't fundamentally change us. But one thing I is that willpower, if somebody feels like this thing But everybody, unless like a hole through their mid-cingulate cortex, one Everyone has one. They have two. So I feel like it's just a And the portal-- again, and forgive me-- go, oh, I do hard things. I do sets to failure. And then I do forced reps. I love training with weights. I love doing sets to failure. I even like forced reps. But guess what? I like forced reps. So I'll tell you, my anterior mid-cingulate Anything you like to enhance this And it seems so obvious You kind of go, oh But I think you really when you share what and what you've shared When you're trying to is the critical ingredient. And I think people think, then I'm getting better. That's part of it, necessary, as we say in science. But the suck part, the haunt, they're really unpleasant terms. These are probably the most used on this podcast. Those are the-- Those are the gears. And without those, this thing David Goggins, as a verb-- I sometimes make the Goggins is a name, People go, I'm on But that's, I think-- again, I'm not a psychologist. But I think that's what the stick, the It's the suck part that grows cortex. DAVID GOGGINS: So there's so many people to figure out their purpose, Where do I go? Because to grow that, now, how my daily life looks. It don't look fun. Don't look fun. So it's a choice that But what's so funny about it who have everything, they I feel like I'm I don't feel like I don't have what you all have. But you will never in I'm missing something. And everybody is. They're missing this feeling. I found it a long time ago. And I found it right there When you're nothing, into something, like me, you whatever the fuck people are missing exactly what Why don't you smile? I do. I do. But I figured something out. That's why I am never-- you never hear me say, I found it years ago. You find it in the suck. You find it in the suck. And you find it repeatedly where you know Most people are because they don't They never examined themselves. They've never done this The lab rat. We're all lab rats. But you're also the scientist. You create your own self. Most people are because there's so I don't even want I think that's a word-- There's so much in you that you believe in or if that you have not unlocked, with this gorgeous wife or great You're like, god, I feel Yeah, because it's is still fucking in there, still didn't want to find didn't want to find your your determination, And what that looks like you're little Scary to wake up every but I'm going to to be smarter versus saying, So you limit this box. So your box becomes so My box wasn't even a box. It was a fucking little pinhole. And then through getting some willpower, it became bigger But that's what we all do. That's why I wanted to to you about real shit, There's no hacks, bro. It's you against you. You against you. And if you have a real problem, I can understand me, running down the street, Yeah. I can get it. I get it. If you misunderstand what the problem is you. And you don't want to fix it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, the are a case study in how can destroy a life. DAVID GOGGINS: True statement. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I prominent names in the press. But those are actually What's probably more is all the ones we don't hear about them. They just dwindle and wither. Or I think there's this I'm realizing, as we have this not super successful. They're not struggling. They're successful enough you can get to the don't have to impose friction. You even said it. Your bank account is in a need to do all probably not even a DAVID GOGGINS: Do nothing. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Right. But you realize the is the fuel and the engine. And you'd be a-- you'd be because you've But most people, they're And so they don't actually in order to start DAVID GOGGINS: Well, think And think about how Now that you know about this-- I didn't know about this. But think about how Everything I've ever done in Everything every day. I'm a lazy piece of shit. And I'm one of the hardest foot on this planet Earth. And I'm saying that very proudly It's not cocky. I'll tell you I'm stupid. And I'll also tell you the exact It's the truth. It is the truth. So imagine how much I've But this is the scary thing. Why most people don't want to is because it is scary. It unlocks a whole bunch and who you're not. And a lot of people don't to discover who they because it's not I mean, I've gone down it. It's not like I I go down it all the time. And when you unlock that-- and Like, people say, hey, how I built all this willpower. Do you think it's retire because my knees hurt? It is telling me every morning-- I wake up, and I'm like, My legs hurt. My body hurts. But you can still run. So why aren't you running? If you can still run-- there will be a time when you But you can still run. So I still run. When the time comes I can't you just can't run. But if I can still willpower that I makes me do it And that's what they don't get. What builds a human being is you blocks. And before you know it, that it doesn't even because it's just That's why I can still at 49 with broke down because my body Therefore, I do. Second you stop, the And that's beautiful. I'm so glad you brought that to what's this At 24 years old, I that I didn't even to be what it is now at 49. And that's all it was. It was just that. ANDREW HUBERMAN: This structure, has inputs and outputs But you'll probably not that it's strongly activated we don't want to move our body. I feel like it's like the DAVID GOGGINS: It really is. ANDREW HUBERMAN: It is. And it also has to the dopamine reward pathway. And everyone goes, Everyone loves dopamine. I'm partially responsible about dopamine. But dopamine's badly understood. Everyone thinks It's about reward. It's about motivation and drive. And there are pain inputs to the No one talks about that. Everyone's like, oh, you want cocaine. Yeah, that's all true. It'll release dopamine. Pain releases dopamine. The anterior can trigger the release to this thing that And that's a learned thing. That's something that comes into the world learning. We all are averse to pain. And like pleasure, Don't like hot surfaces. But this is a It has neuroplasticity, to change throughout And here's the again, is just neuro nerd and have done and exemplify, oh, it has plasticity. You can change it. But guess what? It has plasticity It can grow. But just as easily as it can it can shrink. So it requires constant upkeep. And that answer isn't one They're like, give Give me the supplement. Give me the-- give me going to make my anterior someone out there wait, if I took transcranial and I stimulate-- yeah, you'd done that. They stuck a little into this structure. This was actually of mine, Joe Parvizi. Stimulate. And the patients go, I feel And they go, oh, is it scary? And they go, no, I They come off the stimulation, this is the seat of what DAVID GOGGINS: Right. Exactly. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And it learns. So the fact that you've I'm convinced if we imaged and it would be larger But this is the no days off and it can shrink. DAVID GOGGINS: I know. What you're saying right now, And I never-- and I But I wish I could And you're saying it in a way I can never put it into and the power that But you put it so Most people, for That's why I don't like I know I'm not crazy. I know what I had to do People look at it as crazy that just-- if you can't imagine if you can't imagine the person that's because in your mind, the logic Therefore, you have to And the title for me or he's this, he's that. No. No. For some reason, me so fucking bad in my And I've been years of my life trying But even though you're this is the easy fucking part. Them listening to this shit The part that why they're is because putting putting that into No. No. That's where the demons come in. That's where you're like, I don't want to be better. If this is what it I don't want to be better. So everybody's-- that's why And it makes me so fucking mad. Every day I walk this all over the fucking place. And they want to ask I can't tell you how because you're not going to do it. You're not going to do it you. You're just going to-- You're going to continue you wake up. Like you said, it's Make the pancakes. Kiss the girl. Kiss the kids. You wake up, right to work. Immediate, your No one wants to do that. No one. And I don't blame them. But don't be mad when in your fucking bed, and and you're 70, 80, 90 years old. And you're thinking, didn't fucking do something. Because you did. You didn't do it. You didn't do shit. You may have lived but you're always going I don't feel empty. So call me what you want. There's not one empty because I have figured the magic potion, And it's very rewarding. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'd like and thank our sponsor, InsideTracker is a that analyzes data to help me better and help you reach I've long been a believer in for the simple reason that your immediate and can only be analyzed from Now, a major problem tests out there, however, back about metabolic and so forth. But you don't know what to With InsideTracker, because they have a allows you to see those things, metabolic factors, But it gives you that you can follow that behavioral modification, et cetera that those numbers into the ranges If you'd like to you can go to to get 20% off any of Again, that's People like to talk about what I hear this a lot. You should have seen I always laugh. Like, yeah, OK. Got it. And it's not just guys. You should have seen me I was super fit. People will look they felt like they were And now they're not. And you kind of want to That was you then. It's you now. And but people tend the conditions that must have been part of it. And you can understand why. It's very rational. I was in that situation. I was successful. I'm in this situation. I'm not. That was the past. This is the present. Ergo, capable. You see how people And as you mentioned, you spent in extremely challenged And then you can see how where everything feels hard. Like, when you're 300 pounds-- I haven't ever been 300 pounds. But I can't imagine it feels DAVID GOGGINS: It's defeating. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I got a friend. He's in excess of 300 pounds. We've been trying But no win. And he's got crazy psoriasis And he actually because he can't wash He's big, big. And it pulls all my sympathy. But life is very hard for He's a young guy with now, for obvious reasons. And so I think people like that Why would I make it harder? Your message is a And you have the DAVID GOGGINS: It's ANDREW HUBERMAN: So for me, saying, oh I was a skinny guy who got So I don't really have What do you say to those listen, getting up in Trying to not dissolve into and my own misery is hard. DAVID GOGGINS: You know why so well? For some reason, God put me situation on the planet Earth. So when I talk to people, because I'm not saying it from I I don't say much Maybe you're a piece of shit. Maybe you want to be nobody. Maybe you're happy exactly because obviously, you are. Maybe you don't have to be somebody better And if you want to live with If you're good with being who wake up, and every day, you can't wash your body well, because your health's can't put your clothes on You need help like-- I needed help wiping my ass. That makes you feel good? Nothing I can say to you. If every day you wake up with But they obviously because they keep watching I don't like horror films. A lot of people So I don't say much to them. I say exactly what I because I was once you. I didn't like horror Some people are just-- they become-- like you when you're lazy and Their will is so small And you can't give it to them. There has to be what I'm talking about now This has to be in you. Something in you has to wake up. And usually, the only person Sometimes you can read because I was all this shit and But if you don't have a you're done. I can't light it for you. And that's the harsh that I want to get You can watch me. You can watch you. You can watch fucking Hanes, all these motherfuckers. You can go to Tony all this shit. You can do all this shit. You're going to keep spending money and money with no results. You're going to wonder, wow. Maybe let me go try He ain't going to You have to explore, examine And what do you really Your friend and a lot just don't fucking want it. So guess what? Have fun with your life. Go from 300 to 350 because you don't want it. And that's the harsh reality. I can't give you shit. You can't give them shit. We can give you ideas. But end of the day, when I had to miserably wake up because it was Indiana, I was miserable. This is your new life. Take it or leave it. There's no happiness about it. There's no peace behind it. It sucks. It just fucking sucks. And that's the one thing, if I it just fucking sucks. And it's going to And then one day, you'll get that it might get a But to lose the weight you It's going to suck every you're 300 pounds, you're you could probably get injured. So then you got to And then you get This is what I went through. And then you're hungry It's just a vicious cycle. And if you're not and you have no going to continue versus the man that all right, motherfucker. This is why I cuss because This is what it took Sorry. It didn't take, hey, OK, No. This fucking really sucks. This is real, dude. This is real. And every day, I'm set back. I'm set back. I'm set back. I'm set back. So this is what I This is exactly Every day you wake up, be set back for the before you lose significant going to be fucking There's no dopamine. There's no dopamine in You got nothing. Your hormones are shot. You have to envision something Something has to And you have to create it. It has to be false You're a fat piece of shit. And that's the reality of it. So you have to create a false just to get to work on yourself. That's the reality. ANDREW HUBERMAN: He'll appreciate that message. We'll see what he does. DAVID GOGGINS: We'll see. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So far, last But I have had other drug and alcohol addicts who Never went back. DAVID GOGGINS: That's awesome. That means they want it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, just but walked up to me at a and said, I'm a pile. And I go, what? And he goes, I'm a pile. Look at me. I'm 60 pounds overweight. And I go, do you drink? He goes, every day. I go, how much? He goes, a case. He goes, I smoke a lot of weed. But he's successful in And so I said, well, Quit alcohol and weed for you. I'm not telling Don't eat until 2:00 PM. Get on an exercise in the morning like someone's until you want to puke. And I was kind of half-joking. And then two months I haven't had a drink. I lost 30 pounds. He lost those 60 pounds. He never went back. Now, he's super fit. It's amazing. So some people flip the switch. He is very DAVID GOGGINS: ANDREW HUBERMAN: He's DAVID GOGGINS: Yep. That's what flips the switch. Think about it, man. We know what to do. We don't need Andrew Huberman We know what to do, That's why he flipped it so He didn't go by He didn't go by the exact-- no. He knew exactly what to do. And you just saying some shit He knew what to do. And that's the thing that You know what to do. Why aren't you doing it? ANDREW HUBERMAN: And I'm Those modes of just kind they're so easy to wash over us. I used to have this thing, now because I knew we were today, where I like on the hour or the half hour. Worst practice in because if I miss that half I'll start at 12:45. Ah, it's 12:45. I'll start at 1:00. I just lost time. And so this is so stupid. And the other day, got to tell David about this no matter what time it is. If I wake up in the I got a friend. He paints in the I'm like, you're an insomniac? He's like, I don't know. I just do it. Then sometimes he Sometimes he doesn't. Everyone's got their thing. But I thought about this. I'm like, no more am I at 1:00 because I know me. If I miss the 1:00 ding and then or I'm not typing I'm not going to do it. But That's a DAVID GOGGINS: I love it, man. I had that for a lot of years. I know I'm going to do it. That's the haunting part is It has to happen. And that's a fact. Like, there's no get out None. Like, that is a life I don't have that ability. Or I have the ability. I don't have the-- I'm not good enough, I'm not talented Some people are. Some people can start at 1:00. Some people don't If you lack talent, you I'll start in half an hour. I can't do that. I got to start now. And after I get back from And then when I get done with if it wasn't good enough, because repetition is So you can honestly But it's that you, obviously, ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, I have and built up some been good at most of my life. DAVID GOGGINS: You're amazing. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Gathering, information's doing since I was a little kid. I used to give lectures at I learned over the weekend. DAVID GOGGINS: See, ANDREW HUBERMAN: But they We're the same age. Back then, if you got people thought you were crazy. DAVID GOGGINS: I was one. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, exactly. DAVID GOGGINS: I was one. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Exactly. So I remember Also, I didn't have a stutter, It comes back when I'm tired. And the only thing that my head on something, which is why skateboarding and I'd feel like, oh. I feel good. But that's not healthy. That's not good. Or just work. Work is what gets it out. It's like an-- it's [REVVING SOUND] But yeah, I think I feel like talent or gifts or but there are many exceedingly difficult for me. And I have learned I know that you are very that you don't have-- not going to get it But I think the way and the way you've shared there are pieces people feel into you're talking about today. We're elaborating on it, I of being haunted and the stick. I mean, of course, of course, you don't want to talk about because that's-- sure, that's important. I've heard you say, Yes, you eat. Yes, you hydrate. Yes, you will stretch But it's funny how that DAVID GOGGINS: That's why ANDREW HUBERMAN: But that's not the unique Like, anyone can So do I have that right? That you're acknowledging Recovery is important. DAVID GOGGINS: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But that's DAVID GOGGINS: You have Yes. Ice baths. Saunas. Sleep. Nutrition. All this shit's so I don't have time To extract what I had to Like, you talk about you You would give these The same age you I was trying to figure out how And I realized, as I got older, important. But for me to stop to build fucking confidence. And speech therapy Nothing helped that. I have to forgo a lot of as I am to build to stand in a fucking room of [STUTTERING SOUNDS] and be Let me look around. Let me read these And then before I because they're me just leave the room That's a miserable life. And that's one of many besides being insecure, besides being fat, besides in my school. There's a lot of things I had And in doing so, a A lot of it. So I became the guy that became, You only sleep four hours Sometimes you Like, what's this, and I know it's all important. I can't. Something's got to go. For me to get confidence, is the building block of for me to gain this fucked up kid has got to gain confidence. And along the way, And I gained confidence. And now, my life is there is no balance. There is no balance. It's a little bit more what it But there'll never be balance that you're constantly-- confidence and belief And so something's got to give. And I'm willing to to have that because want to give take that shit away from them. So yeah, I don't And sometimes I don't And sometimes I don't do this But you put me in a room of the day, and I'll I'm the baddest because I know what it And a lot of people So that's what it takes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I've been wanting to ask And I thought about And I've been thinking about And I'm going to just come know how to ask the question. DAVID GOGGINS: Just ask it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: It's DAVID GOGGINS: Oh, do it, man. ANDREW HUBERMAN: that my discipline is much But that's because I had But then I was a Barely finished high school. But then when I got But I did that by staying And anyone's who's ever had but in particular, knows that, yes, you can derive Like, you got this, baby. You can go. And you're like, yeah. I got this. She said I got this. Feels great to finish something share a meal, get the hug. But there's another that I'd like to learn which is there's a in bed in the morning. You don't want to get up. They also have needs. You've got your mission need things from us. But also, oftentimes, love us most, that truly love don't understand this thing. And they're the first people Take a day off. And then this whole cycle, goes off, like, you And then it's almost I'm not saying anything DAVID GOGGINS: All good, man. ANDREW HUBERMAN: are going to be like, yeah. Like, they remember that. And so support of people This could be friends. Could be romantic partners. Whatever. But they're also-- the It can be the thing undermine this thing that you're that care about us also They want to see us happy. They want to see us peaceful. They want to see us wake up And they want things too. So how do you untangle DAVID GOGGINS: Well, I'm unbalanced, but towards the family side, which I'll start being unbalanced. I get all my stuff in. But what I do is I make sure they need, everything want to be part of my family. Some don't. Some family members don't want I get it. I got it. That's life. Those who are part give them everything can leave me the fuck alone. I make sure you're happy as fuck And I don't mean smokejumping. I don't mean running. I mean all of it. It takes every-- I can't have you I can't. So I know for me I gotta make sure that you everything you need. So when you start I'm going to say, look, hang on. I dedicated my life to give I need this time to be the best I can be without anybody. And I make sure everybody knows I've been left-- think about it. I was left alone at a young I figured it out for myself for myself. No one's going to come in That's why I make sure I will Whatever you need Money, house, my I'm going to give you That said, I do it the And I'm saying that with So please come here if it's wrong, Jennifer. I don't give a fuck. Say what you got to say. So then when it's time I expect you to because it takes every bit of So I make sure that I'm very so I can be exactly that And that's how I do it. I let people know I'm not what you want in a man. I guarantee that. There's going to be a lot of early where I got to be by myself is next in my mind. I can't have aggravation. I can't have this. Can't have that. There's a lot of things. But I let them know up front. I'm very vocal about that. Sometimes relationships Sometimes they didn't. But that's who I am. One thing I did wrong in my life to please people. And I did it at the I was leaving a lot in the tank. And when you do that, But the person in your because you're giving They have their-- But you feel empty. And that's not a So for me, it's know exactly who I am because And I'm not trying to change it So I'm not trying to I would never, ever That doesn't mean I won't and what you want But I don't need money. I don't need fame. I don't need shit. So I give it all away. What I do need is to make sure on every fucking day and every because that's the going to keep me feeding you, to be, because once 300-pound David Goggins, but I will walk around with it. So the things that are you must do always. Or you're nobody. And that's how I ANDREW HUBERMAN: Amen to that. Something I could is that upfront, because it resonates that inside that's not getting worked it's a lot easier. But then, of course, wanting I think that's a healthy And obviously, So I appreciate I don't think I've talk about it that way before. DAVID GOGGINS: People are with their wife, husband, But why are you scared of it? Why are you scared to tell your husband, who you are, who And that was the problem that a lot of us have in life. No one knows who you really are. No one knew who I really was. I went to a school where there A lot of Black kids didn't I never talked about Why? I was wondering what-- I'm not going to fit in. That's not what they do. A lot of Black kids don't So whatever I wanted knew the real me growing up to know the real me. I was always afraid or how you're going You got feelings. You have a life that So it's important that you let that person know. Therefore, you're to be with you or not. This is who I am. If you don't like I got it. But this is David Goggins. So that honest conversation so everybody knows That person may not be for you. And that's all good. ANDREW HUBERMAN: use a lot more of that upfront, I feel like so much of are because everyone's DAVID GOGGINS: It takes a lot. ANDREW HUBERMAN: seeing people losing won't say something publicly. You can tell they It's like, people just, crave the direct message. Like, what are you about? What are you not about? But I think now, everyone's It's a big deal, getting oh, I can't work Or if I'm not pretending then silence is There's all sorts of And I do feel for the because we didn't have Again, just walled There's a real benefit from DAVID GOGGINS: People love to lie. You know, I thought when I was growing was the only person that lied And people love to lie They love to lie about And that's, for me, the and I'm so real and honest. Find somebody to I'm lying about my fucking life. And for me to come and have the resume know the confidence you get? How I don't care who-- going to judge me? You're going to judge me? What have you done in your life? So me, being so honest and that came with me finally but also conquering David Goggins. Therefore, now, you're You look at somebody, look Tell me exactly who You walk away. I'm good, bro, because I know to get here. And that gives you a fire can call you nigger, if you're a lesbian or whatever the fuck you want. If you put yourself in every fucking day like this, to go back in there Your truth is real. You come out every of talking to people that people no truth behind them. And the truth is When you sit down the ugly I'm this, I'm this and this, Maybe 40 years old. Maybe 40 years old, But the second you look in that I'm this, I'm this, I'm this, I'm not this, I'm not this, I can't do this, I'm your life finally started. And once you start that comes out big time because So that's the problem. Most people just don't want to the point where they can go and say, I'm all of this. And have a good day. See you. It's empowering. It's very empowering. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I feel like the but also outside of school, is as these young brains, how to get positive It's like we're little dogs. You have a bulldog. DAVID GOGGINS: That's right. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Saw the picture of your bulldog. She's great. DAVID GOGGINS: Charlie dog. ANDREW HUBERMAN: They're DAVID GOGGINS: They are. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I think or amazing breed, excuse me. They're an amazing breed. Economy of effort. They don't do anything It's the exact opposite of It's kind of interesting. And they're kind of hedonists. Now, it is true that DAVID GOGGINS: Oh, yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And I saw that with Costello. I'm sure that-- DAVID GOGGINS: I Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But if they're not if there's no need DAVID GOGGINS: They're resting. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. So your bulldog's DAVID GOGGINS: Yes. Got it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Exactly. So you don't need DAVID GOGGINS: Active ANDREW HUBERMAN: Perfect. DAVID GOGGINS: That's it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Perfect. That's going to be your People go, does he sleep? Does he rest? Go, no. He somehow worked it out so DAVID GOGGINS: Right. ANDREW HUBERMAN: indoctrinated into from a time that we're praise feels good. Someone tells you, hey, I like or nicely done. Or for me, because growing up up, and I was never the greatest wasn't great, et cetera, like, crewed up. And you're just like, yeah. But you've talked about to the SEAL Teams. We both know a lot of And the Teams component is a big And it's a wonderful thing. But there's a danger for lack of a better from we can only derive when You're talking about being but also, just look to one's I've done hard things. And I can do it again and again and again. You're talking about parenting scaring yourself, all So very different raised, which is to figure DAVID GOGGINS: It's funny, man. People want to know how It's the unseen work, which you Those are false dopamine are giving you, man. There's no belief in that. These are teamwork running at 2 o'clock o'clock in the morning in the That's real. I'm able to extract dopamine, I want. Man, I've trained No one patted me on the back. I did all of the work alone. And while I'm still hard on So whenever times people are all this, who's going that's real. I hate that people because that guy is When they see me, That's not me every day. I can extract it because when you train alone-- and I lived alone for so And you're able to I can take myself to such and purpose. And the feeling I I can't even explain by mys-- I don't need anyone. That's why people come No one can motivate me. I have a resume full that whenever I'm down, I'm Oh, you know the truth. You know the truth. You know the darkness and the fucking demons that fly. And then from there, You were there. You know this. There was no one the rucksack, to pick the log, to go in there. It was you. It was you. There was no pat on the fucking at 220. No. That was you. So those things that extract from me are looking for that Where is it? Oh, I don't need it is in the fucking unseen work. I built Frankenstein. So whenever shit gets goes, you had nobody So see how I'm talking That's me. That's shit fires That shit makes me fucking nuts. You had nobody Look around you. There was no fucking team. It was you. There was no weight loss program saying you can do it, you can be You built belief Rock bottom. You did that. So as times get hard for And my truth is It's real. It's tangible. I feel it. It comes out of my brain I'm reliving every single dark So that is what That is what motivates David But everybody needs They need that training partner. They need that I don't need that shit. And neither do they. But it's what we've to believe that we need. ANDREW HUBERMAN: It's this pill on the shelf. I'm speaking in analogy. And we take it, and And we're like, yeah. But there's this other And it's in us. You're saying the real DAVID GOGGINS: Oh, yes. When you continue to overcome-- and I had so many So it's actually But the benefit, it's not You have to have the to overcome and overcome. Before you know it, man, you But there's no medicine There's no pre-workout. I don't take none of that shit. All I got to do Put my finger in there and It's all I got to do, man. I got the Rolodex. I'm just like, go fuck And oh, but you won. Let's do that one today. There's nothing I need. And this is the don't get about David Goggins. I can't teach it in We all have this ability to But unless you go in there it's always going to You're always going to You're always I don't drink coffee. I don't do ca-- I don't do none of that. I don't need it. I can run for 70 hours, and I got all this wonderful shit by myself, in the darkness, I'm hot. When it's hot-- I can feed myself all the time. That's why when people missing anything, I can't Can't explain it to you. You'll never understand. That's why I don't do I love you, man. That's why you-- my first That's why I'm here. I love what you're But I can't explain this. I can't. I can't explain this because They don't want to do this, man. But I don't know, man. I get jazzed up even man, because so many people god, his life is horrible. Don't follow him. He's crazy. Really? ANDREW HUBERMAN: But there I would say, and that's an I think what I'm hearing today, that a great many people misunderstand you. DAVID GOGGINS: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'll put myself DAVID GOGGINS: Big time. ANDREW HUBERMAN: it was about just forward carrot, carrot. But it's the stick. DAVID GOGGINS: It's the stick. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And And you know, I do have examples what today is about, and then turning things around. My biggest fear is I do not have as much of But today's conversation's I'm not going to and think, OK, there are can explain 10 of the things And what I'm thinking that everybody has a brain. They have a mind. Forget the brain. The brain's just the But what that manifests, what And everybody has that. So I do believe that to do what you're talking I also will be the that I think you Let's just say maybe even n Sample size of one. Somebody who has created and keeps them in in this forward center battering the back of Highly unusual. But this internal that you're talking true confidence, not needing I like to think that They want to be known. They're afraid. But that they want to be and that you're describing And I will say I'm immensely talking to us this that you've talked about before. But we're hitting it a little DAVID GOGGINS: Very differently. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Because is a process. It's verbs. It's all verbs. DAVID GOGGINS: All action. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And It's more, actually, that friction dialed to 10. And no energy drink, People often misunderstand me. They think-- like, I'm big in the morning so they and get better sleep and But then people always to the supplements. What should I take? And then, of I'm all about supplements. And supplements are But it's like tiny fraction the do's and don'ts. DAVID GOGGINS: want to talk about that today. That's why I'm glad This is it. This is it. Like, the brain is the most And it's crazy how a kid I was forced to External had to go away. The external world In living so deep inside and figuring out how And so many people are doing the this, the that. And I agree, it helps. But once you figure you become unstoppable Yeah, you can't beat death. You can't whatever, whatever. Your brain is amazing. Once you feed it the right nutrients, the right the right internal with the right hit, with the done in the past, and to the right circuit, dude, A beast. But once again, you just You can't sit back You have to be a And in that practice is where of what I'm saying. It's like, god, David What is this? He's not crazy. And so many people, have listened to And they come back, and they're It happened. It happened. I'm like, it'll keep going, But that is it, man. There's no sun. There's no glory. There's no carrot. There's no victory. But there is all of it in one. I just can't explain it But what you get the that you're always found. You're never lost anymore. Doesn't mean the Doesn't get any easier. But you're always found. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I love that. I just want to hover the same way we hovered I think people feel lost. I've certainly felt lost at And yeah, there's that thing. I don't think there's a term for it. Someone will put it in the that's what so-and-so said. But like you said, we're not We're trying to be practical. The business of finding But it's sort of like I'm and I've been in danger It always seems to Again, I don't have For once, I'm lost for words. There's like-- it's about And the reason-- here, I'm just I'm understanding One of the reasons why for you to be who is because people want to focus And by the way, the I'll tell you, I came where all three people I But there was one rule. I couldn't swear at people. So my graduate advisor, unfortunately, she died I'm the common denominator. I had that internalized Anyway, she said, but if you But you can swear So that's the rule I have. It's like, you can swear Just don't swear at people. And if you swear at people, Definitely not So you can swear at But the fact of the be frustrating that people-- because I know all about supplements Listen, I like supplements. I love supplements But that's not the full picture. It's just a gravitational pull. It's the swearing. It's the running. It's his feet that It's the fact that He's a SEAL guy. Talk about that too. And there's a gravitational And they're missing-- that's is what I'm realizing. I'm realizing that you're phrasing things is all in here. And as you said, how do DAVID GOGGINS: It's impossible. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Because You do it your way. And you're saying, to go figure out how to DAVID GOGGINS: Yes. And the thing about it's very frustrating, more I can't even express it is when the cussing from a place of real. I can't explain what The passion comes out of me. It's almost like speaking in that much work-- and there's been this basketball this-- dude. No. No. Everything, everything is work. Everything. And people don't believe it. So when I speak, the and the shit, that is what it takes for me, the anger, just it takes that This is how I look at it, man. What built this guy? Let's imagine being water you can possibly take. I always go back to I hated that water. Hated it. You're sitting there locked all the time. And they're bringing you in and out of the water. When you have this and these people are judging me and you're constantly when you figured it out I just got to, just and this is just going to suck. Every day it's going to suck. And live like that to be better. And I put it this way. I'm in the water. The water is going over my It's freezing. February. Cold as shit. Been through three Hell Weeks. For you to constantly when this voice over is saying get the fuck out You've always been nobody. And it's true. People don't hear that. That's a true voice. That's a real reality of It's not a false reality. And then you had to create is saying, you're better And you're in the that both voices don't But you win. Then goes from the to the running to to how you eat to how Every day of your life, And then I have normal people Never created the second voice. The winning voice They have one voice. And that's just, And that's all they hear. And then they judge who are out here It's something that it's a frustrating know the majority of people. I know what goes on in the more than almost-- more than So for you to be a piece of you don't just come out of it. You spend decades studying on how it functions in good stressful environments, You study it all because together to create the So I had to-- it wasn't like I had to create a mind. And so in doing every piece of shit because that's what I was So I know why you I know why you-- because You have the time want to put that time So I know why I'm misunderstood. I'm misunderstood by people on their hands to misunderstand where I once was, which is a And it's the harsh reality who go after you. They have nothing better It's not some after It's the truth. But I once was that way. I know where it all comes from. That's why it's now because I'm not so that I'm being trolled. I'm frustrated by don't have the to try to be somebody And that's the frustrating part. ANDREW HUBERMAN: because earlier, we were And you said, in and I really appreciate that you make sure to you, your family, and that they also going to take what you need to DAVID GOGGINS: Period. ANDREW HUBERMAN: seems you've also included the You're saying, listen, I'm I'm going to give you as except I'm going to that if I were to to prevent me from And by the way, only exists because I And I think as much as there or people that try-- I mean, whatever they're doing I mean, it's like cap DAVID GOGGINS: Very feeble. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So many of us, hear something and feel Like, yeah, it Gosh. Doesn't he ever just relax? What about his sleep? Look at his feet. He's going to-- he's Listen, I'll be very direct. I got friends who were in the going to do when he can't run? And I know the answer DAVID GOGGINS: That's right. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But for people, even DAVID GOGGINS: Especially ANDREW HUBERMAN: --to took one thing away, that It's absolutely clear that's I'm 100% convinced. I just know that because DAVID GOGGINS: Do you I haven't been able to run? Two heart surgeries. Multiple knee surgeries. And after every knee you're not going to run again. And I'm fine with that. There's no running up here, bro. None. This was what it was all about. That's what they lost. What if you can't run? Give a fuck. It was never about running. Why do you think I run? It's the worst thing. I hate doing it Hence the willpower. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Right. Your anterior DAVID GOGGINS: ANDREW HUBERMAN: if you loved running. DAVID GOGGINS: Think about it. Every day, I wake up. I don't just run It's the one thing I And I do it like I love it. 250, 260, 300-mile No sleep. And every step, when I get I get to the fucking start Why the fuck am I here? I hate this shit. After 70-some hours of question I ever had is answered. Every question I I capped success. People go, what do you For me to be who I am-- so when I go smokejump, I smoke of the year, sometimes five. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Could that aren't educated give us a brief description DAVID GOGGINS: So basically, Not into them, but you jump by ANDREW HUBERMAN: So out DAVID GOGGINS: I parachute. It's all parachuting. So you parachute And then you fight the fire, you or maybe eight other And you're putting So I lose millions of dollars It blows people's minds. Why the hell are you doing this? ANDREW HUBERMAN: And DAVID GOGGINS: I'm Knees are jacked up. Hitting the ground. Hurting. Whatever. Talking to normal people, so I don't even But this is why-- this is I'm talking financial success. For me to continue having that become a speaking and speaking gigs 12 put camps on, do this, put on and do this and write I've ruined the exact thing And while I didn't but something is a very, very, very that you have, because I do have seen in anybody in my life. It is a haunting force And I know that If you have that-- so that's made in my life is the fact finally and have a without going like or I'm a piece of shit. Or I know-- you and so many people do this shit. They're talking to you They're lying to you. And they walk away-- I've done it so many times. You walk away like, god, man. If I could just Why the hell can't I Know how good it to look at you in I see because women Women will not get this. Man to man, that look another man know that everything you're and it comes from a real that you earned, it's the ANDREW HUBERMAN: You can Like, I know with certainty what DAVID GOGGINS: Who I am and who No more lies. No more skirting the truth. No more bullshit. And that is worth every dime And I swear to God on that. Every dime I've ever made in so I capped success that if I ever go 12 and don't put several-- But several months I go right back to I'm just fucking David Goggins. No Goggins. No carry boats, It's just pick up that Hey, get that fucking pump. Walk down a mile. Put it in the fucking water. Mosquitoes beating-- You're nobody because That's where my And that's where it stays. That's why when I talk to talk like this, dude. People don't talk with because it ain't there. It ain't there. They're regurgitating some I'm regurgitating Hour ago. Come on, man. It's just be real. And I can't be on I can't talk to anybody I'll go away. I'll just go away what I want to give you. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You I think that's I want to highlight because And when we were just about the deep, true bedrock comes from looking and telling somebody know it's true you're talking about actions. Not talking about perceptions. You're not talking about You know it happened. And there's something really I mean, that's what's we're talking about the mind. But actions are the And the stuff that just stays It doesn't go anywhere. Long ago, somebody said-- I forget what the context was. It was a neuroscientist. He said, most emotions, They're just in there. You don't have to do And I think certain emotions But I think people forget this. They feel miserable, going to dissolve into a No one ever died But they feel-- they overwhelm It's going to pull us It's so interesting to me listen, you have a People can feel the energy. I think, yes, you're or partially understood. There's only one that truly understands you. I think there's one who probably understands you And then the rest of us trying to figure it out. But you're saying, go inward. So first, go inward. And then it's actions. Inward and actions. Now, the inward I'd like to just spend a little are a couple of characters were in concentration camps. Nelson Mandela. I mean, I'm not sure he I'm pretty sure he didn't. And I don't think there hey, you're going And actually, you're going I'm pretty sure that's He had to find it here. He had to find it And there are other examples. But that's an important one. So the process of going and here, I will because I think people want-- there are those of us who Wall yourself off. Phone off for big portions Texting off. The requests, the Anyone that knows you communicated a few comes through a filter. She's great. She knows you. And she knows how to DAVID GOGGINS: And that People get mad about that. ANDREW HUBERMAN: God bless you, Jennifer. Cutting oneself off, you say it's just you. And the voices that come And then at some point, OK. What is the process That's the piece that like, a bridge to build here, DAVID GOGGINS: So the action ANDREW HUBERMAN: go to sleep at night, you know what you're It's pre-planned? DAVID GOGGINS: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. DAVID GOGGINS: Yes. It's always the same thing. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You're DAVID GOGGINS: No. Nothing's on the fly. So how it works put it exactly how it is. I'm an artist. And every day, I'm Every day. And but it's a different one. It's not the same painting. So every day I wake up, even it takes a different So every day, in my mind, I'm just like-- and a good He needs to create. And you can't create with going around you. So you got to You only do two You block yourself off. And you're painting And you're going through of paint and everything else. And you can only figure if you spend the correct So every single going through my mind, I'm creating this masterpiece. And the masterpiece And but to do that, you because if you're talking to an about the next It's impossible to to what your mind and body Because people They don't do any of it. They don't have passion. They lack passion, because you haven't Your mind will tell But you haven't all right, let me You're looking for let me Google and let me-- you're not because there's billions And they're all supposed But we have a pack mentality. That's why you're Why am I so unique? I'm being exactly what the I ain't follow shit. And when I did follow shit, The second I said, OK, man, hang you don't like this, you David Goggins? Who are you supposed to be? Miraculously, all I couldn't even-- the list of It's like, fuck. OK. Wow. Once you sit down with don't want to be like they're both born So I looked at their birthday. I said, oh, maybe I I can't. I'm going to be David And that looks like this. It just came. Everything flooded. So every single day a different thing that But no one knows what to do following steps. Like the Republican I'm not political-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: Neither am I. DAVID GOGGINS: --at Republicans are going Democrats are going You're not even a human No way all you fuckers agree And I know I don't. So once you figure out all the answers come. So every night, a different And it's a beautiful I'm like, OK. That's it. It may look the same But the end result is That's why my-- if you look it's more than most people because they were And that's what they did. They drove a fucking car. It's great. I was all kind of shit the painting was saying to do. It's what the mind Wasn't saying just drive a car, didn't know what the fuck to do. He retires from being a race People go, how are you still-- I don't get it. Dude, you're never But you never found your was presented in front of cluttered with shit because for lots of minutes, lots all right, it's me and you. Let it go. And it just-- bam. It's right there. It's right there. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'm as I mentioned before. But I'm going to venture I think that you've mastered the But when I say dialogue, I the inner voice, the chatter. But that's just one A dialogue is a two-way street. So I completely agree because that when we go inward, if we're really honest with I don't want to No. And then we start Or we start trying to shift And there are a are handed to us, excuses, and to be able to do that. But dialogue is And it hit me saying what you paying very close attention. And I realized David Goggins comes up, including the to hear about themselves But then he's also got he knows the counter voice. He goes, yeah, you're right. And so I'm going to do this. Or maybe no, remember this. You're in a dialogue, a a one-way chatter dialogue. There are books written about chatter, trying to You're like, bring the internal narrative, that's But it's not one voice. Again, there's a hypothesis. And I'm not claiming Lord knows I'm not all-knowing. But you've mastered And if there are three voices, in there, you're like, So you've got a symphony that are all you, that And you know how to have afraid to be in And then you know what the decision is, and you put And the world only DAVID GOGGINS: That's it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: know your internal dialogue. And only I can know And the only way to, is to spend a hell DAVID GOGGINS: That's right. ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. DAVID GOGGINS: A lifetime. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Got it. DAVID GOGGINS: A lifetime. Like, think about it. For me to be sitting you're not going to guy to come sit here. You might. I don't know. Maybe. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Probably not. DAVID GOGGINS: Probably not. Think about this. What we teach people is Do you think if I and I agree with it. God, so many people-- so many it's ridiculous. Take it however the fuck When I was 300 think that conversation if I spoke kindness to myself? I'll tell you where it gets me. Right back to 7-Eleven with donuts and a That's the one voice. That's the one voice that you're talking about. If you don't have a conversation that you create that says, Looks very ugly. That kind conversation for which is why the dialogue A lot of action. Because most people have one person talking. And that one person down the same makes you feel very comfortable The second you create the Just battles. Just wars. Just defeat. One thing I learned, and and people go, I don't I'm going to try to I didn't teach I taught myself failure. I taught myself how to fail. And people like, Is it? When you're 300 pounds and and you're fucked up, you're going to fucking So if you don't know how to I never talked about knew the path to to be years of failing first. So I taught myself No one teaches you But if you're going out odds that make absolutely a Black kid that can't going to be a Navy SEAL. OK. You better teach yourself because if you sit in you will never come out of it. So the first part learning how to fail properly. And then eventually, I started But that's what When you have buried yourself you better first talk you're going to have first. And that's when that It tells you, we've But it also tells going to lie to you, Goggins. You're in for a You're going to get made fun of, the outside Both voices are going you to go fuck yourself. You are in for hell, bro. I am. So I better learn to fail. ANDREW HUBERMAN: mean when you say that it's insignificant? DAVID GOGGINS: ANDREW HUBERMAN: because it's just like in your own head is far worse. And I should say, sorry, one I'm being very detailed, about that because I think we think is one voice. But you're making it DAVID GOGGINS: It is. And the thing about it is, and sometimes all the the wrong shit, man. But through years, years, not a or reading a book, of suffering, of diligent on what you want not like, oh, let me Let me-- I want to be No. Pinpoint what I want What happens is you have are telling you and this is going to be hard. But for some reason, you put that you can ignore are telling you you're not And still be able because you have put know this is the process. It's such a daunting task that But you still have that I know I can do this. And that's what it took 20, 30 years ago, I had this-- 35 or whatever it was, And ever since then, every voice But when you put that practice And I mean, run. It's just a metaphor for life. When you lace them pretty soon, you win. Pretty soon, you'll fucking win. If you have the courage and and the mindset of everybody I know what I know. I've listened to I know what I know. None of you can hear And that's what people They don't listen They listen to Before you know it, I'm crazy. But if I'm so fucking crazy, How that happen? But I'm so misguided And don't listen to him. Why am I the only one to Why am I a trailblazer? Why? How is that possible? How can you be fucked up and fucking-- no. No. Obviously, you're not looking The truth in front It's painful. It's fucking mind-numbing. And that is the truth. And that's why a like listening to me because creating another voice and All the time going at it going to believe in you. And that's that. ANDREW HUBERMAN: What I'm And I can say that because I did a series with a brilliant Paul Conti. He's from Trenton. He's a Stanford, He's also got a lot He's had his own He's brilliant. And he said something which is, we think that of our brain that creates is the supercomputer. He said, no, no, no, No, no, no. He's like, the is the unconscious mind. It's the part of our mind that's And most people, do the work to understand controlling them. And that's a scary like your mind is And I'm not going to get I believe in at least some will. I believe what you're describing I think you have access by listening to the We know this is true in sleep, and just by shutting out all the external with things that pull us to it. Noise makes it sound bad, but of all the things that allow without knowing. The ice cream. The have a cookie. The Merry Christmas. The unconscious of the iceberg underneath that he's saying that with psychiatrist, psychologist, that's the piece that if he calls it the cupboards. You got to look And it's often really scary And most people are want to know the But you're pulling all And then you're-- and you're gets put into action. You're not just going, so I'm going to act pissed. Or I'm tired, so I'm It's you're picking very And that's a process that Does it come to you sense why running makes sense. It makes sense why So it seems like a huge is spent understanding yourself And so when people it's got to be extra frustrating understand themselves. So then we're all running and you're that because unwilling to look inward. And I'm including I mean, I've done a fair But I'm inspired today, that motivated to start going inward It's like, we don't know and it's terrifying, especially DAVID GOGGINS: And those are And like you talked to go through those cupboards. I do spring cleaning day in those dark cupboards. Those dark cabinets are the That's the real me, man. That's the real me. That's why I'm not ashamed. I don't hide. I used to hide. I don't hide anymore. He's exactly right. I don't know all the I know what I know. That's why I don't listen I don't listen to shit. I think most people are I know the deep, dark secrets It's ugly, man. And every day, I'm Every day, I'm cleaning them. I'm cleaning them, to the same demons that came as I'm cleaning them. Sometimes they go right It's not easy. And this is why why I am misunderstood of those cabinets sometimes they see on Instagram. Sometimes they'll Sometimes they see I turn people off. Open up your own cabinets. And then go talk about it. Let me see how pretty it looks. Let me see how pretty you sound. Let me see how put I bet you a fuck or a because for you to go to clean the same fucking of takes some big balls, bro. To do it every day of your life. To go back in there and spring a fucking year, Every day you know And every day, you don't You don't go, oh, this is nice. Look at my-- look at Let me clean up. This is a little dusty. No. I go right for the things that And I go right there first out first, the So what are you And like I told you can never figure out how to because I'm not neuro nothing. I'm just a guy that said, OK, And we got to stay here For you to become is a place that has to be clean. And it's the That's why I'm speaking from the dungeon. That's why I am go there every damn day. And that is the It's the exact truth. Those cabinets are and scary as shit. Broken glass, fucking But most of all, the biggest things that put are today are in there. That's why we all like You like to lock them up. Act like they never happened. That's why you never grow. You never improve. You never have like we're having right now. Never. Never. Oh no. No, no, no, no, no. Let's not-- no, no, no. Let's not go there. I talked to so many Let's talk about this. Because they'll tell me, but And they'll say it in passing. They won't get deep Like, you can't just clean it. Motherfucker, you got to You got to relive it, You can't just be like, oh And it is what it is. It ain't is what it It's killing you. It's taken over your But that's the conversation. Yeah, my dad beat-- but I'm good. OK. All right. No, you ain't. You ain't fine. You ain't fine. This is real talk. People don't have that. So your boy's right. 100% right. Scary as shit. It's scary as shit. But it makes you who And that's the test. We forget. We think we're supposed to and pay the bills and shit. But what's this life about? That makes no sense. We're being tested, my friend. Tests come when you Tests come when you think That's the test. The test is every And most of us fail know why we're here because You gave me a lot And this test sucks. But then you start. ANDREW HUBERMAN: David Goggins. I don't think I I know I can't. Thank you for sharing I mean, as much as your can't be completely you gave us a real this process that you-- as you said, God put it on you. I believe in God too. People can believe But somehow, your life, God gave And then there was a point And like you said, But it's a perishable skill. And you clearly of opening those cupboards, trying to spit shine understanding that they're but that you can gain ground after day after day. And you really shared a that I know people able to apply if they choose. And I agree with you. I think most people That was a lot. It's heavy. I think I want to just kind of Mix instead. But there's also the are men and women, boys and and start cracking And I just know extremely grateful that all out there. You're so brutally honest, That word authenticity And I can tell you that for me really what resonates. So whether or not you want the purpose behind it or not, So thank you. DAVID GOGGINS: Thanks for having me. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Thank for today's discussion To learn more about to his two fantastic and &quot;Never Finished,&quot; please If you're learning from please subscribe to That's a terrific zero-cost In addition, please on both Spotify and Apple. And on both Spotify can leave us up to Please also check mentioned at the beginning and That's the best way to If you have questions or podcast, or if you have or topics that you'd put those in the comment I do read all the comments. Not on today's episode, but of the Huberman Lab podcast, While supplements aren't many people derive tremendous like improving sleep, for If you'd like to learn more on the Huberman Lab podcast, spelled O-U-S. So that's If you're not already I am hubermanlab on all So that's Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook. And on all those science and science-related overlaps with the content but much of which is on the Huberman Lab podcast. So again, it's hubermanlab on If you haven't to our Neural I encourage you to do so. It is completely zero cost. And it provides podcast in the form of brief PDFs things like deliberate protocol for protocol for deliberate for managing dopamine, and so on and so on. Again, completely zero cost. You simply go to go to the menu, scroll and click on the Newsletter tab. And you enter your But I should point share your email with anybody. Thank you, once for today's discussion with And last but thank you for your [MUSIC PLAYING]