Lima Airport in Peru. The police team in civilian Clothes is getting ready at the check in desk. Their target is Europeans trying to smuggle drugs back into their own countries. He's Romanian. Is that why you're checking him? Because he's Romanian? Yes, and also because his luggage has been wrapped in plastic. The plastic wrapped bag intrigues the inspector. The passenger is questioned and searched, but appears unfazed. The police find nothing, and the remaining is allowed to board his flight. Their focus shifts to another passenger at the next desk. He's caught their eye, although by his appearance, the 34- year- old Spaniard resembles any other tourist. This time, the police seemed to have found their man. They uncover some white powder inside the lining of his jacket, and in a matter of seconds, the substance is chemically tested, and the reaction turns blue. Proof, the powder is cocaine. They caught me, but nevermind. Were you worried a bit. Are you scared? No, I'm not scared. It's just over now. How much did you have on you? No idea. I didn't even know what the drug was. Where were you flying to? Madrid. So what's going through your mind right now? Nothing at the moment. I don't know. That's all really. The Spaniard's journey ends here. Police prosecutor, Jun Mendoza, who is assigned full time to the airport, is now in charge of the case. To clear cut case, the test was positive. Does that happen often? Yes, it's quite often, every day. They try and wrap the drug in different ways to get it past the police checks. The police investigation begins now. Using the passenger's mobile phone, they hope to track down who he was making the delivery to. What are these phone numbers? I've got two of those. This one is some guy I had a beer with. He's got nothing to do with it. Which number did they call you on to organize what you were up to? I don't know. It's there. They rang me this morning. Have you been to South America often or is this the first time? Yes, it's the first time I've been out of Spain, actually. And then what do you do in Spain? Nothing, I'm unemployed. You're unemployed? unemployed? How much did they offer you? 7,000, 7,000 euros. Where were they going to pay you? Back home? Once you'd handed over the drugs. An increasing number of Europeans are being arrested for attempted drug smuggling. They tend to use unemployed people to smuggle the drugs. And how has he spotted his profile. These people don't have much money. His shirt was brand new, and that may be curious, and his luggage was too small for a tourist. A few hours later, David, the Spanish passenger, is transferred to a police station in Central Lima for questioning. There are several other Europeans in his cell, all of them held for attempted drug smuggling. Where are you from? England? England? No. No. I was I kept doing was just like over time, having it, just taking it myself, you know. I didn't know what to do with that. Anyone arrested in possession of cocaine could face up to eight years in prison. Lima, the calm capital of Peru, is rapidly becoming the main hub for drugs trafficking in South America. It's a mantle Peru is about to take from neighbouring Colombia. Coca leaf plantations are abundant, and the drug costs less here than in Colombia. In an effort to stem the traffic, the Peruvian authorities have adopted some aggressive measures. Commando style jungle operations to strike at its source and also stringent surveillance of the country's airports. To outsmart the increasingly imaginative methods used to smuggle cocaine, such as swallowing capsules, hiding it in serial bars or even in native artwork. I don't know anything about it. I just bought these as souvenirs. A growing number of Europeans are being tempted and returned for a few thousand euros to act as traffickers. The Peruvians called them the bur, the mules, and often they get no further than the airport and end up in prison. Which is exactly what happened to Alan, a cook from France. He was caught in possession of two kilos of cocaine. Since then, he's had to adapt to life in Serita, Colonia, the most crowded prison in Lima. The people here, people there, and this guy here who's asleep, from the entrance, and in all the corridors. It's the same. Women make up a growing number of the new traffickers. Far from their families and without help, if they're caught, the penalty can be heavy. Wendy from Holland was arrested when she was 19 and pregnant. She gave birth in her prison cell and has been sentenced to 14 years as a warning to others. Here's my daughter. I felt so weak, I just sat down and cried. I thought about my daughter and my mother. Who are these Europeans who hope to make money from drugs and what price are they paying for it now? The French embassy is in downtown Mima. Camille Poly is a vice consul. On the phone is a jailed French citizen. We'll talk about it when we meet in an hour's time, okay? You can explain it to me again. calmly. Yes, because I'm in a bad way, and nobody here is helping. We're on our way. We'll be there soon, okay? French citizens have become a preoccupation for Camille and the embassy. Papers, books, medicine, the vice consul brings the basics on her visits. There are three prisons in the Peruvian capital. Four Frenchmen are being held in this one, all caught red handed with cocaine. Try and visit them as soon as possible. Unless there's a big problem, we visit the prisoner every two months or so. We do what we can, but I'm all alone, so it's not that simple. It's evident. This is a suburb of Lima. At the Serita Colonia Prison, it's visiting day for the diplomats. Which embassy? France. Just wait here, please. The Italian ambassador is ahead of you. It's always the same. Yesterday we called to make sure they'd received the facts, but they've lost it. Put your things there. What have you got? Painkillers, one of the inmates has toothache. After security, Camille will meet the French prisoners in the visiting room. When the diplomats visit, the prison guards make an extra effort to keep the rooms clean. It's the red carpet treatment today. Among the French nationals is Alan, aged 29, a cook from Iksan Province in southern France. Not saying hello then. He had two kilos of cocaine when he was picked up at the airport, and has been in prison for two years. There's also Diego, Mikael, Francis, and Lauren all detained for the same crime in all sentences to eight years. And sit down and we'll talk shortly. The visit of the Vice Council brings the hope that their daily routine might be improved. They want cochons, or mattresses, or simply money, but they'll be disappointed. The Chilean and Brazilian embassies, they don't have much money. But even they bought their nationals cold charms and blankets, they have a budget for toothpaste, soap, and small stuff like deodorants, small things. I don't have any. You know, giving cash, like the Spanish or Dutch do, isn't necessarily the best thing. France does not provide money to prisoners. Instead, the embassy offers legal aid. Camille works with the inmate to seek early or at least provisional release. The visit over Camille heads back to the embassy. The impression of Peru's prisons is limited, based on her own VIP style visits. It's a far cry from the true conditions faced by her fellow countrymen. In the prison yard, it's the Roll court. Sarita Colonia Prison was built to hold 500 inmates, but now has almost five times that number, making it one of the most overcrowded in Peru. Many being held here are foreigners. There are 60 different nationalities, but the majority are here for drug offenses. After two years inside, Alan knows how to get by. Rule number one. Money Talks. Getting hold of it takes imagination. The laundry drying above the yard is the result of a makeshift cleaning service. You can wash this, my towel. It got wet in the rain. Hello. Here's my stuff. We work every day to make a bit of cash. No one else is going to help us. Here guys smoke crack all day long, so to be able to buy it, they wash clothes, sell conchong, that kind of thing. But how does it get here? Well, during visiting hours, it's women who usually bring it. There's no alternative. If a lamb wants his laundry done, or even something to eat, he needs to pay. The only food the prison provides is rice and potatoes. It's the best food in the world, Peruvian cuisine. Peru. Any other food needs to be paid for. Look at this. Good chicken, good meat. Many prisoners have become cooks using the food parcels they receive from outside to prepare meals, which they sell for five solars or $150. Five so with chicken, fried chicken, everything. Only five so yeah. so in here is lots of fucking money. You know what I mean? Meals, cigarettes, whatever it takes to scrape together some cash, including trade and banned substances. Drugs are readily available in the prison, and Alan knows whom to turn to. Give me two. He's buying marijuana in the middle of the exercise yard, just a few meters from the guards who choose to look elsewhere. An outbreak of flu has many prisoners wearing masks. Alarm will share his joint with the other French prisoners. There's everything here. More or less. Noah is also from the south of France. The 93 winner scoff. There you go. Go Marseille, straight for gold. Laurent was a steward of the Marseille Football Club. He's been here one year. He had a kilo of cocaine in his luggage. I've lost everything. I used to have a great job, I had it all, and was paid very well. I even had a business over here. but I lost it all when I started using drugs and I didn't do it for the money. I used to go to New York to party. And then, well, maybe it's better I was arrested. Otherwise, I'd still be using cocaine. So I may not even have been around to talk to you, maybe. Inside the prison, what is allowed and what isn't is a very gray area. The guards often search the cells. What are they looking for? Bones and other stuff. Cell phones, yeah. Despite this, there appear to be a considerable number of phones inside Seri to Colonia. The prisoners bribe the guards to turn a blind eye. We've all got phones here actually. Isn't it? It is, but this is Peru. Things get sorted out one way or another. Phones and drugs are available, but oddly enough, what are strictly prohibited is not the most expensive item. In this overcrowded prison, it's beds that are at a premium. Where do you sleep in? I sleep over there. They stretch a hammock out and sleep in the air. From here, to over there. That's where I put it. So where is your hammerla? Over there in the gym, I keep it there with all the coldch, the mattresses. It's empty now, but at night, there's lots of people here. People occupy each square to sleep all the way to the end and and in each wing, too. The majority sleep on the floor. In Sereto, Colonia, having your own cell is prohibitively expensive. Hi, Frenchies. How much did you get the sell for? $5,000. $5,000 and there's three beds. Yeah, each bed is $1400. $1,400. Almost one and a half thousand dollars for a small bet. Inmates who've been here for years, buy and sell sleeping quarters to those who have the money. Wait, I need to make a call. Once or twice a week, Alang calls his family. Usually, he asks them for money, the only way to make his imprisonment more bearable. Hello, Annette, it's alone. Did Angelina say whether she'd sent me something or not? Christine, but Christine is with you. Tell her to send something to. It'd be really great. At the other end of the line, on the other side of the world, our family or friends. They still live near Iksan Province, where Alan grew up. His mother, Annette lives in this housing estate. For two years now, she's been getting weekly calls from her son. You know we're always thinking of you, but behave yourself and don't do anything silly. We love you. Anyway, Big kiss and speak to you soon. Love you. Bye. Bye Ella. What's the most difficult thing for you? Speaking with Alan. Does he call off often? As often as you can. Very hard talking to him, and knowing the terrible conditions he's in. There's nothing we can do. We can't visit him or help him. All we can do is listen, suffer, and wait. I've just bugged with Alan. Let me tell you all about it. Okay, how is he? Well, he's okay. You want some more money for the lawyer and all that. He wants $1,500. This mother of three never would have thought her son would become mixed up in drug trafficking. What's more, on another continent. First, I thought it was a joke. They said you have a son named Ella? This is the embassy in Peru. I didn't even know where Peru was. Luckily, Angina had a map of the world, and I was trying to find it, because they told me Alam was there, and he'd been arrested in Lima. And I said, where is Lima? Well, in Peru. Dear me, you see what life is like. You give birth to children, and then you worry about them because they leave. They do something stupid, and then you end up on your own. She had no idea her son would get caught up in the war against drugs being conducted by the Peruvian authorities, 10,000 kilometers away. An anti- drug swoop is underway in the heart of the Amazonian jungle, in the region of Huanuco, in Central Peru. Carlos is a police lieutenant, part of a 450 strong drugs force deployed against the traffickers. Since the beginning of the year, 200 labs have been destroyed, and almost two tons of cocaine seized. This operation involves 50 men and eight helicopters. It's largely financed by the United States, which has provided Peru $150 million dollars in aid this year in the fight against the drug trade. We take special care to minimize the dangers. And what are the changes? Well, there's the shining path guerrillas in these areas and drug traffickers, and even the local population could be hostile. You see? See there's a small house down there, and all around it are fields of coca plants. The plantation could be hiding a laboratory. Peru allows the cultivation of cocos as long as you have a permit. The basic ingredient in cocaine, the coca plant is also used for medicinal purposes as a tonic. Hi, Grandma. The owner of this plantation is a grandmother, who, like all the locals here regularly choose coca leaves. Down there, is that all yours? How many plots of land do you own? No, you don't know. Wait, wait, here is the authorization. The plantation appears to be legitimate, but they still need to search the house. Inside, no chemical products, no sign of a laboratory. Just a chinchilla farm where the animals are fed on cocoa leaves. This time, Carlos has drawn a blank. But in the neighboring village, the police had been tracking two suspected traffickers for several weeks. Informers have told them a delivery is due to take place that day, and Commander Mont hopes to catch them red handed. There are a lot of traffickers in these parts, so we have to remain alert. Fifteen men quickly spread out. The arrests are planned to happen at the exit to a village, crowded with locals. The police advanced cautiously. But as they are about to intervene, the traffickers spot them and flee. The chase gets underway, and the police soon catch them. Where are the packages? When did you put them? I don't know anything. I was just walking. Well equipped hikers. The backpacks are weapons, and some white powder. So what's this then? The test is conclusive. It is cocaine. worry about eight kilos, four, five, six, seven, eight kilos. It's not the only thing, the police is fine. Whose rifle is this? I don't know. No, you don't know. No, I don't know. I was just walking by. I don't want to go to prison. I want to remain free. I have a wife and kids, I need to feed. I know nothing. I want to go home. But, suspected of trafficking, next stop for this man, will be prison. More than two kilos means you'll serve at least eight years in jail. Where were the drugs heading for? Lima first, and then afterwards anywhere in the world. Probably Europe. A successful operation over, it's back to base. This year alone, such actions have led to almost 1,000 arrests. Jorge Chavez Airport near Lima. What flights have we got next? It's a direct flight to Amsterdam. Juan Mendoza, the police prosecutor has been given ample means to combat the drug trade. Surveillance at Lima Airport is among the most stringent in South America. Everything is searched. It is also, again, a result of USAID, one of the first to have introduced body scans. It's a high tech process that detects capsules full of drugs that have been swallowed by the would be smugglers. The smugglers, though, have found new methods. the X- rays have begun using pregnant women. They know there's nowhere in the world, where they would risk harming an unborn baby. A pregnant woman liked Patricia. The 21 year old Spaniard, she was eight and a half months pregnant when she was arrested at the airport, in the company's other sister. She had five kilos of cocaine stashed in her clothing, and in a diaper she was wearing. A few weeks later, the young woman gave birth in Santa Monica Prison. This is the suburb of Chri. Behind the walls is the Santa Monica women's prison. Inside, there are some 1,000 inmates. Including Patricia, the young pregnant woman from the airport. This is my son, and that's my sister. My son's also Spanish. How old are you now? I had my 22nd birthday in here recently. What's the hardest thing for you? Everything. Giving birth inside here mainly. His father's imprisoned in Spain, and I also have two other kids in Spain. Our clothes and the luggage was stuffed with cocaine. It was good stuff, very good quality, too. If I had known about it sooner, I'd have come earlier because I like taking it. I've been taking it for 18 years now. Inside this woman's prison, are not your average inmates. There are children aged from just a few weeks to three years old, at which point they are no longer allowed to stay. In all, there are about 50 kids, so many of the authorities have had to open a crash. No, most of them are born here. In fact, all of them were born here. All of them. They were all born after their mothers were jailed. What I can't understand is why so many pregnant women take such risks. As in any crash, the children are divided into age groups. And are looked after by volunteers. It's hard to believe this actually is a prison sometimes. The children spend their days here and are reunited with their mothers in the evenings in a special wing. Wendy also gave birth in prison, but the baby no longer lives with her. She was 19 when she was arrested, and a few months later, Joanna was born. When the baby was four months old, she left for Holland to live with her grandmother. Wendy's been in prison for three years now. Her bed is one of the many lining the corridor. Do you write your mother often? Sure every week. My daughter was born on the 15th of August, and the following December, my mother came to pick her up. Was it hard to give up your baby? Of course. It was the worst day of my life. I've been separated from my family. My mother is my daughter. But I know it's best for her, but it was painful, because she's my own flesh and bones. They took my baby away. Here I have some photos. Look, that's my daughter. And that's my mother. I told my mother I was in Germany with some friends, and of course, she believed me. I used a phone from Peru, pretending to be in Germany to tell her everything was fine. On the day I was arrested at the airport, I called my daughter's father, though. He's the one who told my mother, and I was under arrest and and pregnant. She didn't know. My mother knew nothing. Did the father know you were in Peru? No. No. No one knew. Or the fact that I was pregnant. I still don't know why I did it. I was studying psychology and had been working in a restaurant. I don't know. That was just a crazy idea. Look, my daughter sent me this for Mother's Day. Wendy was carrying 16 kilos of cocaine and was sentenced to 14 years in prison. One hope keeps her going. In a few days' time, her appeal will be heard in court, and her sentences might be reduced. If not, she faces another 11 years behind bars. Stop, I might cry. Wendy has had plenty of time to get used to the ways in this odd prison where the administrators try their utmost to keep the inmates occupied. In this building, a hairdressing salon has been open. No, we're going to make. I'm going to get a new look. I want her to straighten my hair. She wants braids on that side, just like last time? It's a hairdressing salon in the best traditions, almost like being in central Lima. A sales rep for a major cosmetics company is next to Wendy looking to make a few deals. To her, the prison is a good market. It's different here, not like on the outside. Each week, we're able to make some money. Elsewhere in the prison, one young woman is still coming to terms with being arrested. Lucy's 31, and French, found guilty of trafficking drugs. Lucy was arrested two weeks earlier at the airport, an event recorded by the Peruvian police's cameras. She was stopped as she was about to board a flight from Madrid. In her baggage, police made a surprising discovery. Packets of mayonnaise and ketchup. But inside, there was cocaine. In all, more than four kilos. Two weeks after her arrest, and Lucy is still in shop. It's hard, very, very hard. I was arrested with four kilos of cocaine in my luggage. I admit it. Lucy doesn't speak a word of Spanish. Getting used to being in jail is tough. To keep her mind and body occupied, the authorities have given her unlimited supplies of threads and beads to make cheap, paced jewelry. She'd been contacted in Metz, her hometown in northern France. She was offered 5,000 euros to carry drugs. To begin with, it was meant to be in Spain, but once there, she was asked to go to Peru. Now that I'm beginning to understand how everything works here, I mean I, I see how things happen, they sort of sent me straight into the deep end, straight to prison. Don't pass go straight to prison. But Lucy and anyone else being found in possession of four kilos of cocaine, it means eight years in prison. Still in shock, she's trying to understand what happened to her. In the next year, there's a keep fit class. The fitness instructor comes here once a week. It's a surreal situation. The young French woman will have to get used to. News travels fast in Peru. At Serita Colonia, the men's prison on the other side of Lima, the four Frenchmen have just heard about Lucy's arrest. the rest. 24- year- old Diego is the youngest of the group, and decides to drop a note to his country woman. I don't get visit here or anything. It's good to know that I can communicate, and that's your answer. I'm a long way away from my family, so I have no one, and that's hard to be here on your own like that. With no family, nothing. How many do you think she's like? Well, like Parisian girl, blonde, tall, blue eyes, a very pretty girl, right? Like all Parisian golds. Communicating with the outside world is important to these prisoners who are cut off from the world. It's a way of forgetting their overcrowded conditions where tensions often lead to violence. A brawl is underway, and our camera isn't welcome. Seems to be a problem between two inmates. Sometimes in here it's like having one referee for 260 people. Ella decided to show off his talent as a chef. He's allowed to use the prison kitchens for two hours under the watchful eye of the garden. So knives are allowed in here then? No, you need special permission. But this is a restaurant, or at least it's considered to be a restaurant. Wanna try it? Go on, try it, go ahead. Okay, go on then. Try talking to me in French. Yeah, not all the guards are idiots, like Buddhara. It's a very cool guy. Today's meal is Shepherd's pie. olive oil. It's something Ian's been able to rustle up, thanks to the parcels, the French guys have received from their families. But in here, a simple aroma can quickly bring on homesickness. Home, perfume of Provence. The Muse, Is the Mediterranean. So you miss France. A lot, of course. I missed my family and my young cousins. I need to learn from my mistakes. What we need is a good rose wine and pasties. The guard gets the first helping, of course. Food's ready. No, we're in the shit here, but it could be worse. If you play with fire, you'll get burnts. No good crying about it. That's right. It could be a lot worse. As they say in Peru, caballero, you face up to it. What we need is something to drink. Back in the women's prison, 30 kilometers away from the men's a postal system has been established, which allows Lucy in the morning to receive the letter that's been sent by the French prisoners. from the guys in the men's prison. It's the custom here that the inmates of the two prisons exchange letters. Do you know them? No, I don't, but well, I may be good to be able to write to someone who is from the same place you are. Time drags for Lucy. She's asked to complete her sentence back in France, but no treaty exists between Peru and France for such an arrangement. Her appeals are unlikely to be heard. To stop the prisoners from becoming depressed, the authorities keep them entertained with shows such as this dance troop, rehearsing in the auditorium. Amongst them is Wendy, the young Dutch woman. The girls are trading to win the first ever dance competition between prisons. Your women. And is that the way you walk? A choreographer has even been hired for the occasion. Usually women are meant to walk like this. But I don't know. That'd be more coquettish. We need to feel it. Louis, the choreographer, believes it's all a matter of restoring the girl's confidence. Try and express your emotions to interpret them. Act them. It's serious. If you have to laugh, then laugh, if you need to cry, cry. Same goes if you have to be serious, or be melancholy. Sad, you need to think you're already competing. To Wendy, dancing is a way to relieve her stress. She's waiting for her appeal, knowing that if it fails, she'll be inside these prison walls separated from her daughter for another 11 years. A week later, it's the 28th of July, Peru's National Day. To celebrate the prisoners take part in a parade inside the prison, with Lucy, part of the procession. Each group wears Peru's national colours for their special holiday. Wendy is not taking part, but it's a decisive day for her nonetheless. You know in the parade? No. Why? Because the other girls are doing it for me. In court, her lawyer pleads her case. She'll know her fate in a few hours time. To help distract her, one of her friends has prepared a surprise. It decorates it in a romantic way. There are even flowers. Is it for me? It's for me? You're crazy. crazy about you. Maria's from Venezuela, she and Wendy have been living as a couple for several months. In prison, homosexuality is not allowed. Any signs of affection between prisoners and the authorities cracked down. The supervisor knows we're a couple, but if they catch you kissing, it'll be sent to solitary, because here it's forbidden. So how do you manage? In secret. The parade is getting underway. Female prisoners and their children all dressed in red and white, the Peruvian colours. It's a rare party spirit for a place like this. Away from the crowd, Wendy is waiting to be called to the visitor's room. I'm seeing my lawyer, okay? Soon afterwards, as the parade is winding up, Wendy's meeting with her lawyer is already over. The first person she wants to speak to about her appeal is her mother in Holland. The news, however, isn't very good. They won't budge. Now I'll have to do the whole 14 years. You were hopeful, though. Of course, they always had hope. It's all over now. The young woman doesn't break down, hardened by the three years she has already spent in jail. There's now no possibility of her sentence being reduced, although other inmates are more fortunate, and hope to begin planning for their release. In Serita Colonia, conditions have improved as far as allowing is concerned. We found work in the kitchens, which will pay him about a hundred euros a month. But mostly he's hoping to be parole. It means staying in Peru, and he knows they're somewhere he can stay. The few kilometers from the prison in one of Lima's poorest suburbs lives Luz Maria, a land's girlfriend. Hello, my love. Listen. What else can I bring you? Some food, right? I can't hear you. What else? Soup and what? The young woman has been doing business with a men's prison for several years now. She's one of many women who sell a variety of products and food to the European detainees. It's how she and alarms first met. We've been together for two years now. I met him when I was selling food to the foreign prisoners. Since then, I've stopped that, and just take care of Alan. In Peru, we don't treat the foreign as well, but treated like animals. Today is visiting day for women. Wives, girlfriends and prostitutes arrive at Serita Colonia. I love you, my darling. Three times a week, lose Maria visits Alarm. But today, she's in a bad mood. She's helping Alarm with his legal efforts and is looking forward to eventually moving to Europe with him. Ella has already planned out their future. I'd like my wife to have a kid. But Missy here doesn't want to. You don't want children with Ella? Yes, I have one. Not in France, or Peru or even Spain. In France, no, because it's expensive. While in Spain, you know, she wants to go to Italy but doesn't realize it's the same thing as in France. I want to take my child to Italy. In Spain, you get the same wages, but at least life is better though. So that's the planning. As he works in the kitchens, Ala enjoys a few perks, like eating with loose on the patio, which is relatively private. But Peruvians aren't necessarily won over by French cuisine. He made me a meal once, and which gave me diarrhea for three days. A French meal it was. He keeps saying nothing's good in Peru, so why is he with a Peruvian girlie? Thanks to Luos, Ala has an address in Peru, and he's already served more than a third of his prison term. He should soon be freedom. And then it's off to Europe with his girlfriend. The warden of the women's prison has some good news for the dance troupe of which Wendy the Dutch Girl is a member. Well, gold, all 13 of you, who have been working so hard these past few months have been invited to perform in town. I'm so thrilled. It's been such a long time since I saw the outside world. Getting out, even just for a few hours is a welcome and unexpected surprise. And the icing on the cake is the dance team will take part in a local television show. When I told my mother, I was quite emotional about it, because my mother means everything to me. When my daughter is bigger, I'll be able to tell my daughter that her mother was young once, and a dancer. No, no No, no, I can't let myself cry. I'm all made up. Stars for a day in the hairdressing salon, the golds are getting ready. A few minutes later, handcuffed and escorted by police, the young women are about to leave prison. They head to the television studios in downtown Lima. Hey, look, I'll show you something. On site, the police are taking no chances. Outings such as these are extremely rare. Look how beautiful his table is. It's a bit like being at home. In the dressing room is the show's presenter, Gisela, a TV star in Peru. She's come to say a prayer with the prisoners. Thank you, Lord, for allowing me to be with your children, who today find themselves without freedom. Lord, you who can change and give everything, Lord. Lord, we thank you for all of this. Bless us this day and always. Amen. So are you nervous? It's soon time for the prisoners to get up on stage. Tonight's challenges, the inmates of the Choi S. prison. Live on Peruvian television, the girl has given almost faultless performance. Much to the joy of the prison warden. It's all over in just 10 minutes, all too quickly for the dancers. And they are soon in the van again on the way back to captivity. For Wendy and for the others imprisoned for drug trafficking, the evening was a distraction, a way to briefly forget the error of their ways, for which they will be paying for a long time to come.