- Valve is an $8 billion company and they've made some really However, that wealth and to the Steam Machine. But why? (upbeat music) Hey, everyone. How are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. My name is Krazy Ken, and we're gonna talk about games today. I remember when Steam and I fell in love with and I have a lot of good and, of course, watching But there was a time when at not just making games, but making new hardware called Steam Machines. So, let's see what happened. Valve was founded on August 24th, 1996, by Gabe Newell and Mike Harrington. Gabe and Mike used to work at Microsoft and Gabe worked on the team that developed the first three He also played a key role in porting id Software's to Windows 95. On November 19th, 1998, Valve the insanely successful which was built with a of id Software's Quake engine. The point of view never and there's no camera cuts, which helps create an Combine that with great storytelling, comprehensive AI, lip sync, and physics, &quot;Half-Life&quot; went on to and it's still played today. In addition, &quot;Half-Life's&quot; to create other games, like &quot;Team Fortress Classic,&quot; and it enabled the community In short, Valve had a It's not often you see a with their first release. In 2003, Valve relocated their offices to Bellevue, Washington, and they reincorporated under the name we know them And that brings us to an Okay, so maybe not everyone when it first came out, but Steam went on to play a major role in changing the game industry. Steam was originally an online It also offered IM features Users could download Valve's and the first new Valve game to launch on the Steam platform was &quot;Counter-Strike: Condition Zero,&quot; if you even remember that. The first big game to launch on November 16th, 2004, and this game actually It was not optional. - [G-Man] Rather than offer you I will take the liberty - And in 2005, Steam was opened up to third-party developers. This was a huge move because now everybody could publish games on this up-and-coming But Valve was still making new games too. Briefly fast-forwarding to 2014, there are now 75 million and most of Valve's revenue was generated by the Steam platform, which made up over 70% of all internet downloaded As you can see, Valve on the software side of things, but now maybe it's time to try to venture into the hardware side. People who are really should make their own hardware. In March, 2012, rumors of This alleged hardware could potentially be Valve marketing director Doug Lombardi hinted at the possibility of new hardware, but he didn't confirm He did confirm, however, that Valve was working for Steam users who want Targeting TVs and the because at this time, were in the hundreds of millions. PlayStation 1 and 2 alone by March 31st, 2012. And these consoles are made settings that are generally and comfortable for playing games as opposed to sitting at a computer desk. Moving on to July 25th, Gabe spoke at Casual and he said a way to guarantee is to make sure Linux thrives. Quick rundown, Linux is a kernel that many operating and many of these are For example, Ubuntu or Mint. These are alternative operating systems to Windows or macOS, for example. Linux has many uses, and it's even the kernel But in terms of PC home usage, it's a small slice of the Gabe stated that one of the was the lack of games. So, Valve was going to invest in Linux and get Steam on Linux, which means they can bring a So, Linux was going to to this soon to be Steam Machine product, but we're not quite there yet. There's still a lot of other before we launch. In September, Valve released a beta of a new Steam UI named Big Picture mode. The interface featured and it was compatible while still working This new UI allowed gamers in the comfort of their living room. And that all sounds amazing, but to reap these benefits, you have to move your computer which I guess if you had a laptop, that would be pretty easy, but not so much for a desktop tower. At this time, it seemed like Valve had some great software solutions in place, but the hardware piece of But Valve's Greg Coomer While discussing Big Picture he also said, &quot;If it's getting involved in shipping some kind of hardware, then we will get involved in At the 2012 Video Game Awards, Kotaku's Jason Schreier and Gabe said the reaction was stronger than expected. He also said the next step is to get the Linux version and that companies would also with Steam pre-installed next year. Gabe also said these but users could still install Now, what specific Linux operating system would they be running? We don't know yet, but But at this point, we still haven't seen what any of these Steam Machines But we didn't have to wait much longer. On January 7th, 2013, at CES, modular mini-PC maker a tiny gaming computer to support Steam and Big Picture mode. I love unconventional PC design, so this tiny curvy case And Xi3 focused on So, their modular to other modules and accessories. They could also attach and connect together into a server. And instead of using a single motherboard, Xi3 uses three separate which allowed for swapping and upgrading. Unfortunately, I couldn't get because they are rare, but I do have other Xi3 computers which the Piston was based on. This is a Jade green Xi3 X5A with a SLID3 storage expander, and thanks to Bringus, I have an X7A too, which is more identical to Honestly, if we just desaturate and add the Piston logo to the front, it basically looks the same, right? Back in September 2012, Xi3 actually used Kickstarter to try and fund their new X7A which would join their existing X5A. Unfortunately, they but thanks to an investment from Valve, they ended up getting Thank you, Gabe. The Piston had up to one a 3.2 gigahertz AMD Trinity quad-core CPU, eight gigabytes of RAM, a Radeon 7000-series GPU and a crap-ton of I/O. The Piston was made available at South by Southwest for $999 and they would ship on November 29th. However, before the launch, some misinformation Valve's Doug Lombardi stated to Eurogamer that Valve was distancing Doug didn't say why, at least but the answers might lie inside of Xi3's response to the situation. Xi3 published a press release They confirmed that they did receive an investment from Valve in the past, but they also debunked misinformation about the Piston being a Steam Box because neither Valve or Xi3 Anyway, the main reasons for have to do with Valve's and Xi3 positioned the with support from whereas Valve wanted to After the Xi3 separation, there wasn't much talk maybe a little bit, but to the public, there wasn't Doug confirmed to Polygon that Valve was tinkering with but that's about it. For now. We'll talk about what happened So, let's say you want to expand the storage of your Steam Deck maybe add some extra SHARGE has the solutions for you. With the Shargeek 170 you can bring extra storage and it will be ready for when you need it. I've always loved SHARGE's clear tech and the 170 also looks stunning. It's like something out of With two USB-C ports and one USB-A port, you can fast charge three devices at once thanks to the 170-watt max output and you can recharge the up to 50% in only 20 minutes thanks to the 140-watt max input. And the total capacity so you have plenty of juice You'll also know the status of your 170 thanks to the built-in display. And yes, it is airline safe. And here's the SHARGE Disk Plus, a slim aluminum SSD enclosure All you have to do is pop in your own SSD up to four terabytes and you're good to go. And here's the fun part. You can adhere the optional and now the SSD can attach like the back of an iPhone. And if your device doesn't like the Steam Deck, you can take one of the magnet rings, attach it to the back, and now your SSD can And you can also charge your devices while the SHARGE Disk Plus is attached. So, click the link in the description to get your own Shargeek And when you do that, you're also supporting the Computer Clan. So, thank you very much. All right, so Valve was tinkering with other prototype hardware, right? But other than that, there wasn't much Steam Box until September 2013. Valve had three major announcements. Number one, SteamOS. SteamOS 1.0, codenamed Alchemist, is an operating system a Linux distro. It came with Steam pre-installed and was primarily intended to However, users could exit Steam and enter the GNOME desktop environment to use other applications. We'll talk more about SteamOS in a moment because there is two but first we need to talk about Steam Machines. Holy ship, Valve said it. They officially said the name of this new product line, Steam Machine. There were three main One, different manufacturers with different parts, two, they must ship with SteamOS, and C, no exclusive games. At this time, Valve didn't of what these Steam but soon, 300 lucky people and it was gonna be a prototype of Valve's very own Steam Machine. And I was not one of the because I didn't enter the drawing, but I can try to find one. Pixel Peeper 3000. - [Pixel Peeper 3000] Hi, Ken. How can I help you? - Track down a prototype and ship it to me, please. - [Pixel Peeper 3000] I found a unit owned by an obscure indie YouTube channel. - Which one? - [Pixel Peeper 3000] Linus Tech Tips. - Huh, they must be new. Anyway, DM them and ask them - [Pixel Peeper 3000] Already on it. - Cool. While Pixel Peeper contacts LTT, we must talk about Valve's - &quot;Ricochet 2!!!!&quot; - The Steam Controller. Valve went through many iterations of the controller's design and they manufactured it with in Buffalo Grove, Illinois. It was designed to be compatible including old games. This controller would be and the initial version they showed had two circular high-fidelity touch pads, which were also clickable. It also had a touchscreen, two bumpers, two triggers, On November 4th, Valve said to IGN that they would be revealing and their designs at CES 2014, but perhaps some of those partners were getting a little impatient. They wanted to beat Valve to the punch. iBUYPOWER and Digital Storm revealed their Steam Machines early and the Digital Storm Pretty neat. - [Pixel Peeper 3000] Good news, Ken. Your Steam Machine prototype has shipped. - Thanks. What's the ETA? - [Pixel Peeper 3000] Three seconds. - Whoa. How did you do that? - [Pixel Peeper 3000] I'm an AI, Ken. I can do anything... except draw hands. - True. Maybe leave art to the humans. - [Pixel Peeper 3000] Good idea. - Great. So, let's take a look at this On December 13th, Valve to 300 testers in the US and it arrives in this The prototype itself is a black box measuring 12 inches and 2.9 inches high. And I'll admit it's quite a It's 12.6 pounds, which doesn't but for a computer of this size, yeah, that's pretty dense. The chassis is made of and the removable shell And on the front is this with a white glowing ring, There's also tons of I/O on the back, including USB, display port, and even a PS2 keyboard port. Looks like they're covering There's also two USB ports on the front. Now let's take a look at the inside. With one screw, we can For specs, the prototype is equipped with an Intel Core i3, one of various Nvidia GPUs, 16 gigabytes of RAM, a solid-state hybrid drive with one terabyte of mechanical storage and eight gigabytes of and a 450-watt power supply. The controller that doesn't have the touchscreen like we saw in those other press photos. Instead it has four physical and it's not wireless yet. It's wired with USB. But to be fair, Valve did Another shout-out to Bringus for loaning me this I got to unwrap it from its condom unit and touch it before he But here's my favorite part On the top here, there's 300 holes and Valve shipped 300 units, and one of them is a The theory for this hole for this specific unit. Assuming the numerical top to bottom, this is unit number 78 of 300. I love prototype stuff, so big shout-out to Linus Media Group for letting me borrow this because they are really hard to find. On the same day of this prototype launch, Valve released SteamOS 1.0 to Now we arrive at CES 2014. At the show, Valve revealed for Steam Machines. Are you ready? Alienware, Alternate, CyberPowerPC, Digital Storm, Falcon Northwest, Gigabyte, iBUYPOWER, Maingear, Materiel.net, NEXT, Origin PC, Scan (deep inhale) Holy crap. I certainly hope all these choices don't make it challenging for a consumer to decide what they want to buy. Hmm. Steam Machines had Intel Nvidia AMD and Intel GPU options, and the RAM configurations and storage was generally Some went higher. On the lower end, prices were $500, and on the higher end, like with the Falcon Northwest (duck quacks) I've never spent $6,000 and I'm a Mac user. That's saying something. Apple charges $700 for freaking wheels. On January 15th, Valve at Steam Dev Days, which was closed off to the press. On the same day, Alienware for their own Steam and although they were I don't have to be. I've been to the future. I know what happens. Alienware will soon offer which start at $409.99. All models come with an with two gigabytes of video memory and the system can be maxed out with a one terabyte 7,200 RPM hard drive, eight gigabytes of RAM, and a 4th Generation This Steam Machine also has and on the back, HDMI in and out, optical audio out, ethernet, and two USB three ports. And might I add, the design of this Steam Everything from the glowing Steam logo to the alien head which it's just a sexy computer. And yes, the Alienware and I think it's the most iconic out of all the Steam Machines. In March 2014, Valve for the Steam Controller, which replaced the center touchscreen with two physical buttons and a Steam button in between. The D-pad and action below the touch pads. We're still not at the production version of the controller yet. They're getting there, but all of these refinements and tweaking were starting to cause a couple problems. Late is temporary. Suck is forever. On May 27th, Valve posted an announcement to stating that the and they were looking at a I think that's the right thing to do. I'd rather have a good product arrive late than get a crappy product early. However, Valve wasn't the There were a bunch of third-party partners getting ready to launch their hardware, but the whole Steam Machine until Valve was ready. But the partners were And what did some of They stripped the Steam out of the machine and just repackaged their Alienware and iBUYPOWER with Windows 8.1 instead of SteamOS. I'm still infinitely amused by the non-Steam Alienware computer because the triangle where is still there. It's just empty. Despite the shift to Windows, the computers were still and it automatically loaded into Big Picture mode on startup. Okay, so we have those two computers out, but unfortunately not much So, we must fast-forward to GDC 2015. (air whooshes) On March 3rd at the Game Valve announced the release month for Steam Machines, November 2015. The final design of the Steam along with a retail price of $50. Compared to the last there's some small refinements, but the biggest change is the which was replaced with an analog stick. The D-pad functionality was now combined with the left touchpad. The Steam Controller is wireless and it features haptics, and up to 80 hours of Also at GDC, Valve announced and a brand-new hardware For 50 bucks, users could and stream a video game from up to 1080p resolution and 60 frames per second with low latency. And it was cheap because it not a full-featured computer. Wait a minute. Okay, I don't have a crystal ball with me, well, I used to, but I sold it to be able to make my head smaller. It clearly didn't work. But I think the Steam Link could cannibalize Steam Machine sales. You can now get the Steam for 50 to a hundred bucks as opposed to 500 to $6,000 if you were okay with the maybe once in a while. That's just me editorializing, but we'll see what happens. June 4th, 2015. After more than two years and more blood, Valve finally announced the including the controller and Link. Everything would come out The first brands to launch Steam Machines were Cyber, ZOTAC, and, SteamOS 2 also launched, SteamOS 1 received updates but it was more or less a beta. 2.0 was much more refined under the hood. I installed it effortlessly but I could only use the built-in Getting Steam to work was a [KENSORED!]. I could tell it was trying to auto load Big Picture mode, but all I got was a black To be fair, it was kind to try to shove a 2024 Steam client onto an operating system which came out nine years prior. So, I tried interrupting to see if an older version but every time I did that, I just got caught in But I don't give up. Usually. Thanks to the positive and Brainiac Brent's brain, I learned a few Linux tricks update all the software on the system, and enable namespaces so The UI is a bit laggy, but the games perform at a Cool, so, finally, Steam and they sold... okay? Seven months after the launch, Valve announced they sold over including controllers And since every Steam Machine was required to be bundled with a Steam Controller, we can estimate about 500,000 But the controller was So, if we factor in of the controller, this estimate could actually which is not terrible for a first try, but compared to PS4 and Xbox One sales in their first seven months, which was 15.7 million, it's a small number. And to make things even worse, only a handful of the manufacturers actually released their A lot of them didn't follow through. Things weren't looking too but I promise, I promise you But before we get there, Why did the Steam Machines fail? I believe there's three big reasons. Number one, too many options. On paper, more choices to offer your customers, but in reality, if a consumer is faced with too many different buying options, it can be confusing and that can be detrimental In short, &quot;If you confuse, I've studied this guy before. He's a smart dude. Microsoft and Sony kept it easy. They offered two, give or take, and that was it. It was simple. And on top of these problems, that the more affordable Steam Link killed some of the Steam I guess my theory wasn't Problem number two, lack Again, SteamOS is a Linux distro and game support was lacking. At the time of launch, only 21.5% of Steam's entire catalog was compatible with SteamOS. So, there's not much of a benefit there. You pay the money to get the hardware to get into the Steam universe, but when you arrive, you realize you only and it's just because of You throw Windows on there, boom, you now have access to all of it. Just didn't seem that practical. And it got worse. SteamOS had some performance and I know performance can vary your game settings, and what you're playing, so, take this with a grain of salt, but Ars Technica did a and Windows came out on top. And problem number three, While I think some of the Steam Machines looked absolutely cool, there wasn't anything special about the hardware or features. And while I think it was noble of Valve to encourage no exclusives for SteamOS, that move further killed the Steam Machine's value proposition because now consumers to buy them. Sony and Microsoft, on the other hand, had exclusive titles on their consoles. As time passed, unfortunately, was, well, losing steam. Some manufacturers like making Steam Machines into 2017, but most companies completely dropped out or switched to Windows. SteamOS was still getting updated and more Steam games were but it was just too little too late. Then in mid-April 2019, Valve quietly de-listed the and the Steam Link was discontinued in November of the same year. It was replaced with a which was originally released in May 2018. Lastly, the Steam until December 3rd, 2019, when Valve ran out of And thus marks the official (somber music) Hang on. I said there was a silver I won't leave you hanging. In life, it's important even if it's just one small thing a day. Think about it, after a whole year, you just learned 365 to improve your product, your business, your mission, yourself. But it's also important to if it's not working and try something else. But even when you do let that thing go, you can take the lessons with you. In Valve's case, they let but the lessons would remain with them. Much like how a young trying to get SteamOS working, Valve didn't give up on hardware. They launched their own on June 28th, 2019, and their wildly successful which leveraged the new hardware. But more importantly, Valve was about to launch with a new form factor and I believe this new of all the lessons they learned from the failed Steam Machine Steam Deck. Announced on July 15th, 2021, the Steam Deck was Valve's foray into the portable gaming space. Steam Deck features a with grips on both sides and a seven-inch 1280-by-800 touchscreen with a 60 hertz refresh rate. And unlike the Steam Controller, Steam Deck has not one along with dual trackpads, ABXY buttons, four grip buttons, two a gyroscope, micro SD card slot, headphone jack, microphones, and USB-C with HDMI and ethernet support, and a dedicated D-pad which Basically, Steam Deck was you could throw at it. Inside is an AMD APU with and RDNA 2 graphics, And for SSD storage, the low end offered 64 gigabytes for $399 and 512 gigabytes on the higher end with faster NVMe storage for $649. And the built-in 40-watt-hour battery could run lighter tasks like web browsing for about seven to eight hours and games like Portal 2 for about four. Now, for software, Valve Introducing SteamOS 3, codenamed Holo. Version 3 was a major release. It's now based on Arch and it uses the KDE instead of GNOME. Just like prior releases, users could use Steam Big Picture mode, but they can also exit Steam, load a full desktop, and use Steam Deck like a portable PC, or even connect it to a and use it like a desktop. This is made possible with the USB-C port. But the docking station, which came out seven months later, also makes it easier to or a game console on your TV. Steam Deck and SteamOS 3 will run any Linux/SteamOS compatible game. But for Windows games they will run in a compatibility Not every game will work 100% off the bat, so, Valve has a simple webpage which summarizes your and they offer in-depth Now, with SteamOS 1 and 2, anybody could download those systems and install them on their PC, but Valve has not released They only use it for the Steam Deck. But that's where the community stepped in. Just like how fans mod Valve's games, they also mod Valve's operating system. This 2021 Atari VCS belongs to Don't worry, you'll meet Anyway, he installed HoloISO and it works very smoothly. You can use Steam in Big Picture mode or switch to desktop mode with KDE Plasma and it works pretty much the same way as it would on a Steam Deck. The Steam Deck released and it was a huge hit. Valve still sells the system today, including a new OLED model. Reports estimated 1.62 Valve even made a cake to celebrate. Huh, I guess the cake And in November 2023, Valve announced they sold And I don't think the Steam Deck would've thrived the way it did if it weren't for the through the Steam Machine journey. So, although that line it helped forge a new product And I can't wait to see So, I wanted to show you one more thing. The holidays are coming up, right? And I think this could or for someone else who's a But I'm launching a photo Each month features a I also autograph all calendars and each calendar will come with a free wallpaper mega pack download. So, go ahead and pre-order today. And for every dollar spent, I will personally donate a dollar to hurricane relief efforts. You can pre-order with or visit my Etsy store. I hope you enjoy. Thanks for sticking with me. Catch the crazy and pass it on. (upbeat music) Oh, I forgot to mention, I emailed Valve asking when Half-Life 3 and they replied. They said the official release