It was the summer of 2018 in Siberia, and had melted enough to uncover the body of a After its almost perfectly preserved remains the puppy was an astonishing 18,000 years The frozen animal was nicknamed "Dogor" local language, but also a clever play on Something else? And, despite its age, it still had most of preserved. But while Dogor was in really good condition were unable to confirm what species it belonged Was it a dog or was it a wolf? Or was it something in between? Dogor comes from the period of time when scientists knowing whether it was a wolf or a dog could and maybe even the place, that domestication Because, there's still a lot we don't villains to our canine companions. Like, when did they first become domesticated? Where did this happen? And what did the process look like, in terms We're still figuring out the details, but of years of interactions to develop our deep Modern dogs....like my good friend Abby here.... belong to the subspecies known as Canis lupus And we can trace their origins back to a now-extinct they share with the modern grey wolf, called But the exact species of this ancestor is While some potential ancestral wolf species Taimyr wolf, a specimen discovered in Northern analysis has shown that they're not direct familiaris. What we can say from studies of dog and wolf diverge from each other sometime between about And figuring out the exact timing is tough, a very short period of time, and there was and wild wolves along human migration routes. So dogs still looked pretty wolf-like at the It's also complicated because these two the same thing as domestication; one's just the whole behavioral and genetic process that But one of the key genetic traits wolves and selected for in modern dogs, seems to be hypersociability, initiate social contact even with members And for some wolves, this tendency, along food, could've made them a better fit for These traits also would've been useful as with resources that these canines definitely This is known as the commensal pathway to a relationship with humans, but there's well you know at least at first In this case, proto-dogs were drawn to the other animals that they could've preyed And there seems to be some evidence that this was A new paper published in 2020 was able to canids from a site in the Czech Republic based One group had wear that better matched a diet had wear that suggested they'd been chomping bone. And the researchers think the difference means this human settlement more and eating their Eventually, humans realized that wolves - once be guards, work with hunters, and even help And after that, wherever humans went, their In fact, we can actually track the spread adaptation in dogs! In 2013, scientists were able to isolate the diet of wolves to a more starchy diet Domestic dogs have more copies of the gene AMY2B codes for an enzyme that's secreted An increase in starch consumption in people growing wheat and rice. And domesticated dogs living in human settlements people were eating, too. Along with the difficulties in figuring out been some debate about whether it happened Like cats, dogs were once thought to have showed that the genetic divergence between dogs were found in these areas, suggesting Asia. However, another study from 2017 suggests once. This research on the genomes of two really this might've happened as far back as 20,000 One set of dog remains was 7,200 years old And by comparing them to modern wolves and had between 70-80% of European ancestry And this study found a much older date for Asian dogs than the 2016 study did - old enough the one time. So it seems there was one continuous lineage domestication events. While we're still figuring out when all didn't seem to take that long before people And we can see this bond in the archaeological Across Europe, Asia, Africa, and North America, Pleistocene to the Mid-Holocene Epoch. What makes these dog burials special is that ways that are really similar to how humans This implies that these dogs were seen as For example, the remains of a male dog were so years old cemetery in Siberia from a large antler. This dog was an older adult, with evidence time he died, showing that he had been cared An analysis of the chemistry of one of both terrestrial and aquatic resources, similar This might mean that these dogs and humans We also see mixed burials in some cultures, together. In fact, the earliest known burial of a dog ago in Germany -- was actually found alongside Dogs were also buried alongside their humans and guarding. This may have been the case for a mummified may have been a buried nearby. Over thousands of years, domestication created While many early dogs looked pretty similar meet a variety of human needs, and coat colors Many of these changes can be traced to the dog populations, as humans moved around the across new groups of canids. Today, there are hundreds of dog breeds, and They came about because of the introduction So dogs were originally drawn to our ancestors us, working and living alongside us for thousands And this bond continued even after death, and dog burials. But the origins of this relationship are still thought, with new discoveries changing the And we're still waiting to find out the puppy from Siberia. The hope is that it can shed some light on But, at the very least, we can say that dogs a very, very long time. Gotta give a quick shoutout to David Howe, had our "pups" in a row. Big high fives to this month's Paws-itively Hart, Jon Davison Ng, Sean Dennis, Konstantin All pledge levels have access to our Discord, at patreon.com/eons. And as always I wanna thank you for joining If you like what we do here, subscribe at