The Mongols were responsible for the Ottoman brought gunpowder to Europe, created the Mughal meaning of the word Kamikaze. So let's look Chapter 1: Creating an empire day Mongolia and Siberia. The Mongol people were of the world. And the Mongols would constantly But they were not a united people. Within the to be the descendants of a legendary of these clans fought for control of One of these clans was the Khamag Mongols. In son that we know today as Chengis Khan. But his man his father had captured on the day of his father was a strong man and that therefore Temujin this type of prestige was important in politics. was too young to rule, and so another clan took result Temujin lost all his power and he swore clan. To exact his vengeance he would need an Mongol warriors who followed him. His small army married his daughter to Temujin, thereby creating Together they conquered a territory called controlled important trade routes, and was whoever ruled over this valley was capable Temujin was strong enough to attack the clans the Naiman and the Mergid clans in 1204: their unmarried princesses married Temujin's family, But Temujin would rule his land differently from in positions of power based on family relations. footsoldier could not. Temujin instead put performance. So if you are a nobody who is you could become a general. He created a system than family relations. This meant that Temujin's better everything. And if you were a nobody who become a strong supporter of him because you owed system that was both competent and loyal. most powerful Mongol in Mongolia thanks to this were afraid that Temujin would come after them came together to hold a meeting in 1206. At this He held a lot of prestige, he was a competent diplomat... And so they decided that the best thing of all Mongols, the Chinggis Khan. This position created the Mongol Empire in 1206, at age 44. This new Mongol Empire had only 2 simple Chingis Khan's family could rule the empire. most competent people get positions of power, by securing that only one of his sons could it meant that nobody else could fight for a lot more stable because random people couldn't The second goal was to secure the Mongol borders Turks and Tatars. Because your neighbors But this just causes a new problem: if you then they will eventually start a rebellion. assimilation. What this meant is that a person was their whole way of life and replace it with But in order to understand how a person could who the Mongols were. The Mongols lived in large horde could be a few hundred people or tens of elderly, soldiers,craftspeople, and even cattle. were able to get all the food and materials enough they had to move around a lot. That's and materials. When a particular area ran out animals to hunt, then the entire horde picked up In order to assimilate other people in this and hordes to join Mongol Hordes. Every person they could set up their tent, depending on your be forced to place their tent between other Mongols and they didn't have anyone from their as a result they were forced to participate their children would grow up to become Mongols. culture replaced with the Mongol culture. And process were rewarded: they were given land, they received positions within the Mongol government. useful parts of other cultures. For example, this Mongols. The Mongols learned it from the Turks. catapults, handgrenades, and simple missiles small examples of Mongols adopting useful parts and cultural distinctiveness to their own. Mongols had subjected all the tribes around they were ruled by several different countries. called the 'Great Jin'.. The Great Jin had more and a large professional army experienced in So the Chengis Khan needed to be smart. And winter. You see, before modern technology armies possible to supply an army with food in winter Mongols were born in Siberia, they had learned and were able to gather food no matter how freely during the winter, attacking isolated if an army did approach. The Chinese could avoided fighting their armies directly. then the Mongols would get on their horses, and shoot arrows at them. The Chinese didn't have cavalry and foot soldiers could never fight back. die or let the horde go. The only way to defeat multiple armies... which almost never happened. Northern Great Jin provinces between 1211-1215. on Central Asia. Here they crushed an empire to join the empire peacefully becoming important attacked the Khwarazmian Empire in 1218, which years, they too were conquered in 1221. After that group, just like the Mongols, but they were When Mongols conquered new territory they The Mongols lived in nomadic hordes and had no found competent people in the territories they administrators of occupied territory. Unless case kings were allowed to keep their positions and accept Mongols administrators into their from China moved to Central Asia, the Middle East, and Chinese peasants created farms in Mongolia. something called 'the Mongol Bureaucracy', which for the Great Khan. And the rulers of occupied All the kings, administrators, and other important to discuss the future of the empire. And whenever Empire, such as declaring war or starting to ask permission from the Mongol Bureaucracy. they would in turn support the actions of other result, the Mongol Empire was ruled on the basis other members of the Mongol Bureaucracy, need your approval. advantages. That's because the Mongols frequently territories they invaded and take tribute from tribute was brought back to Mongolia. The Mongols nomadic and moved around a lot, so they could only with them. So this plunder was distributed amongst plunder amongst all the loyal tribes and kingdoms are, the more plunder you receive. The leaders it amongst their lords and clan leaders, who until eventually every loyal subject got leaders were able to keep their subjects loyal And so now the year is now 1227. The Mongol Empire China in the East. And in that year Ginghis Khan's died. Both the ruler and his heir were dead. All the leaders of the Mongol Empire traveled next. The decision had to be unanimous. And 3rd son Ogedei, becoming Ogedei Khan in 1229. his own anymore. So he divided the Mongol Empire a Khanate, because they were ruled by a khan. Khan's family. And each of the 3 khanates would in to how an empire has 1 emperor, with multiple The first of these khanates was the Golden was given to Ghingis's eldest son, Jochi. But instead. Russia had lots of open grassland The second Khanate was the Chagatai Khanate, Ghingis's 2nd son, Chagatai... hence the name. they provided a lot of the bureaucracy, The third Khanate was that of Ogedei himself. And while he was getting elected, the Mongol's first couple of years were spent crushing he continued expanding the empire. He commanded commanded his troops in Iran to invade the rest to invade India... although that one wasn't finally destroying the Great Jin in 1234, another Chinese country called the Song dynasty. he managed to take out all the countries that Ogedei died after 12 years in 1241. After a 5 year 1246. The Empire he inherited was big. So big that it was so difficult was that every part of the if you'll remember, the Mongols didn't change the They simply put Mongol administrators in charge difficult to control all the different types of of all the Mongol vassals to be converted with their own version of the Mongol Bureaucracy. sending people all over the empire they have conquered in the last 35 years. because he died after just 2 years, in 1248. The this time the various candidates fought a Say what you will about modern democracy, but at campaigns. After 3 years they elected Mongke, to be the last successful Mongol emperor. taking more direct control of the empire: he cracked down on corruption, began taxing populations in order to turn them into vassals. Syria, Baghdad, and parts of Turkey in the in China and turned the Koreans and Vietnamese conquered all of Russia. The Mongols were their destiny to conquer the whole world As a result of these conquests the Asian trade A merchant could buy silk in Korea and walk all Mongke died in 1259, having ruled an empire that empire spent another 5 years fighting eventually choosing Kublai Khan in 1264. the Mongols. While Kublai Khan had won, the ruler. One of the reasons was that Kublai Khan and felt a lot more Chinese than Mongol. And be to conquer the last parts of China. But the the Golden Horde wanted to invade Europe, the and the Chagatai wanted to invade India. united and in 1266 the Mongol empire split up into the Chagatai in Central Asia, the Ilkhanate Each of these 4 groups of Mongols had look at each of them individually. First off, Chapter 4: The Yuan Dynasty he decided to focus entirely on China. Afterall, decided to stop living in a Mongol Horde and 4 years later he changed the name of his empire. be called the Yuan Dynasty, a Chinese name for a China, he also invaded Korea, Myanmar, and Tibet. When the Mongols wanted to go to war, they give to their people. A good justification could For example, Mongols would threaten to invade their army in defense. Then the Mongols would that army on their border. And that therefore the "defended themselves" all over Europe and Asia. a letter Kublai Khan sent to Japan: "The Japanese they were in constant contact with China, they tribute. Yet, in the past, the Chinese did kindly when they came and would not interfere under our sage emperor, all under the light stupid little barbarians. Do you When the Mongols finally invaded in 1274, they tried again in 1281. And this time their typhoons were known in Japan as "heavenly invasion of Japan showed the limits of Mongol And this caused a problem for the Mongols. Because by dividing plunder and tribute amongst them. more and more tribute. But with further conquest problem: how were they going to get more tribute? when the Mongols invaded they destroyed a lot of then they would get more tribute. But in order a lot of power within 1 organization. Afterall, control over local rulers that they won't try to every region ruling itself. And this meant that if they had to abandon the Mongol government. So of governance where the emperor and his court oversaw the construction of canals, roads, and sent to Mongolia to establish towns and cities. from local Chinese, instead of getting it all Mongolia needed Chinese bureacrats. And as a Mongols and become Chinese. By 1307 the Chinese Bureacracy. The Mongol population became split. On and integrated into Chinese culture and their were the Mongols who kept living inside the Horde. after a series of natural disasters. In the 1350s blamed the Mongols. That's because those Mongols could give it or not. And so people starved while getting nothing in return. And so the people army, they could not defeat millions upon millions the rebellion and started their own independent they couldn't win this battle, picked up all their Mongol army to support the emperor, the Yuan Chapter 5: The Golden Horde by Ginghis Khan's eldest son. After he died They started out as a relatively small Khanate, a perfect place for Mongols to live. After crushing rebellions. And in 1237 they decided of Eastern Europe that today is part of Russia. it was incredibly big and incredibly cold. Meaning die in winter long before they won the war. But large open fields were perfect for Mongol Hordes years the Mongols had conquered parts of Modern conquering the rest of Europe. There were 2 ways They formed an alliance with several German Horde... and failed almost completely: in 1242 the and conquered Bulgaria. In Poland they fought a so much he tried to hide himself and his armies and the Mongols would plunder their way across the the Great Khan, Guyuk Khan had died. And that would take 3 YEARS! So in the biggest plot right as they were on the verge of victory, Afterwards the Golden Horde showed little interest reasons for this. The first is that Western Europe made it difficult for the horde to move around The second reason was infighting. In 1266 the these 4 Khanates began waging war against each ever tried to invade Western Europe, then either so invading Europe was almost impossible and the This meant that the Golden Horde couldn't expand internal politics. Because if you were a ruler you could gain was withing that horde. And soon creating small civil wars. And as the clans where the native Russians came in. The Russians they would begin forming alliances with different more land, and even allow their children to marry soldiers, weapons, and supplies. Over time the support in order to gain power. And those Russian their territory: they built new roads, created result those Russian rulers became more powerful. Golden Horde. You see, when they first regions up between the clans. They did this powerful than another. But over the course of richer and some poorer. And remember, in order to distribute tribute amongst their people. But removed from power. So the clans started even And in the 14th century they civil warred so much the Golden Horde died. This was a big problem. only a member of Chingis Khan's family was allowed none of them left. And this meant that basically major clan began fighting to put someone on the some Mongols wondered what was even the point of just be fighting over who was in charge. And so all their stuff and moved back to Mongolia. And while the Mongols slowly destroyed the Russians slowly built their wealth through dependent on the Russian allies for support. While under the leadership of Moscow, and launched In 1480 Russia became an independent country. And the next 303 years they would try conquering last Golden Horde Khanate to join Russia In the end the Mongols of the Golden Horde integrated. Today their descendants are Russian, Chapter 6: The Ilkhanate after he conquered most of Iran, Baghdad, and the middle east, but after Baghdad the rest defense. The Mongols were great at fighting in the fields. But those open fields are largely desert. person can take to invade the middle east before forced to fight in narrow passages instead of of nowhere. And even worse, horses are afraid a lot of camels. This put a limit on the westward the Mediterranean Sea and were now stuck between and the arabs. And they would frequently And this was a problem because the Ilkhanate The reason for this is that the Ilkhanate it was unsuitable for Mongols hordes to live in. A to graze in. but a lot of their territory was eat rock, sand, or salt water. This limited where time a lot of these places had important cities. located in the desert along a river. And a Mongol horde didn't go to these regions regularly, then to make a tough choice: they could either stay in could move to sparse fields close to important starvation. This was a difficult choice and the both get enough tribute and enough food. difficult. Because it's difficult to rule a you have to. And when there was a drought, there would frequently fight with each other over land for all of them.This caused instability. Because travel via Russia instead of via the Middle East. meaning they fought even more over Countries are usually quite good at dealing with usually can't handle another one. All that was thing come crumbling down. This came in 1316 too young to rule. This caused factions to fight man he became the new khan. He died at 31 in 1335. child. Worst of all, that child was a woman. And even worse than that, the Black Death had killing anyone else who might sit on the throne. so many crises all at once that he wasn't able in a battle, the Ilkhanate lands were divided up the Middle East and Persia came to an end in 1335. Empire (Chagatai Khanate) by Chagatai Khan in 1227, ruling most of Central for the Mongol Horde to graze their horses and to live here. And over time the Mongols integrated big reasons for this. The first was that the as part of his attempt to unite the Mongol The second reason was that guns were invented. but they are very difficult to use if you're a musket you needed both your hands. But riding a time to time. So you can shoot a bow easily, musket. And as muskets gained a longer range than before they could shoot arrows back at them. And into a fight with a bullet, you're going to lose. simply lived here for almost 500 years. to live alongside the people they were ruling the Mongols stopped being nomads and settled There isn't really much to tell about their another country called the Dzungar Khanate. themselves, and 500 years later were coming for And in 1755 they were conquered by China. And territory. A rather unceremonious end to The Chagatai Khanate did have though. After the Ilkhanate was destroyed the creating the Timurid Empire in 1370, Iran and Central Asia marked the last there they would slowly decline. And they One of its members was exiled, he moved to India, was the Rise and Fall of the Mongol Empire. the Mongols deserve a sequel to see what happened Russia, the Mughal Empire, or the Yuan Dynasty... So of these topics you'd like me to cover first. And my channel. And leave us a comment with a topic looking for new video ideas. This was Avery