It was January 25, 1969 and Boston, Massachusetts The night prior, thousands had poured into champion Celtics play their arch rival Philadelphia. The night following, the Boston fans would Bruins of the NHL. As for that night, not far from the garden, Line, none other than Led Zeppelin was playing part of their first ever North American Tour For a city dealing with existential issues red-lining, and simmering racial tensions, center of entertainment and culture was still And for a group of 2,000 protestors that was day, the hope was to keep it that way. People before Highways Day, as it became toward the direction of Boston's transportation populated, richly historical colonial city With the Interstate Act of 1956, then the communities through the heart of Boston, the had only just begun by the 1960s. With the arrival of a new governor, Bostonians far it'd go. For the highway-crazed urban planners, I-90 a connective inner beltway along with a few those already constructed. But in the eyes of a diverse set of stakeholders--working liberation, and Native American Rights activists, professors--these planned roadways wouldn't down homes and kill communities. So they marched. Then something unprecedented happened--against and in response to the protest, Massachusetts' a moratorium on highway construction. Then, in 1972 he announced an outright construction Rather than a massive expressway contouring mass transit lines--subways and commuter Boston was poised to remain for the people, from this countering of American convention Agency, or the MBTA. Boston, as a walkable, human-first city already For one, it was designed before the car, making Second, it was home to a one-of-a-kind transit With the adoption of this law establishing the first combined, cohesive, regional transit along with the 77 separate communities surrounding Under one big umbrella with a substantial street cars and light rail, and the subway that would provide for commuters every morning, It was all falling into place. As the Boston anti-highway movement built to expand. The subway, or the T, adopted the standardized Orange line running from North Boston to Forest Boston, the Red from Harvard to South Boston, Riverside all the way through downtown. Then it got bigger, and modernized. The Orange line, formerly elevated, now went were replaced with buses, and both ends of Aside from a few holdovers on the green line, within the decade or had been replaced recently. By 1970, all the pieces were there: the nation's regional structure with the support of state itself, was ready to boom. Then it didn't. Zoom to the 2020s: while the routes have changed the promise of Boston's subway has hardly Instead of pacing the future, it's a system What the arrival of federal regulators in subway of the future, or a quaint, reliable most dangerous. But by this time close calls and outright In 2008, at the farthest outskirts of the one west-bound train missed a slow signal ahead of it. While the first was moving at little more miles or 61 kilometers per hour, with the on account of their struggles with sleep apnea process. What exactly happened could never be ascertained Safety Board investigators, though, as the were injured. Despite the unique circumstances, the crash Less than a year later, another accident on heart of the city. This time, a bunch-up of westbound traffic Center and Boylston. Train 3808 had heeded yellow and red signals slamming into the stationary train at about Injuring 68, the federal investigators again train brakes, signal lights, and underground had missed the warnings because they were Operator error and ineffective vetting processes dangerous flaws were more structural than From 2019 to 2020, trains running the Orange separate times, once because of weather, the between new rolling stock and old rails. Then in 2022, the most horrific of recent Exiting a Red Line train, a passenger's circuit within the train's wiring, rather the exit, it took off, ripping the man off It was this accident that resulted in this quantified what was becoming increasingly nation's most dangerous. It first pointed out that MBTA collisions then it acknowledged that Boston rails, from 94% of all light rail injuries nationwide. While safety or a lack thereof rightly receives struggling subway, it also obscures another it's just plain slow. Whether it's safety issues with worn infrastructure, the T's running as slow as it ever has. There are so many speed restrictions, in fact, tool to track where the slow downs are, and As of early December, 2023, the subway system a quarter of all rail sections falling under as 3 miles or 5 kilometers per hour. Then, on top of slow downs, there's outright line in summer of '22, the 16-day closure closure of the green line the winter of '23--all and keep the network hobbling along. While presented as solutions to slow zones, slow zones at bay, as the totals of slow time In fact, since 2016, average speeds along signaling the continued prevalence of slow to actually fix the problem at hand. Now some of these problems are understandably Being the earliest American city to embrace at the forefront of subway development in turns and extremely narrow tunnels across and expansion difficult. On top of tight tunnels, the network's plagued to a fleet of train cars that mostly dates '60s. But no matter the reason for a slow zone or are more than inconveniences--they're the they're the difference between picking up that then inform choosing to take the subway Card, or, if one has the luxury, to just take But the source of these cracks stem from the of the T shepherded the subway towards its You see, this shape is the epitome of radial from the downtown core and heads outwards, This is quite typical among American subways Philadelphia look quite similar. But this certainly is not the global norm. The systems of London or Paris just look different. They're far more convoluted. Even more modestly-sized systems like those shapes than their American counterparts. A system that does look similar to Boston's commuter rail system, and this is no wonder. Radial networks such as these primarily service outskirts and work downtown and they can service well, but they're not good for much else. If, for example, someone lives in Winter Hill a 18-minute commute that is both faster and But if that same person had a third node in in a rec soccer league in Cambridge--they'd after-work activity, but getting home would A trip that would take just 10-minutes by by subway as this passenger would have to then all the way back out to the suburbs. In practice, wealthier commuters likely won't radial networks like this with two core user out and back commutes but otherwise drive, another option. That's to say, this and other American subway commuter rail systems, disproportionately tend to live in the zone between wealthier This is in contrast to a system like Paris' subway routings between most all destinations versus cars on trips with more than two nodes. But the difference in design matters even You see, Paris' line four has been going allow for modernization work, but it hasn't What might normally be a nonstop trip typically a bit more walking thanks to this overlapping, For example, if one were trying to get from just take line 2 from Barbes - Rochechouart 21-minute trip instead of the normal 16-minute The situation is very different in Boston. In 2017, for example, the red line was closed and that meant there was simply just no subway A network like this becomes single-point-of-failure issues as Boston's, means the entire line that it was primarily designed to serve. And what that leads to is a further degradation demographic of commuters who only have simple they might commute by car instead, which they That focuses the ridership demographic even that has no other option. The direct solution is simple--ring routes. Intersections between lines, especially out improve the ability for subways to effectively crowd. Not only that, but they divert traffic away operation, and maintenance is often trickiest This is something Boston clearly understands While the highway system is also primarily traffic is headed in and out of Boston, it quick suburb-to-suburb routes that avoid the Boston even understands this on the transit develop a ring rail system, but eventually the bus routes that comprised phase one of Other cities in America are also working to pushback by some of the wealthier communities building a light rail line through its Maryland at four points, facilitating suburb-to-suburb New York City, which already has a stronger than perhaps any American city, is working so-called Interborough Express between Brooklyn in the city's outskirts to the subway system The T, meanwhile, has but a fragile design One can understand this by looking at its in 2019. But then COVID happened, and the commuters With a more hybridized and flexible work schedule, downtown offices and, when mixed with poor commutes has nearly halved, while traffic the day. Now, on the one hand, a more distributed ridership on commuters makes for inefficient asset use--they it's busy, while still paying for that capacity But in Boston's case, considering the entire it simply does not serve the transit patterns the commuter traffic just got replaced by Rather, the commuter traffic just disappeared ridership. The London Underground, as a point of comparison, level. Across the US, most transit agencies have In Boston, only about half as many people Now, like most transit agencies in America, all of its expenses through fare-revenue--pre-COVID But pre-COVID, the MBTA was already in a dire Now, with ridership halved and fare-revenue has become downright existential. You see, in addition to decades of deferred staffing shortages with costly overtime and and myriad other causes of exceptional costs, it's accrued from decades of trying to dig In a given year, 20% of all MBTA costs are the debt. But interestingly, not all of the MBTA is The agency is also responsible for a sprawling, and commuter rail. And one component of that system has been commuter rail. While not completely trouble-free, this network and the MBTA even improved it for the better. Like many American commuter-rail systems, almost entirely on the commuters. During the 2018 summer schedule, for example, to Boston, with eight of those before 9:00 In the middle of the day, there were only service in the evening hours. Nowadays, the MBTA still runs twenty trains distributed throughout the day with at least allows a more varied mix of passengers to transport, without worrying about being stranded the day. According to the agency itself, this shift this and other lines is a major factor behind to almost 95% of pre-COVID levels, meaning far outpacing average demand recovery relative Now, many are quick to point out perhaps the rail and subway systems: the passengers. Boston commuter rail primarily connects those corporate jobs in downtown Boston. Correspondingly, just 22% of riders are from Meanwhile, on the subway, this proportion Of course, there is a dirty truth that all rely on them, higher-income ones don't. Therefore, many low-income T riders will keep simply because they don't have another viable Higher-income riders, meanwhile, are perceived that have options, and therefore they're considering American transit agencies, and view getting cars off the road as their primary That's because in the US, transit systems than creators of opportunity--after all, even the most transit-averse driver. Of course, many of the MBTA's issues stem riders who are now gone, leaving them with The most successful transit systems globally not an either-or situation--well-designed to reliance by all, which not only allows the playing field between rich and poor: it is more equal no matter one's existing financial Physical mobility induces economic mobility. The disparity between the commuter rail and is easier, in many cases, for wealthier people than the lower-income individuals living physically the counterintuitive situation where a wealthier downtown job easier than an equally-qualified opportunities for this transit system to perpetuate the playing field. Now, the MBTA is overseen by a seven-member governor. This, of course, creates opportunities for to the American political system, considering is far likelier to take place in a commuter-rail in income levels--yet the disproportionate tangibly. Four of these seven seats are currently held connection to a community serviced by the Mary Roberts represents Boston itself--considering this means this seat is disproportionately Vice-chair Thomas Koch is mayor of the town rail and subway systems, but is likely to since it gets passengers downtown twice as Then there's Thomas McGee and Charlie Sisitsky--mayors rail system exclusively. So that means that essentially two and a half are taken up by commuter-rail, rather than This disproportionality becomes even more only represents 10% of the MBTA's total While it's hard to prove this board is disproportionately rail, it's a lot less hard to believe given the systems. This overall environment all feeds into the been so dysfunctional--none of which are which are covered in the Federal Transit Administration's faults. Running an effective subway system is not all around the world by cities of all sorts The reason why so many American systems struggle how to build good tunnels or maintain trains that, but rather that there's a culture for the sake of having them, rather than for The MBTA is in a very dire state--its one-off and it's on a fiscal cliff with no clear alone fix its issues. Yet all physical issues can be physically What can't be fixed as easily is the context It's been relatively easy for these systems they almost all ignore everyone else. New York City is the notable exception: where the reliant, the commuter, but also the kids the visiting tourist. This is perhaps the only place in America synonymous and it's created a rocky yet effectiveness. The MTA has its faults, and still struggles but it's not anywhere close to the MBTA's Altering the fundamental design of almost feat, and not something that can realistically but the path towards better American transit follow success because service creates success. Improvements gain passengers leading to improvements, failures. So the question: should we invest to start the vicious one happen? Now, I know this might go down in the record if you want to invest in creating a virtuous membership. Earlier this year we tried this--offering for life--and weirdly, people seemed to really And I sort of understand why: there are simply there's something nice about just paying Many of you also really believe in Nebula have said you justified the purchase due to this is definitely the case. While all subscriptions, of course, help with at Nebula to invest in content and development come in later, which speeds up platform growth. So that's why we brought back the annual get Nebula for life--it's as simple as But there's one brand-new highly-requested gift cards. If you have a big Wendover or HAI or Jet Lag to Nebula for life. Whether it's for you or someone else, access video by its curated group of hundreds of to an incredible catalog of bigger-budget slate ever rolling out right now. For example, quite soon we'll release the an appearance by yours truly. And 2024 will have some of our biggest releases are working on right now. No matter how you want to get access to Nebula--whether or lifetime for someone else--do so at Nebula.tv/Wendover. Not only will that get you 40% off an annual a month, but we'll also get a portion of subscribed, which provides stable, recurring So thanks in advance for subscribing, and