(phone ringing) - Hi, it's Doug! Have you ever found a Well, this guy in the country one of the biggest mushrooms in the world. And best of all, it's He could eat it. Someone named Isaiah has a Let's give him a call now. (phone ringing) - Hi, Doug. - I have a question for you. How do you know if a - Ooo, that is a great question. Mushrooms aren't just something you can find at the grocery store. They grow in the wild too. And if you pay attention sometimes you can find some Like one time, I remember walking out into the yard behind my house. I was going to mow the when suddenly, I noticed something that looked just like this. It was one of the weirdest You can see, it's not a It's an entire ring of mushrooms. There were dozens of them. This ring of mushrooms had popped up overnight in my back yard. It was so interesting that I couldn't bring myself to mow it down. I let the grass stay long that week. I learned it's what's called a fairy ring. In ancient times, some this ring of mushrooms marked the spot where a fairy had been Today, scientists have a different reason for thinking why they grow like this. We know it has to do with of the part of these mushrooms But I love that we still Or here's another one of my favorites. I remember in about fifth grade, I was walking along the edge when I saw what looked like sitting there in the grass. When I went to kick it, it Or so I thought. I found out later that this was actually a type of And by the way, that cloud millions of microscopic They're the seeds of the mushrooms. By kicking a puffball, to spread its seeds into the wind. Fairy rings and puffballs of interesting mushrooms you But are these mushrooms you could eat? You might've heard that are poisonous, even deadly. Is it true? And if it is, is there What do you think? Before I say anything more, to pause the video and discuss. Okay, you ready? Well, I wish I could tell to tell whether a mushroom Like, if only the poisonous mushrooms were always a certain color. Or if they always had a Unfortunately, it doesn't In fact, one of the deadliest looks like this. By comparison, here's the kind of mushroom that we put on pizza. You can hardly tell these apart. The mushroom on the left is A single bite of to kill a human being. But now check this out. Here's a mushroom that looks really weird. You might think, oh, this But guess what, this And not only is it not poisonous, lots of people consider it to be one of the best tasting One pound of these mushrooms sells for as much as $40 or $50. But even Morel mushrooms aren't always easy to tell from poisonous ones. You see this one here? It looks like a Morel, but It's what's called a False And it will make you So how can anyone ever from the kinds of The answer: you have to Mushroom experts are at identifying mushrooms, knowing what each of the different kinds of mushrooms look like. They learn that each kind of mushroom has its own special traits, which can help tell it For example, there are a few mushrooms that actually turn blue when you cut them. Isn't that weird? Some of these are poisonous Others are safe to eat. So knowing if it turns blue isn't enough. But using this trait helps a the list of possible kinds Or here's another amazing trait. There are some mushrooms that Here in North America where I live, one of the more common ones is this, called the Jack O'Lantern. Jack O'Lantern mushrooms are poisonous, so the fact that it glows in the dark can help a mushroom Or check out this kind of mushroom. It's called Chicken of the Woods. These are always bright yellow-orange and they grow in this unusual clump of one on top of another. Chicken of the Woods is a good example of a wild mushroom that's not poisonous. And it doesn't have any But some people do get so mushroom collectors always cook it really well before eating. As for that funny sounding name, that's because they say it tastes like chicken. So in summary, there's no one way to tell whether a mushroom There are thousands of So if you wanna eat a wild mushroom, you need to get the help But if you're interested, There are mushroom hunting clubs, where you can meet some of these experts and lots of books about all the different kinds of mushrooms. That's all for this week's question. Thanks, Isaiah, for asking it. Now, for the next episode, I and picked out three that I'm thinking about answering. When this video's done playing, You can choose from: How does a car measure Where do minerals come from? Or, why isn't Pluto a planet anymore? So submit your vote when the video's over. I wanna hear from all of you watching. There are mysteries all around us. Stay curious, and see you next week.