National Radio and Television Administration. Look, even the folks came quite early. Thank you. Thank you . Thank you. We are all happy. What else are you bringing? Hurry up and sit in the house. Happy. Happy . You are always here. Two ounces of pure wool and cotton thread. Please come quickly. Please come quickly. Liu Er was stunned. A pair of pillowcases. Second brother from Shanzi, let's go and have a look. Li Dongshan, Shuanghe brothers, why are so many people here? Come and stamp us . We strongly demand that the brigade implement the household-based policy. This is our application. Please stamp the book. This is it. Secretary Gao's family is having a wedding today. His son is getting married. He knows that he didn't come to the brigade, so he came to find you. You are the accountant of the brigade. All big and small things have to go through your hand. Isn't the official seal in your hand? Come here Here is a stamp. Folks, I, Li Dongshan, am the accountant of the brigade. I can't be the boss in the brigade. I am just a custodian . For such a big thing , I need Secretary Gao to nod . He nodded, so I'm still looking for you. Come on, come on, Stamp it, you stamp it, yes stamp it, can't you stamp it? I can't stamp it. Li Dongshan, do you stamp it or not? If I stamped this stamp for you privately, I made a mistake. If you don't stamp it, I will do it by myself. It's so easy for you to do it by yourself . Why did you hit someone after you made a mistake ? Are you acting like a brat? Dongshan Shu Yinniu. Yinniu, are you here ? Stop your dad. What are you doing? This is dad. What are you doing? What are you doing ? Go away, Yinniu. This is the brigade branch. You can't make trouble . Yinniu has nothing to do with you. You stay away. You can't make trouble here. I I'm going to find Secretary Gao, Li Dongshan , come back , come back, Qiao'er, I 've been betrothed to the Zhao family since I was a child. How can I do this if I don't know Zhu Zhu? Marry him, that's good. My father has already canceled the engagement in the district. From now on, I will find my in-laws by myself. Fortunately, at the last model worker meeting, I fell in love with seven or eight people. One of them fell in love with someone while sitting there. His name is Zuo Gao Shitiao, Zhao Zhenhua, Secretary Gao, why are you dressed up like this to sing? On this special day, let Secretary Gao say a few words to everyone . Okay, okay, let me just say a few words. It 's okay. I jumped up there. Fellow villagers and members, I thank you all for coming to support me. I have been the village party secretary for half my life. Since I became the party secretary, sit, sit, sit, I don't think about falling into good popularity. Where is my son today? Marriage Secretary Gao, I haven't finished talking yet. Stop talking. You come down and do it. OK , I'll bow to everyone. Come on, come on. Come on, what's going on? You guys, please continue to have fun. Come out soon . It's a big deal. Li Shuanghe led a group of people. Why are the villagers surrounding the brigade headquarters ? I want to put a big seal on the petition. If I don't give it to him, he will rob him. He really knows how to choose a day and doesn't waste any time. Why don't you go and see where you are going? The bride will be here soon, you father-in-law. Where can I go? I can't go away. My son is getting married. I 'm gone . Let 's go. Go, let's go. My sister -in-law won't go. Something big happened. Did something happen ? Nothing happened. This Murakami has a small matter. He went to deal with it and came back. Who do you think he is? dare Be a bullshit village cadre and rebel against your father. This is collective property. You break into the brigade headquarters and smash the door. This is illegal . Is it a gold bull or a silver bull? Is your surname Li or Gao? Of course my surname is Li . My surname is Li. Just get out of the way, Brother Tieniu, and go away. Your father, hurry up and find the official seal. When you find it, fasten it. Stop, stop, stop , stop . You guys , please stop, get out quickly. Folks , please get out quickly. Brother, you can't turn over. Brother, stop, go away . Secretary Gao is here. This is breaking the law . What are you doing? You are too brave. Secretary Gao is here . Look, they have broken all the locks. Li Shuanghe, get up. What are you going to do? Get up. If you want to talk to me , my family is holding a happy event today. Everyone is congratulations. You went to the wrong place. I know that your family's wedding cannot delay the folks' business. You 're the one who stamped it. You broke the door lock of Li Shuanghe Brigade Headquarters. I broke it. If you weren't here, apply for it. Even the brigade headquarters is stamped with it . Do you dare to smash it, smash it, don't you ? Application form. This is an application form written by dozens of our villagers to implement household-based production quotas. I know about this. I have to go up to the lower village to hold a collective meeting. I am alone. If you ca n't make the decision, you don't need to make the decision. Isn't it already written clearly in the newspaper ? You just have to follow the rules. If it is written in the newspaper that Jinshawo must implement household-based production quotas and work alone, I will do it now. I'll give you the official seal and you're going to pick out the words with me. The joint production contract responsibility system is a national policy. It 's happening all over the country. It's happening in Hebei and Changshan. It's spread across the whole county. It's happening in all the villages and towns. Why can't we, Jinsha Nest, Move it , why don't you move it, move it, Changshan is Changshan , Jinshawo is Jinshawo , otherwise, why don't you go to Changshan, as long as they accept you, I will transfer your household registration for you now, are you trying to argue with me, are you trying to argue with me? That's right, you're making excuses and stamping , please stop saying a few words. Li Shuanghe, today you gathered a crowd to cause trouble, smashed the door lock of the brigade headquarters, damaged collective property, and stole the seal. This is illegal. Do you know it's not today? I won't argue with you . It's against the law, the members are not my Gao Haitang bones. I insist on stopping everyone from implementing household-based production and working alone. If you are willing, you can come to my house for a wedding banquet. I will not hold Gao Haitang accountable for this matter today. If you don't stamp this today, I will go to the commune and sue you . Go ahead and sue you. What? This is a commune. You want to sue me. I am a party secretary and a mistress. I have been wearing a red flower and a red flag every year for ten years . No one has said anything black about me. Go away, Secretary, Secretary, Go , Secretary. Let's go. Stop for me. What do you want to do? Dad, Daddy, can't leave. You have to stamp this. I won't stamp it . I'll cover you or not. I'll rob you today. If you dare to rob me, let's get out of the way . Let's do it. What? Let me go and go away. Li Shuanghe, what are you doing? Let me see who dares to grab another one . Who dares to move? Is there any law? Li Shuanghe , today is a happy day for our family. You brought a group of people to the brigade headquarters to cause trouble. What are you worried about? What bad water do you want to risk? Just do it, ladies and gentlemen. You, please stop interfering and go home and greet the guests. I'll go back and wait for them to bully you to death. Is this a chapter? You have to cover it. If you do n't cover it, we'll save you. My sister-in-law, Li Shuanghe, is bullying others . Li Shuanghe, what are you doing? Are you guys bullying a lesbian? Wang Fa, I'm not done with you today, Aunt Hua, Orchid, Aunt Hua, Orchid , Orchid, don't fight, sister-in-law, Grandpa , I can't do it anymore , Dad, Shuanghe, Dad, Gao Haitang, my dad is going to have a threesome, I'm not done with you, hurry up, hurry up, I won't be able to catch up. They walked for a long time because of the high rocks. They took a shortcut on the north bank of Tuohe River. The bride is coming. Why is there another one? Don't knock, don't knock, don't knock, don't knock. What are you doing? Pick up the bride. I didn't ask you to help me pick up the bride. Gao Shitiao didn't pick up the bride for you . Then who are you helping ? My brother Haruyuki already has a wife for a famous girl , yes, my brother and Haruyuki-nee are the ones who We are a match made in heaven. Don't talk nonsense there. I'm telling you, are you talking nonsense? Haruyuki and I are married by a matchmaker. I paid a betrothal gift. So what if there is a betrothal gift? Ask Sister Haruyuki whether she wants to go to your Gao family or not. We, the Liang family , just shut up, Liang Maishou. You, you are here to steal our bride, I will beat you. Do you believe it or not ? Gao Shitiao , please touch me and try. You will go back to me later. Gao Shitiao, what's going on? Don't hit you two. Don't fight. Come here . What are you doing here ? I don't care how you make trouble at home when you pick up the bride. You come to Yinshawo to make trouble. Are you ashamed to fight for the injustice of brothers ? I am not ashamed of you. What are you talking about ? Mother, go back and hear me . What does it have to do with you if I don't accept the injustice for Mai Stubble? Haruyue is Mai Stubble's mother. You don't care. You are obedient to me. Pull away. Pull away. Wang Jiumao Wang Jiumao, please go back and stop fighting. Stop fighting. Stop fighting. Stop fighting . Stop fighting. Stop fighting . Stop hitting my sister. She's missing. Brother Haruyuki, what's taking you so long? They said the Gao family is coming to pick up the bride today, so I don't know what to do. I ran out, Brother Zhu , I don't want to marry into the Gao family, come with me, Chunxue, we two Let's run and live our own lives in the ends of the earth. Let's live our own lives. (OK) No problem. Brother, no contact. (OK) If I want to run away with you , what will I do and my mother? They will never be able to raise their heads in Yinshawo and come to the village. People will poke the backbone of my family. I can't do it for myself. But what should we do if we don't run away and you have to marry Gao Shitiao Haruyuki? What should we do ? Brother, I promise you that I will never marry Gao Ishitiao in this life. But your parents have already promised to the Gao family. Then that Then I'll break off the engagement. I 'll go with you. No, brother, you can't go to my father. My mother will never let you go. If you go, they will beat you to death. I'm not afraid. That's not okay. Absolutely not . Brother Stubble, I will never be separated from you in this life. Really, Brother Stubble, can you hold me tight, Haruyuki ? Don't keep sneaking around like this. Trust me . I can make money . If I can go to your house to propose marriage, I will marry you openly. Believe me, I believe you. Why are you standing still? This stinky girl has been missing for a long time and you haven't looked for her yet. Dad, it's still raining outside. Where can we look for it? This is east of the river and west of the river. Isn't it okay to just touch her after searching all over ? She ran away like a girl Where can she go? No matter how far she runs, she still has to find her. She can't find her. Haruyuki and the Gao family can't explain it. From now on, you two will never think of marrying a wife. You put it on and go find her. Look carefully. How did a good marriage end up like this? Haruyuki is not feeling well lately. You mother-in-law, why didn't you notice anything ? It's all your fault that I didn't pay attention . Look, she and Gao Shitiao are already engaged. How could I have thought that she could come here? Here's a new wife. Look at this. What's going on? My son, what's going on ? How did it end up like this? Mom and dad, Namai collected nine cents and they beat me. Why did they beat you? For Haruyuki, Haruyuki couldn't find anything. Today is a happy day for our family. This bride has not been married yet . If we don't bring her to our house to marry her, it will be very embarrassing. The matter has not been clarified yet. Calm down and calm down. Your daughter-in-law is letting people go. He kidnapped me and you told me to calm down. I don't care. I like Haruyuki anyway. What's the point of living if I can't get married? I'm not alive anymore. Stop talking crazy. I didn't say anything crazy. Dad, why aren't you in a hurry ? After beating me like this and kidnapping my wife , Maishou also said that Haruyuki and his brother were born for each other . Why didn't you beat him? I beat them so many people and I have never beaten them. How could Maishou be so brave? No, then who in the Liang family is cowardly? This must have been Liang Maicha's idea. He asked his brother to cover up and then kidnapped Chunxue. Can your son lie to you? Isn't this a lawless thing ? What are you doing standing there stupidly? Hurry up and bring someone to settle the accounts with the Liang family. Look, look, look, are you talking but not thinking? You are a secretary. He can do this. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. Let's see what he does. Auntie Liang Maicai, what are you doing? Is Liang Maicai at home ? Are you looking for my brother? He's not harvesting wheat , nor is he there on the kang with your father ? What's wrong, Auntie , get out of here , father, Liang Maicai. Mom , what's going on ? Daddy, Lanhua, we just said we would go to your house for a wedding banquet. Look, it's raining now. Drink a shitty wedding banquet. What are you talking about? This is what you want me to talk about. Our family is having a big celebration today. My days have been messed up by your son. Do you want me to say something nice about your marriage? He and Mai Does it matter? What happened to my aunt ? What happened to your family? Liang Maicao asked Mai Shou to take someone to snatch my wife, and he beat me up. You made a mistake about this, did n't you? Who made a mistake about it? Come and take a closer look. Open your eyes and take a look. My son was injured. Can this be wrong ? Ah, look, Haruyuki can't find anyone now. He must be with you, Mai Stubble. You said that Mai Stubble and Haru Xue ran away secretly. If not, could I come to your house? What's the name of what your son did on my son's happy day ? I 'm telling you, I'm trying to steal a bride. That's called being immoral and saying things so unpleasantly. Could it be that Haruyuki disliked our police officer and hid on purpose ? Asking around in the ten miles and eight villages, who would dare to dislike our police officer? It's because your son has done nothing good and you have n't educated him well. It's no wonder that you can't educate an old deserter who has returned. What a serious son, shut up. What are you doing? I am not an old man who escaped. You are a deserter. Don't step on me. I will fight with you for my life. Beat me. Beat me. Orchid, what did you say and what did you do? You said you would get into trouble by talking to me. Even if I grab the board, I can't hit my old man. The upper beam is not straight. Liang Wai has never heard this sentence before. I will choose the words here today. If it is your family My son has influenced our children to beat us up. I will be with you forever. From today on, I will not leave. I will sit here and I will stay here and will not leave. This is simply a shrew. Who are you calling a shrew ? Okay, you robbed my daughter-in-law. If you call me a shrew, I will splash it for you to see . Smash it for me. Smash it for me. Smash it for me . Do n't smash it. Smash it. Smash their house. Don't smash it. Don't stop it. Don't stop it. Don't smash it . Don't smash it . Don't stop it. Don't stop it. Don't stop it. Let them smash it. Let them smash me. I want to see if there is any Wang Fa in this world. I tell you, old Liangtou, if you have the ability, tell me to take away Maisui , your brother and Chunxue. Do you know about the matter? I know that my brother has been in love with Haruyue for a long time, but her father and mother thought that our family was poor, so they agreed to the Gao family. So it is true that it was your brother who instigated the Maishou Jiumao and Erdan to snatch the bride . I don't know, but my brother likes Haruyuki. Okay, you all should take a break and rest outside for a while. Okay, you guys have seen Mai Stubble. What can I say about Chuangen that I told his parents ? What else can he say? Don't ask so many questions. In short, he will give us an explanation. Anyway, Mom said she will go there tomorrow. Yinshawo brought Chunxue back, but I'm afraid that Chunxue will run away with Maicha and I can't find him. What should I do, you slutty melon? It's not sweet. If the Yang family and Haruyue are not willing to just withdraw from this marriage, dad can't withdraw. Mom, this can't be withdrawn. Okay , why are you panic? Put your heart in your heart. Dad, how can you talk like this? You still withdraw now. Is it a matter of marrying or not? They don't take your book seriously at all. There is no way to break off the engagement. Caiyun gave it to grandpa. Caiyun, daddy, come here and see how you are, grandpa, grandpa , grandpa. Grandpa, grandpa, grandpa, you all blame me. Hurry up and send grandpa to the health center. It's windy and rainy outside . How can I deliver him? I'm afraid he can't be delivered, so we can't wait forever. Come on, Dad, I'm going to the county to find a doctor . It's raining so hard outside and the road is slippery. How can you get there? When I was a soldier, I often marched in the rain. (OK) Go quickly, come back, put on your raincoat , pay attention to safety, stop , why are you going ? I, you said, why are you going ? Did your brother ask you to snatch the bride ? It's not my brother. I went there by myself. I just want Gao Shitiao to get married. It's so damned. Baby, this bastard, bastard daddy, bastard, if you have the ability, don't come back to me. I won't let Gao Shitiao have an easy time. I'm so mad at him. What's wrong with his daddy, baby, his daddy? Dad , daddy Dad, Mom, I'm back . Dad , what's going on? Do you still know that when I get back, I'll ask the doctor to go . Brother, the doctor is already on the way. What 's going on, dad ? What's going on? Brother , did you ask Mai Shou and the others to rob the wedding ? Sister Chunxue's marriage? It wasn't you who let the wheat harvest Did you go there? When did I ask him to rob me of the wedding? The policeman and his mother came to the door. My father told them that it was okay . They smashed the house to pieces. Later, when Mai took it back, he was beaten by his father and ran out . He was stunned on the spot. Lying there with no breath My son, the Gao family is such a bully. Brother, I have to ask them to reason with you. You can't go now . They are looking for you. Now that you've lost your brains, I have to beat you out . I'll beat you. Brother, he even rode on our necks and shit. I'm still here. Can you bear it? You can't go to Qikai Stop the wheat stubble , Guili Baodui, it's you who are being unreasonable , mother, why am I being unreasonable ? Haruyue and I got along first, but her parents have already agreed to marry her off, and they all accepted the betrothal gift from the Gao family . It's only natural for Tiaozi to go to the bride's house . It's your brother's fault . I don't care what age this is. It's feudalism . They engage in arranged marriages and they don't get involved (OK). I tell you, no matter how much you talk about it, it still doesn't make sense. Both brother and father were You are so angry that you can't cause any more trouble. Just treat it as if it's for our father and mother. You can't cause any more trouble. Brother, I beg you , Xueer . Xueer , your clothes are wet when you come back. Go and change into something dry. Save yourself the cold. Stop , where have you been ? I went out for a walk. You dared to hit my daughter. You really pissed me off. You ran away on our wedding day. You brought shame to our Yang family. Don't force me, okay? I don't want to marry you. Why are you so ignorant of what to do? The Gao family The conditions are so good. If you marry Gao Shitiao, his father is also the party secretary of the brigade. If you marry, you will not have to worry about food or drink. Where can you find it ? I don't want to marry into the Gao family . Who do you want to marry? Dr. Chen, am I okay? It's nothing serious , I just ate it because I was a little angry. I'll be fine after a few days of taking the medicine. It'll be fine . Thank you. I'll go. Take it easy, brother. I'll go and see the good boy off. Listen to my mother's words to advise a girl like Chunxue to be a top girl. If she can't marry into our family, don't worry about it. You don't know her, she's not that kind She doesn't mind that our family is poor and is willing to live a hard life with me. If her parents don't agree, it's useless for her to agree . Who can say? You have a feudal mind. Stop causing trouble. Otherwise, your father and I will be really pissed off . Sister, come back. Where have you been? You are going to piss me off. Parents, why don't you give me a nice word to marry Gao Shitiao ? Do you want to marry Gao Shitiao ? (Okay or not) or not (Okay) I really have to beat you. I really want to beat you to death this time. Don't beat my sister. What are you doing? You're so angry. I'm here, I'm telling you, you're going to beat me to death I'm not going to marry Xue'er . The gift money sent by the Gao family asked me to use it as a betrothal gift for your brother. If you insist on breaking off the engagement, you have to return the gift money to the Gao family. But I have no money now and I can't afford to pay it back. Do you understand Xue'er? It's really hard to get in this girl. What you are doing is to drive the whole family to death. Dad, what are you doing? I locked her up. Even if I tie her up, I have to tie her up and take her to the Gao family. You are so mad at me. You are such a mother-in-law. Now, hold on to your father and hold it first. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. His father has taken medicine. Come on, come on. Come slowly, open your mouth, open your mouth slowly, open your mouth, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , come on, I have to go to the Gao family to reason with you . No matter how difficult it is, we can't just let it go. Dad 's medical expenses must be compensated. Okay , why don't you go and steal the bride first ? Then they can come to your door. When will I leave this tinderbox like you? If you don't blow it up, I'll go to Maisui. Tell the truth. Your brother, Maistubble, hasn't come back yet . Haruyuki is with him We are together. Then I don't know . You smashed my things and made me smell so good that I haven't woken up yet. What do you mean ? You want me to treat your father. You smashed my things and my father takes medicine. I have to pay for the medical treatment, you little girl. If you are so brave, dare to come to my house and ask me to pay for it. I tell you, I will smash your things and make you mad. Your father deserves it and your Gao family will be unreasonable. I will tell you again. Who are you trying to reason with? Please speak clearly. Who is being unreasonable today? Your brother Mai Zao encouraged me to kidnap my son and injured my son. Are you being reasonable? My son is a bridegroom and the bride has not married yet . The bride has run away. The whole village is laughing at my son. Are you being reasonable ? You can be reasonable with me. I haven't settled the accounts with you yet. What's the point of coming here to argue ? That's not right for my brother . You can't do that either. Just take it out on my mother. Your aunt is too impulsive, isn't she? Stay here, what are you doing ? Who can't stand it? It's their family who can't stand it. Let 's go back and tell your brother Maicha. If our Gao family doesn't marry Chunxue as our daughter-in-law, I will never end it with him . Why are you talking? Can't you get out ? Go away, do you want to go away? I said they are all from the village. Why are you making people jump like crazy? What are you pretending to be? You are such a good person. Why are they, the Liang family, so unkind ? I have to be unjust . You go out and collect the wheat and bring it back to me. Mother, just take care of him . He will come back when he is hungry. No one can make me worry. Is the attitude of the Gao family? Is it still possible? The attitude of the old Gao family is just asking for money . If I can't marry Haruyuki, we will never end it with our family.