- I do a lot of gardening, the dirtiest used up hoe I have ever seen. - All these rappers on stage and Martha Stewart has (upbeat music) - Aw, Natasha Leggero. This was my first time seeing you perform. You were really great, shoot out a single ping pong (audience laughs) - Justin Bieber, everybody! Seems like only yesterday you Time flies when you're a piece of shit. Justin, you've been on &quot;Ellen&quot; more than a pussy juice mustache. (audience laughs) Mine was better, Ludacris. Justin was born to a teenage single mom. No wonder he's got moves. He was in the womb dodging a coat hanger. Justin, Selena Gomez had to (beep) you. She is literally the least lucky Selena in all of entertainment history. (audience laughs) No, Justin, you're so successful. You're so rich. You're like our Beatles. Not the band, the bugs that live in shit. So Justin, I just wanna tell you, I think that you are well on your way to becoming a handsome young gentleman and I really think that things are gonna get And thank you for, thank you for letting Thank you, Justin Bieber. - Natasha Leggero is here. She's basically a complete unknown, but tonight, we're getting Ugh. Got you. Well, guess what, Natasha, you but I can never experience the Roasted you. Roast a far eye. Like a reggae guy. - Andy Samberg. Hi, how are you? Andy's comedy group is which is how each of his teeth feel. Andy, I'm looking forward of &quot;Dick In a Box&quot; at Lorne - Jesus. (group laughing) - Jesus. I love Natasha so much. This is Natasha's first roast, you guys. She's like a little Chihuahua, 'cause she's teeny tiny and she's feisty and she's filled with Mexican DNA. Just to be clear, when I I mean she's filled with Like from tons of Mexican gentlemen coming inside her vast vagina and also from her guzzling come. I just didn't want there - Sarah Silverman's had than Comic-Con. - Aziz, Natasha, Nick Kroll. I'm assuming you guys are but I think that is so dope to get up here even though no one knows who the fuck you guys are. - Jonah Hill, I loved you as a baseball and I love you as Rosie (audience laughs) Jonah was born and raised in He's a name dropper with big (audience laughs) - Natasha Leggero is here. And yes, Natasha, sometimes and so would you if you toured - Yeah! a fantastic set. Yeah, that was so funny. It's a shame she didn't say her jokes eight times slower though, so to catch 'em when they fast This is my impression of Natasha's set as it will be seen on Ladies and gentlemen, Natasha Leggero. (speaking in gibberish) Thank you so much, James. - The room is buzzing tonight and not just from the flies (audience laughs) Kim Kardashian is here. Oh, that's Aziz, sorry. I get 'em confused. They're both brown narcissists (audience cheers) No, Aziz is only in show business because he's too ugly to be a genie. My third wish, Aziz, is that you stop I saw your special. If I wanted to get yelled I'd read a magazine at 7-Eleven. No, they love Aziz in India. He was recently awarded - I taught Snoop that in business is diversification. Besides his music career, a porn movie. And by the way, Natasha, So I guess that tonight's with five Black guys. You know, I do a lot of gardening, but you are without a doubt, the dirtiest used up hoe I have ever seen. - All these rappers on stage and Martha Stewart has (audience laughs and applauds) - Yeah, that's not fair. - Now, this little bitty, fine little Natasha Leggero. Is that how you say it? Leggero? - No, but that's okay. that's how we say it. I seen how you was looking What I want to know is a Black (beep) before? Hey, I'm going off script right now. I just really want know. Hey. Hey, something about this pimping, man, you understand me, when I'm pimping, man, that shit just go every direction. - I'm excited Snoop's here. Snoop you look like Shaq's skeleton. (audience laughs) Kevin, you are everywhere. You know, Kevin's actually gonna be on the next season of &quot;Game of Thrones.&quot; He's playing Peter Dinklage's shadow. (audience laughs and applauds) Kevin does all of his own stunts. He climbs into his own chair. He climbs out of his own bathtub. He goes up on his wife. When I first met Hannibal, I was like, &quot;You are going to be a star.&quot; And when I first met Kevin, I was like, &quot;No, I don't wanna buy a candy bar to support your local James Franco. Acting, teaching, directing, writing, producing, photography, Is there anything you can do? No, at first I wasn't sure And then I saw &quot;Spring Breakers&quot; and I was like, &quot;Oh, he'll do anything.&quot; James has a new reality show coming out on the Ovation Network, wow. Finally, something so awful that even TLC was like, &quot;Nah, we're good.&quot; James, you're hard to roast. I mean you're so dreamy. I mean something about you, I just wanna take you you take off all your clothes, No, I'll fuck you, James. I just wanna put a bag Bill Hader, you are this Hopefully. Nick Kroll! Nick, your fan must be No, Nick, I love &quot;Kroll Show.&quot; You are amazing at characters. You're like a chameleon in that you have hideous (audience laughs) You know, a lot of people don't know this. Shaquille is an Arabic name for handsome and O'Neal is the Irish (audience laughs) Shaq's dick is so big, to send a dick pic. (upbeat music)