Good morning everybody, good morning, it's JPR, the most iconic items in the entire series. As the PokeBall, and sadly not all of them are know why I did that. But let's go over some Starting us off on the best side of things, we hold the title for most improved PokeBall. At the Dive Ball was arguably one of the worst in of 3.5, but only when it was used underwater. You catch underwater in Hoenn? Like....three. On top of catch multiplier of 3 on all water and bug types, but covers way more Pokemon. But in Gen 4, the most actual Pokemon have ever gotten, now on any Pokemon that you encounter in a water or by fishing. Not to mention, it's just both in terms of the design and the effect when Pokemon looks immaculate coming out of this ball. ball with the infinitely less useful Lure Ball. by Kurt from Gen 2.....too bad Kurt wasn't a better catch multiplier when Fishing in the Johto based in Heartgold and Soulsilver, which is probably those games. Now the Lure Ball is actually quite whopping 5 times multiplier when catching hooked one of these in the entire Alola region, not to so even there it's not super useful. In Sword and which still makes it better than a Dive Ball still incredibly scarce, you may as well keep be what the heck happened to this ball in Scarlet in Gen 9, the Lure Ball was changed to function on any kind of aquatic Pokemon. But because Game is currently glitched and does not give you any two DLCs, and countless bug fixes later....yeah is literally useless. Also even if it did work Swinging the pendulum back to the side of Kurt I'm not talking about yours, and I'm things. Rather I'm discussing the Heavy Ball Ball from Pokemon Legends Arceus. Aside from the Pokemon in the back of their skull and give it also helps that this is just the objectively iterations of this ball will grant you the from behind in a normal battle, regardless of not. Which means the Gigaton Ball's default catch it better than an Ultra Ball. The only thing irreparable cranium surgery, but hopefully Back to the worst PokeBalls though, let's discuss again! The Heavy Ball gives you multiple different you're trying to catch is. Unlike most PokeBalls 20, 30 or 40 being added to the Pokemon's base up worse. In Gen 2, the generation that the Heavy +40 when used against only one Pokemon in the from 25 to 65. But a regular Ultra Ball would IS better, but only marginally, and only for the higher weight tiers either aren't catchable in when you use an Ultra Ball on them, making the Pokemon have been introduced over time, for some The highest tier that grants you +40 was phased to +30 now. Also, in Heartgold and Soulsilver, actually lowers your chances to catch any Which is essentially.....every catchable Pokemon A regular PokeBall is actually more effective time. But even by today's standards, the amount of any kind of a substantial bonus from the Heavy less than 5 species this thing works decently on. completionists: The Quick Ball. This is and convenient PokeBalls in the entire it grants an amazing 5 times catch multiplier. 70 is nearly guaranteed to be caught every time, them on a Shiny Pokemon or the Internet will you for it, but somebody definitely will. Quick Ball! Now you gotta subscribe to it's just the way it is, so thanks in advance! we're actually not coming after you again for a works very well on low-leveled Pokemon, granting a of which spawn in the wild, I might add. And PokeBall. This also means that if you're trying will just be better. Honestly, this ball feels that spawn at low levels already have extremely Pokemon games don't give you Nest Balls until the being effective. In Black and White, the first Pokemon on that route till the end is Level 30 than a normal PokeBall! I'd say this feels more but honestly, I have to commend Kurt for once, he ball! The Level Ball functions similarly to the in relation to the Wild Pokemon. If your Pokemon then you have a straight up x2 multiplier, you're double the wild Pokemon's level, you get a you get a massive x8! The only strike the ball is glitched to ignore the wild Pokemon's in every other game, this is one heck of a ball! the Dusk Ball! In fact, it's one of the few needed to be nerfed, and is still considered the Dusk Ball would give you a massive 3.5 times during night time! That's absurd, just for you can make this ball just as good, if not better Even after the ball got nerfed to a x3 multiplier around PokeBalls in the series. And like the Dive But sadly, Gen 4 did not hit all of them out of definitely the Heal Ball. It is mildly convenient to have any kind of an effect once you have a buffed as of Gen 8, since Pokemon are no longer but still, for the vast majority of the series, a Heal Ball just saves you 20 seconds it's barely even a convenience. Well, so maybe young kids actually vibe with this I also quite like this ball and its visual it feels like they didn't really think it through. outside of battle it could be seen as halfway Alright, buckle up kiddos, because we're coming we're supposed to be adults! And since you've a little something about the Timer Ball! The impressive when it was first introduced, as it its max potential. But in Gen 5, the Timer Ball after only 9 turns. Now, it only takes 4 turns and after 7 turns, it's better than a Dusk Ball. this one actually has the highest catch rate whose battles more often than not last a bit But back to the worst, we have to discuss the Love from us. This may be one of the most ridiculously incredible x8 multiplier, but only if the wild of the Pokemon you're using! But, as with most Gen where it grants you the bonus if the wild Pokemon it wasn't a glitch, and Game Freak was really Although, it's only slightly more niche than the Moon Ball. Which gives you a x4 catch Moon Stone....it's a pretty short list. And to make 2, I know, big surprise! But instead of this ball no effect. Yes, even when used against a Pokemon to work on....the ball just never gives you a just be based and use the one you get on the use than that ball is ever gonna get elsewhere. Ball! The Dream Ball is a rather strange Gen 5 as an event-exclusive ball used for to the Entralink. It was mostly forgotten I mean, until Generation 8 inexplicably making it so that they have a x4 catch rate on this does not stack with the 2.5x rate that kinda ridiculous, so I suppose 4x is pretty solid. to see how they retooled it into something useful. horrible, no good, very bad PokeBall, we have the which is actually good! In Gen 2, the Fast Ball Pokemon that could run away during battle. If you don't worry, neither did I until very recently. run at any point in a battle, though realistically Togetic, Porygon and Eevee don't appear in the I dunno, I didn't make these games! But apparently that have a 10% chance of fleeing, Pokemon that have a 100% chance of fleeing. Also Entei, Raikou have no idea why. Not that it really matters, that only the Pokemon in the 10% group actually this group include? Magnemite, Grimer...and Tangela. ball works on. In Gen 4, this ball was overhauled stat over 100, which makes a lot more sense epitome of speed. So now instead of affecting only ....Unfortunately, a lot of them don't spawn in but at least it's a lot better than it once was. unfortunately, so hey, if you wanna help me this video and subscribe for more videos just