They were designed to be the best... they met enemies face to face, endured tragedies and enjoyed victories... they went down in history due to the bravery of their crews... they are the ships that deserve to be called "Naval Legends!" In this episode: Battleship New Jersey--the most Naval battles in the beginning of the of warships for decades to come. The country that had the could be considered an After World War I the U.S. and to build the most powerful fleet. By the end of the 1930s U.S. that was destined to end the era of The necessity of building the Japanese assault on China in 1937. All the leading countries of the world realized During these combat actions, the Japanese had heavy cruisers with How could they oppose these ships? A decision was made to build battleships In 1939 the General Council of the U.S. Navy that was able to reach a speed of 33 knots. The main ship of a new class named A powerful ship with powerful armament, It would reach 33 knots according to the project. Some destroyers are USS New Jersey became the second ship of its class. Her construction started at a Philadelphia but after the attack on Pearl The battleship was launched on December 7, Total displacement: 57 and a half thousands tons Length: about 887 feet Beam: 108 feet 3 inches Draft: 36 feet 1 inch Armament: Primary armament: Nine Mark 7 Caliber: 16 inches Dual-purpose artillery: Twenty Mark 12 Caliber: 5 inches Anti-aircraft artillery: Twenty quadruple Bofors gun mounts Forty-nine 0.8-inch Mark Air group: Three Vought OS2U Armor: Main belt: 12.1 inches Primary armament turrets: up to 18.7 inches Conning tower: up to 17.3 inches Maximum speed: up to 32 knots Range: 20,150 nautical miles The 16-inch rifles on the Iowas were Beneath me, where I'm standing, there are powder handling, and just motors to This is a 1700-ton turret mechanism that I'm standing on. A powder magazine with 110-pound powder charges in silk bags was adjacent to the stationary part of a turret. They were transported to the loading compartment This arrow goes to red to let I'm gonna open this, the bag will come out, and then I'm gonna roll the bag into here. And then I'm gonna let them know, on the other The sailors here would stay in here and Let me show you how all this works. So, once the powder bag is in the scuttle, they've put it there. Then we have to open this one. That brings out the 110-pound powder to lift it and then put it right And there'll be three bags here, three bags here. When the elevator car came down, they would push in would bring the bags up to the gun house, so that they could be put into the rifle. The munitions themselves can vary in design, So, 16-inch shells, similar to these, you could It would be just too heavy, too unwieldy. As it is, these things are pretty much projectiles separately from the propellants. First of all, a shell should have Shells were stored in a two-storied annular A separate hoist was Normally it would be slid over to the hoist, would use this handle, pushing it all the The loading process takes about 30 seconds all that's left to do is pull the trigger. First, we have to let everyone So we sound the salvo alarm. Around a ship it sounds like... Then we're ready to fire. This is the manual trigger right here, Ultimately though, the design comes down 7.62 rifle you have at home. There is a driving band usually copper, the grooves inside the cannon. Then it goes bang, the blast recoil comes back, open the breech, of compressed air, put another in, pointy end first, Mark 7 guns installed on New Jersey were considerably They had the same diameter of 16 inches but the barrel of Mark 7 guns was longer, and, accordingly, its destructive potential. If we take a look at the biggest they had a caliber of 18.1 inches. It's an enormous barrel, two skinny However, they used heavy shells, It didn't matter how long the their shells had a lower muzzle velocity. So, the primary armament of Iowas, New Jersey in particular, but was on par with the power of 18.1-inch shells of Yamato. The diameter is smaller, but the power is And that was unique. However, all the ship's engineering would be nothing without her crew. It's the crew that makes her At the moment of launch the battleship's Later, when the Pacific campaign was in full swing, It's really difficult to understand how all these Of course, the battleship was very big, it's quite hard. Imagine: nighttime, the ship is And all of a sudden... General quarters. Airborne threat detected. what's happening. They run reflexively without needing And it's all very simple. On the starboard side you run And there are many airlocks on the way, and going up and down the stairs, and the first However, in just two or three minutes everything Nobody is running, all men are Everyone is already at their post and And then comes the battle, the shooting starts. You have to stay at your battle station If there is no such order, you have to And all 3,000 men know this drill. The battleship New Jersey, nicknamed &quot;Big J&quot; by her crew, underwent her baptism by The objective of a U.S. operation was to capture Nine aircraft carriers, seven battleships, of other types took part in the offensive. When any major combat formations are on the The advance guard. Screening, reconnaissance, and so on. Two battleships were assigned to the avant-garde. Two heavy cruisers and four destroyers, in addition. This powerful force was acting as the avant-garde. On this day, the Task Force encountered a Japanese two destroyers, and the The balance of forces did not leave Even without using her primary armament sank three enemy ships; only It's noteworthy that this 30-minute became the first and the last encounter of Iowa-class In later service, ships of this class used their armament only against New Jersey demonstrated that battleships had started Aircraft carriers and carrier aviation became At the same time, we need to can't fight alone. It would be too vulnerable. Battleships became reliable Thanks to their excellent sea-going capabilities they formed an integral battle New Jersey had to use all of her anti-aircraft whilst protecting allied ships. If you watch newsreels from that time, you'll Let's ask ourselves: where Who was shooting? It was battleships that provided the main They took positions around carrier task tactical groups in the main direction. And that became their Up until the end of World War II, to bombard positions of the Japanese army The battleship took part in fighting off enemy air in the Philippine Sea, and provided Thanks to the well-coordinated New Jersey didn't receive any significant She also performed brilliantly in U.S. in the second half of the 20th century. Korea, Vietnam, Lebanon, and the Persian Gulf. "Big J" received 19 battle stars and is considered New Jersey showed her colors in With the arrival of missile technology, the ship combining her incredibly powerful The Iowa-class battleships have a unique fate. They began service in 1944 and were in only 2012. Battleship New Jersey stands For example, Iowa, Wisconsin, and Missouri while New Jersey managed to distinguish And she was the only ship from the legendary four Battleship New Jersey is a museum now and there are of the American people. A sailor who served is someone that can be proud of their