50. Mario Party Superstars It wouldn't be a Nintendo list without other than Nintendo's favorite party of minigames offers hours and hours of 49. Kirby's Return to Dream Land Deluxe Kirby's renewed adventure brings in a familiar yet the improved visuals, fun 4-player co-op, and its there are a lot of options for you to 48. The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword HD The HD Remaster of the Wii classic. This Joy-Cons, making Link's journey the original. Hacking and slashing with ever. Now you can literally throw 47. Crash Bandicoot 4: It's About Time Crash's eighth major entry to the series takes journey to stop Doctor Cortex... again. It's About challenge and level designs of the original games. gave a refreshingly familiar experience with the 46. TRIANGLE STRATEGY The tactics genre has found its niche latest foray into strategy JRPGs draws us into apart from others is its non-linear story with 45. Pokemon Sword &amp; Shield The first main Pokemon game our introduction to 8th Gen. The Galar Region but with Sword &amp; Shield's Dynamax and Gigantamax 44. Ring Fit Adventure The Switch wasn't just for collecting players who want to burn calories are welcome a creative way of blending the dopamine The Ring-Con is a unique controller 43. Dragon Ball FighterZ When it comes to fighting games on the Switch, of the closest things Switch players have to a While fighting games are usually the the Switch has no problems running FighterZ's 42. Pokemon Legends: Arceus Game Freak's first open-world Pokemon game and visually appealing as the new Zelda game, but it untamed wilderness teeming with Pokemon calls 41. Bayonetta 3 Cereza's character action trilogy It's the most action-packed Bayonetta game to combat. The game's unrelenting, especially 40. Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch Ni No Kuni's gorgeous Isekai adventure Ghibli game. From its iconic animation, The Wrath Of The White Witch is a 39. Dragon Quest Builders 2 The sequel to Dragon Quest's sandbox major improvement from the first places to explore. With the addition your friends and make your own adventure 38. Astral Chain Before Bayonetta 3, Astral Chain was the blueprint to the next level. Whether you're exploring its your Legion, the game's level of optimization 37. Super Mario 3D All-Stars A collection of all three Super Mario 3D great way for new players to get to know Odyssey. But if you just want to revisit major change for all three titles except for 36. Final Fantasy XII: The Zodiac Age Believe it or not, this is the only Final one of the series' strongest entries and it they reworked the original's combat, making it the 2006 version. As a result, it's the definitive 35. NEO: The World Ends With You This is the sequel that fans have The World Ends With You moves away from the gave way to enhanced combat that doesn't means the Shibuya scrambles are faster 34. OCTOPATH TRAVELER II Eight characters, eight different when it comes to Octopath Traveler. If this is a game to put on the 'must play' list. a bright future for the genre thanks to a 33. Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze This Nintendo Wii classic makes its Kong's renewed vigor in this enhanced port Aside from its notable visual upgrades, brings something fresh to newcomers 32. Streets of Rage 4 Arguably one of the best brawlers out there, their classic side-scrolling adventures. Much fun to play this with friends! Take back the OR go online with up to 2 players. 31. Splatoon 3 Splatoon remains one of Nintendo's best seasonal updates and DLCs. You can compete with your teammates in Salmon Run. Splatoon 3's 30. Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition The definitive way to enjoy Shulk's starting point for players who want to get on music and gameplay. This fascinating a bizarre atmosphere that 29. Danganronpa Decadence A visual novel power pack that includes all three spin-off. It's the complete package of Monokuma's It's a guaranteed 100+ hours of class trials, 28. Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope The second chapter of Ubisoft The turn-based strategy gameplay in air from jumping over Koopas and Goombas. bigger experience with its strong focus 27. Super Mario RPG A 1996 classic revitalized for newer players. this version of Mario has to wait its turn Super Mario RPG world is rife with of Hope, this remake is a nice change 26. No Man's Sky A science fiction playground for players who No Man's Sky on the Switch is a technical it's still impressive to see how this game runs but it's enough to take us to 25. Shin Megami Tensei V The latest Shin Megami Tensei isn't trying to continues to embrace its grim atmosphere with the game's biggest change is its quality of you're dungeon crawling, but its gameplay 24. Teenage Mutant Ninja The past few years have been good for Ninja the many resurgence of our favorite Turtles. The April are all coated in a retro art style. It local. Whether with friends or strangers, taking 23. Kirby and the Forgotten Land Kirby's latest adventure takes our favorite say that it was Nintendo's version of The Last eating. The Forgotten Land's attention and to top it all off, Kirby's voracious new 22. Luigi's Mansion 3 The second Mario brother had his own 3 takes the spooks and puzzles to with friends but you don't have to worry third installment that doesn't detract 21. The Great Ace Attorney Chronicles Phoenix Wright's 19th-century Ancestor to CAPCOM's successful visual novel they shake the foundations of London's of objections and deductions. With its and hours of well-written whodunnits that 20. The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening A remake of its 1993 Game Boy hit, this its dark undertones. If you dive lot of strangeness in every corner. This adding a diorama-like world filled with familiar 19. Monster Hunter Rise Considered as the most accessible Monster first-time Monster Hunter players. It may but many of its features are made easier to its buildcrafting. With the addition of giving you more control of your Hunter. If you a whole lot of new endgame content for 18. Pikmin 4 The niche Pikmin community has found of a kid-friendly strategy game is made even includes new Pikmin types and a selection of thinking. Not only that, its post-game 17. Super Mario Maker 2 A treasure trove of creative levels awaits for people who just want to make their own limitless possibilities for your dream Mario to ridiculous torture chambers. Either way, 16. Fire Emblem: Three Houses The best Fire Emblem game for the a celebration of what makes the series memorable characters and smart tactical gameplay. that's open for first time players. Who knows? 15. NieR: Automata The End of YoRHa Edition 2B and 9S story has come a long way. of the best action games of 2017. adding more flavor to its existential themes. game yet. Fair warning though, there's a 14. DRAGON QUEST XI S: Echoes of an Elusive Age Save the world of Erdrea and explore slay and secrets to discover. XI S excels ultimate JRPG fantasy. It's a fantastic Hero's 13. Metroid Dread The latest side-scrolling Metroid. series' future. It knows what makes the mechanics to surprise longtime fans. planet feels familiar...until you get chased by 12. Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury A definitive version of Super Mario 3D with more content added to the already-packed Wii new levels for anyone looking for a challenge. 11. Xenoblade Chronicles 3 A grand adventure with over a fresh cast of characters offers their own making the journey more than just going from ends from the previous entries, adding 10. Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Nintendo's premier 'fighting' game has already 'Sora' into the mix. But even with its curtains treasure trove of character crossovers. You can 9. Mario Kart 8 Deluxe An enhanced Mario Kart 8 experience best things from the original and adds racetracks. New Courses are available could also get them all for free if you have 8. Super Mario Bros. Wonder The latest Super Mario Bros. game lives trip into Mario's side-scrolling adventure. new mechanics inject surprises that subvert 7. Animal Crossing: New Horizons Therapy in videogame form. New Horizons' wholesome simple joy of talking to your anthropomorphic Couple it with endless Island customizations, your animal friends. Its Happy Home DLC bringing in new tools and more reasons 6. Ori and the Will of the Wisps The sequel to Moon Studios' emotional game was sad, this one takes it to makes the platforming adventure even better provides seamless options to traverse and 5. Hades We're down to our top five starting with is a phenomenal roguelike about Greek gods with it is a game that never runs out of juice. like uncovering secrets, beating your record sim elements. It's a content-rich game and we 4. Metroid Prime Remastered Easily one of Nintendo's best works. It was to newer audiences. This Remastered version is couldn't be possible on the original. Every level the same. With its success, here's hoping we 3. The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Link's first steps into open-world for videogames. There's always whether it's finding a Korok Breath Of The Wild influenced a whole generation 2. Super Mario Odyssey The best Mario game on the Nintendo Switch. Odyssey manages to introduce fresh concepts Donk City is a haven of enjoyment and it's made Odyssey takes you on a grand adventure 1. And the best Nintendo Switch game of all time is none other than The Legend What a time to be alive for a Legend Tears Of The Kingdom are two giants that just improves on almost everything the original has Link's daunting quest to save Princess Zelda is made even better with the new tools the land and the abyss are merely obstacles Tears Of The Kingdom is truly one wait to see what lies ahead in the series' future.