- [Narrator] Meet Walmart's Alphabot. This robot spends all day at the company's market and it's key to speeding 95% of its orders can be In the shipping war Walmart is leaning into the cutting edge, investing in drone delivery and automated fulfillment centers. - By 2025, 65% of our stores - [Narrator] Here's how the is going high tech to deliver This market fulfillment to a Walmart Supercenter Of all the company's MFCs have the smallest footprint. - Walmart is the largest They have added many more often using groceries so that was a big evolution of their online business as - [Narrator] In the back of the MFC, this structure holds 6,000 to 8,000 of the most popular - Our automated market fulfillment centers separate the inventory from the goods that customers are shopping These are appended to our back rooms or appended to our supercenters. That separate inventory and the machine-level accuracy ensures that we're picking the right items at the right times for our customers. - [Narrator] Order fulfillment starts here where items are scanned - We have about 175 bots The bots move laterally, to retrieve customers' goods. - [Narrator] Each robot can carry a single milk crate-size from minced garlic to 24-packs of soda. When the system receives your order, robots begin bringing your to this picking station. At the same time, other for the items to be collected in. These lights show the to take and where to put it. - Instead of a user picking a product and then walking, walking, one piece of automation to the picker, so it does through the picking and packing process, which inherently drives - [Narrator] When all have been collected, the where they're scanned and labeled. The crates get pushed a Here bins from room temperature, fridge, and frozen picking are consolidated so that a customer's entire Any items that were handpicked are also brought here. Now, orders can be picked delivered by a Walmart driver, or in limited locations, often within hours. All of these options are available because the facility that's already close to the customer. Like Target, Walmart has when it comes to faster delivery, a web of more than 4,600 More than 4,000 of those directly from those locations. Target, on the other hand, of facilities that would of sorting and delivery duties. - Our stores provide a great advantage when it comes to fast delivery within 10 miles of 90% of the population. - A few years ago, Walmart to using most of its stores They're trying to kind than they would have in the past and find ways to kinda use all the stores that they already have instead and it's very expensive to build e-commerce fulfillment centers. - [Narrator] But most stores to handle both physical - You may ship product from in that retail store actually wanted or went specifically to purchase, and so you may be disrupting that in-store shopping experience. - We're making substantial in our distribution centers to ensure that we can get the right items at the right time at our stores. We are also making significant investments in the digitization of our supply chain. We're utilizing AI and ML as well as improve placement of inventory in our stores and our fulfillment centers. - They wanna basically build that is specifically to so they can do it fast. They can have a higher quantity of orders that move through stores. - [Narrator] Walmart now has with plans to open over 100 But investing in MFCs is abandoning the traditional that relies on huge dedicated warehouses. Walmart is also investing that it calls next generation Three have already opened. At 1.5 million square feet, these centers are fully automated. - Our next generation FCs, can access 95% of the US population with next day or two day delivery. - They're gonna see and gravitate to and what they can afford, what makes it a little - Customers are willing to to get their product much faster, and that race for speed is of factors, including You're seeing more and more to compete with traditional retailers. They're able to provide that and that's really driving expectations for many other retailers - [Narrator] As e-commerce and bigger share of overall retail sales. - Walmart is experimenting and hoping that some of them stick. We're kind of back to 2019 in retail. A lot of weird things that impacted the business. Now they have to get for every dollar. - Speed is important within this space, but what's also important We don't always ship things Sometimes customers want at a specific time, and we aim to meet customers - E-commerce delivery, to your doorstep in any form Walmart is trying to take to Amazon, which uses advertising dollars or cloud computing profits to offset the cost of fast delivery. - [Narrator] Customers also Walmart+ members pay $98 with fees for delivery within hours. But one of the most important cost savers could be Walmart's - What's sort of striking is that as Walmart rolls out what a warehouse job or because Walmart's the in the country. Some of the workers that I to these new roles said who haven't made the leap afraid of the technology. It's such a different job, they just don't necessarily - [Narrator] But Walmart says it's not shrinking its workforce overall. - As we've talked to our associates, we talk about how work is Today they may walk anywhere lift hundreds of items or move cases, driving powered industrial equipment. In the future, our associates be cell operators. They're going to be These are the roles that will require them to use their problem solving - [Narrator] All of that in the pursuit of undamaged when customers want. - To deliver the perfect order, we're investing in digitizing to ensure that we have the right items in the right locations at the right time. We're investing in automation so that we can have right-sized packages, so that we can have fully and so that we can have the to ensure that orders are fully accurate when they arrive on customers' doorsteps. - Walmart still has a long way with Amazon on e-commerce, but they're a bigger company than Amazon, and Amazon hasn't quite so they're actually competing in interesting ways on multiple fronts. - [Narrator] In our final the customer, and your experiences. (upbeat music)