- You are not looking at a yellow ball. Your brain might think you're but look closer. The screen you're watching this red, green, and blue subpixels. The yellow your brain thinks a mix of red and green light. The camera I'm talking to of red, green, and Again, no yellow. Of course, I have the so I am looking at a yellow ball, or am I? (light mysterious music) After all my eyes aren't so The human retina only has green, or blue wavelengths of light. To perceive other colors, we from those three cone types. When yellow light enters my and green-sensitive cone cells, although not as much as pure With red and green-sensitive my brain tells me I'm looking at yellow. This is how our technology, our cameras, and screens, and projectors into seeing a whole rainbow of colors using just three wavelengths of light by triggering our three in different proportions. So is the ball really yellow? What does yellow even mean? A lot of people would say that color is the wavelengths of light In other words, like Aristotle thought, color is a property of the object. But looking at the same ball on a screen, your eyes only sensed red and green light, yet your brain still So it's also possible, that color isn't a property but a phenomenon of the mind instead. But whose mind? Because we aren't the only animals that can see the world in color. - We oftentimes don't really think about how other animals see color. So for example, we buy or orange toys that are only and not for them, because or red as being distinct from green. - [Derek] So maybe we should from more than just the human perspective. Doing that might just evolved in the first place. - We're actually towards the lower end of the spectrum, honestly. We're a step up from our if they're cats, or dogs, but not nearly as good as butterflies, birds, fish, Jumping spiders are harmless They don't ever really much of a threat to humans. Of course, if you were a small insect, yes, you would absolutely of a jumping spider. - [Lisa] They'll take like two, or three times - The Chinese word for jumping to fly tiger, and that's the is the kind of small - Jumping spiders are everywhere. They're in your backyard. They're probably in your kitchen. - There are about 6,000 species Some are sort of furry, striped, spotted, red, green, blue. Pretty much anything you can imagine. It's like every one is - As a group, spiders aren't I mean, most species are nocturnal, and for many, their webs act so they just don't need to see that well. But jumping spiders, as well, they're different. Not only do they have great eyesight, but different species have Look at those eyes. - Jumping spider eyes are fascinating, and when I say eyes, I mean eight eyes. Jumping spiders split up and light sensitivity to some eyes, and then color vision and fine The pair of eyes that are or most unusual are what and those are the really big that make jumping spiders if you're willing to say and those are built unlike any other eye in the animal kingdom. - [Derek] It turns out the way jumping spiders perceive with the anatomy of those principal eyes. - [Nathan] They're really actually built a lot like a Galilean That big lens that you see from one of two lenses in these eyes, and in between those two lenses is a long fluid-filled tube. At the end of that fluid-filled and what that lens does is that first lens projects and in that way, it increases by the retina that sits right below it. - [Derek] And when it it's hard to beat a jumping spider. - For most animals, the bigger the eye, the better it functions. Jumping spiders absolutely The secondary eyes can see the world about as well as the absolute better than the world's whose entire head is consumed by an eye. The principal eyes, they can actually see pattern in the world better than a lap dog, a house cat, an elephant, and nearly as good as but it's a very narrow slice It's about like your thumb - [Derek] And it's only in that jumping spiders can - So the jumping spider's a full 360-degree view of the world. Now, imagine most of When you see something move, And now, anything that's you can add to this world fine detail and color. But you can only do it moment by moment. So you're really kind of about color and pattern that It's a wild world to try (bee buzzing) - As they sweep their some species of jumping spiders are adding a lot more color information Most jumping spiders, including meaning they have two types in their retinas, just like - [Nathan] And by comparing and how they respond to they get a coarse understanding of color. They can tell the difference between UV, violet, blue, and green. - But some types of jumping with three types of cones, like humans, and other are tetrachromats, like birds. (light music) The weird thing is all these species with expanded color vision aren't necessarily close relatives. - In jumping spiders, even from closely related groups, in how well they're able Jumping spiders are the ability to see color in different ways. - That makes jumping I mean, consider primates. Old World monkeys, apes, and humans all have but we also share a common ancestor. So our color vision and then it stuck around. This is where jumping The ability to see red, for example, has evolved several Researchers know that, because they've figured out how different groups are related, and by they, I mostly mean jumping spider fanatic Wayne Maddison. - Oh my gosh, Havaika. Fantastic! Beautiful male. Ah, it's been, it's been a live Havaika. - [Megan] He is absolutely His expertise really is in - I work on the evolutionary The evolutionary tree of life is basically the pathway of genetic - [Derek] The position on this evolutionary tree with the traits they have. Like if most jumping but two species on two very chances are that those two species evolved those abilities independently. - In which case, then we can what's driving that evolution? Do they have similar ecologies? Do they hunt similar prey? And try to really understand what selective forces are leading to these expanded color vision systems. - It might help them find food, or discriminate tasty prey - [Nathan] Because, of course, lots of small insects and some of them are to advertise that they're toxic. - [Derek] Another a richer world of color from lizards to spiders, To test these ideas, the which of the 6,000 species expanded color vision and which didn't, and outside of a few well-studied species, no one really knew. So the team set out to collect spiders from every major branch of the - One of our first things is and what to look for. And so, it's a lot of - Let's see who lives here. - [Derek] It's kind of like &quot;Pokemon GO,&quot; except the Pokemon are real, they're smaller than and they're really good at hiding. - Some jumping spiders have evolved to be really fine-tuned So for example, there are termite-eating that you're only gonna There was this one in piles of bones in South Africa. Who knows what it was doing there, but we quickly learned that that was the only place in the environment we were gonna find it. And so, that's part of the fun of it. I feel like it's a bit of (light music) - With no proverbial stone left unturned, the team returns to their representing many different species. They want to figure out which species have expanded color vision, how It's actually a hard question to tell how animals can see color. We can't just connect our So how do we do it? - [Nathan] We begin by using a technique called microspectrophotometry. It's a really long word. What it simply means is a that measures different a spectrophotometer. - [Derek] The researchers of jumping spider retinas, and then they measure the by individual cone cells. With enough of these measurements, they can tell if a species is a dichromat, trichromat, or tetrachromat, and what wavelengths of light its cells are best at detecting. But that's not the whole story. - Having that knowledge of what is, or isn't possible but it doesn't actually or how they might use that. And so, the gold standard for establishing that an animal can see color - In other words, we somehow what they can see and then Figuring out what's going on inside a spider's mind is difficult. It's no surprise that it takes a group of expert zoologists to do so. But our own minds can yet we rarely talk with to help us interpret our Whether you're feeling depressed, anxious, or are just stressed and a therapist lets you see things from a different perspective, and that's where today's I know finding a therapist can be intimidating, especially to the options in your city, but BetterHelp lets you get around this, because it's an online platform, and they make it really easy to connect with a professional therapist, who can help you work through It's easy to sign up. There's a link in the description, betterhelp.com/veritasium, and after answering a few questions, BetterHelp will match you with one of their more Each therapist is licensed, and has spent over three years and over 1,000 hours with people. And if you don't click you can simply switch without things getting awkward. If you feel like you'd benefit getting advice, feedback, and help, then visit betterhelp.com/veritasium Clicking that link both but it also gets you 10% So I wanna thank BetterHelp and now, back to jumping - These animals are particularly motivated to investigate things that move, and these responses - [Derek] The theory is simple. You show the spider a that differs from the background in color, but not in brightness, and you see if the spider tries to follow. - [Nathan] The problem with actually turn and respond is but it changes some of what they see. So what we want is to over what the spiders can - So the researchers hold them in place with tiny magnets attached to their heads. - [Nathan] What we do is we They actually hold it with their feet, and we can monitor how that to know where they would want to go. - If the spider turns it's probably trying to look to the right to follow the moving shape, and that's evidence the between the colors of the (playful music) Once the team knows which the next question is how do they do it? What's different in the DNA and discriminate more colors? If you ask Megan Porter, a that encode proteins called opsins. - The way that animals to have different copies and those variations then that are sensitive to The first technique with a new species is called and this is where we of a jumping spider, and for every single gene that - [Derek] This method gives of all the genes being expressed, in other words, all the genes and sent to make a protein. Then the team can figure out where each of these genes is expressed, in which eyes, and in - And we do that using a fancy technique called - [Derek] The researchers basically create glowing molecular tags they're interested in. - [Megan] And then looking in the right color, we can figure out where each opsin is being expressed, where the protein is located. - The team is especially that are expressed in the These are the genes most to changes in color vision. Already, this process of asking which species have expanded color vision and how they accomplish it has led to some surprising discoveries. The researchers already and discriminate more colors among jumping spiders. But they hadn't realized just how widespread this ability would be. After measuring 45 species the team has already found as many as 12 independent In evolutionary terms, jumping new expanded forms of and different species have acquired their new visual capabilities Take, for example, the ability to see red. Most jumping spiders and UV-sensitive photo But some species became sensitive to red when their green-sensitive opsin gene was accidentally duplicated in the genome, and the new copy started to evolve, shifting its sensitivity - So in our eyes, that's The opsin gene for our was duplicated, and the more red-sensitive, and we see this happen over in jumping spiders. - But other jumping spiders see red in a totally different way. Rather than evolving new photo pigments, they added an internal filter to some of their which cuts out green light, and forces those cells to respond only to longer wavelengths, like red. - They can basically from the same type of photoreceptor simply by using a filter and not in front of others. - All this evolutionary innovation makes the original question Why evolve expanded color That's the question Lisa For a visual predator, better color vision could It could also mean avoiding - [Lisa] And so, a lot of prey their toxicity with bright colors, and particularly with such as red and orange. So we're testing the idea that the ability to use color vision will help and continue to avoid - [Derek] In this experiment, Some have a dab of red and others have a dab of gray, - And this doesn't affect They still move around naturally, and the spiders really - [Derek] The red with a compound called Bitrex, which is actually the most - And yeah, it turns out it tastes disgusting. So we can simultaneously and independently manipulate - In other words, the researchers can make the termites red and or if they want to mess with the spiders, gray and bitter, or red and tasty. The first part of the experiment Basically, the spiders get of termite prey, each one in - [Lisa] In three of the Petri dishes, they get a red-painted, and then the other three Petri dishes, they get a gray-painted, As they interact with this prey, they are constantly learning and it's constantly being reinforced that whenever they attack something red, they get a mouthful of and whenever they attack something gray, they get a mouthful of tasty termite. The first spiders to go Habronattus pyrrithrix, because we know that they that extends into the long wavelengths. - [Derek] Habronattus that can see red using a red filter in front of some of its - [Lisa] Our data so far suggests that the spiders are really - And once they learn the rules, then the real experiment begins. The spiders hunt for all just like the termite buffet except that for half of the spiders there's a big difference. Some of the termites are still The color cues are gone. Now, the question becomes do the spiders that have in other words, the ones are still red, do they do better? - So our data so far show when they have access to those color cues, they lay eggs sooner, and that they're also heavier if they're in the treatment group where they have access to color cues. - One hypothesis for why primates evolved expanded color vision is to distinguish ripe from unripe fruit, or tender new leaves in other words, telling good kind of like what these spiders are doing. - Here, we've got this kind of and we're gonna repeatedly test that in other jumping spider species that have different forms of color vision. - The team predicts that spiders with expanded color to their advantage. So they'll do better which prey items taste bad. Species that can't see from the warning colors, If the data support these predictions, these will be some of the first to reveal an evolutionary and discriminating more colors. But feeding behavior because the spiders had some - For example, there's a in Central America called Mexigonus, where males and only males sport incredibly bright red colors that they use during courtship. - We thought for sure the female has gotta be distinguishing it from other colors. They've gotta have red color - And it turns out that at they don't have the ability to see red. They just have UV and in those principal eye retinas. - I don't mind being proved wrong at all. It usually means something more exciting, because it means that, oh my and new in the world, right? And you've learned something new. - So what's going on here? To help answer that question and maybe understand why to one another with colors they can't see, it's time to revisit the - Instead of just one retina like we have, they have a stack of translucent retinas right on top of each other. - One thing that we think to correct for a problem that the optics present to the retina. It's called chromatic aberration. - Most optical materials, refract, or bend short wavelength light, like blue and UV, more strongly than long wavelength light, like red. That's chromatic aberration. Lenses do this, too. In photos taken with you can often see a fringe of color around high contrast edges. The sensor in a camera is a So getting the different in the same plane is critical. Modern camera lenses correct using complicated optical designs with lots of lens elements. - But the other solution is to put different color-sensitive behind the lenses, so that the colors that they're sensitive - That's exactly what and this gets us one step what red might mean to a spider In the jumping spider to shorter wavelengths are and those sensitive to longer But most jumping spiders are dichromats. They only have two cone cell types. So why have four layers in their retinas? - [Nathan] Typically, the bottom, or farthest away from the lens two tiers, we call those tiers 1 and 2. Those are both typically And with a retina like that, an object in that world might in tier 2 than in tier 1. - [Derek] Researchers in Japan have shown that jumping spiders can in focus to perceive depth and distance in their environment. - But there is a liability It only works if you're just like green. If you start to mix in for example, red, then Essentially, colors like red of being close, or being and that would provide a totally different perceptual - So a jumping spider's red to another jumping spider, but instead create a But why would a male spider benefit from displaying an optical illusion? - One thing about jumping spiders is that females often are quite aggressive towards prospective mates. In fact, they can often eat the male rather than allowing So these males, when are really actually in many instances. - [Derek] If a female than he really is, that or maybe confusing the female - If she can't quite figure she might stick around paying and this might result in better outcomes for the male at the end of courtship. - [Derek] And amorous the only ones exploiting - So imagine a red prey item. We might look at it and &quot;and it's warning birds that it's toxic.&quot; But another possibility is that it's red simply to look like it's so that it has a better We also see small insects with red and blue patterns on them, which would create a really that might simply baffle it, and require it a longer period of time before it judge this distance. Even a split second can really matter. - But in this tiny game of cat and mouse, a spider that could see and would be a lot harder to fool, and this could be another of color vision, one that isn't - And what we really need to ask whether, or not this is really good high of the distances of things in their eyes, including the retina and the - [Derek] This information from preserved specimens but there is another way. (light music) By using a particle accelerator called the Advanced Photon Source, to collect high resolution X-ray videos through the spider's exoskeletons. - This has never been done before. It's in X-ray, so we can and we can see how these - [Derek] If the spider's the shape, or length of their eye tubes, that'll affect what they're - It would change how It would change how they experience color. Previously, this information has only been collected from dissections. So we're very excited to get of the inside of the spider's head as it's performing - Unfortunately, a few months the Advanced Photon Source that'll take over a year to complete. So it looks like we'll have for some of the answers the - We know that the retinas and that they maybe have between Not only can they be moved but in the vertical plane, and they can actually be twisted to change the orientation - The question is how do what the spiders can focus or even how they perceive color? It's this connection between focus, depth, and color that makes these - It opens up all sorts of questions about what color is in the first place. (light music) - It's already clear a lot to teach us about color vision, how and why it evolves, and how many forms it can take even within a single group of animals. (gentle music) If our understanding of their the experience of color might even be three-dimensional in a way that's totally different And we haven't even talked like their ability to When you think about it, you realize that the even with all our technology, is just a sliver of what's out there. (light music) - If we owe anything to the world, it's to allow the world to be experienced in the fullness of itself. I think this is one of the is the loss of oftentimes of experiencing our world, a way of experiencing our world that we probably couldn't even imagine. - So color, what is it? Is it an intrinsic property of an object, like Aristotle thought, or something that exists only like Galileo believed? Maybe it's not an either/or question. - My belief is that color through the evolution of and the world that the eyes see. Color as a thing emerges this evolutionary dance between what can be sensed about the world and those that are sensing it. - It's that dance playing out that created the colorful and shaped the countless ways that we and our fellow (light music) (graphics beeping) Come to me. Okay, not that far. Ah! (Derek laughing) They're not called jumping Yeah, come on.