[applause, cheers] Thank you! Thank you very much. Thank you very much! Thank you so much. [applause continues] It's fine, sit! Thank you! Thank you very much. When Mark Twain first emailed me about I have to admit I totally misunderstood, I assumed that I was being asked to honor somebody else who was receiving &quot;Oh my god what a hassle.&quot; I mean, seriously, who would I have to go all the way to Washington DC and make up flattering things to say about how funny someone else is? No ------ way. (laughter) And then, I reread the email, and I me! I get the prize!&quot; And my attitude about the I don't know--honestly! I really don't know what I was thinking, and in beautiful Washington DC no less! Anybody would be lucky to be a part of a night like this honoring (laughter) As a great fan of the so sorry when I recently (laughter) My thoughts and prayers go out to the whole Twain family especially the wonderful Shania. (laughter, applause) Unfortunately the President of the either, even though he lives in the Mondays through Wednesdays. (laughter, applause) I am so lucky to have been on television isn't that ridiculous? It's, you know, the just as good at drama. Yeah, I'm gonna trivia, the the very same week that I got for the juicy little part of Portia in production of The Merchant of Venice someone else eventually played the role happy that I didn't get that part played Elaine on Seinfeld, and without you know it worked out great, totally None whatsoever. Anyway, into some serious thank-yous. Abbi and Ilana, thank you so much out of your busy schedule just to be audition for Merchant of Venice, okay, I I nailed it, okay, so I'm just a little me. That's all, that's all. I'm not upset I love my career. Uh, so, um. Where was I? Oh yes yes yes. Keegan! Oh my god, Keegan Michael-Key! I thank you so much for being here on my have made a mistake. okay? Portia's speech about probably know the scene, I mean right now, because that would be a pretty intelligently and energetically tribute to me so, ahem. Kumail, thank you for being here. were able to co-opt your wife's nomination. (laughter, applause) Bryan Cranston, you are a truly work with, you know when I think of us on You want to hear it, right? I can do Shakespeare, okay? (laughter, cheers) (clears throat) The quality of mercy is not strain'd! It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven upon the place beneath! It is TWICE bless'd. It blesseth him that (laughter, cheers) Thank you. Thank you. And Stephen Colbert, my fellow being here, you were my every night hero eyes to you woo-woo-woo. (laughter, cheers) Stephen used to play a manic depressed liberal, THAT is range, It is so great to see Lisa Kudrow here, setting me up just like in Seinfeld, and just like in the old days And my darling, dear, sweet, Tony Hale. If I weren't and Bryan and Keegan and if you weren't already definitely get your opinion about any (laughter, applause) And Tina Fey, you are a comedy genius Tina was honored with the Mark Twain serious about who they And thanks to my wonderful neighbor Jack Jack Johnson, but for the love of God evening? and finally to my wonderful from Jer over the years, principally, the Jerry killed himself to make Seinfeld it is, actually, it is impossible to make the show successful, because they worked even harder, and I hope, I I grew up here in Washington DC back &quot;rule of law&quot; period. (laughter, applause) Being funny was a big part of my growing first person I remember telling jokes. She was in her 90s, and I was really little, and she would do these extremely teacher having life-threatening seizures, anyway! either way, I realize now, that it was offensive, and she was way way out of hilarious stuff! My mom and dad got also hilarious! My mom is actually here tonight (laughter, applause, cheers) Last year, I was lucky enough to get an which was an incredible thrill and it Emmys by somebody for doing something or was diagnosed with cancer-- I'm only half-kidding, of course cancer isn't at all funny, but has been finding the funny moments. The old cliche about medicine turns out to be true, which is administration is trying to replace (laughter, applause) When I was getting my hideous and friends into this tiny treatment great laughs, of course I was heavily consciousness, so I was probably a pretty laughter is a basic human need along subscription. There's no situation, of laughs, everybody needs laughs. So the make people laugh for a living is one received in my life. (applause, cheers) According to Wikipedia, I have two sons, You know when you're a working mother, you really worry about try your best to be there as much as miss stuff, and you worry that they're all kinds of angst and neuroses when Mark Twain Prize, (laughter, applause) I'd also I'd also like to acknowledge my just marry because his name sounds like was getting the part. Brad never fails to one. He puts on a suit, he puts on a smile, spouse in the world. Thank you. (laughter) Thank you so, so much, And finally, thanks to Mark, and Mrs. participated in this exhausting evening. Thank you so much, and good evening and thank you. (applause, cheers)