- Big, wide, and thick. Things that you may or depending on where, when, and But you can call me Theodore because we're about to talk that feels like the equivalent of having a rope tied around your waist and not in a good way, being thrown into water only to find out that you're That is what it feels like And that is how the Dodge do. I'm Alex, @alex.fi in Instagram. And today we're gonna that continues to be of the seas when it Even though it can honestly on the road in a straight at any point with A car that comes from a of the last few domestic to the roots in their vehicle production, because they just don't give a sh- A car that makes everyone and immediately say, &quot;Family, family.&quot; I can't even, &quot;Family.&quot; Ladies and gentlemen, today we're gonna be to own a Dodge Hellcat. (car engine roaring) And if this is your first time, that's okay. Hi, I'm Alex. Welcome to Fitment Industries. We started this a couple to help people find what and suspension for their vehicle. Got through that sentence. So we made a gallery where you can enter in your year, make, and It's pretty honking big. And if you haven't yet, be sure to check us out over If you're looking for aftermarket wheels, Why talk about the Hellcat, Alex? It's not a sub $10,000 car. Well, okay. I get it. I understand it's a but it's still a pretty fun car. And let me teach you why this car may or may not be the right fit for you if you like one fun smiles, two fun, and three fun smiles, okay. The Challenger, which is what the trim was originally a value for the full-sized Coronet. It, well, did well enough, that in 1970s it broke into its own name. It had its ups and it had its downs. And then it had its really far down, particularly from 1978 to 1983, because it was an import But for the most part to bring the Challenger once it would allow it. So in 2006, it would come back. And it would come back And it looked a little bit like it probably wear a white tank top on a Sunday morning for breakfast whenever you were turning around. In 2008, it would get in bed with Daimler, which would give Dodge some which was a really good merger for them or acquisition or partnership, Mostly from Mercedes-Benz of these parts would come from. That would start their Challenger in 2008 with a whole little nice revamp. And that's where the car Specifically in the rear which came from the W211 E-Class, and control arms from the W220 S-Class. They're kind of just borrowing The merger worked for Chrysler. And it worked extremely well. So much so that Dodge on the design of the most into the new age horsepower wars that was coming into the mid 2010s. It worked because in 2015 they introduced the Dodge Challenger SRT Hellcat. Derived from the American American Grumman, okay, Hellcat fighter aircraft Dodge took the name to associate with it's brash, aggressive, The engine of the F6F still than the demon or Hellcat, 'cause it had like 2000, Which really doesn't make it as impressive now, does it? That's fast as an airplane. Why'd you buy it? So why did Dodge make a 707-horsepower, supercharged 6.2-liter HEMI V8 with a name that aligns with Because they could. And this is really the And it was pretty much the in the muscle car category when it came to just simple horsepower numbers. Previously on the top of the podium was the which ended up still being short four to five-horsepower compared to this new big red somewhat The brand new Hellcat would but what really touted it And it just couldn't keep but to run an 11-second stocker, which was nuts. Which is why Dodge One for a peasant 500-horsepower, which was lame apparently. And then you'd get a red key, give you the full 707-horsepower. The car was also noticeably with it missing a headlight for airflow, wider wheel wells, and some arrow that makes you think you out a small bird while Just so everybody's aware, please take off the bumper dart. Please do that. But they did build it because they could. And that's actually a the director of SRT And that is honestly, that's just badass. And that's everything with this car from the power plant creation being done in secret and hopes to sideline to the fact that you could get this power out of a very, relatively, from a dealership was just nuts. I mean, it was something of the woodworks and a because new. They were coming in around $60,000, and they stayed around that. And it buckled the decline in the traditional passenger car sales which were occurring by nearly doubling its for the platform. So much so that Dodge has of additional trim options, more crazy horsepower and an interior that doesn't feel like my Jeep Cherokee Latitude edition. Because honestly, that's the one thing that they It was the interior. It's a little rough. But for $60,000, I'm It doesn't matter if or if in you're a leather seat, when you're going 180 miles an hour. And that's why we're done talking about the history of That's not what we're here for. You want more of that? Go watch Vin Diesel take his Hellcat off like a 30-story building or something or jump off to hair or punch the ground and I don't know family. But the car is sick so here we go. No, we are here to talk of these bad boys. So you want a Dodge Challenger Hellcat. Alright, well set down any from your friends about your car and grab your favorite change of drawers, because we're gonna talk about what it's like to actually own one of these king that cap feeling cars. If you're looking to own a Dodge Hellcat, there's a couple two, tree things that you're gonna want to because these are just a little bit still, a little bit more expensive. Number one, Dodge built and if ego was built into a car, this was the one Dodge did it with. And they touted that the entire time. What this means for you is that if you're buying a used variant, which you were likely going to, you're likely going to be, you're going to be picking up a little bit of what we would call a damp towel, okay? Because for the most part It just is. There, it's a damn tire shredding. It's a 700-horsepower, drag-prepped, fanatic car. And don't believe anyone that says they didn't do when you're looking for one. There's no way they didn't, okay? They did. They're just hoping It's your job when you go to notice those things. Because a lot of times, there's going to be a And because of the first thing I said, lots of potential issues revolve around the accelerated and the wearable items that Keep an eye on the following. You're going to have or you will see maybe some shredded tires, transmission drive system failures paint work touch-ups And because it's a Chrysler, the good old classic gear, selector, and stereo, specifically in the first couple of years. They did kind of sorted that and making it little bit higher quality. But it's something to keep in mind. The first year that Hellcat came out, it was rated extremely well by J.D. Power. And if you maintain the car, You just need to pick it up from somebody that actually cared about it. But a lot of these cars were owned by 45 year olds going and treated this car like you with lunch trays on the rear because you wanted to drift around the planet streets Don't tell me how I And then I hit a mailbox. Also remember that the gas Weather alignment will cause this car to likely sit more than you think. But if you're looking for or something that not many people have in the scene right now, you're going to wanna get a Hellcat because they are a banging good deal. As long as you don't mind because you really don't You're going to just And because you're young, you're going to have an Most people are going to end up going with a wider wheel set up. If you do end up going with usually a 20 by 9 1/2 and 20 The wider wheels do do at filling the wheel well without losing too much function. And the wider or taller wheels, the diameter helps at a time. After all, it's either 90% or if you want to be a cool cat, you slam it on air suspension. Because the cars are with filling inside, slamming the car on the crown, gives it an incredible look These cars from factory are not low in any way, shape and form. And you'll actually notice that they feature a little bit of a rate. So the aftermarket suspension does help tighten everything up. It seems like the Hellcat that does get a little bit of flat. Mostly around its weight, obvious focus on straight I get it alright and simple designs. I mean, there's not really But if you're looking for a car that fits into the younger enthusiasts community, like the WRXs, S200s, Type Rs, this isn't going to be the car. And it was never really built for that scene to do that stuff. It was built to give a that question Dodge's commitment to making a car that conventional drag racing, that wasn't going to cost six figures and really never wanted to to begin with. It's a $60,000 car that was new and it's not like that no other car in the And if you get over the and the fact that it's still just a little bit wonky and wide, this is a car that you'd fall in love with in absolutely no time. It's a cheaper version of a with more power stock. It's a Mustang with more presence. It's a Corvette that doesn't It's a car that will likely teach you that JDM isn't the only for $40,000 use. And that may not be a bad thing. Because having a little variety in the seat didn't hurt anybody. If you've ever knocked the Hellcat, find a friend on the Then while you're changing your check out your local marketplace where you can make a Because there's not many times I've found people not for like ripping two or in a 700-horsepower car. You just can't not enjoy that. I don't understand how you could enjoy, like how do you not enjoy that? But what do you think about Too much? Not enough? Maybe a little bit in the middle? Here's a little intake, suspension, slammer on the ground, some 20 by 9s, 20 by 11s? (screams) It looked so good. But if you're looking for and suspensions, be sure to hit us up over where we have everything for your newly acquired I'm Alex from Fitment Industries. And we will see you later. Peace. (rhythmic outro music)