but there's already a new version. 19.1 is here. It's a minor dot While major releases dot releases refine Small changes can bring massive improvements Here's our favorite update in 19.1. We're starting on the media page. Version 19 introduced Resync bins. When entire folders were you could right-click on This would trigger where the media lives, looking for new files Now, that process There's a new Automatically Resync Media Files. Now, if I add media to that folder, Resolve will automatically You can see these have now appeared in How cool is that? You'll be pleased to know that when they have been moved or Instead, the clip That prevents the loss of if a file is accidentally moved, deleted, or if there is some So in other words, Resync but it can't remove them. Please note that the Resync where the entire folder was imported or by using the Create Bins It's not available There's a couple of new options They are found in the Retain Embedded Audio Manual audio syncing, in case you In this instance, I'll find the slate. Now I can load the appropriate audio. Line up the playhead with And when I hit the link button, Take two. Obviously, there's But when using this manual method, and replaced with the linked audio. Retain Embedded Audio will This needs to be turned on Whichever process the audio metadata Retain Video Metadata This is super useful, lots of metadata and syncing audio will destroy that. There's a small change to the There's a new option It is now enabled by So look out for it. Let's see if you can spot the difference. On the left is a On the right it is enabled. In past, the audio tracks and That means the reduces to match Now with the source audio option enabled, you can control how One last small addition we liked. You can now export multiple Just have your timeline Timelines, Export, and Time to hit the edit page. We'll start nice and simple. In past, dragging of your timeline would That can be annoying. For example, if you with a million audio Now, you can choose With the option, By the way, some of are now in their own sub menu. While we are on the topic of audio, Previously, it was possible to using a compressor and sidechain. It's easier to use, means it can react rather than after the person has It could only monitor This plus button can be used to add Now the ducker will respond It's common to use record talent, for The editor or sound mixer This process is now allow you to change In this example, my with two mono audio and is in a As you can see, I currently This new contextual menu allows you to now Even easier, I can access this menu and right clicking on the clip. The other way of changing the selected under audio configuration. Just use this drop down to Our preferred method though is as it requires the least clicks and This setting will only If you'd like to make a permanent you can still do that like normal by using clip attributes or While we're in the Audio It's now possible to This is super useful when whether that's two lavs or a poly-wav from a pro-production with separate channels Previously, it wasn't possible to The volume control in the Inspector which was a one of your lavs Not good. As a result, there's a new control. In the Audio Inspector, you can This action is called Trim. Like with all Inspector across all the instances of a clip. We'd recommend so that those settings get applied For now, we're done with audio Moving on to Fusion Effects. Fusion Effects now cache automatically. We love the Smart Render Cache mode. It automatically caches OpenFX effects, Fusion titles, Fusion compositions, Fusion generators, Fusion transitions. But it never used Well, now it does. Whether you use an inbuilt or a custom Fusion effect that you when you enable the those clips will Like this. Fusion FX filters are also cached project settings is enabled. The search function in the Previously, it only It now searches So you no longer need to put all your So happy to see this implemented. A big thank you to Here's three Does it take you ages finding You'll love We often get We hear on streaming or on social media, but we can't license But if you enter that it will suggest tracks from that match the rhythm, energy, and genre. This saves so much time. Secondly, if you want to tweak a song, you can use Audio's Those are separate Now you can remix the song yourself. And lastly, a to the library of Audio normally costs $200 a year, but right now you can get an using the link in our description. That's insane value. Supporting our sponsors is an Thank you for watching. When you have in and paste always placed rather than where your playhead is. Now paste operations use the Render in place is great You can now use To that end, the dialogue has changed. Now you get to specify that you chose the render settings. And by default, Resolve has supported In particular, the is super useful for Another useful tool is Match Frame. And the Match Frame to better support these Let me show you an example. I've created a timeline of selects, and I've created a I've used the both as a nest of the selects timeline and I've used clips from the My focus, as you and that's super easy to tell Remember, the setting for If I hit F for Match Frame, it loads the nested and finds the matching frame. It never did that before. The rest of my timeline To be clear, these Let's position the In the past, if I hit Match Frame, it would have and matching frame But in this instance, because I have that selects it will search for that that's loaded in my source viewer. Here, I'll show you. Notice how it didn't load the Instead, it found the that's already That's new and that's very useful. I'll explain more in a moment. You might not have known this, but the Match tool also works in reverse. Let me give you a quick demo by loading this Now, if I hit the Match Frame button, it will find that clip and That's not a new feature. That's already in Resolve. What is new is that this also works with Check this out. I'll load that selects I have my source viewer and as you can see, it's and of course found the correct frame. Let me show you something even cooler. I will delete that nested timeline and put my focus back in When it can't find a it will look for Look, again, it's found a matching frame even though it's not a nested timeline. We love little improvements like this because it takes a but it now works whether that's source This new match frame for comparing I can load one and one version in the timeline and use the match frame Whether my focus is in it allows me to find the For extra points, you and watch them at the same time. Super cool, right? There's one other cool new feature When the Decompose Compound and you have a timeline track destination controls will Here's a small but mighty feature. enabling and Every track whether it's audio or What if you don't want to In past, you need to Now, you can just click and drag. That's so much easier, and it's a so it's nice to see it It also works for all the other track header controls like You get the idea. One final feature. We're putting this in the edit When adjusting Inspector, you can Mac or Alt on Windows. It makes the control less sensitive, Pay attention to where I'm clicking. It's on the number, not on the slider. Now let's check out If you are a mini There are new controls There's two new controls. The control point knob allows you The control point to move that control This adds welcome functionality to the Do you use node stacks? Do you use group grades? If so, you can now use because node stacks In Project Settings, if and you enable the final node stack layer will now be processed after the Here's an example. These two clips I've got the first clip selected. Group preclip is executed first, then the clip node then the group postclip, then the final clip node stack layer, L4, and finally, of L4 is not a group So that means even this node tree only To demonstrate that, I a strong color cast. As you can see, that grade is not present on the second clip. This sort of control of So if it confuses But if this new please drop a comment below and tell us how you're gonna use it. The next feature is useful In this node tree, you'll In the triple dot menu, you can turn on a feature called &quot;Track Let's choose something distinctive. Now if I make a change to a node, its If you're collaborating on a And that way you can This is a great feature. We would love to see a way to reset the color of nodes so and start tracking Here's one last tiny feature. You can now choose the A lot of the audio the Edit page also Here's some specific extras. Audio tracks can be duplicated Not only are the track settings Audio tracks can now be Combining these two easy to duplicate a You can disable the original, making it easy to roll back Tracks can be reordered by Here's a super cool feature. In past, when Fairlight would you the rest of the clip. Super cool, as it that you want to completely obscures Not super cool. Now, in 19.1, it on top of each that you're extending, but also It's even better for finding Gliver page. There's a new entry in the Timeline resolution This fixes a small issue that In past, the resolution and frame update to match the resolution That's awesome. However, when you would the resolution or frame In the case of a render preset, that it won't automatically update to In the case of a render job, then change the You'll see the render job has Now sometimes when you want it to be That's fine. Define one. And sometimes when creating a render job, again, you want it to That's fine. Define one. But whenever you want to preset a render job to inherit the the timeline, just set these fields to Simple, but so effective. We love small updates like these. They might not who've had those One more. If you have multiple jobs in your render queue, you can now That's another small but mighty feature. I like it. One last thing. Finally, dual screen mode now allows the secondary screen to If you'd like to run other your second monitor as well Nice. Oh my, that's a dot release and We've not even covered everything. Those are just the We'll try and put links Let us know what your favorite If you're new to Resolve, whether that's because you're a new another NLE, we've If you want a taste of it, check out our free Masterclass free sample lesson. Sure, you can try and figure things out yourselves, but if you and work effectively, there's no And hey, a big thanks to Supporting our sponsors and using the affiliate links in the of supporting us and our channel. Thanks everyone so much