In 1860, Florence Nightingale heralded when she established her Inspired by the horrors she envisaged nursing and safer care for all. 25 years later, a woman would emerge who would be her direct antithesis. Instead of seeing nursing she used it to gain their trust In today's episode of Well, of Jane Toppan. Jane Toppan was born in Honora Kelley to Irish parents at some point during the mid 1850s. As the uncertain birthdate may suggest, details about her early life are sparse. What we do know, however, died of tuberculosis and her two sisters to be raised Alongside being a heavy drinker, with some of his actions One story states that he once tried But there is little evidence Whatever his mental state, saw the two youngest, Delia and Honora, taken from him in 1860. The pair were then placed in the Boston despite its name, Honora would spend just under two years as an indentured servant Ann Toppan. Indentured servitude involves a person to supply labor for a set number of years In Honora's case, she worked in return Toppan. Honora would take Ann's last name but was never formally adopted by her. Despite this, Ann insisted to something less Gaelic as she held a deep seated dislike of the Irish and thus Honora Kelley became Jane Toppan. She would spend many years with Ann even after being released Indeed, she would continue working even after Ann passed away It wouldn't be until 1885 the Toppan household She also decided that and so enrolled at the Cambridge School in 1887. She quickly found herself but she faced them without complaint This demeanor led to her This image was a far cry from After leaving the orphanage, but found it difficult to make friends. This was largely down to her penchant and spreading barbarous falsities Despite her newfound popularity, of spreading gossip about those two occasions, this led to the subject Her patients, however, were largely spared not because she liked them all, she'd simply take the situation You see, while she liked Toppan felt She would openly state that she thought and so she began to run her own Jane was particularly interested the science of drugs, When left unwatched, she would often to elderly patients and observe While these so-called experiments they would soon result in death. Instead of guilt for her actions, and she and the poisonings continued. She began to administer atropine reaction and at the same time It is thought that during her Toppan killed at least 12 patients. Others she would bring to the brink of to fool her peers in to believing Even the patients she liked as it is thought that she would drug she got on well with in an effort In 1889, Jane's nurse training came to an end, an amount of time before she could qualify To this end, at the Massachusetts General Hospital. Things started well for Jolly Jane, General kept a closer eye on patients On several occasions, and the high dosages she was giving to However, instead of suspecting foul play, they simply put it down to ineptitude. During her time at Massachusetts General, new angle to her crimes A patient named Amelia Phinney was placed in Toppan's care after an operation. She states that the nurse gave her which caused her to convulse and drift Jane climbed into her bed, while telling Amelia Toppan was then disturbed by someone Amelia survived, some kind of fever dream. Despite her Toppan's reputation and she was suspected So when she decided to leave the ward her bosses seized on the opportunity After a short stint as a private nurse, Toppan Once there, along with elderly patients, to poison Unlike her previous stint at Cambridge to give overly high doses rate of those in her care though, this was put down to incompetence As she had not served enough time her nursing license as a freelance private nurse instead. This switch and, despite numerous claims of her she had become one of the most successful This boom didn't Toppan was now lodging at an address along with the landlord, By all accounts, the couple seemed to be But according to Jane, 83 year old So he became her next victim. Two years later, By now, Jane felt untouchable and murder had become second nature. While her victims to this point her next murder In 1899, she went on vacation, renting a cottage on Cape Cod. This was a regular getaway for Jane, latest visit wasn't just to get some rest This time, she had invited her foster Elizabeth was delighted to spend some time with Jennie - Jane's She was very fond of her Jane saw things differently. Growing up, AnnToppan had never been shy in telling Jane exactly Elizabeth was her real daughter, the Irish castoff Although Elizabeth never felt that way, of the bitterness and anger Several days into her what doctors described which left her in a coma We can only imagine what Jane may have whispered into her victim's ear Words of comfort, or did she seize this You'd be forgiven of the last person her lust for murder However, you would be wrong. Even before the death of Elizabeth, Jane had been setting her Moving further away from her earlier M.O. of ending the lives of those her next victim's use was all too evident. In fact, Myra Connors was, She was also the matron of St John's that provided a good regular wage, Jane coveted the job she was quick to offer her services. Unsurprisingly, Myra Conner's condition quickly At her funeral, the murderous nurse played as she spoke to the Dean of St John's. She explained to him as Myra was planning to take an extended In fact, she was going to recommend that Jane stand in for her The Dean offered her the role, Jane said she would accept, stating Her nefarious plan had worked and she now But it wasn't to last, after a year This setback would have left her furious, betide anyone who should dare Unfortunately, a woman also named Mattie to have a pointed conversation Mattie on Cape Cod, After Elizabeth's death, the couple waived That was in 1899. It was now 1901, and despite her still using the property, In an effort Davis traveled from Bourne She found Jane boarding with a couple Mattie then had a brief conversation Jane went to fetch her As she drank it, she may have noticed Toppan had laced the water with morphine. She would often use carbonated water When Mrs. Davis took ill, the Beedles When a doctor arrived to check on her how the diabetic Mattie had eaten a cake With seemingly nothing to be suspicious of already on site, the doctor left The devilish Jane toyed with Mattie, so as to keep her in a hellish limbo Touched by the care they believed final days, the Davis family invited her Everything Jane Toppan tried and she now felt as though With this in mind, she decided to push the envelope It's claimed and around the property, she had apparently seen Something else A tin of arsenic kept inside a shed. She had never used the potent poison previous murders, However, to her victims would prove too tempting. A new deadly plot was soon afoot. After the death of their mother, had gathered around Alden, and were also staying at the house. Genevieve, in particular, was hit Where most would see a person Jane saw an opportunity. To Alden and Minnie, she feigned worry as she had apparently spotted her With the seeds planted, once again, when days later, Genevieve died With the taking of one's own life her death was recorded as heart disease. Perhaps hoping to secure the holiday home Cod permanently Jane Toppan's efforts Two weeks after Genevieve's death Jane put an end to her father, Alden, his death being put down to grief. It would be mere days of the Davis family Toppan asked her to sign a piece of paper, for renting the holiday home on Cape Cod. Minnie refused, and her fate was sealed. As a final insult because the first large Minnie unable to swallow she administered Doctors put her death down to exhaustion. Despite this, and despite Jane's belief that she was untouchable, in the space of 40 days And so it did, with one man in particular, Minnie's Despite initially being quite taken his attitude towards her began to change Toppan inject something into Minnie When he challenged her on this The incident played on his mind, but he didn't act on it Minnie's husband Harry, who informed him that on her deathbed, Mary would flinch and seemed panicked Captain Gibbs A doctor named Ira Cushing He had seen a bright and sprightly Alden and was perplexed The doctor contacted Captain Gibbs used their connections Soon after, the bodies of Mary and Genevieve were exhumed to be examined, John Patterson, was assigned to Tail Now she was finished with the Davis family in an effort to place the final piece of her grand plan into position. The death of Elizabeth had left Oramel Brigham, alone and vulnerable. With his wife's death, This was the ultimate prize for Jane. The unwanted child who was never good to the castle. With it being unlikely that the property upon Oramel's death, she would have to use This time, and replace her sister as his wife. While her goal was different, the best way to bond with Oramel And so her next victim was his sister, Edna Bannister, This new approach doesn't so Jane decided to change tack. She poisoned Oramel, No. This time around, by nursing him back to health. Once more however, her advances were rebuffed. Enraged that she was pregnant with his child. This was a lie. And once this approach failed too, With her experience with the drug she would have known how much would need This doesn't seem to have been her goal, and after a short stay in hospital, She then retreated to New Hampshire, where she stayed with a friend While she had been trying and failing report revealed traces of arsenic With this discovery, it wasn't long before In no time at all, local and then national newspapers Though Jane had only been charged dug deep to discover that Toppan left in her wake and wasted filling their pages with lists of those Surely this meant case closed a home run. Sadly, no. When the case went to trial, that had since been found in both sisters However, you'll recall had only been used in Genevieve's murder. How could it also be found in her sister? Had Toppan slipped up? The answer came when the undertaker, for burial, revealed that arsenic was a main ingredient This revelation The defense was handed another boost that the Davis family doctor, This gave Jane the out of claiming that his evidence would clear her It would be the man who had initially set who would inadvertently save the case against Toppan Frustrated Captain Paul Gibbs In it, he stated that he thought the prosecutors that she would use such an easily He posited his belief that she had, and atropine in the murders, and as $500 Alden Davis had on his person This sparked the investigators and prosecution revealed traces of both drugs A pharmacy owner also came forward stating he had sold Toppan Now, armed the prosecution pushed if a raft of new charges The session took place in December 1901, came to the conclusion to be indicted on these new charges, The media storm around the case turned up a face from Jane The Boston Herald had managed with a woman named Jeanette Snow. She was Jane's biological cousin troubled childhood, and the fact In January of 1902, Lawyer Fred Bixby joined the defense team and with the case and papers raising many questions he pushed for her to be examined In March of that year, Up to this point, though the team of psychiatrists that she seemed addicted to telling lies. Over time, not only admitted to 11 murders, that she would get into bed and that she got a thrill Jolly Jane was soon declared With this diagnosis in hand Indeed, Jane appeared At the end of the day she was found not guilty by reason of insanity It was only after the trial that she had confessed to him Jane herself would later reveal to papers, quote, Parker the names of 31 persons as a matter of fact, I killed many more I think it would be safe to say from the time I became a nurse at a Boston hospital, where I killed the first one, until I ended the lives of the Davis family." End quote. Initially, Jane seemed to take to life perhaps believing she could leave This wasn't to be, however, and eventually asylum life began to get to her. She pleaded that she was nothing like In a letter to a psychiatrist, Dr. Henry R. Stodman, she wrote, quote, I can read a book intelligently. I don't have bad thoughts, moral degeneracy comes in." End quote. In 1904, perhaps haunted by phantoms from her past because she feared She dropped in weight from roughly 200lbs that she would soon Despite appearing to be at death's door, Perhaps this had been another of her Jane Toppan would never escape eventually dying there in 1938. Her final years spent she had shown such scorn. Thank you for watching. If you've enjoyed this episode, consider to get access to a few more Right. Then, take care and I'll see you next time with another story