Each autumn in Monaco, Red and white, On the summit of the Rock, A thousand spectators have come to witness The 19th of November, It's not independence that is celebrated, but the prince himself, who as tradition demands, will appear behind this window For the first time, Prince Albert a moment that is both intimate and solemn. Exclusive video of the Grimaldi, accomplices huddled together The prince's sisters, and the older, Caroline, Her two sons, Andrea, who is 28, and Pierre, 25, and the new generation's their sister, Around them are their close advisors and of course, the wife of the sovereign, At 11:30, Albert II signals The traditional meeting and its subjects. It's a real test of popularity. [French spoken audio] The enthusiasm seems unanimous. What is the secret behind the ties that connect each of the Grimaldi Beyond its very mediatized couple, and a family this will be the real face of Albert II. For a year, the prince allowed the cameras as he rules the second smallest state From a sometimes remarkable diplomacy how does this well-known sovereign work At the heart of power, a unique insight into the most prestigious Monaco is a small enclave including some There are ten times Well before the casino, it was finance and property Monaco is a prestige brand from behind the palace walls. From on top there in his private office, that matter for his tiny state [French spoken audio] Today, a new director of tourism In his office, A very personal universe Thirty years after her death, Hollywood star turned princess, remains as strong as ever. [French spoken audio] From an office filled with art the prince has ruled over Monaco An office seemingly sheltered from and no sign [French spoken audio] No computer, but a lot of medals, particularly the trophies from his days [French spoken audio] Souvenirs of a time and could indulge his passions, that ended on the 6th of April 2005 After his 56-year rule, shocks Monaco. A half-century, as he was known, changed the small state It's an ordeal for his son Three months later, Albert II officially succeeds his father. It's the moment of truth [French spoken audio] Aged 48, His Serene Highness becomes the 14th sovereign of Monaco An accession to the cheers who had watched him grow up. It's not so much the solemn character It's the generosity, the warmth, and the outpouring from the Monegasque. I felt their support and their encouragement very deeply and that moved me very much. Once in power, Albert interspersed with numerous meetings [French spoken audio] The palace is the heart It's been the residence with its sumptuous rooms The York Chamber is now a museum an allegory of the Four Seasons. The majestic Throne Room with its baldachin or canopy and the Latin motto of the Grimaldi, The Ice Room, in white and gold, where the prince will shortly meet Here, the high dignitaries are received France and Italy with an embassy in Monaco. Most of the other 142 nationalities by the ambassadors in Paris. Sir Peter Ricketts, and therefore also to Monaco, is welcomed with full honors Recently nominated, to present his letters of credentials and to present himself [French spoken audio] Thank you very much. Thank you, The prince shows the same regard that have huge economic interests However, what exactly is in the letter The secretive palace archives They have never been filmed before. The memory of the Grimaldi dynasty preserved along Thomas Fouilleron is a historian He's responsible [French spoken audio] One letter that joins the thousands Among them a precious file A few drawings by Prince Albert [French spoken audio] Among the archives, from when the prince [French spoken audio] Tender words between Prince Albert and his mother. These images were taken just a few days Albert, As the years go by, Princess Grace Come with it. You can throw it. Ready, go. Competition is a family affair His father was a triple Olympic Sport and its values are, to rule over Monaco one day. Ready, go. The prince and heir by his education. At 16, he seems more passionate than the throne of his ancestors. This report was filmed in 1974 and shows him Prince Albert spends his high school years like any teenager. It's what his parents wanted. [French spoken audio] Sport remains a passion for the prince, and it's what led It was the year 2000 in Monaco. From the stands, and asks to meet her. Charlene and I met the International Swim Meet in Monaco. Of course, I met her and then I invited her It was a great moment. The prince has been courted by some in the world Charlene without airs and graces, charms the prince that night. Yet the next morning, heads back to South Africa Then Charlene calls the prince A few months later, in 2006, a photo of the couple makes the front pages. Five years later, in front of a TV audience of 100 million. [French spoken audio] Aged 33, the young South African but also a duchess four times over, a marchioness, also four times over, a countess seven times, In marrying this man, As the First Lady of the principality, Princess Charlene represents Monaco with her husband or on her own. She's one of the most photographed women A radical change in lifestyle that the rather private princess She is about to preside and every gesture The gala evening Here's the model Ines Sastre Camilla and Charles de Bourbon and the Infanta Maria Pilar de Bourbon, All are here specially set up to fight autism among children. However, the person everyone Princess Charlene, has even agreed to be interviewed. However, her French is still hesitant, It's a pleasure and obviously that have challenges in different areas. I'm really happy to do that. She plays the MC to raise money, not easy and something Being a princess How did you teach her to do that? Well, I didn't have to teach her much. She knows how to do that very well now. It's not easy, you know that. If it's for benefit, obviously if it's going I'm available to do that -Precious to be together tonight. -Thank you very much. See you, thank you. Supported by her husband, Princess Charlene Her first charity soiree for children with autism. Generosity is a Monegasque specialty. The principality is one of the world's a distinguishing mark in no small part of all the Grimaldi. At the port Princess Stephanie accompanies Age 47, the most rebellious never cared much However, she is actively involved and can always be found for this particular cause. Both are long-time experts [French spoken audio] The two royals sponsor the No Finish Line, a foot race held annually for charity For the past 13 years, the prince It's an original and popular event. For an entire week, anyone can join in and run or walk Every participant pays 12 Euros to enter, the more money for underprivileged children. To raise even more, the prince himself will don when he finally has a few hours free. It's long past midnight and the port is almost deserted, It's the prince arriving almost incognito. [French spoken audio] Albert II in his sports kit who are putting in [French spoken audio] The prince has just emerged but will undertake One point three kilometers and always with a smile. [French spoken audio] A friendly nighttime jog, [French spoken audio] Forty-five minutes later, the prince crosses the finish line. [French spoken audio] An anonymous runner who tagged along [French spoken audio] Among his 24 aristocratic titles, Albert II of Monaco a small village in Brittany. It's a hereditary title However, The prince often surprises people [French spoken audio] The charity's funds have been boosted 275,000 Euros has been raised Day and night, His agenda Four hundred a year, 9:00 the next morning at the palace. [French spoken audio] A typical day for Prince Albert. A succession of meetings Whether it's a trip to a building site a gigantic building, to attract the wealthiest yacht owners, or the daily Cabinet meetings [French spoken audio] With whom he manages the day-to-day and internal [French spoken audio] Weeks punctuated with official occasions such as the inauguration [French spoken audio] The prince has regular meetings led by his minister of state, a Frenchman who is presenting [French spoken audio] The Monegasque budget is unique. It's the only country The prince's diary is fully booked but there is one thing Albert II may be the head of one of the smallest and most a concrete jungle dotted with buildings, but many of his policies are based and protecting the planet. The cameras follow him some 9,000 kilometers It's late June and it's sunrise on Copacabana Beach. Security is tight. The city is playing host One hundred and ninety-one countries for the UN Conference In all, 44,000 participants, including tiny delegations, from the Andean Cordillera, as well as the huge, as from Russia. Its participants All have their opinions global warming, Among all the leaders, Prince Albert It's an important day on the top floor of this luxury hotel. Up early, the prince [French spoken audio] It will be a very long day, -Good morning. It's become a habit of the prince To start the day, Albert invites his team It's 30 minutes of cardio and weights. Lieutenant Colonel Liebig for four years. A veteran of the French army, and making sure he's comfortable. Okay, thank you, sir. -Well, good luck for the rest of the day. The prince chose him who is familiar A skill Just time to put on a tie and a jacket The aide de camp greets him [French spoken audio] Thank you. Mr. Sukrit is the Thai consul and is delivering a gift from How's the princess? -May I? -Thank you, sir. We'd like you to follow me, Since coming to Rio, the aide de camp In his room [French spoken audio] It's a gift from the President of Brazil. [French spoken audio] Kiribati, a minuscule archipelago One of the small nations In the afternoon, on sustainable development. The aide de camp brings him [French spoken audio] The prince to make it stand out [French spoken audio] To defend the values he holds dear, today has no hesitation [French spoken audio] How does the prince to further the cause With security ultra tight, the motorcade of official vehicles for the immense convention center where the prince The speech in front of 3,000 people. [French spoken audio] However, Albert is fully aware to really make the change it's mainly a matter Once his speech is finished, He heads towards the large passageways where each country has its own stand. It's the start of an extraordinary round [French spoken audio] Right after the interview, The delegation is from Benin. It will then be one meeting President Kibaki of Kenya While the principality may be physically it punches far above its weight The meeting will see President Kibaki from the prince. The aim is to further the cultivation which is capable of producing biofuel. It's clean and cheap in the opinion of the prince. [French spoken audio] This is why the prince has already in 80 different countries, protecting reefs of Madagascar, The desire to defend the planet has seen through his foundation. [French spoken audio] The summit ends for a cause that made well before the fight It's midsummer is due to be held the following evening. It's the most important charitable soiree In a few hours, half the funds it needs A summer night at the sporting club, -Hello. I'm John, the promoter. -Nice to see you. Jean-Rene Palacio The ballroom will be completely Eight hundred guests are expected First held in 1948, made the gala On behalf of the Red Cross, and invited all her Hollywood friends, and Roger Moore. Josephine Baker and Shirley Bassey that have appeared on stage. The Red Cross gala which can mingle with the princely family. It's also the evening that to make his entry into society. It's summer 1974, with his parents for the first time. He sits to the right of Princess Grace, a place he will not quit When his mother dies in 1982, Today, it's the prince that presides and the evening's events. This year, Albert has invited The group has sold 100 million albums and some of their songs are now classics. The German band quickly rearranged to perform in front This is the Red Cross gala. It's Prince Albert's prestigious event. I don't know about that, attending tomorrow night Rockers on the exclusive Rock. Surprising, maybe. The group is extremely popular in Russia, rich and powerful, Beyond the charity gala, the evening is a perfect opportunity Two hundred people are busy at work. [French spoken audio] Everything is on a grand scale The flowers, just for the hall. On the tables, 8,000 black roses The preparation is meticulous and brisk as an important visitor The prince is getting ready to leave It's a short journey in his hybrid car. Giving his bodyguards the slip is something the prince so he can drive on his own. Once he's left the palace grounds, Albert can enjoy the rare luxury around the streets of Monaco, [French spoken audio] He's driving anonymously, A member of his cabinet has warned and the 550 CCTV cameras The Monaco police [French spoken audio] His bodyguards The prince arrives at the sporting to see how the preparations [French spoken audio] It's a low-key, friendly visit, but Jean-Rene is anxious Planning for the event Jean-Rene wants to check and whether the royal couple in front of all the guests. [French spoken audio] With a simple gesture, The couple will meet expectations [French spoken audio] A few minutes before everything begins, [French spoken audio] 8:00 p.m. and the soiree can begin. The royal couple leave the palace to the edge of the sea. At the sporting, It's an evening that has become Aristocrats, the jet set, A display of opulence that may seem but the Red Cross accepts it all. It's all for a good cause. The guests have all arrived, and it's time for the prince and princess into the hall of stars. Then, it's time for the 800 donors On the menu is salmon, accompanied by the music Musicians In the background, Jean-Rene Palacio It's gone 10:00 p.m. and the group that marks the much anticipated opening -Hello. -Hello. -Lionel Richie. Opening ball. The prince and princess The photographs In the meanwhile, as in a few minutes, will replace the jazz men. Scorpion enters onto the stage. The prince, a rock fan, When Boy George, gets into deejay mode, Albert and Charlene The party's in full swing and the sporting's roof opens up to allow It gives the royals The gala has achieved The Red Cross has raised 700,000 Euros. Half will be used and the remainder for hospitals That is the luxurious admired and renowned the world over. In the shadow of the prince, there's another less obvious face One that is often forgotten. Everyday life here of whom only 8,000 are native Monegasques. Nationality is inherited or acquired It's a people with its own language and fiercely loyal to the prince's family. To reinforce these ties, the prince invites them [French spoken audio] The mayor's office makes the arrangements. It's a large picnic, but simple. Plastic chairs and large barbecues, of the principality's 6:00 p.m., and the prince Albert is wearing the traditional costume and there is no evening gown for Charlene, It's a chance for the couple to the small-knit community. Tradition, and in particular, Monegasque. The anthem is sung in the local language. A mix of Italian and Provencal patois, the symbol of the people's identity, As the song implies, the proud Monegasques are equally united Inscribed in the constitution, every event here is celebrated Five hundred people who is quite at ease with all of them. [French spoken audio] The family-like relationship and the Monegasques is something His parents enjoyed which allowed them to mix with the people. On the 14th of May 1974, Prince Rainier by organizing a gigantic picnic. More than 4,000 Monegasques held inside the principality's stadium. Princess Grace and the prince joins in a game Thirty-eight years later, the ambience is just as relaxed and the menu Socca, a wafer and the barbagiuans, Excellent. Secret recipe I'm sure. Delicious. Typical and simple dishes who mingle under the olive trees. Contrary to what many might believe, the little people of Monaco, is not a millionaire's club. The Monegasques are essentially very middle class, in fact. A large family that will gather again soon An autumn sunrise over the Rock. Barely 7:00 in the morning now empty of tourists, Colonel Luke Frangon, the commander is in charge. [French spoken audio] Before him, Monaco's November 19th Some of the tiny principality's will also take part. On the other hand, It's France that guarantees However, the emblematic French carabiniers responsible for the personal security To give this parade a different flavor, the colonel has given and he won't be disappointed. [French spoken audio] Pirates of the Caribbean, or Rocky, approved by the prince himself, While the carabiniers behind the palace walls, The Throne Room has been transformed This is where the prince organizes Is the splendidly accoutred table Armed with his ruler, Paul Shamana, There is a 30-centimeter distance apart from one setting, [French spoken audio] On the other hand, protocol allows for greater privilege. [French spoken audio] The painstaking work of Paul is now ultimately Christian Garcia for the past 26 years. It's his job to make sure [French spoken audio] A final check of the menu [French spoken audio] White truffles, Refined products carefully chosen for the meal. [French spoken audio] A prestigious meal for which Christian Garcia now need to add the final touches. It's noon and outside, There's one last show and the royal family on the balcony. It's a motorcycle display and ten gendarmes who have come down specially from Paris. The prince's family In the Throne Room, They are ministers and councilors, The privileged remain silent, as the royals arrive in the order Pierre Casiraghi is followed The blessing [French spoken audio] The most important meal Seated according to protocol, the prince has his sister, and his wife, By their side, their nephew, The lunch Tradition, a key word in the policies I'm tremendously proud of what over the centuries. It's a very daunting, to try to maintain I have to make sure and support what we are today Albert II's main ambition continues to shine throughout the world.