upbeat jazz PETER: Good morning, guys. If you've watched my channel before Here in Las Vegas, So today we're gonna meet up the rich and poor world basically living on top of one another. Get a good inside look of maybe Let's do this. mellow jazz PETER: All right, JACOB: [sighs] Well, we are at So this community -Okay. Probably back in the '60s a lot of Old celebrities like Rodney Dangerfield Lefty Rosenthal, one of This is, like, old money neighborhood. -But the neighborhood around it Several years ago about the wealthiest From what I had seen it showed this -Uh-huh. -Right here? [both laughing] PETER: Okay. You do have a high concentration Because even though what you're seeing but that country club right there... Right down here there's two properties and Turnberry Towers. -Okay. -Those two high rise Those are where there's -That's interesting. So a serious juxtaposition, you have Towers are right there. This is probably how much a month? -Oh, [scoffs] man... There was a place in Naked City -Yeah. -...that last year I asked two people that was actually and I think they said for their one bedroom. Which I mean to find anything is probably pretty tough. JACOB: This whole neighborhood here, walls all around it, gated entry, they don't just let anybody -Like us? -We're not getting in. -We're gonna make a left It's gonna change. JACOB: This part is where PETER: And that's right off the strip. -Yeah, we're just We're still just a parking lot This is all sort of... Known for being this big sex club here. -Sex club as in a strip club or what? -No, sex club as in, like, you just pay with who will allow to do it with you. -The Green Room... The Green door, okay. -So in Nevada, -No, not in Clark County, Any county, I believe if the population it is illegal. But either way, Clark County that's where Las Vegas and Reno are. It's not legal, so... -So it's legal there though? It's sort of a hush-hush thing? That's not a business that has That's just a place for the general public and they've got all kinds of rooms, Green Door is similar to, So this is the zone you go if you're -[scoffs] It's just one of 'em. [both laughing] Like, there's no shortage. They don't call it Sin City for nothing. In terms of stuff like violent crime Even Naked City, Statistically in terms of homicides -Okay. A lot of people, even locals, but the numbers don't support it. JACOB: That is the MSG Sphere. Madison Square Garden Sphere. Supposed to be done at the end of 2023. U2 is going to be PETER: Just a concert hall? -It's supposed to be more Supposed to be like this -Okay. -With, like, technology that... I don't know if any other place has it. It's basically like there's supposed to be, like, So right here, this is where one of that so many people know about now, So we are right behind right behind, like, -Can we check it out? [people chattering] PETER: All right, we just parked the car. Where are we going right now? JACOB: We're gonna go out through here. Through the LINQ, down the promenade, -So just to show the viewer -Oh, yeah. -So it's just an endless -To an extent. ...gaming If you get stuck in it long enough and buy something to drink, They make it a maze. They make the carpet design ugly There's no clocks inside. There's usually no windows so you can -Bathroom's hard to find. -That's Caesar's, -Yeah, across the street is Caesar's. -Misters are bad for the camera lens. -Has the effect. PETER: How many years JACOB: Just over a decade now. -Do you love it? -You love it. Why? [laughing] 'Cause it's not California. -Okay, you came from where? -I moved here from San Jose, California. -You don't miss it? Some nostalgia from California, right? Born in the state, raised in the state, from San Diego I came here in college It was a cheaper cost of living here, -Sure. -So after I moved here I found out we have I think the fourth lowest When I moved here Santa Clara County and Clark Country and I thought the cost of living here Yeah, they're about the same size, but there's no state tax. Then when I heard about the cost of living -Okay, so that busy pedestrian walkway -Yes. Billions of dollars and then this all [Jacob grunts] PETER: Okay, wow. JACOB: So you can see people... PETER: The security guy saying, JACOB: The said, -Okay, so what's the scene -Well this is where The most recent numbers I've heard, there's estimated about 15,000 and they think somewhere around Now the reason people is one, it's cool in the summer time, Half are... If you become homeless you don't just like become homeless one day Like, it's a progression. 'Cause there is a community down here. These tunnels have their own mayors. They have their own hierarchy. They have their own structure Now a lot of the people down here with either substance abuse, -Sure. -There's lots of places Even the parts that people say, -Right. ...your definition of bad -Yeah. ...sometimes they'll even have &quot;Do not enter.&quot;, Because especially in past with certain people coming to film that don't portray them and don't feel like -Yeah. ...you run the risk of, again, health issues, both. -And if they feel like you're playing with fire. -Okay, why does the city -Uh, well they probably just So as soon as the county... This is actual county. So... PETER: Okay, strong smell down here. JACOB: Yeah, so if you come down here they probably break them open Even if they come, Someone just cuts it. -Oh, wow. ...no matter what the city or county does, -So thousands of people down there? -The last estimate I heard but, you know, as it has been across the country Especially since COVID. Oh, yeah, yeah. But that's just... The juxtaposition of, wow, None of them even know -Unless they've seen it They probably wouldn't. wouldn't even know it's here, ...or anything like that. That's one of the criticisms here this state has taken hundreds of millions to give to, like, Now the discussion is about the Oakland A's of taxpayer money for that. -Yep. -So that's one of the criticisms to sporting events, arenas, JACOB: This right here Now it's not much of an actual, like, -Sure. But this place is like People love it. they love this kind of spot. Because they've got cheap drinks, they've got cheap hot dogs, -One dollar bottles? -Yeah, but they will definitely So they will use a metal detector in the past with violence in this area. -How is violence? Let's say over the last couple years. Same, worse, better? -So 2020, the homicides had gone up. Um... I think it was up to like 150-something. 2021, it went up from there which was Then 2022, they went back down. As far as the strip area, this is... You know, they do what they can to try to -Right. [clears throat] A whole valley PETER: Okay, so this is it, right? JACOB: This is it, Most of the locals unless they've got friends or if they work on the strip. A lot of tourists seem to think but no, locals generally don't spend I do because of the work I do. -Right. -The vast majority of locals are not you know, going to spas here You know, you may come to just about everything you have -Mm-hmm. -You can find, you know, but you can find it off the strip. PETER: When you're not coming down here, -A lot more of the locals will go Downtown, -Okay. -You go as far west as, like, or you go as far east as, you know, Those areas, you typically have If you're doing, like, They're more likely to pay three to two. -You're not gonna see, in those places. -Sure. -You'll find... 'Cause, you know, locals, with tourists as you would with locals. Two very different demographics. PETER: As a local you can't... gamble a lot but you can't gamble a lot -Uh... -Eventually. &quot;Casinos don't gamble, casinos do math.&quot; -Yeah. If you win or you lose, But, you know, &quot;Hey, come back and try to win more.&quot; And given a period of time mellow jazz JACOB: You've got Wynn, Encore here. Being like really high-end properties. That's kind of the end of it. Then you start getting up here Which people say the north end because here at the north end, homeless people here. You're more likely to see, you know, on some of these businesses. Whether it's Denny's or it's this Ross stealing stuff twice. Or the Walgreen's up here, and boarded-up numerous times. Talk to security in these places. They'll tell you there's people steal stuff. Kick 'em out and they just PETER: A lot of lawyers in town. At least on the billboards. JACOB: Lots of injury attorneys. -Injury attorneys, why? -Some of them have to do with, you know, They'll want to sue on your behalf and see if they can get them to settle but part of it is actually So here, I forgot the term, Where basically if you're, you can get paid out twice. Both by your insurance if they're at fault. So you basically get double pay outs. So the insurance companies, raise the rates because they gotta -Sure. -So if you're, like, a lawyer, you can Get your client paid out twice. PETER: So guys, I haven't mentioned yet all things Vegas. Restaurants, hotels, everything. Sort of a one-all channel, That link's gonna be Strat, what's the story with the Stat? -It is. It is the highest you can be without going to a dispensary, so... [Peter laughs] -The big knock on the Strat It's called Naked City. You've probably seen This is one where I went one day 'cause so many other &quot;Oh, I would never go back here at night.&quot; &quot;It's so scary. It's so scary.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Oh well, let's go find out.&quot; -So how was it? -Came out just fine. It was pretty quiet. but you can see just from They've been essentially abandoned. Every swimming pool that used to be are filled in with rocks -Okay. So what were these... When were these built, in the '50s maybe? -Uh, probably around there. So you do have some newer buildings here. Like this apartment complex here -Okay. -When I first saw it I was like, Several of the buildings here 'cause, like, right here, these gray ones with the red doors, probably within the last year. Just putting a fresh coat of paint on them The place gets its name used to live back here. -Oh, interesting. -That's why it's called Naked City. 'Cause they would be out sunbathing, So decades ago a bunch of 'Cause just like, [chuckles] was just ranches and just rural desert. -So... -This is pretty cool actually right here. -Yeah, so like the country club earlier, Obviously it was right by the strip. A lot of the employees of these places, -So now a lot of the employees lives outside in the suburbs? -To a large extent, yeah. -Okay. ...and you have especially ...go by and see. But you do have a couple non-profits that do what they can to assist. You do have this nice park here that, would not think to find. -Right. -And this goes right to -Oh, that's cool. They've got basketball courts, They also do classes that teach people They do help with citizenship class if you're an immigrant. So you do have that You'll see your beat up apartments. -But this has to be super expensive -Oh, yeah. Like there... -Yeah, like that Aztec Casino we drove by, I forget how many -Mind if I get some water? -This is your favorite 7-Eleven, right? See look, we've got boarded up window here. I played slot back here before at night and won money. And tipped out the cashier. JACOB: So when I was in here one person was kind of freaked out. I don't know how they're going to react. I go in 'til &quot;No.&quot; -I'll throw five bucks in the Buffalo slot. If you do win here they don't exactly have, and dinner they can comp you. -Though sometimes these places... You get a free water? -Actually sometimes and they'll give you, [slot machine beeps] Just won 40 cents. I'm only betting 40 cents a spin. -Are you a gambler? -I got a whole channel about doing slots. -You play every... Like, five times a week? How does it work with gaming? -I just batch record I have enough content for that. -But when you're a gamer, Like you have the addicted gamers -Yeah. -For me, gambling's a business. I make money from gambling. -Simple, the video is ad revenue. Ad revenue, sponsorships. -Oh. If I lose this five bucks right here -This is a tax write off? -If I spent five bucks or if I spend five bucks to go buy the money was for the purpose That's what my tax guys told me. -That's totally legit? -Yeah, well there's Look, I just won 10 bucks. I'mma come out ahead on this b*tch. So I won 10 bucks, I'm up to $12.62. Cash out. Here, just give me the five back, MAN: Oh, thank you. PETER: So Bob, he just gave you -Yeah. PETER: Are these loose slots or no? JACOB: It was for me today. [Peter chuckling] JACOB: See that security cam PETER: Oh, that one up there? Yeah. MAN: Jacob? PETER: That's Jacob, yeah. MAN: Hey man, I'm a big fan. JACOB: Oh, thank you, bro. Take care. JACOB: Security cameras up there. When you see those it's usually an indicator You see those in lots of, JACOB: I've walked this at night. You have some You have some abandoned properties. Although you do have Must be the same owner They've been repainted with the gray. They got the red doors on them. So you'll see some, like, improvements. But you'll still have this kind of thing. Where you've got buildings that have... I don't know if this one's... I don't know if either these -Wow. They look condemned, yeah. PETER: That roof is just totally bashed-in. PETER: This is crazy that it's right... The casino's right behind us. JACOB: Yeah, we're truly in the shadow of, -The tourists obviously never see this. -Very rarely, once in a blue moon I'll see Or a couple, like, walk over I'm like, &quot;Are you sure you guys JACOB: But in any big area, you'll have Here's a city marshal. PETER: What's the marshal? -So here, what's unique about... Kind of unique about this is in Las Vegas That is actually the sheriff's department. So the Las Vegas is responsible for all of Clark County. Everything in the whole county. -The neighboring cities like Henderson, even out to Mesquite, and for the most part, metro, you know, but those cites basically -Sure. -Here though, we're now officially So much of the Las Vegas Strip It's not even within the city of Las Vegas. -What city is it in? It's not, it's just Most of the people who live if they don't live in Henderson Which North Las Vegas is a separate town. -Most of the people outside of those two actually live in So if you live, you don't live in a city jurisdiction. So if you want to get, you don't go to the city of Las Vegas, PETER: What's the story JACOB: This is an older one. We're not far at all PETER: Look at these old cars. PETER: It's just got JACOB: You'll see classic cars. JACOB: Some of these huge homes, You'll see some modern homes There's a horse property over here too. But it's right by, like... -Mm-hmm, yeah, we're just right... -That's the local 7-Eleven. -So the worlds here, Or just people stay in their zones? -In this neighborhood here... I've been through this neighborhood I've never seen, like, a homeless person So I mean at least to this extent, -What a crazy contrast. PETER: I like these types of neighborhoods JACOB: Yeah. -And unique architecture. -Well, this is how you can tell because some of these homes -Yep. -Is it you're not allowed JACOB: Like newer homes, no. PETER: Or you have remodels like this. So you'll see some more modern but you will find some homes back here that have been here for 40, 50 years. They bought their house here PETER: Right, it's got charm though. PETER: I really like it. -So the reason some people who move here 'Cause one of the complaints they have so many of the new neighborhoods, -Yeah. -The same exact, like, JACOB: Just like a carbon copy, they've got so many different layouts PETER: Jacob, as a local, not understand about Vegas [Jacob laughs heartily] -What are they missing? -Aside from the... -Well for one, we live in, like, like the rest of the country. People, like, fly into Vegas and it's like, &quot;Hey, you see those thousands &quot;...and apartment buildings and stuff?&quot; People live in those. I mean a lot of people too, you know, they come here, and they think, Like well, if you live here You're not on vacation when you live here. -So people live every day lives. We do the same things They have to take their kids to school. They have to go to work. I mean they deal with hassle at the DMV. Like getting your car registered, -Yeah, it is weird, that disconnect. I've heard it before like, [Jacob laughing] Like, you have So you have everything that a city has. -Yeah, people work at banks. They work in schools. People work in non-profits. Yes, we have a lot of people Whether that's casinos, whether it's clubs, whether it's tours. Whatever that may be. So that element is unique to here that just like any other major city has. PETER: And this I would never with this lawn. JACOB: Yeah, looks like it would be PETER: Oh, yeah. What's the water situation? JACOB: The water situation because Vegas is arguably in that depend on the Colorado River water. -Because it's closest upstream -Uh... -As far as cities go? Why is that? -Well because we use so little. Even the little amount that we get, So we're only allotted like 2% -Of the water -Mm-hmm. And even still, if Lake Mead which means 895 feet, at that point the water can no longer flow to, like, California and Arizona. But we can still access I think it's 20 more feet. But it'll only be us using it, California, I think it's 27%. -So California has most -They've got the biggest portion. -But this is the driest and you get four inches of rain a year. -Typical, yeah. because of the recent rain. -But, um, Las Vegas has been putting in That's what people don't realize. &quot;You build all these homes in the desert.&quot; &quot;How could you not prepare for this?&quot; Like, the other thing is too, you think would continue to build -Mm-hmm. -You know, billions of dollars, dependent on these construction projects You think they would if they thought the place in two years, five years? No, not at all. mellow jazz PETER: So what's the story JACOB: Hahaha. So it's a similar concept Credit cards have different rewards, and things like that. Where different casinos have You get points. So you get points for... MAN: Like your videos, man. Where, uh, you earn points for doing table games, One, the value for your dollar the value for your points, changes from property to property. PETER: So this is the Wynn? JACOB: This is it, man. This is known for being, That was Steve Wynn's whole, Was he loved the luxury. He loved making stuff that would So that's basically been -And behind this casino, -Yeah, there probably is As far as where it opens, I'm not sure but there's a ton. I mean the tunnel network goes From the northwest, to the southwest, Not just near the Strip. PETER: The slot machine experience, Just a tad bit. If you're in a place like this, yes. -Is Vegas still the number one -It's not gonna beat out Macau, Like, these places that have properties places that have properties in Macau, make way more money Not even close. -Are they way more opulent, amazing? -Uh... Probably similar I mean Asia, -Right. -So here in the US among, like, the millenials and Gen Z -Oh, wow. That's nice. That's beautiful. Look at the forest up here. During the night time they actually have And if you're sitting you can enjoy your dinner and watch it. But here you can just come up here, -Okay. -They do a show. -They got tables down here. PETER: Okay, great. [Jacob laughing] -What were you saying Yes, a lot of people not all of them are union a lot of them are union. -Okay. -And that's why a lot of them because they can get, They have, like, A lot of it's based on seniority. So same like a government job, you know? -If you have seniority So there's people who are, like, The longest I've heard of someone, They've been -Okay. They were the number one on-call bartender. So they were the next in line -So still to this day is it just or that's a normal thing? -I think it depends on the union. What the union agrees. 'Cause like some places, maybe, but, like, the security are not. So even at a certain property Lots of times managers are not. -So many of the people working they look at this as and, like, secure life -Well it certainly can be. I know a woman when she was a housekeeper at the Venetian So well above minimum wage. Plus she obviously got to keep plus you have your So that's why some people, they, like, don't wanna leave. PETER: Much different vibe down here. -So the casino life has died out down here -Oh no, there's numerous casinos down here. Right here, this intersection, If you look left here that you've seen So no, it is a different vibe Downtown. We're about two miles north of the Strat. So two miles north of where a lot of people PETER: So you go under the highway, JACOB: Yep, and this is still -This is a hotel or what is this over here? -Nah, when you see all these weekly stays, Emerald Suites, anything along those lines, Any local will tell you that, it's not a good sign for the area. That's where you'll find That's where you'll find soliciting. That's where you'll find I've known people, first responders, that have worked those places -And is that where you're taking us? -What's going on here? -Yeah, we're gonna find you C'mon, you wanted the full Vegas... -You wanted the full Vegas experience, You don't even need a credit score. PETER: Is this common? JACOB: No, but it tells you [customer and cashier speaking inaudibly] CLERK: This guy? CLERK: I would lock them, no problem. PETER: He's doing great, huh? CUSTOMER: I think he's one of PETER: I think he's got a cool vibe. CUSTOMER: Man, I come in here every day. CLERK: Yeah, sure. PETER: Four or five times a day. [all laughing] CUSTOMER: Only for Natties. CLERK: In the summer he does.... [Peter and Clerk laughing] -In this place, 7-Eleven, In the Walgreen's, They also lock detergents. Soaps, detergents. PETER: The soaps are locked in Walgreen's? [clerk giggles] PETER: When the Slim Jims are locked -It's amazing how JACOB: Thanks guys, take care, man. PETER: Take care, boss. PETER: I'm not gonna lie, that is one of JACOB: Yeah. MAN: Thank you. JACOB: The, uh... JACOB: The other cashier I spoke to, When I got the water and I saw it was just the alcohol. He told me, he said, &quot;...for every four people that would &quot;...buy alcohol, they would have 50 Just take something and walk out. So they had to lock it or else they were PETER: So rave reviews from you. &quot;Best tacos in Las Vegas&quot; they're claiming. JACOB: Yeah, [laughing] Mexican pop PETER: That looks solid. JACOB: I like steak. -Okay. PETER: I might go chicken. [ambulance siren] [Jacob ordering tacos in Spanish] PETER: I'll do a chicken quesadilla. Mexican pop -Looks so fresh. JACOB: It is. -Yeah, isn't it interesting quite often have the best food. -Oh, yeah. Some of the best food you'll ever buy [laughing] PETER: It's true. JACOB: If I had to choose between that PETER: And they're moving And they set up, what? [knocks on table] PETER: There we go. It's simple. They got all the condiments JACOB: You know it. That's how it is. JACOB: Salsa verde. [Spanish] Mmm. That lime and the green sauce, PETER: What was that, like $3.00 $2.50? -That's a very cheesy quesadilla. Good combination, I try, I'm not like you. It's good. It's a good quesadilla. JACOB: Okay, let's get a close-up of this. PETER: Okay, it's very cheesy. If you like... If you like your quesadillas cheesy... JACOB: That thing is massive. JACOB: I think it was 9 bucks. -I think so, yeah. -That's a lot. -It's Casa de Sabor. So tell people in Vegas To walk down here at night or no? -Uh... Most people, I'm not gonna recommend that. I'll do it. -Yeah. -All right, Jacob, nice tacos, very good. -[Jacob laughs] -Thanks for bringing us in. -It was a very cool tour the extremes are extreme. -They can be. ...this direction or that direction, -Yeah, a lot can change within one mile. -Yeah, yeah, that's the feeling. But look, cool people, everyone we've met. Very interesting place and guys, Jacob has a channel. Jacob's Life in Las Vegas. Click on it if you want to see You do everything basically. -You cover a lot. I give the variety. -He's the Vegas guy, if you're coming here check out his channel. Is that it? I think that's -We got an arrest over here and... [both laughing] I think we'll call it now. -All right, guys. Until the next one. upbeat jazz