A lot of engineering focuses on structural is this column? But some of the most important members together. Take a column, for example. at least not if you want it to stay up. the foundation. This may seem self-evident, in that humble connection that's so there is so much complexity. Baseplates are the where superstructure meets substructure. of the engineering behind them can tell the structures you see in your everyday life. Let me start us out with a little demonstration. can learn from our old friends: some concrete cylinders of concrete about a week ago, and now cast from the exact same batch of concrete I'm pushing with a fairly narrow tool. I slowly I had a load cell below the cylinder, so we can This scale isn't calibrated, so let's say it units of force. Practicanewtons? KiloGradys? What with a wider tool. At that same loading, this it didn't break until 3100 units. Here's stronger than the first one? Hopefully Most materials don't care about most materials don't care about anything. a material against a loading condition but how that force is distributed over an area. the area, lower the pressure. And pressure baseplates do. They transfer the vertical forces reducing the pressure to a level And that's the first engineering decision when be? If you know the force in the column and you can just divide them to get the minimum area isn't infinitely stiff. If I put this column on no real load distribution happening here. The of the column's force into the table; I can just filled up an acrylic box with layers of sand to the forces from my column don't distribute baseplate flexes and the sand directly below the a thicker, more rigid baseplate, and the results of pressure. So the second engineering decision the plate, usually determined by the thickness how far the plate extends beyond the edges of steel bridge supports, vertical stiffeners can be So far, though, the baseplate isn't really much of loads: gravity holds them together automatically. The blocks just sit on top of each other. And main load they see is axial, along their But we know there are other loading conditions and highway signs are essentially gigantic wind so the compressive force on their base from the wind can be significantly higher than compression force on one side of the base plate, But they also can result in shear and tension so you've got to have something in place to resist There are a lot of ways to attach stuff to screw into place, or use wedges to expand into the precise, you can even embed anchor rods or bolts huge variety of styles and materials that offer Here's just one manufacturer's selection guide like third year engineering students, all of And they can fail in a lot of different ways itself can fracture or deform. It can lose its out the surrounding concrete. Or if it's too Calculating the strength of the anchor bolt failure modes is a lot more complicated than just baseplate area. So most engineers use software But, there's another challenge about and it has to do with tolerances. Concrete As long as you set the forms accurately and make while the concrete is being placed, you can feel comes out of them. But there's usually one we use screeds and trowels and floats to put a or pier. But it's rarely perfect enough to put can't be done. I've seen concrete finishing crews effort to get a concrete surface perfectly level especially when you have the time pressure matter. Just one degree off of level will put a than 3 inches or 80 millimeters. Unless you're work. It's more than enough to misalign some columns like signpoles. So, we usually need some Sometimes that means shimming the baseplate to option is to use leveling nuts underneath column and and baseplate that was laser-cut how this works. These parts turned out so I can get the column to point in the exact exact right elevation too. But maybe you see the the baseplate distributes the vertical load even are just being transferred through some shims or in a lot of cases, we add grout between the is basically concrete without the large aggregate, into gaps. And it often includes additives to sure it doesn't pull away from the surfaces above and distribute the loads into the foundation. out in the built environment, you'll notice pedestal of grout and not directly on the concrete First is load transfer. Even with the grout, into the anchor bolts that might not have been more new potential failure modes to the laundry buckling of the rod itself. Sometimes contractors column during construction, but will yield after the weight. Second is fatigue. Especially for the grout under the baseplate might not hold up Grout can trap water, leading to problems with sign poles where condensation needs a way out. difficult to inspect the structure. And fourth, step. It's kind of fiddly work to do it right, and be spent somewhere else. In fact, there are a lot You can design anchor bolts strong enough to including the compressive forces downward. that those forces don't have to be distributed you have a standoff base plate. It just floats between. It looks like a counterintuitive design. should be sitting on the ground. And a lot of them a baseplate is really just a way to connect So if you pay attention, you'll see these state highway departments have moved away poles easier to inspect. And they often install Clearly there's a lot more to baseplates than few myths going around grout there. A common meant to break away in the event of a collision. hits a signpost, a relatively minor deviation Smaller signs installed near roadways often do see holes drilled in wooden posts, bolts or slip bases like this one to make sure a overhead signs and light poles, that's generally and fall across a highway could create an even even though they might look similar, standoff designed to break loose in a collision. the clear zones of highways are protected from Baseplates are like bass parts in music, but once you notice them, you can't stop paying And just like bass lines, they but the deeper you dig, the more you I like that analogy because there are a lot and even though I'm not a musician myself, I favorite channels, Polyphonic, has a series called profiles of interesting musicians working in the kid. I've always been fascinated with the paths really cool animated interviews are just right up I talk about Nebula a lot. It's a streaming like Adam Neely, Mary Spender, and Minute Physics. it easier to find new stuff to love, we've leaned like Polyphonic Magazine; basically allowing your without the fear of having it flop on YouTube's interesting, and thoughtful videos. My videos and right now, a subscription is 40% Plus if you already have a subscription, it also worth of thoughtful videos, podcasts, and classes either way at nebula.tv/practicalengineering for for a friend. Thank you for watching,