If you want Google's algorithm to You don't need coding knowledge and you Unlike blog posts, free tools inherently contain exactly what they want: useful resources for But here's the thing: no matter how useful traffic potential unless you carefully And this strategy is responsible for possibly two And it all begins at part 1, Now, it's important that you choose tool ideas that And don't compromise on either list item Take our keyword generation tool as an example. The main query definitely has tons of search And because it's basically a free version it's very relevant to our business. So to find a list of tool ideas for your site, related to your niche. So if you have a personal finance site, retirement, 401k, social security, bank Now take that list and paste it into a keyword And then head on over to the Matching terms report. And to narrow in on just tool keywords, hit and type in these exact words: &quot;calculator,&quot; Apply the filter, and just like that, I've got over searches in just the us. Now, because a lot of these keywords will just the main tool ideas. So at worst, you can manually sift through or at best, you can cluster them instantly by in Keywords explorer. So now those 67,000 keywords have been or basically tool ideas. Now, you might want to start creating tools because you'd be skipping one of the And that's planning your tool hub. A tool hub is a set of related online tools And in my opinion, the structure is the x factor I'll explain that in more detail soon because first, to creating an effective tool hub. So step one is to group your tool ideas together. To do that, export your list of clusters, and then head on over to ChatGPT and say: &quot;Using only this list of keywords, organize (like &quot;Retirement&quot;), sub categories, And I like to see the output in Yaml. And step two is to finalize and visualize your structure. And this is important to do because it's going a logical structure, maximizing the impacts But we need to finish things up in part Thanks to AI tools like ChatGPT, you can without coding knowledge or money. All you need is the idea and a bit of patience. So we already have the ideas in our tree chart, To start, I'll Google for my target keyword Now, I'm going to make a note of the form which I'll use for testing in a bit. So I'm going to open up ChatGPT and say: &quot;Create a Roth IRA calculator that calculates Use JS and HTML. These are the fields and some default values. Show me the estimated IRA balance And within seconds, our first tool is ready result that we got from Bankrate. To test your tool, go to Jsfiddle.net, paste in here if needed. Then hit Run. And finally, I'll hit the Calculate button from our test site. And a big time fail! Which is why you need to sprinkle in that bit of And after about 10 minutes of doing some math Now, you could technically go with this But it's going to make your job very tough this point is to find a way to improve on this tool. And a great place to find inspiration is Reddit. So I'll search for something like &quot;is and I'll narrow the search down to just Reddit. And this one looks super interesting. The person said: "I'm trying to figure per month to eventually reach 1 mil." That's brilliant! A reverse roth IRA calculator. I'm definitely adding that to our tool. Now, after your code is ready you've So let's go back to ChatGPT and ask it to combine and paste it into a WordPress code block. Nice. Now all we need to do is add a new HTML code without the additional body tag, and when And everything is in working order. Now all there's left to do in part 2 is to: make write some copy for your landing page using our the rest of your tools in your hub. And now we have part 1 and part 2 But it's impossible for this strategy Now, backlinks are hyperlinks from And they are and have been one of Google's But backlinks impact pages - not websites. So if you want to rank 5, 10, or even 50 different them, which is no easy task. But remember the x factor I was talking about? You and I have already done something much much much easier. And it's right here. Each line here represents a reciprocal internal link. And these connections actually help the pages to For example, if my retirement calculator gets 'authoritative' in Google's eyes. And that authority helps it to rank higher in Google. But there's also some residual value that'll be And even the ones that go further down So when one page gets backlinks, the whole to work together as a team to rank higher traffic growth that we all want. And both Canva and Veed, two of the greatest created tool hubs growing into the Now, in order for the structure to work its magic, get to the first page of Google. And while pretty much any classic link building stands out above the rest because We took the extra time to make our And what that does is it gives us a unique backlinks from inferior tools. Let's put it into action for our roth IRA I'll start by going to Google and And then I'll copy some of the top URLs to a notepad. Next, I'll paste one of the URLs into Site Now, I'm going to visit these pages and see For example, this page is recommending And having done my research, I know that none So I'mma email Alvin and tell him about my And if he digs it, I'll ask to be included. Now, as you get more and more backlinks, And if you do it enough and do it right, you'll to the top of Google's search results. And now here's the best part Once your free tools are ranking high in Google, because free tools are inherently And this will only continue to signal to Google causing them to fall deeper and Watch our full case study on how Veed of monthly visits from search.