Your tattoos are inside your immune system, you kick start a drama with millions of deaths, grand sacrifices and your immune system Let's give you a tattoo and zoom in The Conveyor Belt of Death Your skin has to solve a huge problem - it's your the world around you. Trillions of microbes, dirt, - but your skin is also constantly Your body solved this by making your skin a is actually dead stuff. The alive part of your in the skin industrial complex. Stem cells skin cells that begin a journey Each new generation pushes the older ones they interlock with each other and produce fat to create a waterproof coat that And then, they dry out and kill themselves, This wall of dead corpses is consistently cells cover your whole body and are constantly you shed around 200,000,000 dead skin cells and Tattooing this part of your skin would be useless as nothing would stick When the Fleshy World Explodes Below the conveyor belt of death lies the tiny blood vessels, sensory cells that report sweat glands regulating your temperature. guarding your flesh right This region and below is where The world explodes. Half a dozen monoliths layers of dead cells, deep into the dermis, retreat and smash through the tissue again of cells are violently killed right away, Luckily, you did your research and chose disinfected their tools and your skin. But and some of the survivors made it into your flesh. To put it mildly, your immune system is not wakes up hundreds of thousands of Macrophages in defend you. Immediately they start killing reinforcements and order your blood vessels to But worse than the hundreds of wounds of chemicals that floods your tissue. Tattoo some may even be toxic or carcinogenic. nickel or chromium dissolved in distilled water. The battlefield is now a wild mix of blood and bodily fluids, platelet more and more fresh immune cells On the scale of your cells, clumps of the size of a cell, they'd range from Your immune system has one main job: Identify The Macrophages are desperately they extend arm-like structures and begin when a Macrophage has eaten an enemy, it showers with the ink. They try and try but nothing And this is just the particles By now the larger chunks are surrounded and macrophages that are nomming on them, trying to destroy and kill them. But Nothing works! Finally your immune system has to concede. It best thing: Not lose. Your cells don't know but they can at least not let them spread vacuum up all the particles they can fit ones trapping them in the only prison they can thousands of tiny wounds moves inside millions On the outside you don't notice any of colours vibrant. Your skin hurts and is tiny holes close, dead cells are replaced. Bit shedding dead cells ripe in colour, replacing becomes a little less vibrant, now the ink But what you are really seeing sitting in your dermis, patiently holding from poison. Your immune system Actually Nothing is Forever Over time your Macrophages get old and die and keep it in place. But sometimes is recaptured and locked in place, You notice that as your tattoo fades out a bit Some of the ink escapes the tattoo entirely. and spreads around your body, another reason Your immune system also kind of doesn't want ink is shot at with lasers, which heats up the cooking your brave Macrophages in the more of your tattoo is broken down and new Macrophages rush into the tattoo maybe think about it carefully before you get the But if you got one, you can directly see is how much your body loves you, which probably not that big of a deal for your about the struggle going on inside your skin only for you to have that art forever. To appreciate your amazing immune system, you have to know about it first - and the same To help you with that, we've created a series the next level. Made in collaboration these lessons let you further explore from rabies and mammalian metabolism to climate lessons to explore. And each one is interactive, Brilliant's latest course, "How LLMs Work" takes demystifies technologies like ChatGPT from how models build vocabulary to how how to tune LLMs to produce output whether it's poetry or a cover letter. And you'll by comparing models trained on Taylor Swift Terms and Conditions. This isn't just allowing you to experience and harness the To get hands-on with Kurzgesagt lessons and you can start your free, 30-day trial There's even an extra perk for kurzgesagt viewers: the first 200 people to use the link get 20% We love seeing how the gears - Brilliant gives you the tools to understand