Formula 1 is, by many accounts, the pinnacle of F1 cars are among the fastest in the world, particularly around the tight corners of the various paved tracks across the globe. Drivers can experience accelerations of 4 to 5 lateral but think about the car! 5 times gravity and an F1 car weighs 800 kilograms (or recreational math, that comes out to a force tons. And all that force is transferred through Traction is one of the most important parts how fast the cars can go. Cornering and braking and all of it has to come from the road. Pirelli put thousands of hours of testing a hundred prototypes were whittled down to of various levels of hardness that offer teams a And yet, when you look at another of you see something completely different. A deliver upwards of 50 tons of forward force but it's somehow able to do that through the rigid surfaces. It's just slick on slick. It lot of engineering between those steel a couple of demonstrations in the garage to Practical Engineering. In today's episode, we're In a previous episode of this series on railway pull a train based on the various aspects pull a train car myself. The whole point of to take all the force required to pull the train thing rolling. Most modern freight locomotives a generator, which powers electric traction of benefits to this arrangement, including not the engine and wheels. But, even with electric by the power rating of those motors, and So if you graph the speed of a locomotive you get this inverse relationship. But, are physical and mechanical limits on how fast but there's another limitation that governs motors could generate more force at slow speeds rails and wheels limits how much of that force The graph makes it clear why this is you can't even use the full power of the engine wheels. It's why dragsters do a burnout for more friction. I was reading this and I love that it called friction the "last so important to nearly every aspect of railway reason railways work in the first place: it means overcome by relatively tiny locomotives. But, trains can accelerate and brake without slipping like the cog railways that carry trains up steep use simple "adhesion" for traction; just the area that's physically touching between a is roughly the size of a US dime: maybe 2 to Imagine gluing a dime to the wall and then hanging approximation of the traction force below each Incredibly, friction really boils down to more generally, the normal force between the two complicated. Let me show you what I mean. I have It's just a sled attached to a spring scale. I can materials underneath. The reading on the scale is if the weight stays the same, the force changes with the steel sled, and this can get super modified adhesion theory, interfacial layers, but it's important to engineers who think about down into a single, empirical value called the double the friction. And the same is true of the I get roughly double the reading on the scale In some ways, it really is that straightforward. the weight of the locomotive and the friction control over that second knob. Environmental and leaves lower the coefficient of friction, track. So you kind of just have the one knob to You look at the steepest section of track where that force by the "dispatchable adhesion," a the friction coefficient that you can count conditions. Maybe it's 30% for a modern locomotive winter morning. Now you have the total weight longer and heavier trains, you can't just use limits to the weight you can put on a single bridge. That's why many large freight trains use But, that friction coefficient isn't set Even since the days of steam locomotives, tracks to increase the friction between you can sometimes see the pipes that deliver sand water jets, chemical mixtures, and even lasers or just generally increase control over wheel/rail knob that's a little tricky to understand, a wheel sticking to a rail through friction and a locomotive wheels under traction exist somewhere Even though both locomotive wheels and rails mean they're infinitely stiff. Everything deforms show the deformation of a steel-on-steel surface demonstration, so I have the next best thing: a This brush simulates a locomotive wheel, and the rug underneath it, nothing unexpected here. The force between the brush and the rug and there's no slip. The brush turns at the same I have a little homemade shaft brake made clamp to essentially lock up the rotation of the it's noticeably more difficult. The brush is and also, it's completely slipping. The the rail is basically infinite, since maybe this isn't too surprising of a is what happens in between these two conditions. rotate with some resistance and pull the The bristles deform as the brush rolls even as the brush rolls. If you look closely, but at a point within the contact area, they backwards. And this is exactly what happens layer of the wheel is stretched forward by the there's not enough adhesion, and they separate and the slip happen simultaneously. What's locomotive wheels actually spin faster than the called creep. And the brush makes it obvious why. making that part of the wheel rim essentially up for the difference, or in this demo (since the distance for the same amount of rotation. With the brake off and no traction, I can pull the for half a rotation of the brush. Now, with the you see that the rug traveled a longer distance, before. If we graph the behavior of a wheel across this. With no traction, there's no slip, and so a bigger part of the contact patch is slipping, its creep, goes up. Eventually you reach a and the traction force levels off. You can spin Of course, that graph is a theoretical situation saying that a wheel that's fully sliding that has at least some stick, and you'd the "dynamic" friction coefficient when is less than the coefficient of friction when to this effect called stick-slip, where A violin bow is a great example: then slide, along the string, causing it On a locomotive, it's less desirable. the rail and unwanted noise. It was a because the traction force at the wheel effect this difference in static versus dynamic creep curve in the real world often looks and if you go past it toward greater And that's the trick many modern locomotives systems can monitor each wheel individually at the peak of that curve. Eeking out friction coefficient means you can take better use fewer locomotives than would otherwise be All that complexity, and you still might could just use a different material like the rubber tires on cars? And the answer is passenger rail vehicles do use rubber tires, can be removed and replaced. But I think generally use the soft sticky ones when you want more durable tires to maintain position without for freight trains are pretty expensive. If you tires that can carry multiple tons of weight end up with a steel wheel on a steel rail, and you Hopefully, it's clear how important locomotive an entire train. But the tracks that carry and that's made even more complicated when underneath. I recently spent an entire week water line is installed below railroad tracks forces and go in without interrupting documented the whole thing for you. That video where I go on location to construction sites. out on YouTube, but if you can't wait I'm sure you've noticed the massive shift in video just running reality shows in place of the stuff watch now is being made by independent producers. major production house who don't care what people to make videos that we're passionate about. Scotty from Strange Parts, Integza, and a lot more Nebula, the streaming platform built by and for Nebula is basically the answer to the best channels on YouTube didn't have to cater that changes the incentives and the rewards, with tons of excellent channels and lots of see the light of day if they were produced clickability. My Practical Construction series is people who want a peek into what really happens but those are my people, and I want to make independent creators are the future of great off an annual subscription. That's less streaming platform that cheap, especially it. That's nebula.tv/practical engineering. Thank