(suspenseful music) - In 1995, a website was created by a man known as none other than KevinTX. It's called paranoia.com, and its main focus was to as a free speech platform their own little piece of cyberspace. The website largely Back during its prime, hundreds of users flocked to Kevin's site abrasive webpages on his servers. In fact, Kevin partook in this too, and seemed to relish in was garnering so much (suspenseful music) &quot;Just to set things straight, Paranoia is run, not-for-profit. I personally provided all and have supported the system's costs in finances and time at a personal loss because I feel so strongly about the presence of a It's been very rewarding to watch an idealistic I've met a lot of really and have seen firsthand how this project has been able to empower people who wouldn't otherwise have (suspenseful music) It's clear that Kevin's even if some of what he are a bit eccentric. Nevertheless, he harbors an a drive to give people and scattered across Paranoia's archives, for better or worse, we're (suspenseful music) The world of paranoia.com is expansive, and contains some of the most that I've ever seen. It's a mixed bag, a look into the minds of complete strangers. A time capsule, if you will, and immoral. Paranoia.com/Satan contains the name, emblazoned over a black background. Paranoia.com/Xtreme brings 90s homepage for an electronics store. Paranoia.com/theslurp (Nexpo sighs) ...&quot;Pedophile Pride&quot;... Jesus Christ. And Paranoia.com/stagg of a very outspoken stranger &quot;It was very cool of Paranoia so depraved bastards like me can put up subversive Thanks dude.&quot; Of course, all of this of what you can find here. However by now I'm sure Paranoia's reign over the was relatively big, and of major media outlets at one point granting KevinTX an award for best local website This site, from top to bottom, and the interesting thing about it is that it's been on the Wayback Machine Unfortunately, though, this is the only way to access was eventually shutdown Reportedly, the project became and so by the late 1990s, that it would officially be set to die. That's not to say, that the In fact, it's very much still alive, and upon heading to it today... (keyboard clicking sound) Wait, that can't be right, P-A-R-A... Yeah that's right. There's no way this is the actual si... No, nope, it's Disney. But I don't remember ever or playing, or experiencing anything remotely close to Paranoia. Paranoia, by definition, doesn't exactly scream family friendly, so why in the world are we led here? (calm music) At four in the morning, a Reddit user named Logical_Elephant made their way to a subreddit a hub dedicated to uncovering oddities from the dark side of the net. Curious about a recent, almost they inquire about paranoia.com and its strange connection to Disney. (eerie music) &quot;Disney owns paranoia.com kind of illegal website in 1995. I've noticed that redirects you to the Disney page. What puzzles me is that in 1995, Paranoia hosted many controversial or close to illegal content websites. I'm not sure if it's normal for them to buy these types of pages but it seems strange to me. I have seen that in approximately 2000, Paranoia closed and became then it would redirect you to disney.com. Being a controversial page at the time, has anyone heard about it? I've been researching and I about the page. For example, rotten.com was and there is much more This means that Disney bought why would it buy such a domain?&quot; (eerie music) It's a question so simple, yet it peaks the enduring interest of internet denizens like me. Why do they own this domain, and why are they still Below this, the OP includes that they stumbled upon after one of which being a link the Disney Company has purchased since their online inception. Hosted on a website named hackerone.com, we can observe a trove of URLs, with some containing some related to their parks, some to their gaming department, and even a few random outliers that I wasn't quite able to source. Even with this, though, adult-oriented definition An anomaly of sorts in this All in all, though, this unfortunately doesn't tell us much about the broader picture. (eerie music) One week later. (dramatic music) Logical_Elephant returns for one more go at &quot;A few days ago, I made and its connection with disney.com. Although I haven't solved I have discovered a lot of and it's very interesting. Paranoia.com was a created by its users for free. This with the lack of control equals posts about pedophilia, euthanasia, television and mind control. That and along with other pages that were against internet censorship. There was not much except with those mentioned since it was not a It was just a place to make your page and add the content you want. It closed because its and Kevin asked to avoid using this server to keep what they had usable Below this one, they link mentioning Paranoia, along something called the Church of Euthanasia where they explain how a psychoactive drug archive, and a site focused on &quot;The Simpsons.&quot; Interestingly, though, this go-around, their post caught much more attention, lending this investigation a &quot;I think you nailed the reason it was likely a title for Buying domains tied to IPs is extremely common in the media business. The reason you might not be is because Disney and other corporations use shell companies to buy domains so they don't get extorted on the price, and also to conceal their until they're ready. For example, if Activision bought a domain called Skyrim2ElectricBoogaloo.com, that would tip everyone off that they were making a before they were ready Similarly, a woman who making coffee cups that were wouldn't ask for as much money for her Skyrim.com domain if was called Ted Franklin I'm not gonna lie I like this theory because it just makes sense. But there is one thing at least for me. I need to give you some context on where I'm coming from, though. (eerie music) So let's take a quick detour, back to... (suspenseful music) In the late 1990s, internet It was an unmapped expanse, Perfect for those wanting Companies, left and right, thousands of domain names centered around anything and Pets.com, Broadcast.com, Amazon, you name it. The stock market was growing as even corporations and entrepreneurs with no prior internet experience were getting in on the action. Internet domains were currency, and those with an eye for The gold rush was on, and for a while, things seemed to be People left their day company valuations peaked. However, something was on the A little something called... (suspenseful music) Y2K scared the ever-living And it all based in alack There was this persistent the internet, and would cease to function at all because the first were set in stone within computer systems. Effectively, as the clock computers wouldn't Time would progress backwards. In essence, throwing everything reliant on the internet at This idea, this fear of what later became known the hysteria of buying up in hopes for a big payday. But as the year 2000 came and went, everything turned out fine. The storm quelled, and the Down, down, back to where it all began. It's not out of the realm of possibility that Disney partook in this, even if Paranoia is a considerable outlier in the domains they purchased. But, let me ask you something, why would The Walt Disney purchase paranoia.com, and not... (keyboard clicking sound) Aladdin.com is not owned by Disney. (keyboard clicking sound) SnowWhite.com isn't either. (keyboard clicking sound) Fantasia.com, same story. (keyboard clicking sound) And AliceinWonderland.com, Some of the biggest Disney IPs in history have URLs that are not that popularized them, Now, while this commenter's I'm just not convinced (whooshing sound) (thunder rumbling) (rain pattering) Over the years, whispers have come and gone. Theories crop up, yet lead to nothing. It seems like it just wasn't getting but it is weird. (calm music) (static buzzing) Before we continue, tonight's video has been Aside from taxes, I think we can all agree that one of the most despised In the past, I've fought with car payments, credit card bills, both private and public personal loans. It seemed like everything I really wish there was to consolidate everything on my plate into one simple payment. But now there is. PDS debt provides options that into one low monthly payment. If you've been making payments every month and your balances aren't going down, because of egregious interest rates, this program is for you. PDS debt offers customized plans based upon your own financial situation and works with you to get on top of it, ultimately saving you in interest and fees. PDS Debt is offering a free debt analysis and it only takes 30 seconds, so head over to PDSDebt.com/Nexpo to get your free debt assessment today. Thank you so much to PDS Debt for sponsoring tonight's video. Now let's get back to it. - [Announcer] And now (whooshing sound) (suspenseful music) - [Nexpo] Explain like I'm how come when you put the it takes you to disney.com? Companies will buy domains that share names with their products so that if someone just types they get sent to the company's website. In this case Disney released so they bought paranoia.com and set it to ship people to disney.com. Typically they will ship people related to the named the movie is several years so they aren't promoting just dumping you on disney.com. (Nexpo sighs) In 2013, a movie released Liam Hemsworth, Gary It was an action thriller about an employee caught up Okay, okay, I'm not gonna bore &quot;Paranoia&quot; was a film named Relativity Media. Relativity Media was launched in 2004, and was a subsidiary of Sony Pictures. Sony Pictures and the are two entirely separate entities. And essentially, this theory, one that was accepted by the Redditor who asked the question, unfortunately isn't exactly true. (calm music) Like I said, whispers about and that's led to an inconvenient reality. Discussion about Paranoia and answers have been With this, I'd like to instead of focusing on in the past, let's rather right to the source. (suspenseful music) Welcome back to Paranoia. According to the Wayback Machine, it's been archived over 430 however the major phases involve the years 1996, Scrubbing through Paranoia's we're able to see that its early years were more or less uneventful. KevinTX appeared to be and at a cursory glance, The structure of his front page mostly remained the same too, as Paranoia was nothing just for the odd and unconventional. In the year 1998, though, we can observe a pretty There are only two archives however jumping to the not the main website, but a message. (mouse click) (suspenseful music) Unfortunately, All but one of the pages here have been moved since at Please visit your favorite search engine to try to locate the page's new home. When it comes to this archived version, is it... This message remains here Well, until paranoia.com (suspenseful music) At first glance, this early 2000's homepage, just in French. Reminiscent of cyberspace paranoia.com begins hosting the weather, and even offers The interesting thing about this, though, is that the site actually as all across the site It's something called Excite. And they appear to have a mobile SMS service, Furthermore, the copyright information at the bottom of the page reveals a company of the same (suspenseful music) It's an interesting discovery no doubt, however it doesn't exactly tell us much about the Disney company, or What we do know, though, is that the original version of Paranoia wasn't actually purchased by them, it was something much less controversial. Unfortunately archives to this Excite branding only carry forward through 2002 is a complete dead on February 7th, of 2003, we get our first glimpse of paranoia.com redirecting to Disney's (suspenseful music) Again, I have absolutely no recollection of an IP tied to this name Paranoia, yet to be fair I was just eight years old when they bought this. Kid me was probably just too watchin' cartoons, and most importantly... (eerie music) (calm suspenseful music) (calm music) In late 2002, Disney expanded its efforts into a myriad of entertainment mediums. Kingdom Hearts makes its debut, &quot;The Lion King&quot; premieres in IMAX. Epcot is celebrating it's 20th anniversary and a cartoon called for its short three year tenure. Interestingly, &quot;Fillmore,&quot; while ending its run on Toon Disney, actually made its debut on ABC Kids, an affiliate channel In fact, Disney has purchased a monumental shit ton of and this revelation right what if by the off chance, Paranoia isn't directly I mean, what if it's a random ESPN? Catalyst Investments? Buena Vista Games? What if this entire time, we've been looking in the wrong place? (calm music) You know, this mystery is interesting. Some of you may not even Why is it a big deal anyway? Who really cares if paranoia.com redirects to the official Disney homepage? I mean it's something so silly. So innocent, and what if I I just accept it? I move on, with this annoying, stupid little question resting in the back of my mind? I mean, statistically this task seems impossible. It could literally be any of these. So where in the world do we even... (dramatic music) (mouse clicking) (suspenseful music) (static buzzing) - [Announcer] Standby Get ready. Remember, we're live coast to coast. (indistinct chatters) - Live coast to Coast You're playing from satellite cameras in living rooms around the country. You're connected by your old battling one studio It starts now. (audience cheering) Yes, this is &quot;Paranoia&quot; and we're coming to you - [Nexpo] To be honest, I'm but it feels like we're pretty damn close. Late into this videos script, a fellow investigative tipped me off on this show, and while she said she wasn't she had a hunch that we're getting there. In April of 2000, the Fox Family channel premiered a game show. It involved four contestants and three scattered around the world. &quot;Paranoia&quot; consisted of ten rounds of multiple-choice questions, and the in-studio contestant was put up against the satellite players in a race for a grand prize of $10,000. Get a question right, and Get it wrong, though, and lose It was a program that of what a live 2000s game show I don't think I've seen The unique thing about &quot;Paranoia,&quot; though, was that it incorporated The Internet, in 2000, was budding, and if you, sitting at home, wanted to jump into it was, apparently, just a website away. - We're back with more Yeah, this is Fox Family Channel and you're watching &quot;Paranoia&quot; live. If you haven't already done so, pick it up and call and play our game and win some bucks and affect the outcome of the game. If you've got a computer, Log on to paranoia.excite.com. (dramatic music) - [Nexpo] And holy shit, there it is. (mouse clicking) And there we have it. This is &quot;Paranoia.&quot; This is why the Walt Disney It was a random show owned by a subsidiary company of the corporation the URL and completely forgotten. Excite is a multinational company that facilitated a multitude of web and entertainment mediums, and the portal to play at least back then is right here. America plays Paranoia, a and a mystery that endured for years. (melancholy music) You know, this oddity has bugged me since Logical_Elephant three entire years ago. It's something so simple on the surface, yet perplexing to me all around. It's an oddity that yet is so much less so in reality. Paranoia.com is owned by Disney because of a scrapped game show that was forgotten to time. It's a relic of broadcast history, only remembered by the few who caught it. Maybe you'd just gotten off work, maybe it was a late-night rerun. No matter where you were, I'm at least confident on It wasn't anything crazy, I know, but, hey, at least it was closure. Paranoia, this Paranoia was As we've seen, the site is a monumental rabbit hole in itself, and perhaps we'll return For now, though, I'm and threw a bit of life into an almost completely of broadcast history. Thank you all so much for joining me on this journey tonight. Videos like this one are some of my absolute favorites to make, and there's really nothing than retro internet stuff. There's this charm to it and it's a nice breath of fresh air from the heavier content Thank you all so much for watching. I'll see you in the next one. I love you all, and good night. (upbeat suspenseful music) (calm music)