HOLLY KRIEGER: So, today I want to talk about the Mandelbrot set. But I want to-- so, there's so many videos and websites and Java applets and all of these things where you can see the beauty of the Mandelbrot set. And this really nice fractal picture, and you can zoom in and see all of the interesting things. What I want to talk about is: What is this object? Why do we care about this picture other than just its intrinsic, sort of, appeal? And, so... just to generally talk about the way maybe the mathematicians would look at the Mandelbrot set. The first thing we need to understand is in the world of complex numbers, okay? So, if you remember, complex numbers-- the complex plane, the way that we view this and we plot on this plane numbers of and here these two things are and 'i' is a symbol that means that i2 = -1, okay? So most people are familiar with this It's a convenience in some sense but there's also a lot of useful information in this representation. So for example, one thing that's very natural to look at Maybe this is something like you know then one sort of natural quantity is the distance from this point to the And so this distance, which we call the it really has some inherent mathematical and so the fact that this is so easy and you can also visualize addition of in this plane in a very geometric way So how do we get to the Mandelbrot set from here? So here's sort of just the naive definition. and let's associate to this complex number so this is a function which takes as an input So I'm thinking of this complex number and we-- what we're interested in So, by iteration of f_c, I mean what happens when I take 0 and then I keep doing that to the result. So, for example, if we're looking at f1(z) Well, f1(0) = 0 + 1, which is 1 f1(1), so now I apply it to the answer that I got, right? This is 1 + 1 which is 2. f1 of the previous thing which was 2 f1(5) is 52 +1 which is 26, and so on. So that's what I mean about the behavior of 0 Now, what the Mandelbrot set is concerned with is what happens to the and by size, I mean exactly what we were from the number in the complex So it turns out there are two options for a function f_c(z), defined to be z2 + c: The first option is that the distance from 0 of the sequence we get, BRADY: That means it blows up. It gets as large as you want it to be, okay? when they say that the iterates go to infinity, okay? they look like real numbers or but that the &quot;size&quot; of the number, The other thing that can happen The size is bounded. So, and in fact you can So you have this sort of dichotomy If you give me a complex number c and I start iterating zero under that function z2 + c either the distance of the iterates gets really large for all of them, so you It gets really large for all of them. Or, it stays close to 0, within So, for example, to illustrate these two cases, under z2 + 1 of 0, and as you can see we've got some things that are and so this c = 1 is case 1. But there's another possibility so let's look at, although this might be a little misleading so if we look at, say 0, and well, f_-1(0), that's 0 - 1 which is -1. If we plug in -1 into that function we Oh, wait, okay, but we know It goes back to -1. So these iterates just alternate And so in particular they never get large, right? So that's an example of case 2. So, the definition of the Mandelbrot set, then, which we usually call M, is the set of C, for which case 2 holds. And I'm kind of all over the place here Case 2 So, in other words, if I look at the if I look at z2 + c and I start iterating 0 BRADY: It's the guys that don't blow up DR. KRIEGER: That's right, it's the ones that And this is also in case you're curious So if you wanna figure out to draw a picture Well, you just start iterating And if it takes a long time to get big If it gets big really quickly you can give it a different I'll point out here that everything has to be within distance 2 of the centre, right? Because of exactly this case 2 thing that I said that once your iterate is larger than So the inside of this thing, let's fill this in here, this is what's known as the Mandelbrot set So let's look at our examples, right? So we had two examples, So -1, is right here, is indeed 1 is right here, and it's outside. Let me take the easiest example inside And we start iterating, well, what is f0(z) is z2 okay, so, let's start iterating 0, well, 02 = 0 So no matter how many times we apply BRADY: So you're in the club. But if we take, say, some small number here It's a little hard to compute without taking if we we take something like 1/8, if we start iterating so the first iterate is 1/8 but it's never enough to get you outside BRADY: These guys are blowing up. BRADY: These ones are not blowing up. BRADY: What's happening at the edges, then? DR. KRIEGER: That's where things are interesting, right? is dynamically interesting and just sort is that you can't predict what's going to So if I have some c on the boundary here, if I move that c around by a little bit, You might have your orbit blow up, And so you can't predict what happens And that's why it's interesting. [fading in] And all of these separate disconnected pieces and so it turns out that another way you is by which of these two behaviors you get. When you draw the filled Julia set, for z2 + c, Or do you get a bunch of disconnected pieces? So if you get one piece, one blob,