[Intro music playing] When Israel was a nation, they agreed to part of a special contract with Yah. It and he would in turn be their Elohim. Now, involve at least two parties, in this bound by certain agreements which were The ancient people of Israel were told they would have Yah's protection they disobeyed, they would receive Sadly, our ancestors chose the latter, and nation of Israel was thereafter thrust resulted in a time of trouble and felt to this very day. Before long, Ancient Israel experienced a with the tribe of Judah leading a two-tribe Kingdom to the south and ten tribes After a period of self-rule, the independence of the Assyrians. We get that account in the to rule over Israel in the twelfth reigned in Samaria nine years. He did same extent as the kings of Israel who attacked King Hoshea, so Hoshea was forced stopped paying the annual tribute of Assyria by asking King So of Egypt When the king of Assyria discovered this in prison. Then the king of Assyria years he besieged the city of Samaria. Hoshea's reign, Samaria fell, and the people were settled in colonies in Halah, along in the cities of the Medes. This disaster they worshiped other deities. They sinned them safely out of Egypt and had rescued king of Egypt. They had followed the driven from the land ahead of them, as Israel had introduced. This gives us a punished by being exiled to Assyria, kingdom left, also ended up doing that Second Kings chapter 24 informs us that the reigned for eight years, practicing evil, Babylon on the Kingdom of Judah, which captive as well. 70 long years of the ancient Israelites witnessed the next. After the 70 years had expired, the the people of Judah to return to their recorded in the Scriptures. In the first fulfilled the prophecy he had given Cyrus to put this proclamation in writing This is what King Cyrus of Persia says: all the kingdoms of the earth. He has a Temple at Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Any Jerusalem in Judah to rebuild this who lives in Jerusalem. And may your remnant is found, let their neighbors giving them silver and gold, supplies for voluntary offering for the Temple of was indeed rebuilt, and it existed until ultimate destruction. Sadly, many of the failed to understand the many prophesies those found in Exodus 12 verse 5, Isaiah 7 verse 14, Micah 5 verse 2, and rejection of him in several parables. farmers, which can be found in Matthew 21 what the rejection of the nation he was fulfillment of the parable of the evil the vineyard owner, that being Yeshua, and the fate of Judah and Jerusalem was prophesied the destruction of Jerusalem of Judah, which was right in line with see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, destruction has arrived. Then those in Jerusalem must get out, and those out in For those will be days of Elohim's the Scriptures will be fulfilled. and for nursing mothers in those days. and great anger against this people. away as captives to all the nations of down by the Gentiles until the period of particular prophecy, as you can see, being controlled by the Romans who Yeshua's prediction. Roman rule lasted siege. Then the Romans eventually lost thereafter various Caliphates controlled During this long period, Popes allied Muslims. The Crusades were first and authority against the enemies of the a pope, Pope Urban II in France in the and in their advance in Europe and in Europe believed that the Islamic message contradictory to what the Christians idea could possibly overrun the Pope Urban conceived this idea: &quot;It's not kill non-Believers in our faith.&quot; And so, fight in the Holy Land, you will be could sin as much as he liked, and simply given his passport to Heaven, and that combined with that he could win fame, he with the treasures of the Near East. in their tens of thousands to go on Crusaders spread throughout the Islamic massacre of unarmed individuals. It Muslims. In a sense, it resulted in a new an army to go back to liberate Jerusalem the part of Muslims. I don't think any of Muslim could possibly have imagined that playing itself out a thousand years Middle East today. Following the Crusades, control of Jerusalem went from Mongol Warriors, to the Ottoman Empire, who surrendered 1917. That event led to the modern-day establishment of an Israeli state, which pretending to be the people of Israel, and chapter 3 verse 9. As prophesied by by the Gentiles until the period of the Gentiles would be in Jerusalem, trampling Yeshua comes. In other words, the people are really Gentiles. But let one of them The Thirteenth Tribe, Arthur writes in the very first chapter: About the Emperor of the West, the eastern Caucasus and the Volga were ruled by a At the peak of its power, from the seventh to significant part in shaping the of modern, Europe. . . . The country of the occupied a strategic key position at the the Caspian, where the great eastern other. It acted as a buffer protecting barbarian tribesmen of the northern important both from the point of view of history, is the fact that the Khazar avalanche in its most devastating early conquest of Eastern Europe. . . . circumstances, that in 732 -- after a the future Emperor Constantine V married became the Emperor Leo IV, known battle in the war, AD 737, ended in a of the Muslim Holy War was spent, the dissensions, and the Arab invaders without having gained a permanent became more powerful than they had probably AD 740, the King, his court Jewish faith, and Judaism became the their contemporaries were as astonished when they came across the evidence in sources. . . . What is in dispute is the fate destruction of their empire, in the twelfth are scant, but various late mediaeval Khazar in the Ukraine, in Hungary, Poland and emerges from these fragmentary pieces of Khazar tribes and communities into those and Poland -- where, at the dawn of the of Jews were found. This has led several substantial part, and perhaps the of world Jewry -- might be of Khazar, and not of surviving Jews in the world is of of Khazar -- origin. If so, this would mean from the Jordan but from the Volga, not believed to be the cradle of the Aryan closely related to the Hun, Uyghur and Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Tell me, what did you mean in the title of your book that the Jewish people had meant it, I think that the Jewish people the Italian people. You see to build started to build to the past peoples and the second half of the 19th century, the an Israeli Emeritus Professor of History a book called The Invention of the Jewish what Arthur Koestler brought forth so-called Jews. Shlomo Sand, who is the ancestry of most contemporary Jews Israel, and they are descended from Judaism occurred among the Khazars in the and in the Himyarite Kingdom of the certain people would say they are the Khazars and their descendants who are sources can be found among these people astounding. On page 226 of his book Sand to the collective conversion of the one Yaakov Qirqisani, a scholarly regions around Khazaria, wrote a shall enlarge Japheth&quot; (Gen. 9:27): &quot;This the tents of Shem, which grant him a commentators think that who became Jews.&quot; What is interesting is the fact that they know and believe would pretend to be of the tribe of base this on Genesis 9 verse 27, which 3 verse 9. What's more, most of the world the present-day Khazarians, that's But getting back to Arthur Koestler on times fall into two main divisions: The Sephardim are descendants of the Jews until they were expelled at the end of countries bordering on the Mediterranean, Western Europe. . . . In the 1960s, the number The Ashkenazim, at the same period, Thus, in common parlance, Jew is It should be mentioned that the people living somewhere in the vicinity occurs in Genesis 10:3 and of Gomer, who was a son of Japheth. (and a nephew of Magog) whom the Khazars, their ancestor. But worse was to come. Jeremiah 51:27, where the prophet calls destroy Babylon: &quot;Call thee upon the This passage was interpreted by the Oriental Jewry in the tenth century, as a Babylon symbolized the Caliphate of attack it were either the Khazars have seen from the words of Arthur descendants do not identify with Shem . . . but, rather, they identify with Japheth, and that is proved out in their own Scripture. All that being said, what 70 A.D. following the siege and weren't captured by the Romans and they go? First, you have to understand severe famine in the land, our forefathers order to avoid it. There are three famous heading south when famine struck at lifetimes. Abraham and Jacob went all the as Gerar. And let's not forget Joseph with Yeshua to escape trouble. These are a major clue as to what happened to destruction of Jerusalem. In his book historian Rudolph R. Windsor, a true Hebrew, armies under General Pompey captured his son, Titus put an end to the Jewish period of the military governors of were committed against the residue of to Julius, it has been estimated that fleeing from Roman persecution and slavery. black Jewish slaves. After the fall of Africa, Roman power became dominant in Romans attacked the Jews indiscriminately, uninvolved peaceful population. . . . As a Jews fled to those parts of northwest and Mauretania. Many other Jews fled to jurisdiction, this was to the region of Sudan. Windsor also tells us on pages 86 fled to the west coast of Africa in the power and began to suppress Hebrew Christianity. Windsor cites many credible Joseph J. Williams, a twentieth century of West Africa, wrote: &quot;Whatever mythological traditions connected with now practically an established fact that and perhaps too in origin -- long held sway Now while Joseph Williams, who is meaningful and factual info that ancient Hebrew Israelites, he does so with written through the lens of what I would viewpoint. Because, despite all the Judah and Israel as a whole being black, that aside and conclude that white Jews, must have somehow lost their color by assimilated their culture, for which said, Hebrewisms of West Africa is full wanderings of the Hebrews following the great insight into the further customs practiced in West Africa by our islands like Jamaica, Haiti, the Virgin the slave trade. So, having fled as prophesied, there our ancestors were, trying to carry on their Hebrew savages, or uncivilized barbarians. The black Jews had an advantage over the culture, history, laws, and written records precedent for the development of a the stability of the black Jewish culture, the autochthonous, or native, population. native tribes. The Jews made use of every skillful people: In the Jewish Ghanaian governors, generals, secretaries, architects, engineers, doctors, jewelers, goldsmiths, leather-workers, saddlers, blacksmiths, agriculturists, etc. Jerusalem were able to flee that terror relative peace our ancestors were broken by the Arab Slave Trade, which and children from many other peoples that The eastern Arab slave trade, in particular strict ratio of two women for each man horrible as it was, eventually gave way of the Portuguese. Portugal broke between the 12th and 13th centuries and small European country, slavery would classes from different ethnicities, to from the tribe of Judah. In the early Lisbon and Porto adapted to the times fast aerodynamic vessel that allowed along Africa's Atlantic coast in order sub-Saharan West Africa. After colonies in the region, other markets commerce in India, and overseas expansion networks. The Portuguese became heavily 1445, after they discovered the Cape Slavery was used to fuel their expanding integral to their enterprise. When it business, a law had to be created to Nicholas the Fifth, issued a papal bull, the Romanus Pontifex, Latin for the Roman Alfonso the Fifth of Portugal on January 8, quote] &quot;. . . invade, search out, capture, vanquish, whatsoever, and other enemies of Christ dukedoms, principalities, dominions, immovable goods whatsoever held and persons to perpetual slavery.&quot; ahead for King Alfonso, who alone was send vessels to search out, capture, particularly the people of Judah, whose were well aware of. The people of Judah they are the so-called Negroes who were four corners of the earth, just as Yeshua verse 24. They will be killed by the the nations of the world. . . . And this also 28 verse 64: For Yah will scatter you among earth to the other. When I say they were conjecturing. Proof is in the record. and Accurate Map of Negroland, As of the date of this recording, Swaen.com will open up showing a 1747 map of West engraver Emmanuel Bowen, image of the map itself. Move your mouse present-day Ghana and click on it to you'll clearly see that what is now which the mapmaker labeled, The Kingdom where many of the people of Judah Yet today, the elites and their paid we are Africans or Hamites, when in know this to be a fact. In Zondervan's the definition for Ham reads as follows: probably about 96 years before the Flood; Flood. He became the progenitor of the Egyptians, Ethiopians, Libyans and because Shem is the progenitor or father comprised of so-called blacks, Africans the same. We are Hebrews and they are in Africa, however. But getting back to pertaining solely to the king of and nations from Over the centuries, Spain, Britain, France, many African countries participated in a fulfilled certain prophecies, such as your eyes open, and Joel 3 verse 6: Jerusalem to the Greeks, so they could sad fact is, Psalm 83 is as our collective enemies are still concerns our true identity, and they mean to wipe out the memory of the earth, but Yah is not going to let that one step toward that effort. The present forefathers failing to keep the covenant this generation to right that wrong, and our day: &quot; 'But I will spare some, for some are scattered among the the nations where they have been carried me -- how I have been grieved by their from me, and by their eyes, which have loathe themselves for the evil they have practices. And they will know that I am this calamity on them.' &quot; You see, born deserving of that name. We are born but to truly earn the right to be called have to be faithful and wrestle with us who do this will be the ones who will remnant of the Kingdom. Having said that, search for truth on this subject. gives you discernment since a great deal topic. And spread the word to your has ears to hear and eyes to see among history has enlightened you and brought our past, which goes well beyond Africa. African Americans are actually the that is something they [Closed Captioning by Kingdom Preppers]