From August of 1964, when the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution gave President Lyndon Baines Johnson license to prosecute the Vietnam War using American blood and treasure, until April of Some 2.7 million Americans served in Southeast Asia. The deliberately planned fighter sweep went just as we'd hoped. The MiGs came up, the MiGs were aggressive, we tangled, they lost. 58,000 of them never returned. Those that did return found themselves in a country very different from the one that sent them off to war. Vietnam veterans came home to a nation that did not wholly comprehend where they had been or why, let alone what they had seen and experienced. But there, in country as they say, Vietnam veterans found something else, a brotherhood. It was one thing on which they knew they could bet their lives, the sacred bond Vietnam veterans had with one another. That bond never has been and never will be broken. So when the veterans returned home to a nation that was at best indifferent and at worst contemptuous, they continued to rely on each other. Vietnam veterans adopted a unique custom. Upon meeting a fellow veteran here in the States, they offered the sincere greeting they never got from the press, politicians, or quite frankly, the public. Welcome home. It is a custom they still practice to this day. In this new series, Dronescapes offers Welcome Home, the stories of Vietnam veterans in their own words. I'm going to go to bed. It's a good start. I'm about to take a left turn to the east. We're going to the east. Roger that. I'm going to go on that left side. And I'm going to see you at the northwest corner. And at the southwest corner, I'm going to go over to the right. Roger. Roger. This is 3 fuel, over. This is 5, this is 1, this is 2, this is 1, 2, this is 0. This is 2, 5, right here, be advised, this is 1, 1, 2, this is 3. This is 3. You ain't going to believe this. Christmas of 1966, we had an operation going. We were at Benoit, okay, and your geography is general. is General. South, southeast of there is Vung Tau. And we had a road going up through Vung Tau, and we had an operation down there. And we put a battalion in to an outfit we called LZ Stump just before Christmas. And that was probably the hottest operation that we had that year. I flew with a guy named Dick little tape recorder, and he put the earphone under his helmet and plugged it into the microphone. And I have a tape that, where we took those people in and brought them out under rather heavy fire during that operation. And you can hear all three channels working and the guns going and the rockets going out. The zone was out in the middle of the boondocks and it was quite steep to get into and out of. The trees were about 150 feet on each side. The smoke from the artillery and the airstrikes was all over it, almost IFR so to speak. The whining sound is one of the weapon systems that you hear coming through into the tape recorder. It's a 40 millimeter system there. We're waiting now for the artillery and air for the artillery to start firing on the landing zone so that the slicks can come in. The slicks being the ships that bring in the troops. This morning the artillery lasted two and a half minutes longer than it was supposed to, and then the gunships of Mobtoon were supposed to come in for a four-minute preparation. And you'll hear as the record goes on that the artillery lasted two and a half minutes into our preparation, and we didn't quite get everything done. Although we're going to do it the same way we did yesterday. I'll tell you to get it ready, pull up in, and let the handle flip, and then throw it. The mark is the smoke grenades that we throw out that we drop into the landing zone while the ships with the troops on them are still a minute or two out, so they can see just exactly where to sit down inside the smoke. when we hit the right zone, it's a real good thing, but when we hit the wrong zone, we kind of mess them up. That's still going. It's still going. We're going to 8-0. Going to 8-0 means when they take off with their troops on board, they fly slower. Be advised, artillery is in it, and you've got smoke all over the zone. So I say they climb out slower after they pick their troops up, and then when they get to altitude and everybody gets in formation, they take off and he says going to eight-zero means a speed, eighty knots. You can hear the rotor blades in the distance background here. You'll have to excuse a little bit of the transmissions you'll hear are very faint in the distance. You won't be able to make them out. We haven't gotten our technique down to taping all this stuff just right. We're about three minutes out. We're going to prepare one pass. The second pass will be the marking pass. Okay, Dave. Thank you. That sound you just heard was with a one and only rocket that came out of my tubes. We had some difficulty. And that choo-choo sound is the 40 millimeter kicking off and the machine guns coming in now. Check my second breakers, I don't have any rockets. 8-8 this is 8-6, I'm cutting in by you, come around and cover me for the mark. Ready to roger. 8-7, you call 8-8 in. Roger. I'm about 45 seconds from the mark. 8-8, I'm about 45 seconds from the mark. 8-6, I'm cutting in by you, come around and cover me for the mark. 8-7, you call 8-8 in. Roger. I'm about 45 seconds from the mark. 8-6, I'm about 45 seconds from the mark. 8-8, I'm about 45 seconds from the mark. 8-6, I'm about 45 seconds from the mark. 8-7, I'm about 45 seconds from the mark. 8-8, I'm about 45 seconds from the mark. 8-8 in. Roger. Jet One, lean out about 45 seconds from mark. Do you have the red smoke in sight? Roger. Darren, you have 45 seconds. We're on final now. 8-7, take your fire team and cover the flight. Roger, I'm covering the flight. Get the smoke ready. Get the smoke ready. Hold on a sec, I'll call the fire department. Get the smoke ready, get the smoke ready! I'm on the base, Sam. Sam, go around the back of the house now. Okay, drop the smoke, drop the smoke! I'm going to get the second break off. I want to hit you, I want to hit you. I want to hit you, I want to hit you. I want to hit you, I want to hit you. This is, uh, custom on the left. Ladies, got him on the left. Roger, thank you. Let's break off. Go sit downstairs and fly. Come on, excuse me, man. We got him on the left. That's true. God. We're getting a joint, I'd rather wait. Alright, I see it. Alright, I see it, sir. Right hand... Alright, right hand side, get me lined up on him, babes. Alright, don't shoot till you see it. You're in a safety zone, not far. We're coming over the zone at this time, you know. Well, I'll... Alright, hit it. That's good. Okay, cover him, going up. This is chopper four, save six on the right side, eight-seven. Roger that, roger that. Rules of engagement only. This is Lee, this is again about receiving fire, we could reach it. Jump three and two are heading fire to the left and the right of the LZ. Roger, 100 meters out. Roger, 100 meters out. A7, you have this flight at this time, we're going to stay over the zone. A7, roger. going to stay over the zone. Roger. Okay, they've got them on the right, ain't they? This getting them on the right and getting them on the left means that he has a fire team, which is two ships, and one of them covers the right side of the formation, and the other one covers the left side of the formation. So you'll hear people telling each other which side to have. And the break is when you go in and hit something, which way you turn is a break. And I'll be at altitude over you. Five seconds. Thanks, Bill. Remember, there's been one smoke screen. That was it. This one and two flights, the zone was quite small. We were taking ten ships in, so you had to take five in at a time. So we had two different elements going into the zone. And like I say, the wind wasn't blowing too awfully much, so all the artillery and the airstrikes that had come in there had left that place so smoky that it was very hard to see. And what we haven't heard was... Get a hold of somebody. If they've lost a tail, call me and I'll get a hold of somebody. This is Wayne Lowe, sit down. The talk that you hear right there was that the number five ship in the first flight that went in hit a tree as he was getting into the zone all got out of it he kept it upright but they had to replace the tail rotor and a tail rotor gearbox they flew it out about three hours later while things were still going on. The second flight was just taken off out of the zone and they got fire also from the ground and that's what you hear, line me up on it. The weapon systems have a certain degree of flexibility right and left and up and down and you've got to turn the ship in so that he can line the guns up on them. We're usually doing circles about them while they're going into the zone. They're slowing up. We're doing circles around them to try to cover them. In case they receive fire, they throw white smoke and then we hit the area in which the white smoke is falling into. And we've also got a, after the lifts start going, you get more people into the landing zone, which is the Lima Zulu. You have to watch out for the friendlies on the ground. That's why you hear... Yeah, I know we're going to do that. I want to wait until the second flight comes in. They've got six going. I want to see what they've got. You still got some 40 to cover them. Right. They come in a second time, then we'll head out with one of the fire teams. No problem. The limited fuel on these ships... Yeah. We try to keep a lot of fuel on board for emergencies and while a flight's going on, we try to get refuel between the time they get at the pickup zone, which is the PZ, and the landing zone, which is the LC. We try to keep gun cover on them all the time. In fact, it's mandatory. This is 86. When you come out after the next drop-off, you'll hit the lock, immediately refuel and rearm. Eight-seven, roger. Eight-one, you'll refuel, rearm after eight-seven when he'll call you when he's off. One, roger. Now, that'll necessitate orbiting over this area here. Eight-four, roger. Eight-five, roger. Well, Ben, what's wrong with my rockets? I got one rocket out, I don't have another rocket. We got all the connections on fire. Hello, sir. Yes, sir. Well, something's wrong with us. Don't leave the fires until you find them. Rules of engagement means that you must be fired at and identify the man firing at you or the area firing at you by flashes or by seeing a person before you can fire back. Well, I hope it didn't hurt them boys down there. I guess it did. That's speaking of the ship that knocked the tail rotor off and no one was hurt. What's the exact body question? Well, I got fire received by a follow flight going out of the LZ. Current situation we have one refugee down at the Lee-Mazoo. We have a major ship there. We'll control all the island. So that's what we call a CA, a combat assault mission. And like I say, it was an interesting one, one of the more interesting ones we've had in some time. And actually it's quite good to get in on them because we haven't had a great deal of contact since I've been here. You get complacent, you know. You even get complacent in your flying the lift ships and everything. And you also get complacent when we're flying these gunships covering these people. And we tend sometimes maybe to not get in the best of position by sloughing off and not being alert all the time. It takes one of these good things to keep us in the proper perspective over here. Born in Cowan, Tennessee, 15 October, 1936. Local school, Sewanee, Tennessee, Georgia Tech, 1958. We have two sons. Both of us are military. My brother went to Naval Academy, and I came here, and we both n he retired Air Force and I retired Army. I kind of thought I wanted to be an engineer, Georgia Tech was the best opportunity close by. And when I got to Tech, it was obvious it was going to be a hard run. And I found out that I could go to ROTC, which was mandatory at that time at Tech for the first two years if you were physically able for it. So I figured those hours in military in ROTC would be A's and I'd need them. And then when I got through the first two years, I still enjoyed it and continued it. Well, you know, ROTC, you have a summer between junior and senior year, six weeks, and then if you finish the thing, you become a second lieutenant and you have an obligation. At that time, I was 58. The obligation was two years, and if you took a regular Army commission, it was three years. So I had that obligation right out of school. When I was finishing my junior year at Georgia Tech, our instructor said, we're going to have a flight program, ROTC flight program, next year, which would have been my senior year, or was, and I volunteered for it. That summer I took the physical, I got out. And so during my senior year out here at Charlie Brown in Atlanta, I got 40 hours of ground school and 40 hours in a J3 Cub and got my license to fly, the obligation for which I was obligated to ask for flight school when I went in the Army. And I did, and I went through basic airborne ranger and went straight to flight scope. Here the fledgling pilot will learn how a helicopter actually works in the new TH-55 trainer. It's a standard commercial model, unmodified or off the shelf. Basically, all copter controls are the same. Move this gizmo up to go up, down to go down. The stick in your right hand controls movement to the sides, forward or backward. The pedals are for keeping the copter headed where you want it headed. From there out of flight school, I flew that Hiller we were talking about, basic, and then I flew the Paisaki H-21, tandem rotor job that looks like a flying banana, old machine. Went to Korea where they, my unit only had the bell like you see in MASH and a Sikorsky early model called the H-19. So I spent a year there. And while there, one of the officers in 60 was going home and I asked him what he was going to do and he told me he was going to Fort Bragg to a special forces thing and then to Vietnam. And I said, where's that? So you want to know what's going on? That's when I first really became conscious that we had a little thing going in Vietnam. I was down at Fort Rucker after Korea and they came by looking for a few people to go to Vietnam to instruct the Vietnamese in flying the Sikorsky H-34 and I wasn't qualified in it, so I didn't get to go. And so I had some time in a unit down there that basically armed our own helicopters. Then I had a year and a half in France and a year in Germany. And while I was over in Germany, I again asked to go to Vietnam. So when I finished that German thing in December of 1963, I came home for two weeks leave and reported in Vietnam about the 20th of January of 1964. And you requested because you were a career guy and that's where the war was? Or what made you want to go to Vietnam? Well, if you're trained to do something and you're paid to be able to do it, it's a shame to hide from it. So that seemed like the thing to do. And they had a DC-6, Overseas National Airway, a little bit of a side thing. I had my helmet bag, and in that helmet bag I had a.357, a five-shot airweight.38, and my airweight.45, and some ammunition. I didn't know where I was, how I was going to get there or what I had in my bag and she said, put it under your seat. We don't want it to fall out and hurt someone. I got to Vietnam. They told me where I was going and I flew in and here you are and we'll be checking you out.&quot; There was the UH-1Bs that I was well qualified in. What did I find there? At that time, in 1968, we had about five or six aviation companies, I think. And we had two of them north of Saigon, one at Konyon and one at Pleiku. And we supported the Vietnamese. And we took them out on operations. We had people who were advisors out there with them. We resupplied them. Actually, we medevaced them at that time. The medevac wasn't well established. And we took people out to the villages, medical people, psychological warfare people, whatever we were told to do, that's how we got them out there. Do you remember your first mission? Not really. You know, I never had a really hot mission in 1964 because we just didn't have any big battles in 64. I've got notes for the first seven months on what we did every day, a little bitty paragraph. And you flew, if you were doing administrative stuff, you went up above 1,500 feet, which probably would give you the best chance of not being hit by small arms. And sometimes we flew one-pilot missions then. As far as medevac goes in 64, when we went, first off, you got to know that in the UH-1s we had three basic radios. You had a UHF and that was kind of Air Force and a VHF which was kind of an army and then FM which is what people on the ground would communicate with you. And in 64, when we flew from one point to the other, we set our FM radios on 37.0. And everyone who was on the ground as a Special Forces, and I hadn't mentioned Special Forces, supplied in 64 and helped do whatever they wanted us to do. And so we've, they knew that we were on 37-0 if they saw a UH-1 coming over, and the advisors on the ground knew that also. So you may be flying and you hear somebody call in and say, helicopter in the vicinity of Chita Rio flying southeast, this is so and so. And you'd answer them. And it might be a special forces camp who wanted someone to go to their major headquarters in the train, which was where you were angling. And they'd ask you if you had room for one to come down. Or they'd call in and say if you had, they had a medevac that needed to go to a certain place. In a case like that, then what we did was circle over and they'd say we're going to pop smoke. And if they'd throw out a grenade, then we would identify the color to keep the bad guys on the frequency from throwing a smoke that might be a different cup. So those were just some of the jobs that we did, and whatever they wanted. I was assigned to an aviation company called the Cowboys. At that time it was A Company of the 82nd, but they renamed it. And we were attached to the 173rd Airborne in Bien Hoa. And our operational area was three corps. part of South Vietnam down to probably Quang Ngai and then from Quang Ngai on down to below Vami Thuet was two core and that included over in the Trang and Phan Thiet I think and then south of Vinh Long down the rest of it is Forecourt down there. In that tour, we supported the 173rd and we did whatever they wanted us to do, the combat assaults, taking them in, pulling them out, resupplying. We also had missions for long-range patrols that were down in the area where we took people in, and some of the guys sometimes had to get them out in a hurry by throwing out ropes down through the trees and pulling them up. I never was on that because in an aviation company in Vietnam you had three platoons, eight helicopters per platoon, and two of them were what we called slicks. They had a machine gun on each side, but they took troops and supplies. helicopters that were armed helicopters. We had several lifts today, about 16 lifts, and we divided the flight into Alpha and Bravo flights, so you'll hear us trying to cover two flights going into one landing zone that's kinda hard to get in and out of. We gotta go in and pick them up and entangle a brush and bring them out of the place, out through the trees. Again, 2-5 is a control ship and you hear them, the numbers 8-1, 8-3, 8-4, 8-7, 8-6, and 8-8. They're the gunships from my platoon. And the orbit is the way we fly around the slicks once they get to the ground. Roger, go ahead. Go ahead, I'll open left. I'll open left. Again, when the slicks get fired at, they throw smoke and we shoot at the smoke. So that's what that was about there. Chalk 3 to 9, we see a class 1 of the LZ smoke rocks on the spot. Roger, we got it. We'll get it again on the way around. Roger, watch friendly. Roger. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one. And the choo-choo, chunk, chunk, chunk noise will be the 40 millimeter. Roger, we have a sleeve alpha. I don't like that. Roger, send for them. and the noise that goes, that'll be the rockets moving out on the machine. And of course you can hear the machine gun. A little bit more to the left, okay? 7, 9, 1 8, 7, this is 86 go to cowboy 100 for this flight 1, 2, 5, this is cowboy 3 I've got a heavy weapon as well, receiving those guy was full of tracers that time Roger Roger Roger Roger, we're going to stay off the GT lines, I'm J. Roger, 8-6 and 3, you're ready to go to star, yes sir. I'm about 30th, coming right up over this side. You say about ready? Yes, sir. Go to star again. Hit it! Roger. We are on the northwest corner and on the southwest corner. We've got no visual on the west side. We've got no visual on the west side. We've got no visual on the west side. We've got no visual on the north west corner and up the south west corner. You got no uh, 240? It's 25, roger. I'm out of 40 and not out of the stuff. Roger, copy this. Cowboy 6 will go ahead and shut down here and refuel while you're fine. I'll do it. Alright, go back around and get everything up there. Now let's take them all back out with Alpha. They're turning Bravo flights. Take them out of here and keep an Alpha down. Did you feel anything, Coo? Eight-six, eight-one. Eight-six, go. Roger, I understand. The flight will be shut down, going to send out a J. Roger. Roger, you can go re-on and come back to J. We have a full load of armor on ourselves. Roger, go to J. Pretty good. Eight-seven, we're going to fill up, buddy. Roger. Sam, you're coopering your shooter to ride the oar with that blast out of that puzzle. You've got 121 round here now? I'll say one thing, them bastards are tough. And I mean, this is chalk nine, all that time we were in C.V. was short of 50 meters, I was the end of that elevation. You better believe it. This is Lee, now you say I was from a point within five zero meters of the perimeter? Was within five zero meters of the LZ, just as we cleared the trees. Here we go. Well that's where we hit that five zero LZ probably. This is Bravo Elite. This is 25, go. Chunk 4, this is Bravo Elite, hold it. I accidentally located one automatic weapon which was right on the edge of the LZ itself. It was firing at us. Roger, would you give me the, would you give me a six digit coordinate of that? Oh, yeah. He saw which way they went out. 50 meters on that run, that ought to get him. 50 meters? No, he said right on the trees. Inside the LZ. Go ahead, Lee. This is how a pilot... I'm going to give them... ...automatic weapons. I have approximately 45 minutes of fuel remaining before we have to refuel. I'd like to recommend that we place our time in where we will always have an airtime buffer, over. Uh, 9-6, that's a permanent. Now, how long before you've got to go down, over? Roger, we have 45 minutes, 45 minutes, over. Uh, this is 9-6. We have 4-5 also, so we'll break at this time and refuel while you're controlling this air and artillery. We'll be back on station. Over. 2-5, right down. This is one more pass, stand by. This is 2-5, roger, you're cleared to come in. The man is on his final pass. Roger. 6-5, you're cleared. Roger. Okay, Falcon, this is the first flight. It's about a minute and a half now. This is 8-6, roger. You've got to be a little in front of somebody so you can fire from north to south, under them going in from west to east. Looks like it's just a little far out there, Bill. Staying in, 886. I'm going in. Okay. Okay, anytime you can get to it. Roger, I'm going in now. Roger. Okay. Alva and Lee, we're commencing a run at this time. Roger. Eight-seven, this is eight-eight. Uh, we got a battle at two now. Let's, uh, DD on up to the north so we can swing into the south under gunpowder and railguns. We are getting in the south on our way. I'm going to go ahead and get the other one. I'm going to go ahead and get the other one. I'm going to go ahead and get the other one. We're going out. Huh? We're going out. We're going out. We're going out. Roger, you're lead. I want to put one right up there. Roger. We'll start our test now. We're breaking left, 8-7. You got it. We'll be in your orbit after you. Roger. There's 8-7. Coming in. 8-8 is way back too far. We got maybe one pair, but we got to stay up here another round or two now. We're breaking left, 8-7. You got it. We'll be in your orbit after you. Roger. There's 8-7. Coming in. 8-8 is way back too far. We got maybe one pair, but we got to stay up here another round or two now. We're breaking left, 8-7. You got it. We'll be in your orbit after you. Roger. There's 8-7. Coming in. 8-8 is way back too far. We got maybe one pair, but we got to stay up here another round or two now. We're breaking left, 8-7. You got it. We're breaking left, 8-7. We got to stay up here another round or two now. I can set down into Lima Zulu as soon as they leave and take care of that 40. Corrected idea. 9-6, just behind you, Ike. 9-6-2-5, you ready, Captain? 9-6-2. Roger, being advised, we have it returned to... We do recommend that the lift contingent has progressed... ...receiving severe... ...we have a fighter on air at this time... ...and it was a good way to run this overflight and use the air, over. This is 96, that's affirmative. Unless we get something real big, we're not going to have another long delay like we had before. 8-1, this is 8-6. Go ahead. How much fuel do you have on board? As you were, normal? I've got about 50 or so rockets in 40 milliliters. Roger. Roger, can you keep that up if you want to use the heat gun, the baseball rocket, the baseball in 40 milliliters? As I say, sir, we'll manage to keep it. Please do your observations at all times. All right. Thanks. Roger, that was a fine job this time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We had no miniguns at that time. We had two machine guns on each side and rocket pods of various sizes. And sometimes we have a 40-millimeter gun sitting out on the front of it. How would you explain to someone who doesn't understand the terrain and all the things you were dealing with over there, how would you explain to them why the helicopter was, I mean, to this day, the sound of a Huey Blade is almost the audio brand of Vietnam. How do you explain to people why those helicopters were so important? I think all you have to do is look at the statistics, medical statistics of the wars and conflicts before the helicopter and look at them after the helicopter. That from the viewpoint, I believe, of the ground pounders, the actual combat people out there on the ground. They know that what they need is generally going to come or go by way of a helicopter. There were more exciting times. you kind of got the... anytime you support Americans, as opposed to supporting another country regardless of what it is, I think we as Americans feel that we are doing more good, and therefore you could say that was more interesting. We ---- I flew guns that whole time. And what we were doing was call out to give support to the troops that needed it. We also flew around at nighttime to try to do a little bit of discovery and interdiction for the things that were moving at night. And it was you had more Americans there that you were a part of. So it was it was more interesting, yeah. Is there any particular mission or missions in those first two tours that stick with you above all else or a day you'll never forget sort of thing? I came out of that place for my last tour in June of 70 and up until that time we had no shoulder-fired weapons directed at us. Later they had some of those. So that was not in our worry system at the time. The.50 calibers would be the most important thing that you're worried about. But I saw very few of those. You can can say I spent a lot of time over there, but I really can't sit here and tell you that my time over there was when the worst part was going on. I didn't schedule it, but When these people who were flying, the gunners and the crew chiefs, were guys who were 18, 19, 20 years old. A lot of them were. And the perspective of a person who had been there or a person who is longer age-wise is different from an 18-year-old who may have never even shot a shotgun when they hear a bullet or two go by. So you're talking to an older guy who'd been there a lot and somebody who'd been there at the same time with me on those things who was young would probably have a different view than I do of how bad it was. And when did your second tour come to an end? for all services, if you extend your tour by six months, that they would let you go anywhere you wanted to and pay you a round-trip ticket and give you 30 days that was not chargeable until you leave. So my brother was over there and he called me up and said, And so we extended and consequently then when I came back from that extension, which was March or April, then I had a new job and I actually was supposed to stay through the end of 67, but I got medevaced out a little early. And so that was my plus on the tour. So what happened to you that required you to have to be medevaced? That hiller I was telling you about, you sit about like this and you fly stick like this. And I took an AK round up through the bottom right through the control. Most of it went in the stick and the rest of it went in my hand. And so I got a little few months there to hang around. Then I went back out to Walters, Texas and instructed for about a year. And I got back into Vietnam again in June of 1969 and stayed there until the last day of February of 70. EIGENBERG Am I right to assume that you volunteered to go back? You didn't have to go back? CORTES Yeah, but that was a little bit of arguing with management. I've been wanting to get fixed-wing rated. I never had been rated in Army fixed-wing, and so I called them up and was trying to say I'd like to go to fixed-wing school. And the guy who was my assignment man said, the only people getting fixed-wing are those we're sending back to Vietnam. And I said, what class number am I going to be in? And he said, no. I said, yep. And he said, okay. And so they gave me fixed wing school and I went back. So it was a bargain. Cubs and the L-19, I don't know about you and your cub, but if you get in the L-19, that's a powerful and dependable machine. And that's a lot of difference there. SHORT What, you went back for your third tour, you went back as a helicopter pilot? ELLIS Went right back. Well, I had a staff job in aviation safety for about five months. It was the worst part of my Vietnam tour was And then in November I got a command of a company and it turned out to be the same company I'd been in in 1966. We were, again, we were back then supporting Vietnamese down in the Delta and three corps. And the real high point of it was the people in the company. It was strange in that you got 52 flight positions, officers and warrants, mostly warrants. And in that company at that time in 1959, I was the only aviator who had previously flown in Vietnam. And when I saw that, you know, I had wondered. But it was obvious pretty early on that these were great people. I'm going to go ahead and start the engine. the the Well, I came out and got married. And I went to Florida State University and I was there for three years and two sons. And then I went to Leavenworth for Command General Staff. And I came back here to Atlanta and worked in the recruiting command, Southeast Region Recruiting Command. And following that, I went over to Forces Command Headquarters, which was here in Atlanta, and worked in personnel in recruiting and retention until I retired in 1982. 24 years and then left. My brother was Air Force. You got to understand that before 1959, 1959 was the first year that the Air Force Academy graduated a class. And before that, about a quarter of the military academy and naval academy could go Air Force. And so he went Air Force. He was over there for in Vietnam as about a little over four years between Thailand and the thing when we were there together in 66 he was the forward air controller, air liaison officer, flying L-19s for an outfit called Sigma which was three core long range patrols and he spent a great amount of time as a forward air controller and air liaison officer. As a matter of fact, if you want to interview somebody who is as good as you'll find, that's your brother. a very dangerous job that they did. And he did that for all that time he was there? I think he did that probably for two, two and a half years. He flew F-100s sometimes over there. He flew F-4s a little bit. But as far as his FACALO, I'd say he had at least two years worth of it. Ed was flying one time, he said, and they were in the 3 Corps, and he had a patrol that was nip and tuck trying to find a place to pick them up. And he said he was burning fumes, and he told them he just had to leave. And so he headed down to Lycae, I think it was. I believe it was the 1st Infantry Division down there. And he knew there was some L-19s. He said he called and got straight in and he saw those L-19s and it was a sergeant working on one. He said he wheeled his in and pulled it up and yelled at that sergeant and said, is it flyable and does the radio work? And he said, yes sir. He jumped in that thing with his maps and everything, called the tower, emergency takeoff, back out over the troop. When he came in and landed, the tower said, sir, the post commander would like to talk to you. And so he said, fill out the books and everything. And they took him over to the post commander and he reported in. And the colonel said, Major, you want to tell me about it? He said, this is what's happened. And the colonel said, how did it fly? Did you fill out the book? Come back to see us. So, that's good. Army, Air Force, get the gun. I'm going to kill you. You know, we don't actually know all of the background of the decisions that were being the political decisions didn't allow the military to do what we could have done as far as it goes. But then again, I our presence over there in the south and to some part elsewhere, the country of Vietnam is, in my view, leaving the communist 100% shell. And our presence and our effort probably is going to have won those peoples to our way of life. We lost a lot of people over there, but my God, look at some of the cities we got here and how many we were killing every weekend or every year and everything like that. And I think if I'd been lost over there, it would be a hell of a lot better than being killed down in Atlanta. Some people say that they were treated poorly when they came back. Never did I have anything. No one ever, you know, maybe it's where I'm from, maybe it's where I was assigned, but I was never spat upon or talked about or put down. And I don't know. Different people carry a load differently. Some people carry it with a bone structure, and some people carry it with their muscles. And them that carry it with their muscles are going to be hurting pretty soon. So where did you come from? You know, I think there's a lot to be said for who are you? If you were weak when you went, you've got a better chance of being fouled up when you come back. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera out of the operations officer of the 119th Aviation Company. It was a part of the 52nd Infantry, 52nd Battalion. And it was out of Plaiku, Holloway. It was an Air Force base up there in 64. Holloway was an old French base. And we got a call 11 o'clock at night or so. And there was a special forces camp west of K'ntun. And I can't pull the name up, but it was being run over. And it was socked in weather. And our battalion commander called up and he said, we need to get somebody up over the thing to contact them on FM. The Air Force could fly up there if they didn't have FM. So Ed Misseldein and I took a UH-1 and there was There was a radar, I think it was parrot control, but I wouldn't swear to it. And we took off and they directed us out over the camp. And just as we got over the camp, we came into a sucker hole that we could see the ground. And it had to be two miles across. So we flew over the camp and we could see some fire going on. And we tried every frequency we could, and we stayed up there until we needed fuel, and then went on back over. They took us back over to a place where we could get fuel at K'ntun, and we didn't get back out there until the next morning when it got a little light and we could go in. We couldn't land because we had no contact with them whatsoever. And when we landed out there that morning, I guess that was the first time I ever seen people laying on the ground. And the interesting thing about it was, when Now, you've got a team out there, and then they're normally surrounded by Nungs, which was a local tribal, and then there's some Vietnamese in the camp and everything. And the first, we were told that the first mortar that came in hit the A-frame right down top of there where their team was. And one man was wounded and they moved him down to the river and put him on a floating barrel and the other guy stayed out there with him away from the camp. There were no other Americans hit or wounded, but, well, the camp was in a mess. That was the third day of July going on to the fourth of July, 1964. But that was one of the hot American things that we had. An interesting flight that I had was flying a day or two before Thanksgiving, flying gun cover on a C-47 that was going around parachuting frozen turkeys to the Special Forces camps. But different things. We did have a, and I've got a film of us, a place called Haban, Chirio. They had a camp down near there and they had a fluid. And we took the company down there, the 119th, and picked up Vietnamese and brought them out of the fluid. But again, that was 64. And you got to understand, I'm an aviator, okay? I wasn't down there under the trees. I was not down there in the rice paddies. So right up front, when you're talking to somebody, you ought to find out what they did because that colors how we feel. How many missions did you fly in those three and a half tours? Don't know? Be Be very sure when you speak of missions that your Army helicopter missions Aren't the same as Air Force and Navy missions. I might go out today on three different missions, flying two or three hours on each one, okay, in the Army. Well, those boys in the Navy and the Air Force, generally speaking, if they go out on one and they're doing a lot of refueling, all this and everything, hell, they're flying all day. So Army missions in helicopters can be 30 minutes, two hours, or we can go out on one and fly for, you know, 12 or 13 hours for the day kind of thing. But I say Because we just aren't, as a general rule, comparable by mission time, by the time of a mission. There's a young guy named Dominic Fino who, along with four or five other guys enlisted in the unit in 69 and 70 have put together a list of several hundred people who have been in that unit and about every two years the late it's been in Las Vegas because Golden Nugget puts up with us and we'll have anywhere from 30 to 60 people plus family get together out there about every two years. And the nice thing about it is to be able to see the people and to hear what some of the people have done. And that's a case where you can go in two years later and almost take up the conversation where it stopped two or four years previous to that. I think the military, if you're in the military in a circumstance where you not only work with someone but you live with them. That after any number of months, a year or something like that, it's amazing the camaraderie that you have in the service. You know, when I went to flight school, I was in the first class of combat arms to go straight to helicopters. Prior to my, to our class, there were about 22 of us I think who graduated. In January, we went in January of 59. Everybody had gone fixed wing and then they took a a Q course, a quick course in helicopters. And along with Medical Service Corps people had been going in to helicopters prior to that without being fixed wing rated. But our class, 59, and they called it C4, so I guess that was Combat 4, we went, because I was assigned to Korea and got to Korea they had changed a number code for what kind of aviators you requested and I got over there and they were going to assign me to a unit that had three L-19s and a Beaver and I said man I'm not even fixed-wing rated and the guy looked down and he hadn't put his changes in his orders. So I was kind of fortunate to get into it that early. Part of the success of the military in this country is due to the fact that when a leader there's always someone else who will take over and we're brought up over here not to be led around by a ring in our nose but to take charge so that's a part of being an American In the long history of mankind, there has never been a war which has demanded such complex tactics and so many sophisticated weapons as the war in Vietnam. An entirely new concept of warfare, known as helleborn, or air mobile operations, has been developed by the United States Army and has been successfully employed to meet the posed by Southeast Asia's hostile wilderness and the enemy who hides there. In the fluid situation where actions are fought from one end of South Vietnam to the other, the air mobile concept has given birth to the Army had to overcome in Vietnam was the terrain itself. Approximately 80 percent of the country is undeveloped wilderness, or in the southern part of the Republic, endless marshes, bogs, and waterways of the land features which are unfavorable to a modern, highly mechanized fighting force are used by the Viet Cong as a weapon against the American military effort there. Seeking out the elusive, hidden enemy, U.S. troops are daily confronted by nightmarish natural obstacles. Even at close range, the Viet Cong remain unseen. The full power of our army cannot be brought to bear upon the enemy through ground operations alone. As the American fighting men inch their way into the Asian wilderness where the enemy has prepared underground fortresses and has entrenched himself for decades, the attack spirit of our troops is frustrated and progress is limited. A speedier, more effective method of getting at the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese army forces had to be found. Traditionally, the need for ground movement by the army is vital. Troops are still deployed on a massive scale on wheels and treads in Vietnam, and the final victory must be won on the ground. In order to move quickly over difficult ground and to put the firepower where it's needed, the Army developed the air mobile concept. This concept requires that Army aircraft be employed by and assigned to the fighting division. These aircraft and the men that fly them are immediately responsive and solely committed to support of the ground commander. For overland transport, the Army still needs its workhorse vehicles, ambulances and various types of armored war machines. These are the tools of the ground force elements of the Air Mobility Team. In the air mobile divisions, many of these ground vehicles are replaced by helicopters, which carry the men and equipment of the team. How the air mobility team system works is demonstrated in a battalion-sized operation to search out and clear away known enemy forces. Advanced reconnaissance is the first step for any planned attack. In air mobility operations, this advanced scouting is usually done from the air. Light fixed-wing aircraft look for areas near suspected enemy positions, which will provide a suitable landing zone for the waves of assault troops, which will soon be coming in. To determine enemy strength in the area, helicopters are sent in for a closer examination of the ground. From intelligence reports and the information gathered by air reconnaissance operations, pilots and air mobile officers are briefed on the mission which lies ahead. From day to day, Helleborn missions vary so much that these briefings must be extremely accurate. Ground commanders are also given the latest information on the operation. The operation begins when the infantry soldiers load aboard the assault Hueys to fly to the strike objective. The air mobile team concept is designed with the idea that the airborne soldier must ultimately fight on foot. Every effort is made to keep small units together on the same aircraft. A combat company's mortars and machine guns are divided among several aircraft, however, so that the loss of one or two helicopters would not knock out all the company's heavy weapons. Troops are seated in each attack helicopter so that the first man off will be an automatic weapons man. If necessary, he will provide a heavy volume of fire to cover the offloading of the rest of his squad. The aerial deployment of assault troops may call for some modification of normal leadership tactics. On the ground, the company commander will be up forward. However, in the air like this, the command and control ship may well be the last one in formation. This gives the troop commander a clear view of his entire unit and allows him to break out of formation without disrupting it. In air mobile operations such as the one now underway, the hilltops overlooking an enemy held valley are pounded by army artillery units to make way for the incoming waves of helicopters. Artillery fire is carefully coordinated with attacks directly upon enemy positions by tactical aircraft of the U.S. Air Force. The jets rain bombs into the valley to neutralize the enemy there. When the fighter-bomber attack is masked by the advance of the ground troops, the close support is continued by helicopter gunships. Helicopter gunships lay down suppressive fire with 2.75 rockets and machine guns when required. Using the position-marking rockets of the helicopter as a guide, the Air Force jets dart in with their heavy ordnance. The landings of the assault helicopters are the most critical phase of the operation. Despite the heavy preparatory fires, enemy small arms, automatic weapons, and mortar fire may be severe. The attacking airborne soldiers must be ready to engage the enemy immediately with every type of weapon. They also must deploy swiftly to push back or eliminate enemy forces which may be blocking expansion of the landing zone. The air mobility team system provides another great advantage for the assault troops. In addition to flexible, rapid transport to meet any maneuver of the enemy, the U.S. infantryman can be landed on key terrain, such as this high ground overlooking the valley. Known as vertical envelopment, this enables him to come in behind the enemy, whose prepared defenses are usually oriented to cover the ground below. As the initial landings are completed without resistance from the enemy, the men spread out quickly to secure the various landing zones. on. downhill. This decreases fatigue and speeds up ground movement. The enemy is given little time in which to adjust his defenses to the attack. In an effort to land behind the enemy, some of the troops are required to land on terrain where natural obstacles make it far from an ideal landing zone. But the men of the air mobile team are extremely resourceful and manage to complete their landings despite the hazards. Here for instance, some of the troops must descend into the solid mass of tall jungle in order to take up a strategic blocking position. An air mobile landing which has been slowed down by difficult terrain is vulnerable to attack by the enemy. In this situation, it is vital to have suppressive fires placed on the perimeter of the air mobile team. The artillery forward observer plays a critical role, calling in and directing artillery fire. Another triumph of the air mobile team is its truly remarkable ability to shuffle artillery through the air. In Vietnam today, most aerial delivery of these field pieces is being accomplished by huge Chinook helicopter sling delivery. New lightweight howitzers have been developed especially for this role. From these forward battery positions, the artillery can not only support the troops moving up in the field, but can cover the landings of other battalion-sized units at nearby satellite landing zones. landing zone. Further support for the foot soldier comes from the Air Force. The Air Force counterpart of the Army Forward Observer is the FAC, the Forward Air Controller. Riding in Air Force spotter planes, the FAC can call in devastating jet air strikes on enemy positions. The Air Force provides close air support until it can no longer attack the target without endangering our own troops. Spectacular though the air mobile team's assaults are, these brilliant aerial deployments would grind to a halt on the ground if the troops were not constantly supplied and resupplied with the many articles of war needed to fight the battles. Things like jeeps and water trailers and ammunition. Spot delivery of mail, communications equipment, small arms ammunition and food is a vital part of every operation. Pure fresh water supplies are as important as food, due to the fact that natural water sources in Vietnam are carriers of disease. One of the most outstanding aerial delivery feats, however, is the constant shuttling in of tons of heavy shells, which are consumed so rapidly by the forward artillery units. Aerial resupply means not only materiel, but manpower as well. The Army air mobile team's ability to rush reinforcements by helicopter and move troop units to keep up with rapidly changing situations on the ground has led to some of the Viet Cong's most crushing defeats. action timing of this swift air mobility. Keeping the swarms of helicopters airborne so long and so often is made possible only because the team gives these aircraft expert maintenance on the ground. Checkups and inspection procedures are exacting and carried out according to a rigid schedule. After every combat mission, an inspection is made for possible damage. Another contributing factor to the capability of these helicopters to return so swiftly to action is the multiple fueling techniques devised by the team's ingenious support personnel. Inflatable rubber fuel tanks flown well forward of the main airbase, cut refueling time to the bare minimum. No supporting role is more brilliantly and widely carried out in air mobile operations than the role of the combat engineers. They too take to the air along with their equipment and supplies to perform their key function of clearing the way for the fighting infantry. They not only give the troops ground mobility by clearing and building roads, but they erect bridges to span rivers and gullies in the underdeveloped provinces of South Vietnam. They further the team's aerial mobility by laying down metal runways and aprons for the big airlift and resupply operations. Another important mission of the engineers is the systematic expert demolition of enemy underground fortifications, tunnels, and other obstacles. Once discovered by our ground troops, such enemy bunkers are never allowed to stand intact. The special nature of the Vietnam War has called for application of the air mobile concept in ways never expected by the men who developed the system. Sometimes it may be the evacuation of the native populations of a remote Vietnamese village, which is suspected to be a base of operations for the Viet Cong. Or, more cheerfully, it may be a means to implement the program in which villagers and hamlets are visited by the Army's civil assistance teams, bringing aid to the needy villagers through gifts of food, medical care and clothing. Where food is concerned, the hearty, wholesome meals fed to the villagers are a prime ingredient in the program. The hearts of many are won over through the gift of food. There is even entertainment to delight the villagers. These activities are just another example of the air mobile team is one of its most valuable assets. An example is the helicopter recovery of damaged aircraft. Since the wrecked aircraft is most often the victim of enemy action in the forward areas. These recovery operations are frequently carried out while the rescue ship itself is under fire. However, the men of the recovery teams are so skilled, so quick, and so daring, that most aircraft shot down or forced down by accident are recovered, repaired, and are returned to combat duty again. Even the largest of our helicopters can be retrieved from wilderness crashes and whisked back to the capable hands of expert aircraft repairmen. The air mobile team concept has its most classic application in actual combat. In a typical operation, troops of the 1st Cavalry Division, Air Mobile, supported by mechanized units, discover a regimental-sized force of North Vietnamese Army regulars in the foothills near Bong Son. The enemy is deeply entrenched in an area adjoining two villages. Progress is halted because of enemy mortar and automatic weapons fire. A combined arms fire mission is imperative if the ground forces are to succeed in dislodging the enemy from his system of hidden underground fortifications. Supporting fires must be called in. the ships. A. The the the the simultaneously the supporting artillery units fire concentrations on the entire enemy position. Finally, our ground forces begin moving up. They are greeted by well disciplined fire from North Vietnamese Army troops who have escaped the aerial attack by burrowing deep into their underground bunkers and tunnels. the the the The End the the the The End The The End Oh, yeah! And so it is all over. The Army Air Mobile Team has prevailed. The enemy has been defeated in this confrontation with the Americans at Bongsan. One thing is clear. The battle-tested teams of infantry and armor, infantry and artillery, and the many other combined arms teams still play their historic roles in battle. But their missions are carried out faster and more effectively as part of the Army Air Mobility Team. the the