We're in Amritsar. In this video, We visit the beautiful Golden Temple The spiritual heart of Sikhism. I have never seen something so beautiful. And take you behind the scenes in the world's largest community kitchen. They feed more than 100,000 And show you how they prepare and cook food on a mass scale. Yes, big muscles Yes You won't believe the generosity of these This has been the most amazing experience. We will also take you with us to the vibrant and colourful marketplace Welcome to Amritsar! We just arrived to the marketplace outside the Golden Temple. To enter the temple, you actually So we're just gonna have a look for a scarf. So what colour? You like this one? Yes, that's nice and this one yeah The girls have just got their scarfs. We're now on the hunt for a turban for me before we go into the Golden Temple. We've been walking around the streets and we can hear this beautiful music playing from speakers. And we weren't sure if But apparently there's a live band playing in the centre of the temple and they're singing from the holy book Shri Guru Granth Sahib Ji. I think that's how you pronounce it. It creates a really nice atmosphere The statue behind me is of the Within 1km radius of the Golden Temple It's a non-smoking zone and no meat is served. It's all vegetarian food Just walking down Queen Lane on our way to It is absolutely amazing, And it's lined with the shops selling materials and clothing, shoes and bags It definitely has a really cool atmosphere. And I am just loving and the turbans that people are wearing. It's certainly a very colourful start. I really loved the architecture and It has the Indian architecture. Also, a little bit Arabic influence as well And it really has the feeling It really does Also they have these beautiful They're absolutely stunning, really beautiful. The colours of the buildings are Most of the buildings are coloured or like a peachy color tones. yeah, absolutely gorgeous certainly busy All sorts of things happening, school trips and lots of people coming for pilgrimage to the Golden Temple. And yes, people try to sell you things. Hello I have scarf Yeah say hello Oh my gosh, This is so cool! Oh my gosh Wow we just got a view of the beautiful temple and we can see beautiful golden domes. I can't wait to go inside This is unbelievable I can't believe we're here Someone just handed me their baby. And I think the baby and The baby was looking at me like who is this stranger? Sometimes you just If you say yes to one person then everyone takes photo of you. and then you get crowds, lines and make it gets a little chaotic I literally could start charging money or we could force people to subscribe if they want a photo. I think it's turban time. That sounded like a chemical product, Isn't it! Turpentine All those? Aha okay. Apparently it's 4.5 meters of So... That's a lot. Maybe we go orange Hopefully they can help I'm not sure what I am going to do with I guess I don't have I don't think, I'm ever gonna Okay? Put in the comments below, Let me know what you think about my turban. I need a mirror, I want to Haven't even seen it yet. Okay, mission complete So, we're ready to go to the temple. There's a school trip happening and everyone wants to meet us and... We're currently meeting many new people. Bye bye mam Bye We have a little bit of a They are little excited. All the school children are here on a They're taking a pledge not to do drugs. and then they going to the temple So, pretty cool. Now, we have to take off our shoes We're not allowed to walk We just handed in our shoes. There are a lot of people handing in shoes, who knows what kind of shoes we Before we enter the temple, Now, we have to walk through water So that we can have clean feet. This is unbelievable. I have never seen something so beautiful. Construction of Golden Temple Initially, the temple was but now it is covered in 500kg of gold. What is amazing about the Sikh religion, is that they believe that and everybody of all faiths from all walks of life are welcomed here to the There's actually four entrances around the temple complex. And, at each entrance you have to Meaning that you have to humble yourself before the temple. The temple complex is The way that water walls are surrounding the Golden Temple is just so beautiful. It is such an amazing and experience this. You can see people bathing behind me. They believe in the healing So, they're cleansing their You can see a massive long line up. It takes about 3-4 hours to go in and actually visit the temple. People are coming from to visit this temple. And get blessings from inside the temple. And this is the most important We've just entered the I'm very excited to see the They feed more than 100,000 On entry, people handing out bowls, All ready for their meals. In this area, Here they are serving the And everybody sitting around Instead of serving in a cup, They actually serve in these metal bowls. Okay, let's go and grab some. Hello I'm gonna try the chai now. It is very hot actually. So, I took the sweetened version. Absolutely delicious! absolutely boiling but It's absolutely delicious. Hello, Namaste Hello, How are you? Sat shri Akal (wishing in punjabi) He's giving blessing Oh! Thank you Oh my gosh! So sweet! and he gave me a blessing. So, That's so nice. That's so cute. Only said God bless you That's so nice. It made my eyes water actually. It's delicious, I really like it. So loud in here, all you can hear is just sounds but a really cool atmosphere. All the food and drinks that are made here is funded by donations. But other people that can't afford it. They might bring produce. They can then used it to cook here. And people that simply can't afford to donate any money. They donate their time instead, And just help as they can. We have just come to the preparation area And they're currently preparing garlic. I can really smell it and And it's really nice how and they're chatting while doing this. And it really looks like creating Really colorful outfits on all the women. So, it looks so colorful where they are sitting and preparing garlic. You can see all people walking So, they all go in get their meals eat it in there And then after they come out, take their We have just entered the dining hall. You could see everybody sitting and It's like a well oiled machine. They have people that People that are serving the dal and rice. It is simply amazing to see this. In 15 min, They're able to That is crazy! I think they would need to clean because there is a lot of I just stepped on some. So, I need to clean my feet after. This is definitely express We could need one of those I am so excited to see this. Whoa, those are some The pots nearly look as big a spa bath. Looks like, I could take dip in this pot. That's how big they are. Definitely have to be really in that massive pot. We were told that pots are over So I guess, that's where It's also crazy to believe that food for over 100,000 a day is cooked here. Look at the size comparison It's nearly as tall as me, Oh my gosh. And that's where all the We just entered another kitchen area and this one is actually They have all this wood and then these massive pots and there's so much steam. Let's go have a closer look Here, they are cooking dal and it smells so good. It's an absolutely massive saucepan Estimate is 2.5 metre in diameter It's huge... That's a lot of dal. To transfer food to the dining hall, They have to put the food into and then this guy here carries it all by himself to the dining hall. Talk about needing really big muscles. Oh my gosh, that is so hard Okay, there we go There we go Thank you Everyday good muscle yes, good muscles yes It's actually really hard work. I think I wasn't even going all the way down which you need to, Because I just find it so heavy It's crazy how people do this all day. Smells absolutely delicious I can smell onions and garlic and different herbs and spices. Oh my gosh, I am getting really hungry now. Smells great yeah They have just added in here 20kgs of ghee to make it nice and tasty. This is seriously cooking on a mass scale. This is an amazing process, I can't believe we're here watching this. And to think that this is 1000s of people here today. And to think that all these people to the community is just so beautiful. I loved that they're so inclusive in the Sikh religion, that they're just doing and it's really an amazing thing. We're just looking at how And it's actually like a firing furnace. So, we have got the wood here And they have got this and it's hot. I have been there for like 30 seconds and I'm melting. Thank you for having us. Thank you Just watching this massive It's coming to this huge scale. This is an amazing process We're now gonna take a look at, All right, let's go. Smells amazing Behind me, they're making It's really fascinating to see They produce more than 2000 rotis per hour. The bread first comes out then they are all flattened then they're rolled on a belt that puts it onto another belt before they go into the oven. The oven is a multi layered oven. It cooks the roti from both sides when it comes out, and it's smells delicious. Then, they pick up the big basket and brought to the table where they put butter on rotis to make Quite a process. You see both of Kylie &amp; Ella them have a got a job here putting butter on the rotis. From the place where There's this beautiful view You can see the entire temple and the lake. all the golden towers and of course At this level they also and make them from scratch. So, this is a manual production line. You can see that they're cooking manually and cooking perfectly on both sides. This has been such an amazing place. We feel very happy that Make sure you donate and Okay, we're going into the Oh my gosh! It is so loud. Again, all volunteers coming here to help clean all the plates, cutlery and bowls. It is such an amazing service. I can't get over it. It's such a beautiful community spirit, so inspiring. So, this is stage 1. People are coming and handing and there banging off all the excess food. And then putting it in a big bowl and now the bowl gets delivered over here to the next stage of the cleaning process. So, they're actually rinse off Lots of washing going on. Nice clean plates Now behind me, you can see.. Stack them and piled them together. they're ready for dishing up the food The number of community help There are so many people helping out in this process to making the food, to serving the food and cleaning it all up again. I'm just so inspired by these people and how they're helping their community, and the spirit and generosity they have. Actually feeling quite overwhelmed, right now and quite emotional, by this experience. I don't think I have ever seen The way people are all coming together to feed one another and just come together as a community is... It's just really overwhelming and it really touched me today. They even provide medical facilities to people and free accomodation. I feel like I am little bit speechless. Really an amazing act of humanity. I'm raelly touched by this. So, I really feel super grateful. So happy to be here today. It's been the most amazing experience. Our feet are feeling little bit sore now. I think we have been walking It's funny we actually have a whole crowd of Turn your camera around Kasper. Okay, let's put the shoes on Really friendly, They like my turban. We have had an amazing We really hope that you enjoyed this video. Don't forget to like and Don't miss out on any of See you next time on Yeah feel like it's so weird putting on shoes now I feel like I am getting in feet Walking around in feet Ella's walking around in feet It has lots of pigeons Yes, lots and lots of pigeons Which looks really picturesque actually when they go flying up into the sky &quot;Pigeon-esque&quot; &quot;Pigeon-esque&quot; What's that? Oh I thought that was going to be better! &quot;Picturesque&quot; Oh &quot;Pigeon-esque&quot; oh That was good Ella!