Thanks to the Ridge Wallet for sponsoring When it comes to astronomy, the approach of a very viable option. You cannot poke stars with a stick, and not However, if your stick is actually a high-tech cosmological time capsule composed of loose for the largest and most scientifically advanced And with the OSIRIS Rex spacecraft's mission happened. I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching And today we continue with our third look In this video, we explore the moment of truth 4 years - the first time in history a US If you've watched my other videos on this - or the Origins, Spectral Interpretation, Explorer - is a NASA-developed spacecraft of collecting and then bringing home to Earth as 101955 Bennu. This mission is an important one, as Bennu It is thought to have been around since the a treasure trove of information about the the origins of life. However, while missions have photographed from the tails of comets, this was the first to an asteroid to physically collect a sample NASA's goal was to collect a 60g sample It would do that by entering Bennu's orbit It would be careful not to disturb or contaminate but would drift gently down, extending its (or TAGSAM) as it did so. Then, at the moment it touched the surface of Nitrogen gas from its arm, kicking up dust its sampler. OSIRIS-REx would then return home with its However, that mission was not as simple as Bennu is a relatively small asteroid - only there was very little gravity. While scientists had previously mapped out high degree of accuracy using radar imaging, Bennu would be made of relatively fine materials. This was not the case. Bennu was covered in large boulders, some As such, there were limited places where OSIRIS-REx sample. And so, OSIRIS-REx spent over a year - 505 surface, choosing the best location for its After careful deliberation, NASA had decided Nightingale, Kingfisher, Osprey and Sandpiper. You might notice a bird theme here. Bennu itself was named as the result of a The Planetary Society and the LINEAR project In it, more than 8000 students submitted name The winner was a 3rd-grade student, who wanted bird Bennu because he thought that the OSIRIS-REx's of a heron's neck, just like the Egyptian craft visiting it rather than the shape of NASA seems to have kept with this bird-like In the end, NASA chose the Nightingale site This site was set in a crater that seemed which came with numerous benefits. Not only would landing be easier, but the surface would likely be an accurate reflection With the site selected, OSIRIS began its slow However, it did not rush in with a single Instead, it did practice runs. The first took place on the 15th of April OSIRIS approached the asteroid to a distance rising again. Everything worked perfectly, and its thrusters Satisfied with this run, scientists sent it On the 11th of August, OSIRIS approached at Slowly, darting forward and backwards but And on the 20th of October, this heron lookalike Using onboard computer systems to plan its the lag time for signals from Earth rendered impossible, OSIRIS slowly reached out to touch It raised its solar panels in a Y shape to from any loose dust that was about to go flying. It reached out its arm to land. It touched the surface. And then, surprisingly, it kept going. When I think of the surface of asteroids and to stand on, as you might see in films such But the truth is that - particularly for means that their mass is only loosely held What looks like a stable surface is actually of nothingness - gaps that mean Bennu is you'd likely vanish inside of it. Like stepping into foam, OSIRIS' arm sank before the thrusters arrested its fall. Furiously activating its nitrogen gas burst, What was expected to kick up a little regolith as all that material, so loosely held under all directions. OSIRIS' thrusters went into overdrive, burning to pull them away from the expanding cloud Of course, this was all pre-programmed. NASA had planned for this, although perhaps OSIRIS had just made a new massive crater Upon getting away from the asteroid's surface, It had hoped for 60g of material. Instead, it found it had collected somewhere So much material had been collected that a sampler's head, causing some small amount However, OSIRIS succeeded in transferring into it. Its mission had been a huge success. For a time, OSIRIS stayed watching, flying outcome of what it had done. The surface of Bennu was different now. Even larger materials had moved far. Just look how far this boulder was thrown However, OSIRIS couldn't linger forever. Its sample needed to get back to Earth. And so, after performing one last flyby on And there we have it. Right now, as of the release of this video, void of space. It is thought that it will arrive back around Once it reaches Earth's orbit, it will release to land in the Utah desert, where it will This will mark the culmination of an incredible of an asteroid and returning it back in pristine But as for OSIRIS itself, this mission was Having captured a sample of Bennu, this Egyptian the Egyptian serpent of Chaos, destroyer of Or, more accurately, the Apophis asteroid, to be passing within 50,000km of Earth in Let's hope that the asteroid does not behave Egyptian namesake. Either way, OSIRIS will be heading off to to kick up material from the asteroid's To reflect this extension of its mission, No longer is it OSIRIS REx. It is now OSIRIS-APophis EXplorer. Or, OSIRIS-APEX. With a name like that, perhaps its greatest If you're a spacecraft looking to store human trying to store their credit cards, you. The ridge wallet has a slim, minimalist design and can slip easily into and out of your pocket. They come in 30 different colours and styles, - excellent space materials - and are warranty for all you intergalactic explorers... the local shops. You can even test drive one for 99 days with like it. As a special offer to Astrum viewers, if you you can get up to 40% off your purchase, right Check out the description below for the special Thanks for watching! And thanks to my patrons and members for your If you want to have your name added to this below. All the best, and see you next time.