- If you see a magician and you wanna know how it's done, and somebody says, &quot;Well, They don't really saw the lady in half. They just make it appear that they're sawing the lady in half.&quot; And you say, &quot;Yeah, okay, great. How do they do that?&quot; &quot;Oh, that's not my department. That's somebody else's job. I've already given you my explanation.&quot; Sometimes philosophers I think they just don't wanna be bothered. They don't wanna take to explain what's actually happening. What I like to do is explain things, and have them explained to me. Mainly, explanations are why they happen the way they do. So I've been curious about at the positions they arrive at, how scientists make their own questions. I have often said that than at answers- and that's nontrivial. They don't think it's how things actually work, whereas I think that should I'm Daniel Dennett. I'm the author of more than a dozen books on the mind, on free will, on evolution. And I'm an Emeritus Professor Since I was a little boy, I wanted to know how things worked. I wanted to take them apart what made them work. So I was sort of an engineer at heart. And it turns out that that's as a philosopher. Figure out what makes ideas work and why. And so I've championed the idea that if you're gonna be a philosopher, learn about the world, I'm happy to say that now, philosophers who are way beyond what I ever and for the first time in my career, they're being taken Because scientists are just as capable of making philosophical mistakes or getting into philosophical But they need the help if they're gonna clarify those questions and ask better questions. A lotta people just dig in, double down, and refuse to abandon a point from their critics. That in itself is not a bad thing. I'm glad that my criticisms and ferociously by some otherwise, we'd never get at the truth. I think it's very important to keep in the back of your When I was a graduate way back in the '60s in Oxford, one day with a group of we got talking about what and you can't control it. What on earth is that all about? And I got interested and Well, what is it, is it the nerves? Do they get pinched? Is it blood flow? What is it? And they thought it was bizarre that a philosopher would be interested in the physiological questions They thought I was abandoning philosophy. I went off to the medical library and tried to get myself educated on how the nervous system works. And that was a main turning point for me. It suddenly hit me when the cells of the brain that they could be the basis in your brain, which was learning. That learning in the individual was just yet another Darwinian process. I didn't know much about about natural selection, And the more I learned, &quot;This is the key. This is the great key to And we get rid of all the magic and we have a bottom-up and truth and consciousness. And I'm, to this day, amazed at how complacent so many philosophers are with their utter ignorance They think that if we had a physical explanation of of understanding, that and demean these wonderful phenomena- not at all. If we understand how amazingly intricate and wonderful and ingenious nature is in allowing us to understand things and create things, think ahead, we would dismiss the And I think that Darwin's ideas undo many of the biggest or at least, subvert them and turn them into better problems. And the fact that so many trying to find the when Darwin has shown us has an essence; it's gradualism all the way. This is an idea that is just not dawned on a lot of philosophers, They learn from Socrates, from Plato. And the first thing they &quot;establish the essence of each thing,&quot; as Aristotle would put it. And that turns out to be the Forget about essences. Learn about all the and the penumbral cases. Then afterwards, you'll know One of the most eye-opening moments for me was when I read Richard and learned about his concept of memes. When Dawkins coined the term &quot;memes,&quot; he had in mind something very general. The term caught on. It's in the dictionary now. But only a small subset are what most people think of as memes. And those are the ones and, presumably, intelligently design with the hopes that they'll go viral. And some of them do. But lots of memes go viral that don't involve the internet at all. Words are memes. Every word in every language is a meme. It's not genetically inherited, it's culturally transmitted. They evolve over time. And Dawkins' theory was of how human cultural evolution hugely expands the powers of a human brain. In fact, I would put it very strongly. I would say, the difference and a human brain is that is largely unfurnished. Whereas we fill our brains with memes. We download hundreds and that's where we get our power from. Your computer or your phone until you download some apps to it. Those are like memes. We're awash in toxic memes right now. One of the most toxic, I think because it enables so many others, is the idea that truth doesn't matter, that truth is just relative, that there's no such thing as establishing the truth of anything. Your truth, my truth, we're all entitled to our own truths. That's pernicious, it's and it is used to exploit people in all sorts of nefarious ways. The truth really does matter. I think one of my best ideas the idea that we automatically of treating anything if we can, as an agent. What does it want? What does it know? What does it believe? We use the intentional stance all the time to endow other things that with beliefs and desires, and the ability to do the rational thing given those beliefs and desires. Well, that's fine, as long of concrete objects. But what's now happening the digital world with fake minds, fake people, that we are almost as if they were real, as if they really had beliefs and desires. And these will be very because they will replicate, they will evolve, and we won't be able to take They will capture our The difference between current AI, large language models so-called, things like ChatGPT and GPT-4, is that their goal is They are more like historical fiction We're different in that Maybe because we want to lie. But LLMs, AIs don't yet to lie on purpose. They do formulate falsehoods And there's only a difference So we're not used to having our technology in the position to ignore the truth and just feed us what makes sense to them. Technology has gone to great lengths to make it very hard to and quite easy to identify it. So we can do something similar for every phone, computer, tablet- every digital device can which will do a pretty darn good job of detecting counterfeit people. And we'll not accept it or &quot;This is fake, this is fake, this is spam, this is a hoax, don't believe it.&quot; And in order to do that, And in order to have laws, you've got to have that will pass the laws, and they have to know enough so they pass laws that This is something we have to work on now, and I think we need to