I have watched show so many videos for how a woman should wear their hair and don't wear long hair Don't try to be too trendy Don't let it go gray. It's so aging. Honestly, Can we just not? Can we just not do that anymore? Hi! If you're new here, my name is Gabi, and I've been an industry working with thousands of women I've always seen hair and makeup and an amazing form of self-expression. Just like decorate your Christmas tree You do whatever the heck makes you feel There are no set rules Let's say it again on how you should decorate yourself. You should wear your hair And if you feel like a certain style looks great on you and you feel beautiful, However, if you feel like figure out what to do next, was working and now suddenly isn't Well, I'm here to help. Today I'm going to give you five hair for helping clients Let's go! Haircut Idea 1 is the blunt bob which is just a slightly longer This style is characterized by a strong unlayered baseline You can wear this style or you can add a fringe in there We're going to talk more about that later. As we age, our bodies naturally change. One of the first very noticeable is their hair getting thinner has become thinner and the amount of hair it can result in wispy hair to control, and also hair If you've experienced this It's definitely something that happens It's very, very, very common. So just know that you are not alone in the comments and form a community that makes a lot of people The reason that a blunt bob works and why it's probably been recommended to when we cut everything into one line, When the baseline looks dense, Even if it's not. Thick healthy hair is a sign of youth, that you are younger. I don't know where you saw someone from behind and you instantly thought and then they turned around That totally happened to me when I was I was like, and she must've been like 60 or 70. And the reason for that is because thick So if you find that your hair is aging, thin, wispy and dull, consider because that will thicken it right up If you've had long hair And the idea of going Or if you have a weak jawline and neck and a bob then haircut Haircut number two is a mid-length cut This haircut, the face framing layers, is universally no matter what your age, face shape, I love this haircut. I love this haircut. Clearly, clearly love it. The length of this cut is not short enough also not long enough to drag the face down If you keep the layering light at the back and more focused at the front, depending a relatively dense baseline, but As we age, we lose elasticity in the neck and the jawline area essentially contours out the face any lines that we may This is a great haircut. It really is. It's super easy to work with Before I get into haircut number three, I have a friend who's also a YouTuber and I've talked about her before. We're actually meeting in the States in a couple of months If you're excited about that, say Styles by Summer is her YouTube name. She does amazing, very in-depth Sometimes I get asked the question like, Go over to Styles By Summer. actual YouTube page in my description box You can go and find a cut You can watch a very detailed tutorial and you can even send it As a hair stylist myself, because I know a lot of people are like, If someone sent me something like that that Summer did in her YouTube channel," I would actually find it because it would allow me to know exactly and the face Maybe all they really need is to really That's always very helpful for visual Hair and makeup people, We're very visual people. So I just wanted to address that because that question comes up time That's how I would go around doing that. Haircut Number 3 is adding a fringe whether that is a short cut or a long cut, makes it look smaller and it camouflages any fine lines around the eyes Let's just emphasize that for a minute. The fringe needs to be cut properly. There are so many variations of fringes You can make them airy You can side You can have them come forward If you do a curtain fringe like this, and gets longer, like significantly longer you can pretty much hide all of the crow's What I do not recommend, though, and why is that if your fringe is too square it may be unflattering. Bangs draw a ton of attention right here. And these type of bangs acts as arrows And it can really accentuate any of the That naturally happens Of course, if this doesn't bother you this style on your face again, go for it. But I know that most of my clients when it comes to anything. Framing the eyes or even framing the face, really diffuses fine lines and wrinkles Strong lines bring arrows. So if there's something on your face make sure that all of the lines and softly blended, that will really take from those areas that maybe you're not Haircut number four is the Bixie. I've talked about this haircut Are you sick of it yet? If you're a regular, you're probably like, "We get it." The reason that I talk about it a lot is because it's trending right now This cut is so quick to blow dry and with the use of some pomades and waxes, like really super playful. You can create so much texture. It's very, very easy to style You can go a little longer with this and rock it as a short You can undercut one side and have it longer on top for something Or you can keep the front super long The possibilities with this cut really are to tailor it to suit your individual style I love, love, love how chic and trendy this is. Do you guys like this one? Let me know. Haircut number 5 because it isn't really a haircut, but So I wanted to include it here. My next tip for looking gorgeous after 50 is finally embracing I am 36 years old. I turn 37 next month and I spent It is only in the last two years how wavy my hair actually is, because of a video that I was making Literally! This video! and I was like, "Whoa, And now I wear it with this natural When I wear my hair like this, significantly younger, I think the reason for this gives like an effortless vibe No matter cut you have or choose push yourself to learn how to style that that lets your natural texture shine once in a while. You may be shocked to find out You may really, really learn to love that natural hair, It's just another look in your tool throughout your life. I just did two make up videos on tips one with makeup do's and don'ts So if you like this one, you may That's it! Video's over!