What is your English level? Beginner, Intermediate or Advanced? Let's find out! Hello, guys! My name is Kate and in this level test to understand your level divided in three different levels - I will show you the question, then you will If you need more time you can pause the video, And please don't forget to count the Also I'm gonna explain the grammar and why your answer was wrong (if it The first five questions are for Which sentence is correct? Sara has a very big house. Sara has a very big house. When we use the verb "have" in present simple and have with they, you and we. The correct why do we say - a big house ? For singular case. We have a noun "house" so we must say a Question two. Which sentence is I not like cheese. I don't like cheese The correct answer is I don't like cheese but it's a negative form. To make a simple you, we and they and doesn't for he, she, it. it doesn't, you don't, they don't, and we don't. She goes to the office in taxinShe goes to the She goes to the office by taxi. of transport - a taxi, a bus, a car, a train, important thing is we never use the article remember - we never say I go by the taxi unless we The next question. Which one is correct? She lives in France or She is live in France She lives in France but why? because this is have a subject plus a verb when the subject she or it the verb takes an S so I live, Let's move on to the next He not can swim. He doesn't The correct answer is he can't swim. But need to use an auxiliary verb here, The next question. Which sentence is Do you going to London next week? Are you going to London next week? next week and we are asking about about future plans in English we use "be Are you going to London next week? But why we say preposition of direction. When we are moving The next question. Which one is Are you worked yesterday? The right answer is C. Did you work yesterday? which is used in Past simple, so in The next question. Which sentence is correct? How she makes an apple cake? Does she make an The answer is how does she make an apple always like this. We have a question word, In this case the question word is the subject is she, and the verb is make so Let's move on to the next one. I enjoy to watch Netflix. I enjoy The correct answer is I enjoy mind and suggest we always use verb + ing form. Now the last question of the beginner There is a water in the glass. There is many water There is some water in the glass. It's correct need to use an article, we can't say &quot;a water&quot;. like milk, oil, water, coffee, we say "some" Great job, guys! Now we have finished How many correct answers do you have? If you is not beginner, you should go on answering the But if you have less than eight correct not bad. You can practice more and Now we're going to get to the intermediate I haven't seen Mary last night. I didn't see There are two tenses that students often They both are used to talk about something that when something happened we use past simple, happened right? last night. So the correct The next question. Which one is correct? Did you You have bought the tickets? This is a question where we use the the exact time when the person bought the The next question. Which sentence is correct? She's never been to Australia. She's never She's never been to Australia. But and gone? Been means that you were in some you have the memories and you have the experience. So if I say she has gone to Australia, that means In this case because we are talking about The next question. He made He did many mistakes in his test. He He made many mistakes in his test. Why? To make mistakes is a collocation. We always say The next one. Which one is correct? different factors. B) depends of different The answer is A. Your progress in English depends ON different factors. After the The next question. If I see Mary If I will see Mary tomorrow, I tell her about it. This is a conditional sentence. Here we have present and the second clause is future I will tell her about it. That's correct. The next question. Which one is correct? If I were you, I learned English better. If Again this is a conditional sentence. We talking about an imaginary situation, if I second conditional sentences the first clause would + verb infinitive. If I were you, I would The next question. A)They called out called off the trip or C) They called for the trip So these are sentences with phrasal so They called off the The next question. A) When he was he got used to playing chess and We use the structure "used to" when we want to talk about something we did in the I used to drink coffee. I don't drink coffee any Am, is, are, was,were + used to which is used jogging in the morning which means this is -ing I am used to jogging in the morning. means to make something a habit and again the he was a child he used to play chess. He did The next question. A) I was angry day B) I was waiting for him all day had been waiting for him all day! The first part When we are talking about something that use Past Perfect continuous, if that action This is the end of the intermediate correct answers do you have? If you have then your level is more than Keep going with the rest of the video Now it's time to move on to the advanced you 10 challenging questions , so get ready missing word. I ___ get in through the window. Manage to is a verb that means to do something The next question. Your papers are on the floor. Why don't you ___? The right answer is pick them up. When the direct object is a pronoun, it's The next one. We were really ___ with the weather. The correct answer is disappointed. But what is the difference between Disappointing is an adjective which something that makes you feel bad or unhappy. And disappointed is a state of mind when something were not satisfied. I was The next one. Which answer is correct? Do I don't suppose not. I suppose I suppose not is the right answer. We can't use double negatives. We can't The next question. Which sentence correctly A) He asked me where I have been B) He asked Here we have the topic - reported speech. you need to change the grammar. We have so we need to change it to the Past The next question. Which sentence is correct? B. The painting was sold C. The painting was being sold The painting was sold for three thousand used when we want to emphasize the action and a Passive continuous form but we don't have The next question. He's had his car... since he passed his driving test He's had his car since he passed his driving test. Since is an adverb of time. Here we car from a particular time in the past The next one. The directions so we were able to find his house easily. a) Straightforward is the correct answer because in The next question. One of Mike's very clearly and professionally. a) An asset means a useful or valuable quality An the last question for the advanced level. I saw four men in the street arguing. A commotion is a sudden, short or excited movement. So the correct answer is C. Well done! I hope you've enjoyed this lesson. how many correct answers you've had in the