Greetings fellow nerds I'm going to dissolve this bar of platinum to make this expensive chloroplatinic acid reagent. And I'm going to try and do it to some professional grade standards rather than my usual basement amateur grade. A friend of mine needs chloroplatinic for their work and rather than order it from Sigma Aldrich or waste their valuable time to make it, they've asked me to waste mine instead and I readily agreed. First the preamble. I've previously dissolved an ounce of platinum to make chloroplatinic acid and you can watch those videos linked in the video description. That was way back in 2012. Just so you know there is nothing new in this video that wasn't covered in the old videos. But I've decided to film it anyway since I'm told there is something relaxing about watching someone who is passionate about their work. So if you're still watching, letis get started. First, I gotta clean up my lab. Yes I know full well my workspace looks like a columbian drug lab at times. But in my defense, you'd shudder at how dirty actual professional labs can get. There we are. Now my glassware has been washed and cleaned already, but after years of use in my amateur videos there might be some residues caked in. So i'm going to need a much more thorough cleaning process. First, I baked it in a furnace to 500 celsius. This is rather extreme but at 500 celsius pretty much all organic compounds and residues are burned away. A lot of inorganic compounds are oxidized and many salts will just straight up evaporate. Baking, or pyrolyzing as it's called, is a great way of deep cleaning glassware. But not all glassware can take it. Borosilicate can handle 500 celsius because this is well below the softening point at around 800 celsius and a bit below the annealing temperature of 600. But other glasses can warp, soften, or even shatter at these temperatures. You could use lower temperatures for other glass types but too low and some organics like carbon residues can survive. So be careful and only pyrolyze borosilicate. I left it in the oven overnight. And here we are the next day. The beaker is cooled and every trace of organic and volatile compounds burned away. I did the same treatment with this flask since i'll be needing both. Now we have to clean out the non-volatile compounds that survived that temperature. To do that, I add 50mL of water, 50mL hydrochloric acid, and 4mL of nitric acid. Then i heat it on the hotplate and put the flask on top with water to form a reflux setup. What i'm doing is creating a weak version of aqua regia that will oxidize and dissolve most nonvolatile inorganic compounds. This should clean out any remaining residues. I'm also doing this so I can experiment with the temperature settings and see what settings will boil or simmer the aqua regia. I want to know this so i have an idea what settings to use for platinum in aqua regia reaction later on. I'm going through all this cleaning trouble because I want to minimize contaminants for the work my friend will be doing once they receive my product. I would expect them to do no less for me if our roles were reversed. Before you ask, yes, they've reviewed my procedure and deem it acceptable for their work. Fortunately they don't need semiconductor grade chloroplatinic acid which is beyond my ability to provide. So I left the aqua regia refluxing overnight to ensure a deep clean. And there we go, I turned off the heating and let it cool. Now we just clean out the glassware with deionized water and let it dry. While thatis going, I need to calibrate the lab scale. Every scale has its own procedure, and for mine I just need to calibrate it against one standard calibration weight of 200g. More expensive scales use multipoint calibration with multiple calibration weights, but my friend doesnit need that kind of precision. Now that itis calibrated, iim testing it by putting the same calibration weight back on. This scale has a manufacturer specified error of about 3mg so as long as weire within that, itis accurate and consistent. And it seems to be good. So now we weigh the platinum bar to verify and record the mass. Iim doing this so I can accurately divide the chloroplatinic acid later. Iim weighing a few times to ensure the readings are consistent. Technically I should be using a plastic weigh boat or weighing paper, the scratching of the bar against the metal weighing dish theoretically contaminates the platinum with trace metal from the dish. And vice versa. But I'm not going to bother, this is not meant for semiconductor work where that might be an issue. Although I do agree it's bad practice to weigh directly on the plate like this. Now you might be wondering why this one ounce platinum bar weighs 31.1g rather than the traditional weight of 28.35g per ounce. Iim not certain of the exact historical origin, but precious metals and stones were traditionally weighed in troy ounces that correspond to 31.1g while common commodities like grain and food were weighed in standard ounces of 28.35g. The systems are centuries old and predate modern scientific standardization. And because people with money donit care for the opinions of people with brains, weire kinda stuck with these unusual masses. Although I am seeing more 1 gram, 10 gram, and 100 gram precious metal bars out there, so maybe things are changing. Now I weigh the beaker after itis been meticulously cleaned and dried. As usual iim weighing a few times to get a consistent measurement. I need this weight so we can subtract it later and find the mass of our chloroplatinic solution. You might be screaming at the screen that there are still a few dirty spots on the beaker and I should keep cleaning. Those spots are acceptable because whatever they are, they survived 500 celsius heat and overnight boiling in aqua regia. If they could survive that, theyire not going to dissolve in the aqua regia weill be using later. I think theyire just etched parts of the beaker itself. Anyway, now that weive weighed the beaker. Itis time for the fun part, dissolving the platinum bar in aqua regia. I'm going to use a non-standard aqua regia mixture starting with 75mL of water and 100mL of laboratory grade hydrochloric acid at 37% concentration. I put the flask with cooling water on top of the beaker to serve as a reflux condenser. Then I add 10mL of azeotropic 68% nitric acid. Finally we turn on the heating until it just starts to boil and dial back a little so it simmers. And there it goes, the platinum bar is slowly dissolving. Normally aqua regia is made using a 3 to 1 molar ratio of hydrochloric acid to nitric acid. And indeed iive done that before. But this time iim using a diluted version with a very small amount of nitric acid. This is because platinum is very slow to dissolve so a lot of nitric acid and hydrochloric acid react away and bubble out as nitrogen oxides and nitrosyl chloride. Iim using a diluted version so there is less nitric acid sitting around and being decomposed by the hydrochloric acid. While the dissolution of platinum also slows down, it still makes better use of the nitric acid rather than using fully concentrated nitric acid at once. So I save on nitric acid and also introduce less impurities along with it. The tradeoff is that itis slower. Now as the reaction progresses the nitric acid is depleted so every 6 to 9 hours I inject another 3mL of nitric acid and continue heating. I keep doing this until the platinum bar is fully dissolved. So whatis happening is the nitric acid is oxidizing the platinum metal and the hydrochloric acid is complexing with the platinum ions to dissolve it and form chloroplatinic acid, also called hexachloroplatinic acid. At least thatis what is happening at the platinum. Most of the nitric acid in solution is just reacting with the hydrochloric acid decomposing into nitrosyl chloride, chlorine gas, and nitrogen oxides. Fortunately, these gasses can also help oxidize the platinum so we can more efficiently use our nitric acid if we keep the concentration low and donit over produce them and boil them out. Some will still be lost, but more will have a better chance of being utilized. The flask above the acid serves as a reflux condenser to reduce losses of the acid. It also serves as a splash guard to reduce losses of the valuable chloroplatinic acid from bubbling. Anyway this went on for a couple of days. Near the end the amount of hydrochloric acid was running low so I started adding small top ups of 10mL or so. And there we go, all the platinum is gone. That was about a thousand american dollars of metal just dissolved. But I have valuable chloroplatinic acid now. At this point I now need to destroy any lingering traces of nitric acid. I canit have it contaminating the chloroplatinic acid as it could have unintended effects on future reactions as well as generate gasses in storage. Fortunately I can take advantage of the very decomposition pathway Iive been trying to avoid. Already you can see a yellowish haze above the solution. Thatis nitrogen dioxide generated from the decomposing nitric acid as it reacts with the hydrochloric acid. I keep the heat on and even raise the temperature a little to speed up the reaction. I also add 10mL of hydrochloric acid now every 6 hours to help drive the decomposition reaction forward. It does take awhile but I know when I'm done when there is no more haze and itis just clear vapor above the solution. Iim going to add in one last injection of hydrochloric acid for good measure and keep heating overnight. Then I let it cool. Now I washed down the flask with deionized water to recover any of the chloroplatinic acid that might have stuck up there and indeed I saw a yellow color in the wash water. Unfortunately my camera had an error at that instant and I lost that video so iim doing this simulation to show you what i was doing. Normally I would just redo the reaction, but I'm rather short on one thousand dollar platinum metal bars so I hope this simulation is good enough for ya. And there is our consolidated chloroplatinic acid. Granted the washing did dilute a lot of it. But thatis easy to remedy. I just turned on the heating again and let it evaporate down to less than 80mL. I was careful not to boil it so it wouldnit spit out chloroplatinic acid droplets. Iim not boiling it down to dryness because it's easy to heat it too hard and cause it to decompose into insoluble platinum chlorides. So I'm just reducing volume to something more manageable. And there we go, then I turned off the heating and let it cool. Normally I would then place the acid in a desiccator to dry it into a solid and then break up the chunks where I could package them into vials. But this time my friends wanted the chloroplatinic acid in ampule form. While vials are useful in that they can be opened and closed at will, ampules are generally more reliable for long term storage since they are completely sealed. There is almost no chance of contamination or leakage. And well made ampules have lasted decades, with even some lasting a century. I was also tasked with getting precisely 5g worth of platinum metal into each ampule with less than 1% error. So i'm going to leave it as a liquid to make it easier, and use gravimetric transfer methods. First I'm going to check the calibration of my analytical scale. Itis been a few days and even the best scales will drift so I need to check and calibrate if necessary. Iim keeping the chloroplatinic acid under another beaker to keep the dust out. Anyway, the scale looks good, so we can begin. Now we weigh the beaker with the chloroplatinic acid. We already weighed the empty beaker earlier so by knowing the combined weight we can subtract the empty weight and know how much chloroplatinic acid we have. Iim weighing multiple times to check for consistency and drift. If theyire not consistent or if the drift is too great, iid have to rebalance, repair or replace my scale. So that looks good, iim now going to set the chloroplatinic acid aside for 20 minutes. And weire back, now I reweigh again. Iim doing this to get an idea of the evaporation rate. The scale itself seems to be very stable, so most of the change is not from drift, but from evaporation. Looks like the evaporation rate is about 1mg per minute. So if I do all the transferring within an hour, I should still come in under the 1% error I'm allowed. With that out of the way we can start filling the ampules. Let me go get them. And there we are, and here is the ampule weill be using. Itis a 20mL ampule and i sized it to match the amount of chloroplatinic acid iill be filling it with. Once itis filled iill seal it. First, we need to calculate how much we need to fill it. Let me reweight the beaker as I'm sure itis evaporated a little. By knowing the current beaker weight, the empty weight, and the mass of our dissolved platinum bar, we can calculate how much solution I need to transfer into each ampule to reach 5g of platinum. I know this is a bit unusual, you usually allocate based on the molecular weight of the compound, but I was asked to go by platinum quantity. Iill explain why later. Anyway, we can now start filling the ampules. The process is very simple, we just weigh the ampules first and then add in chloroplatinic acid. We keep weighing and adding until we hit our target we calculated earlier. I'm not doing it on the scale for a few reasons. The primary one being i'm old and my hands are no longer steady enough to do it right on the scale. Iim steadier if i hold the ampule in my hand as iim filling it. The second reason is that chloroplatinic acid is a rather nasty substance and i don't want to accidentally drip it onto the scale and contaminate it. I can clean up my gloves and the glass lab bench a lot easier than the scale. I also donit want to accidentally knock over the ampule and spill it that way. Now most of you probably clicked on this video for the title and are wondering about the value of this chemical. If you go to the sigma aldrich website you can find that 25g of chloroplatinic acid hexahydrate is about $2000 american dollars. I've created about 81 grams worth of chloroplatinic acid here so let's just round that down to 75g and say that we made $6000 american dollars worth. I spent about $1000 for the 1 troy ounce of platinum and chemicals like hydrochloric and nitric acid. So about $5000 profit. At this point you're wondering this sounds like a disgustingly profitable venture and why is everyone not making this in their basement and undercutting sigma aldrich. There are a few important reasons why sigma is so expensive. First, if you're a large-scale budget buyer who needs very large quantities of chloroplatinic acid, maybe you make industrial catalysts, then you'll simply make it yourself like I am here. So already sigma doesn't bother trying to sell to large scale buyers. You can see there are no 100g or 1 kg options, only small quantities. Their target market is the small scale buyers like researchers and testing laboratories. They are not price sensitive, and instead they demand convenience. When their labs cost thousands or even tens of thousands of dollars per day to run it is more cost effective to buy a few grams of chloroplatinic acid for a several hundred percent markup than it is to make it themselves. Which has already cost me a few days. Another very big contributor to the cost is something less tangible, and that's trust. When you buy from sigma aldrich you're buying trust in that brand. I'm sure a lot of chemists can attest in the comments that they only buy from chemical suppliers they trust and are willing to pay extreme premiums for that trust. So if you want to start making this stuff and selling it you're going to need to first spend years building a client base that trusts you. Sigma is selling their trust, and that's something most startup chemical suppliers need to earn. The only reason why i'm able to do this is because I have built a tiny network of chemist friends who trust in my ability and integrity to make them this compound without cheating them. I'm selling my trust just like sigma. And I can only sell to my friends, which is a tiny market. Random chemists on the internet aren't going to buy it from me. Just like they won't buy from random basement chemists selling on ebay. The last time I did this was over ten years ago, and it's unlikely i'll do it again since I don't have that many friends who would buy from me. So this is not a good business idea unless you're willing to put in the work building a reputation of trust. On a related point, i'm not actually selling this for money. I'm actually trading these for other chemicals I have difficulty getting as well as future favors and good will. Okay enough about basic economics. Let's get back to the chemistry. Looks like I added too much to this one. So I'm getting a long pipette and sucking it back out. I'm using different length pipettes for addition and removal since it's easier to add with a short pipette, and easier to withdraw using a long pipette. But using the same pipette for both is cumbersome. Aiming a long pipette is annoying. So you might be wondering why Iim allocating based on platinum weight and not the molecular weight of chloroplatinic acid. In theory it's not too important as long as you know what youire working with, we can easily interconvert between the two measurements in a 1:1 mole ratio. But Iim allocating based on platinum content because thatis the active component this chloroplatinic acid will be used for. So when doing reactions it's easier just to allocate based on that. Additionally chloroplatinic acid molecular weight can be variable. Chloroplatinic acid usually dries as a hexahydrate with water but the exact quantity of water can vary depending on drying conditions. Additionally if you heat it too hard itill decompose into platinum chlorides. And if you leave it out itill actually absorb water from the air since it's very hygroscopic. By using the platinum content itis easier to mix together different batches of chloroplatinic acid with varying water levels. Youire still getting the correct amount of platinum if you're following the calculations correctly. When I label it later I'll be sure to specify the exact amount of platinum contained in each ampule. Anyway, you might be wondering what these ampules of chloroplatinic acid will ultimately be used for. I'll be honest, i am too. My friends claimed theyire using them to synthesize various catalysts. But exactly what reaction theyire catalyzing and why they needed to specify less than 1% error they did not tell me. Maybe they donit want me to blab a trade secret on youtube or something. Let me know in the comments what reaction or catalyst you think they are doing. I personally have no idea what would require such precision. All the catalyst reactions I know of can accept rather large errors of 20% or even 50%. So maybe theyire not doing catalysts, but what could need 1% precision but also accept the uncertified quality of a basement chemist rather than a proper analytical standard. My best theory is that there is no precision requirement and my friends just wanted to watch me waste my time. My friends are pranksters like that. But anyway, it looks like I'm done. I've filled all the large ampules as requested. But I have some chloroplatinic leftover so I will produce a series of small ampoules containing about 500mg of platinum or about 1.3g of chloroplatinic acid. I could buy 1mL ampules but thatis not really worth it for such a small run. So I'm instead making my own small ampules from pasteur pipettes. Iim flame sealing the bottoms and if my calculations are correct, iill need about 12 of them. Now I go through a similar procedure of weighing the pipettes first, calculating how much they should weigh after I add the chloroplatinic acid solution. And filling until i get there. At this point I'd like to say thanks for watching this far. Who knew there would be interest just to watch a chemist at work. So please subscribe if you haven't already. And there we have it, a bunch of chloroplatinic acid ampules containing 500mg of platinum to within 1% error. Now if you look at all of them, there is the tiny issue that filling them was rather messy and there are drops of the valuable chloroplatinic acid sticking to the lips of the ampules. When we flame seal them later they'll burn and prevent a clean seal. So in each ampule I'm going through and very carefully washing them down with a few drops of deionized water. It's a delicate process because I can't spill any of it. We already measured the exact amount of acid and we can't mess that up. The extra water ending up in the ampule isn't a problem as the amount of platinum remains the same. And here they all are washed and ready. At this point I could seal them and be done with it, but I'm going to take it a step further and dry them inside the ampule. I can't just heat them because they could decompose, and I can't just evaporate them since chloroplatinic acid is hygroscopic. So I'm going to use the mason jar desiccators I showed in a previous video. The idea is that I have a mason jar used for preserving food and I put in a plastic tube of desiccant. In this case I'm using sodium hydroxide since I'm also removing the excess hydrochloric acid. I store the ampules of chloroplatinic acid inside the jars and given enough time the desiccant will slowly dry the ampules. To help it along I evacuate the mason jars using this mason jar vacuum sealer attachment and connecting it to my aspirator vacuum pump. By evacuating the jars the vapor diffuses faster as it doesn't have to push through as much existing air getting to the desiccant. But overall the process will take weeks. I also have to replace the desiccant every week as it gets used up and saturated with water and hydrogen chloride. At this point I should mention I made a mistake with the earlier setup as I used a full tube of desiccant. This was a bad idea as when I went to replace them a week later there was salt creep coming up the walls of the tube. Here is a tube where salt creep happened. The hydrogen chloride evaporating from the chloroplatinic acid reacted with the sodium hydroxide to produce salt that deposited as these crystals and creeped up the walls. We don't want them accidentally creeping into the chloroplatinic acid contaminating them. So in later desiccant replacements I used tubes only half filled with sodium hydroxide. And here we are a few weeks later and it looks like we've successfully dried the chloroplatinic acid right in the ampules. Before I seal them, If we look closely there are still tiny amounts of acid dried in the upper regions or stem of the ampules. Because this part will be broken off during use, that small amount will be lost. So to fix that i'm going to wash down the sides of the ampule one last time and then dry them again. This will ensure perfect recovery of the valuable chloroplatinic acid later. And there we go after desiccating again for a week. Let me get those out. And that looks great. I canit leave them out for too long since theyill start absorbing water from the air. So iim going to flame seal them now. You might be wondering why I went through the extreme trouble of drying the chloroplatinic acid. You are right and most of the time ampules are used to store liquids, not solids. I did it primarily for stability. Sometimes with a liquid when you break the ampule the shock flings out some liquid. One time I lost an ampule of expensive deuterated tetrahydrofuran that way. So by drying it into a solid I reduce the chances of it being lost during breaking. A secondary reason is for safety. If the ampule should accidentally fall over and break, the contents wouldn't spill out and make a toxic mess that's troublesome to clean up. And if it's solid there is a very good chance it could be completely recovered and transferred to a vial without any contamination. Of course this begs the question how to actually use one of these if they're dried solid and stuck in the ampule. What you would do is after you snap the glass stem off, you would add the solvent and dissolve it in the ampule itself, once it's all dissolved it can then be pipetted out into your target reaction. Interestingly enough, this method of storing chemicals dried to the container is pretty common for extremely tiny quantities. You can buy certain super exotic chemicals in milligram or even microgram quantities. And rather than being sold as a single grain of powder in a vial that can easily blow out when you open them, they are sold as dried smears in the bottom of the vial or ampule that you have to dissolve out. It's the only way to reliably store and retrieve such extremely small quantities without a bulk carrier solution or solvent. And we are done, sealed ampules of chloroplatinic acid. For safety and cleanliness I'm going to take them all and soak them in a solution of sodium metabisulfite. The reason why i'm doing this is because chloroplatinic acid is a rather nasty sensitizer. Exposure to it can result in a rather nasty allergic condition called platinosis, even in people that aren't normally prone to allergies. While I was extremely meticulous in my cleanliness procedures and I didn't have any spills, drips, or accidents, there might be some residual contamination I didn't notice. So by soaking them in sodium metabisulfite solution I reduce the chloroplatinic acid into considerably lower toxicity platinum metal particles that are safe to touch. This way I can ensure these ampules are safe to handle before opening even without gloves. And there they are, I love how they all look like theyire standing up due to buoyancy effects. I'm going to leave them there for a day. And here we are the next day. Let me wash off the sodium metabisulfite solution and dry the ampules. And there we go, safe to handle ampules of chloroplatinic acid At this point we can weigh them and since the glass ampules are all very similar in weight, we can get a rough idea of the weight of chloroplatinic acid. For 5g of platinum we know is in each ampule the expected mass of chloroplatinic acid hexahydrate containing that is 13.27g. And it looks like the measurements are all very close to 13.27 grams. Iim actually surprised the mason jar desiccators were that good at drying the ampules. I was expecting some lingering excess water to remain. So these are relatively pure, dry, and stoichiometric chloroplatinic acid hexahydrate. And with that I can make accurate labels for them. Although as said before the chloroplatinic acid is viciously hygroscopic so itill only be accurate while itis unopened, as soon as itis opened itill start absorbing humidity throwing off the weight. I am doing such a horrible job aligning these. Labeling machines are not that expensive and if i were doing this on a large scale i might have used those. Okay thatis done, letis label these small ampules. Theyire too narrow for a wrap-around label so I label them like a flag. While it is possible to make a very tiny label with small print, Iim old and my eyesight is even worse. Now something not visible on camera is that these labels are vinyl rather than paper. Vinyl is waterproof and chemical resistant so iim hoping these labels will last longer than paper ones. But only time will tell. You might be wondering why all my ampules are bulging slightly at the top. This is just a quirk of how I flame seal my ampules. The flame heats the air in the ampules causing the air to expand and push the molten glass out in a bulge like this. I let this happen because it tells me the ampule is sealed enough that it has to bulge rather than simply release the air through any hidden holes. An unsealed ampule would not bulge. So I prefer the bulge to indicate to me that the flame seal is successful. Of course thatis what I tell myself, anyone decently skilled in glassblowing can perfectly seal ampules without bulging, thatis like the most basic skill. Okay thatis done. Now Iim going to trim these down so theyire a bit neater. And there we go, now itis looking nice and professional. Although I apologize to those of you with OCD who are screaming at the screen that the labels arenit perfectly aligned. Finally iim going to vacuum seal the ampules into plastic bags. This is optional as the ampule itself is already perfectly sealed. But the airtight plastic bags are a backup in case the ampule breaks during shipping. The chloroplatinic acid will remain dry and solid and so any chemist that finds it later can still recover it and put it into a vial. Without the plastic bag, a broken ampule will absorb water from the air and leak out everywhere, losing valuable product as well as making a toxic mess. As you can see, drying the contents and vacuum sealing it are complimentary storage techniques. In case youire wondering, I'm just using a regular kitchen vacuum sealer unit meant for preserving food. And these vacuum sealer bags are similarly available domestic ones. There is nothing special or exotic about this if you want to vacuum seal your own stuff. Just designate any vacuum sealer you use for your laboratory only and never reuse it for your actual food. Let me trim these down. And there we go, nicely sealed ampoules. It looks so professional. I feel like I just bought a bunch of chemicals, but itis the opposite, I just made a bunch of chemicals for other people to get. Anyway, Iill be shipping them in these padded boxes to try and prevent damage. And for the first time ever, official Nurdrage branded merch. Although these have already been sold or spoken for. So that was how I turned a thousand dollar platinum bar into six thousand dollars worth of chemicals, packaged and ready for commercial use. As said before I'm not actually getting money out of these, I'm trading them for other chemicals or future favors and consideration. I sure hope my friends appreciate them. These large ones will go to a professional lab that commissioned me to make them. The small ones will be given as gifts to various youtube chemists iim friends with. Thanks for watching, I hope that video was interesting.