Transcriber: Zsuzsa Viola Hi, everybody. I'm really excited to be here today and grateful to speak to you all about something I'm going to speak to you today This is something I hold very dear - being a survivor of domestic This is something and I've dedicated my life to this ever-growing issue. So today, what I want to focus on is I'd like to define I want to paint a picture in an Ontario context and walk you through the stages to give you an idea Media and movies portray and it looks completely Then I want to end by talking I'm a huge believer and I often wonder if somebody came into my high school would this have happened to me or would I have been able to identify I'm not sure, but I think I would have been equipped that would have helped me I'm going to jump right in, and I really domestic sex trafficking. I'm going to differentiate so we can understand The best way to differentiate is to think of it the exact way you would Really, you have two choices. You can take a domestic flight If you take an international flight, it means you get and you land in a completely if you take a domestic flight, you're getting on that plane and you land in the exact same country. It means the same thing International human trafficking means you're from one country for the purpose of exploitation Domestic human trafficking means Either born and raised or have come to this country nothing to do with trafficking. Call this country your home and then are trafficked The majority of human trafficking is domestic sex trafficking. The UN's stat says that 71% is domestic sex trafficking. That means this is happening This is happening to people in your communities, It is not an issue it is happening to people here Next, I really want to give you that Human trafficking is an umbrella term - there's many forms of human trafficking - but, again, today I'm only talking The reason being and that's the majority So the UN has a definition the Criminal Code has a definition they're very long, they're wordy, I have a cheating definition - it's super easy to remember, There's four elements in order for human trafficking to exist. If you have these four elements, So there needs to be force, there needs to be coercion, and it all needs to be facilitated so somebody behind the scenes Force, fraud, coercion, that is the definition If all those elements are present, So now that we understand what human trafficking is, I really want to paint a picture for you because what I said is that movies and media and they look completely different. The education that I got growing up was from movies. And I was taught wrong. I'm going to walk you through This chart was developed This is how it happens. Every single young person has been brought through these stages. This is a thought-out that people are brought through in order for somebody So I'm going to walk you The first stage is the luring stage. In this stage, this is when your trafficker So somebody isn't just pointing out being like &quot;I'm going It is thought out. That's what that luring process is for. In this luring process, your trafficker is going to begin He's looking for somebody He's looking for somebody who has both individual risk factors He is going to begin to test the waters He's going to put feelers out. He's going to see if you will be able He does this by asking you It does not feel It does not feel It feels incredibly, incredibly special that for once somebody and asked you about yours. For once, somebody stopped and asked you about it. He's going to ask you about your life. He's going to ask you and ask you about your hopes the struggles you've been through. And he's going to listen to everything. What he's doing in this moment is he's gathering information but in that moment, So you're going to tell them The other thing they do in this stage is they're going to look that are not being met, and very quickly, they're going So it moves to that next stage, that grooming and gaming stage So they are going to begin to meet If you told them in that luring stage that you didn't feel safe at home they're going to offer you They're going to take you shopping. They're going to get They're going to wine and dine you. They're going to shower you boost your self-esteem, They're going to begin They're going to make you that sense of belonging, They're going to tell you things that they're never going No matter what, they're going They're continuing to ask you questions during this stage as well. 85% of the young people I work with identified their trafficker So we also know it's incredibly, even that other 15% It's usually a companionship or, in fact, a family member If drugs are involved in this stage, no questions asked. If they're not involved, Or they could introduce them &quot;Whatever you need, I've got for you.&quot; If you are in that loving relationship, it feels as if you have met It feels as if you have hit the jackpot, as if finally your luck has turned around. I cannot stress enough that in this stage, it feels as if this is the best Even if your life was not that bad before, they took the time in that luring stage to get to know everything And now they're providing it for you. So this feels as if this is the best There is little to no The biggest red flag and who wants to believe if nobody has ever treated you The red flags don't come in So the next stage is the coercion This is when your trafficker begins and then pulls it all away. Then gives you all that love and then pulls it all away. It's like you're walking on eggshells. You're wondering, is he going to have You actually start to think in your mind, &quot;What did I do wrong? I must have done something wrong. Because I know he's capable than anybody has ever treated me before. So I must have done something.&quot; You actually start to think in your mind - you start to feel indebted &quot;He's done so much for me what have I done to contribute?&quot; You might actually start you can offer in that relationship. But before you can do that, he's going to start He's going to ask you to do things Or he'll ask you to do things that you talked about in the luring stage that you said you would never do. Those are things that you held on to. Those are your morals and your values - that you were never willing He's now going to ask you again, You're going to be because you just want it You want him to treat you in a way that you know he's capable which is better than anybody So as soon as you start he's going to give you Then he's going to pull it away again, and he'll ask you to do something else. As soon as you do it, he's going to give you He's breaking down and then he's rewarding you for them. He could ask you to do things If they're not sexual, they might ask you to do things or look out while they commit And immediately after, they give you the love and attention back. Or it could be sexual. They start to desensitize you prepare you for the sex trade. So they might ask you to send that naked picture They might ask you or have sex with one of their friends. Immediately after, they give you it goes back to that honeymoon stage - and then they pull it all the way again. This is an incredibly confusing time. The other thing is they might do something where they have sex with you or they have sex with you and then take you Then that slowly gets replaced by cash. They'll have sex with you, &quot;Oh, baby, that's amazing. Go treat yourself, Your brain actually starts to associate The last thing they do in this stage between you and anybody So they'll pick fights with your friends. They are going to blow up stories that you maybe told them that's something that your family They're going to blow it up They want to build that wedge. They want when something that the first person They want you to be I used to work with a young woman whose trafficker actually and delete messages from loved ones She actually started to believe that he was the only one that loved her, he was the only one This is when he has you Now they bring up the idea Then it moves to that They bring up that idea in a variety of different ways, but it's usually either extremely direct incredibly, incredibly insidious. So if it's direct, he'll literally say, &quot;You know all I've done for you - the clothes I bought you, the condo you've been It's actually not free. You owe me money, and this is how you're going And if you don't do it, I'm not going to love you, I'm not going to take care of you. I'll circulate that video we made.&quot; He's got all the ammo to get you to take your first trick. And once you do, then again, he's got even more ammo to keep you there. If he goes the insidious route, is he'll bring up the idea by playing off information Maybe in that luring stage, you told him that your dream for the future was to one day create Maybe you told him growing up and that was your dream. You wanted to get married and really create He's going to say something to you like, you know that wedding you want, I love you so much, I can't picture my life without you. I got this crazy idea. We'll make stacks of cash. We'll only have to do it No matter what, I'm going to love you Of course, you're going to say yes. He just sold you a dream, your exact dream that you told him This is what human trafficking looks like. It does not look like the movies. You're not kidnapped; you're not locked in a room; This is what it looks like. I want to touch on why it's not as simple because it is horrific. Just because you believe doesn't mean you don't have to do things You have absolutely no control. I can tell you from my experience my traffickers had taken I hated every minute of it. I had no idea who was coming and I had no idea what services I hated every minute of it. It was the most traumatic but as crazy as it sounds, my life was still better I had a roof over my head, I wasn't withdrawing on the streets I would have done And I would have never walked out Physically, I could have. I was not locked up. I was not tied in a room. My pimps were not there 24/7. I could have opened my hotel room door, I could have walked out, I never would have. There are three reasons and after working with young people, these are the three reasons The first is the obvious: the fear. I was afraid of them. There was some physical and all I could think was if I walk out, That fear was real. More so than that, though, If I walk out this door, Where am I going to get my next meal? Where am I going to sleep? get my fix? Who is ever going to love me after this? Who is ever going to take care of me? That was much scarier than they were, and the final reason I didn't leave was the psychological hold the trauma bond. It is unbelievable how strong that is. They picked me up off the ground They were there for me They treated me better than anybody The best way I can explain I'll tell you a very short story. It happened to me One of my pimps came in the room He looked at me in the eyes, Every time I tell this story, and it still feels just as genuine. Logically, I know it's not, but that's He sat there and looked at me &quot;Carly, I am so proud of you.&quot; He said it because I told him, that the only thing I'd ever is that somebody was proud of me. Now, he said it. Didn't matter anymore who was proud of me somebody was finally proud of me. I was finally good at something. I was going to do whatever it took This is what human trafficking looks like. So really quickly, just to end, Starting today, how can we ignite change? And it's simple. We need to educate others. You need to educate yourself on what you've heard today. Continue to look into Know the signs. Know how to identify Know where the resources and what to do if you identify somebody You need to advocate. You need to advocate for change. You need to advocate for more resources. And you need to advocate for more funding And lastly, we need to - but we need to know consent Get people to come about what human trafficking is, talk about the true definition of consent. We were taught wrong growing up. You need to let people know that consent has certain elements It must be clear, it must be coherent, it must be willing, And again, empower our youth. Give them more In fact, boost their self-esteem If I can leave you with one thing today, it's that if a young person is empowered, it is incredibly difficult Thank you. (Applause)