This is the largest airplane ever built. nicknamed the &quot;Spruce Goose&quot;. It's strange and controversial career and its unique size and design have aviation history. It was test flown once Hughes at the controls. The flight lasted The plane never flew again. The Spruce Goose was maintained in this and hidden from view for 33 years. Hughes has died in 1976. At last it seemed that marvelous flying boat might have to be dismembered with sections slated for display in several museums. But the outcome was a happy one. The Wrather Corporation, in an agreement with the Aero Club of Southern California, and the Summa Corporation, stepped in and saved to house it alongside the Queen Mary in A flyover of famous old aircraft was part of the opening day celebration for the Spruce Goose attraction on May 14th, 1983. Bonita and Jack Wrather officiated at cut the ribbon. The permanent home of the It too is unique. ever built . It's as tall as a 13 story The chronicle of Howard Hughes, the legendary and eccentric character who designed, built and flew the Spruce Goose, is as Howard Robard Hughes was born in a fortune by inventing and marketing a Young Howard also showed a remarkable mechanical bicycle. Then at the age of 19, he the rest of his life, he was a wealthy Hughes moved to Los Angeles, determined modest start, he undertook an epic film collected a fleet of authentic fighter planes. The film was ready for release when talking pictures became a reality. Hughes reshot his movie in sound. Hells Angels released in 1930, cost an It was an instant hit and is now a screen classic. Hughes was a born showman and more great films followed including But he had another passion - flying!. He broke several long-distance speed records and in 1937 he flew coast to coast in just under 7 and This is the H-1 Racer that he designed and flew. President Franklin D. trophy and Hughes had become as famous a A replica of his H-1 racer is on display next to the Spruce Goose. In 1939 Hughes flew around the world in a Lockheed lodestar. He reached Paris here in half the time Lindbergh had needed 11 years before. Hughes continued eastward with refueling stops and returned to a ticker tape He had circled the globe in less than four days. It was a new record. After Japan's surprise attack on Pearl industrialist Henry J Kaiser transporting troops and supplies to Nazi u-boats had been sinking scores of Allied supply able to fly far above that danger. Kaiser joined forces with Howard Hughes who also had an eye for grand enterprises and they secured a government contract to design and build Hughes put his engineers to work. At Culver City, California, Hughes giant plane could be constructed. The unprecedented size of the flying boat meant that new tools and techniques had Hughes always a perfectionist, Because of the wartime shortage entirely of wood. Birch was selected and a unique process that produced a smooth Kaiser left the project and by the time the war ended in flying boat had long since vanished but was important for aeronautical research own money on its completion. In June 1946, the planes hull and two for final assembly and for the eventual The 28 mile route from Culver Roads and bridges were checked for strength. Trees were trimmed, power lines raised. The move took five days. As the immense components were slowly transported toward Long Beach, 100,000 spectators lined the route recessed from class to watch. During the war, Hughes had also secured a government contract for a photo reconnaissance His customary perfectionism again delayed the work and it was 1946 before the prototype was completed. On July 7th, Hughes flew it through a variety of tests. A propeller abruptly malfunctioned and the plane crashed in Beverly Hills. Hughes was nearly killed. His injuries would cause him pain the rest of his life. Work continued on the giant flying boat. It was to be powered by eight radial Pratt &amp; Whitney engines. Critics claimed the huge plane would never fly. But Hughes has pursued his own convictions as usual. He projected a cruising speed of 200 miles per hour. Like any other prominent figure, Hughes had made political enemies. His flying boat still had not flown. And he was accused of having profited from his wartime contracts. In August 1947 he was summoned before a Senate investigating committee. Although he made a masterful presentation of his case his untried wooden seaplane was derisively called a flying lumberyard of the Spruce Goose. Hughes was later entirely vindicated but those nicknames rankled. He pushed his big plane to completion. Stan Soderbergh, now custodian of the Spruce went to work for Howard Hughes the airplane in 1946. &quot;When I was hired on, which entails working with fabric. so it was parallel to that.&quot; On November 2, 1947, the Spruce Goose was towed out into Long Beach Harbor. Thousands of Hughes announced he would not try to fly the plane then. This would be a taxi test only. Flight testing would come the following At this time, there were 32 people on including seven news reporters chosen by lottery. A hydraulics engineer sat at Hughes right side. The flying boat was so big that for the was not enough to manipulate the The hydraulic system that was used multiplied the pilot's strength 200 times The first taxi run was at 45 miles an hour. Hughes swung the plane around and taxied a second time at 70. On the third run he called for 15 pushed the eight engines to full throttle, and the largest It flew about a mile and reached an It was one of aviation's truly epic flights. Stan Soderbergh was in a launch nearby. He describes the start of the third run - it was laying dead in the water and he He cranked them all up and the flaps come as it picked up speed why it was up on the step and away she went&quot; How did you feel when the big plane lifted off? &quot;My personal feelings were like you made the winning touchdown in the Rose Bowl!&quot; We were all very happy and excited for Mr. Hughes and for those of us that had for the previous year Afterwards when Hughes was asked took off, he said in the characteristic Did Hughes plan all along to fly that &quot;only Mr. Hughes knows that but probably in the back of his mind he didn't want to kill himself and a bunch after the first slow run and the second to him and on the third one when he put about it, in, in anyone's mind that knew The surprise takeoff was not only a personal triumph for Hughes, it was convincing proof that such gigantic cargo planes But there was no longer a military urgency for his giant flying boat and Hughes eventually returned to commercial aviation. The popular outcry Spruce Goose might be dismembered, proved established its own special place in the As soon as it was placed on public view, it attractions in the country. Years before this time, the nickname had become a universal term of endearment On the point of accuracy only spruce used in its construction is So that visitors can inspect the Spruce Goose close-up, stairways and viewing platforms have been built on one side up to the Up here, close to the mighty engines, it's their enormous size and power. The four-bladed propellers are 17 feet long. The Spruce Goose could carry enough family car around the world 15 times. In the pilot seat is a startlingly dressed as he was on the day of the Hughes followed an individualistic approach in virtually and he always preferred to act as his own test pilot. He once said &quot;why should I pay somebody else to have all the fun.&quot; Viewing windows have been cut into the side of the plane to give visitors a chance to see the seats located midships on the flight There were two flight engineers on duty Part of their job was to monitor fuel responded to the pilots commands. With they were busy men. The crew could enter the inspection and adjustment of the engines. joins the hull, measures 13 feet between On the next level, below the flight deck, is the cavernous cargo hold. This is the view looking toward the tail. The red tanks are co2 bottles for use in the fire control system. Here visitors are able to the cargo area from an interior viewing The design payload of the Spruce Goose was 200,000 pounds, equal to its own weight. It was to provide fast and safe transportation for either 750 fully outfitted combat troops or two tanks. This was far greater than any An authentic Sherman tank model M4A1 display inside the dome next to the The aircraft was designed to carry two of this type of medium tank. At one time, the nose of the plane had clamshell doors to permit cargo loading test flight, they were replaced with the One of the most exciting added attractions at the Spruce Goose is the light show. Computer-operated banks at 1,000 watt amber, and peacock blue, bath the sea plane and ever-changing splashes of vivid color. The tints are produced not by the The light show offers special fun for program of colored lights runs about 10 three-minute interval of steady white There's a cutaway engine on display Visitors are always engines, built well before the jet age and the plane has eight From nose to tail, the Spruce Goose is more than 218 feet in length. It's wings stretch 320 feet from tip to The plane is so big in fact that the only is through comparisons. Here are two. A DC-10 could be parked under each of these giant wings. The flying boats horizontal tail surface is longer than the entire wingspan of a Boeing 727 and One of the early design proposals called for twin hollows but that was rejected The goose still rests on the same cradle on which The reflecting pool here greatly enhances Besides the plane itself, the dome Goose and to Howard Hughes. Several short audio-visual programs offer a wealth of interesting background information. There's also a well stocked gift shop and a convenient snack bar. The Spruce Goose and the man who built Authentic examples of American Here in the glare of floodlights, the plane exerts a strong and mysterious fascination just as Hughes himself did when he was in the Everyone who visits the Spruce Goose and remember that in each case, it was preserved them from destruction. Now with so many people visiting and enjoying them every day, it scarcely seems possible that we nearly lost them both. The Spruce Goose and the Queen Mary, two of mankind's great triumphs of technology, are now neighboring giants here in Long Beach. Companion attractions presented by Wrather Port Properties Limited, their final home is a happy one! Howard Hughes, a master showman with an feel very proud of his famous flying