Transcriber: Tijana Mihajlovic Hi. I have been trying to weasel my way out (Laughter) I am terrified. But about a month ago, I was up early, and I watched an old TED Talk Dr. Brown is one of my heroes. She is a shame researcher, and I am a recovering So I'm sort of a shame researcher, too. (Laughter) It's just that most of my work (Laughter) And Dr. Brown defined courage like this. She said, &quot;Courage is to tell the story That got me thinking about another one of my heroes, and how she said, There is no such thing. Making the unknown known So, here I am to tell you the story and to make some unknowns known. When I was eight years old, and I started to feel very, very awkward. Every day, I was pushed out all oily, and pudgy, and conspicuous, and to me the other girls seemed and I started to feel like a loser So I made my own capes, My capes were pretending and addiction. But we all have Perfectionism, and overworking, they are all superhero capes. Our capes are what we put so that our real tender selves Our superhero capes are what keep us because every good and bad thing So, for 18 years, my capes of addiction and pretending People think of us, addicts, but we don't start out that way. We start out We feel so much pain and so much love, and we sense that the world and doesn't want to need so we start pretending. We try to pretend like we're the people We numb, and we hide, and we pretend, and that pretending but to be fair, we thought They tell us since we're little the only appropriate answer is, But the thing is We are born to make our unknown known. We will find somewhere to do it. So in private, or the alcohol, or the food, we tell the truth. We say, &quot;Actually, I'm not fine.&quot; Because we don't feel safe we make our own little world, and that's addiction. That's whatever cape you put on. So what happens is all of us end up living in these little, teeny, controllable, instead of all together I binged and purged for the first time and I continued every single day Seems normal to me, but you're surprised. (Laughter) Every single time that I got I thought something was wrong with me. So I took that nervous energy and I stuffed it all down with food, and then I panicked, and I purged, and after all of that, and I was so exhausted and so numb that I never had to go back that had made me uncomfortable and that's what I wanted. I did not want to deal with the discomfort and messiness So, when I was a senior in high school, I finally decided to tell the truth I walked in my guidance counselor's office and I said, &quot;Actually, I'm not fine. And I was sent to a mental hospital. In the mental hospital, I found myself in a world In high school, when our hearts were breaking because we were just bullied or no one would sit with us at lunch, and we had to care about ancient Rome when all we really wanted to do was learn how to make We had to act tough when we felt scared, and we had to act confident Acting, pretending, High school is kind of like but in the mental hospital, The gig was up. (Laughter) We had classes about how to express through music, and art, and writing. We had classes and how to be brave enough while being kind enough We held each other's hands sometimes, Nobody was ever allowed Everybody was worthy - that was the rule - So in there, we were brave enough All I ever needed to know, (Laughter) I remember this sandy-haired girl, and she told the truth on her arms. I held her hand one day and I saw that her arms In there, people wore their scars so you knew where they stood, and they told the truth, So I graduated from high school, and I went on to college, which was way crazier (Laughter) In college, I added on the capes The sun rose every day, and then when the sun set, The sunrise is usually but it was my signal every day to come down from the booze, and I could not come down. That was to be avoided at all costs, I'd close the blinds, while my spinning brain would torture me about the people who were going out to make relationships, And I had no day; I only had night. These days, I like to think of hope It comes out every single day It comes out to shine and the druggies, and the cheerleaders. It never withholds. It doesn't judge. If you've spent your entire life and then one day it'll be there, waiting for you, You know, all those years, I thought of that sunrise as searching, but it wasn't. It was just hope's daily invitation to me I think if you still have a day, you are still invited. I actually graduated from college - which makes me both grateful to and extremely suspicious (Laughter) and I found myself sort of in the real world, On Mother's Day 2002, - I am not good at years, I had spun deeper and deeper. I wasn't even Glennon anymore. I was just bulimia. I was just alcoholism. I was just a pile of capes. But on Mother's Day, one Mother's Day, I found myself on the cold bathroom floor, hungover, shaking, and holding As I sat there with my back an understanding washed over me. In that moment, on the bathroom floor, I understood that even in my state, even lying on the floor, that someone out there had deemed me worthy of an invitation to a very, very important event. So, that day on the bathroom floor, I decided to show up, just to show up, to climb out of my dark, individual, and out into the big, great, messy one. I didn't know how to be a sober person, or how to be a mother, so I just promised myself and I would do the next right thing. &quot;Just show up, Glennon, just do the next right thing, So I stood up. What they don't tell you about peeling off your capes, is that it gets a hell of a lot worse Getting sober is like recovering It's all of those feelings now they're there, and they are present. At first, it just feels but then, those feelings start The pain, the loss, the guilt, the shame - it's all piled on top of you But what I learned during that time is that sitting with the pain while refusing to run for any exits is the only way So, these days, I am not a superhero, and I am not a perfect human being, but I am fully human being, I am, fortunately and frustratingly, still exactly the same person as I was when I was 20, I still feel scared all the time, anxious all the time, oily all the time. I still get very high but I finally accepted the fact that I don't have to hide it, I am not broken. I've actually started to wonder Maybe you feel great pain and deep joy, but you just don't feel safe So now, instead of trying I write and I serve people where sensitive people where we can all just come out and tell the truth, and admit together but also insist that together You know, maybe it's OK to say, Maybe it's OK to remember and to stop doing long enough to think, and to love, This weekend was Mother's Day, which marked the eleven-year anniversary and I spent the day on the beach and my two dogs, and my one husband (Laughter) my long-suffering husband. You can only imagine. Life is beautiful and life is brutal. Life is brutaful Only one thing has made and that is this: I used to numb my feelings and hide, and now I feel my feelings and I share. That's the only difference I am not afraid of my feelings anymore. I know they can come, and they can take over but at the end of the day, They are just guides to tell me Loneliness, it leads us and jealousy, it guides us and pain guides us to help other people, and being overwhelmed, So I've learned as my own personal prophets, and instead of running I just be still, that there are prizes to be won. Those prizes are peace, So I received an email last week, and it's now taped to my computer at home. It just said, &quot;Dear Glennon, it's braver to be Clark Kent Carry on, warrior.&quot; (Laughter) So today, I would say to you We just need awkward, oily, out in the bright, big, messy world. And I will see you there. (Applause)