In Northern Kenya a team of scientists is made. [Nicholas] yeah all of this is the smooth it round you'll be able to see that it's completely [Stefan] The site is called Lomekwi 3 which regions for understanding human evolution. well preserved layers that date to the time huge evolutionary changes. [Nicholas] On the western side of Lake Turkana, sounding word but it relates to a geological formation is about 750,000 years old but it to 4.5 million years old. [Evan] What a wonderful coincidence yeah I head this this continuous record that is unlike of its time depth and its ability to capture of a it's a wonderful unique place to study [Stefan] I was fortunate enough to chat to Evan Patrick Wilson. We're going to discuss we can learn about our Evolution from the We've even got footage of monkeys using tools to anyone's day. I can say with 100% confidence ancestors. Wow what a fantastic site! This is this is going to love this for sure they're really Before I start I just want to thank the sponsor tool, one of the best language learning apps to brush up on my Spanish because I kind of and whilst I'm here in North America kind been looking for ways just to practice Spanish These lessons are made by real language teachers straight from the get-go you're learning real They even have live lessons with real teachers it's also just fun I like all the podcasts to one when I'm walking to work. Not many before I started this channel I was a foreign making practice, making learning a language it's so important and Babbel is just a really languages to choose from. Start speaking your code Down Below in the comment in the description guarantee if it doesn't work out for you so check it out. It's super fun, a great tool, target language. Let's get back to the video. To understand why Lomekwi 3 is so interesting place to start than the Amazon rainforest Here, a cheeky capuchin monkey gathers up them open? Perhaps smashing them with a rock? bish bash bosh it's time to eat some seeds. Good for you capuchin monkey. I could watch so smart and yet so adorable, totes adorbs, Our closest relatives chimpanzees are well ants things like that or yoink mammals out to crack nuts. Primates just love tools, our well. But humans take it so much further than tools to make other tools which we use to our survival has become totally dependent think about living without them. We've become idea, on many ideas which is the kind of thought and and how are we so dependent on it? Until in time our love of tools extended. [Nicholas] So you can imagine I'm sure that familiar with acheulean artifacts um things artifact that are found, the earliest examples they're also found in Europe and across parts [Stefan] Acheulean tools mark a major moment as well, they're so symmetrical so beautiful. have used for the longest period of time, tools found so far are day two around 1.8 maybe 100,000 years ago maybe even later in what is an Acheulean tool and when it comes half million years we were using these bad they were produced by middle pleistocene hominins, heidelbergensis. [Nicholas] Perfect... when those were first sort of 1800s and uh and before and gave the made tools. Not everybody when they were originally There were some other ideas at the time like of them were called thunderstones and so on showed that no these artifacts were made by time. [Stefan] What helped in the discovery of the nature just can't produce something like this The thing is with Acheulean tools though is attempt at making a tool. To go from just require the removal of 60 flakes, 100 flakes, the ability to visualise this symmetrical You don't go from an ape like a chimpanzee nuts open to something like this in one step. had to come before this. [Nicholas] so people working in Africa, particularly gorge in the 1950s and 60s, were looking for also in that in a magnificent open-air laboratory able to identify traces of earlier flaked therefore older and were produced not to be but were more like sharp knives knocked off [Stefan] These ended up being called oldowan simpler. [Nicholas] Subsequent work as well was able early materials. So for a long long time and like 25 or more years, the oldest known oldowan were from a site called Gona in the Afar triangle not very numerous and it's not very dense million years ago. These are believed to have been made by early nearby and dates to a similar age. Homo habilis and their placement in our genus is based makers and that the development of tools is genus homo not earlier hominins like Australopithecus, [Nicholas] And this was the standard model tools were probably the first tools made. [Stefan] However, as more and more research began to appreciate that it wasn't as simple [Nicholas] Although for several years uh the oldowan sites they were characterised as being you need to do, quote unquote, is sort of like it was all that complicated but as research the 2000s more and more examples emerged that chronological record, from round 2.6 and certainly hominins making oldowan tools in quite complicated doing, they're not just hitting rocks together and cognitively process how is the best way and to do it in a way where they can continue difficult to do actually. [Evan] and we have you know by pieces of the there's things missing of course, but you began to break into these flakes and when understanding of the geometry and the fracture and efficiently and not just wasting raw material, half throw it away pick up a new rock. It's [Stefan] So naturally, researchers began to stone tools ever made and began looking for we could find the earlier sites. [Nicholas] What that showed to researchers stone tools and were essentially experts at and there's an earlier part of the archaeological was something earlier, another way of making identified. [Stefan] This brings us on to Lomekwi, what these the earliest stone tools? And who made [Atmospheric super cool Music, kind of mysterious [Nicholas] In the survey that we were doing as Evan pointed out, this surface scatter they could be stone tools and the discoverer, stone tool hunter was the first person to and called the rest of the team over on the of the West Turkana Archaeological Project was getting pretty excited because we knew for now, all of the deposits around are old. deposit, this could be something that's a [Stefan] finding prehistoric stone tools on I would love it, but it's impossible to accurately especially Stone. To be able to do that we find them in situ. [Nicholas] and you know we're all very grateful are what we call in-situ embedded deeply in what we call indurated. It's been hardened and the heat that has made this deposit just [Stefan] From dating the sediment around the were about 3.3 million years old. 700,000 one discovery they extended the entire archaeological technology by 25%, which is uhhhhh that's 25% onto human history. Bosh! there you go. Can we see one of them whilst we're here on [Nicholas] so let me let me show you one example outer surface of the artifact and when I turn different on the other side. So rather than sort of fractures on this surface. [Stefan] this is called a core it was a piece Oldowan tools which can easily be held in monsters! Look at the size of it compared head! My first thought, honestly, was how do we untrained eye, to my eye, I would easily walk that Nicholas is holding. Look at the top very uniform way in a line across the top [Nicholas] so as you've seen on this piece platform this was where it was struck repeatedly off in the same direction. So what that shows was struck time and time and time again. Perhaps the same direction and always along that same you have to envisage how a large Cobble like cliff or been in a fluvial system and only from the same part of the tool, each and every [Stefan] It's not very plausible that nature way like that. If this was just one rock you you know, nature is a complicated thing. Lots much more than just the rock Nicholas is holding. [Evan] At the moment what's uh Nick do you what uh what we're looking at in terms of for sure. It's somewhere around 150, 200 I [Nicholas] It's around 150 that are published 150 that we have published. [Stefan] The team also discovered that these They were being made at that exact spot at just find the cores and and the flakes that in some cases they could be refitted you could which is a great sign that is being knapped made tools. But they also found just the tiny that inevitably come off when you're making hit a rock and it breaks cleanly perfectly create little tiny extra bits and and they [Nicholas] And what that shows you if you at that location. [Stefan] So they have the cores and the flakes that come off when you're making a stone tool in that area that size. These rocks have been [Evan] and additionally at Lomekwi another find this this site the tools are the largest of sand or a pebble. Whey are larger than So we don't find natural stones of this size [Stefan] I know it seems like a stretch when look a three million year old tool, uh you okay who let the Paleolithic archaeologists every reason to think that these are tools. systematic way all in the same direction, the usable flakes, tiny little useless flakes, no other large rocks around them, it's so consistently break this series of rocks all uuuuhhhhh they're tools, these are tools, if that's the case then who was making them? [Investigative marimba music] If Homo erectus acheulean tools starting around 1.8 million the older one around 2.6 million years ago, million years ago? [Nicholas] It's very hard to establish exactly [Stefan] Assigning an author to stone tools pre-history, it's just so tough. It might tools are so rarely found alongside each other start doing burials, humans and Neanderthals, more confident because sometimes the tool my video on the Shanidar Neanderthals, one right next to their hand. [Nicholas] To our mind, you know, and to many of or partial fossil of a hominin at the site, gun but it's not definitive. So we have to and nuanced ways. [Stefan] Currently Lomekwi 3 is older than homo by hundreds of thousands of years. I attribute to homo is about 2.8 million years minute it doesn't seem that any hominin from change. You always have to keep in mind that yeah it could be that a Homo habilis was around for them. That's entirely possible. [Nicholas] That might change, we might find we attribute to homo and then we can happily that tool making is, uh the origin of tool somehow to the emergence of homo. [Stefan] but as I said earlier yeah more and tools and earlier ancestors of ours didn't seem to hold up so well with the evidence [Nicholas] but let's also be honest that homo these other genus names are also labels that record that goes back in time. So, you know, isn't or paranthropus isn't is probably not [Stefan] the first possible candidate outside the most famous example being Lucy here. Good herself dates to 3.2 million years ago so there when when somebody is producing tools a really wide distribution across East Africa but still the archaeological record is incomplete been at Lomekwi and we just haven't found lived at the right time. Lucy here she's a tools. Another candidate that is at the right new discovery Australopithecus deyiremida. not clear, I think. Deyiremida was found in But again it's at the right time has to be at the right time but definitely in the right an unboxing #YouTube. What Child doesn't love [just some rustling] Kenyanthropus platyops, what a dramatic buildup. [Nicholas] nearby Lomekwi 3, before Lomekwi only about five kilometers away was made the the late 90s of kenyanthropus platyops. [Stefan] We only have one Kenyanthropus specimen not clear, not known, not well understood kilometers from Lomekwi. [Nicholas] So we know that around the time is also on the scene um and those those fossil years ago. So yes there is an appreciable of time that we're talking about it's probable and maybe after 3.3. We can't say for sure So Kenyanthropus is relatively close in time, we find more fossils they're the absolute at Lomekwi, but again always have to keep three million years ago, is uh is incomplete completely. But until then this has got to Just as we were discussing this site another which date to between 3 and 2.6 million years new discovery is not only do we have the tools which probably processed by those tools but to hominin species we call paranthropus. I this chap paranthropus. We've thought for vegetarian diet made up of tough grasses and of their teeth, the fact that they have these chewing muscles, they're a beast, they're one of them was there when a hippo was being were producing the tools and butchering the been butchered, who knows what was going on? of a paranthropus molar alongside Oldowan homo as the tool maker and these three not ago in the time period we're talking about, environment. Lots of different groups of hominins, ways to live, and and probably experimenting Evan and Nicholas what we could sort of understand these ancestors of ours, from the stone tools. or anything like that? It's kind of crazy, I'll never look at Australopithecus the same [Stefan] How far roughly are these Stones [Evan] Within 100 meters um, so it's it's earliest Oldowan sites, you know, um it's in channels and other sources nearby where living as well. [Stefan] 100 meters is obviously not very definitely a conscious choice to move something that you will need the tool, to go and get for that period of time. But a big rock like was an ex, that was an effort, they put some [Evan] They're carrying 10 to 20 kg natural that. It's a risk to pick up this heavy rock body. Carrying that around is making you prime sorts of things. So it also speaks to uh maybe but they don't seem to be going too far but [Stefan] At the natural formation where these they did also have pebble-sized cobbles, like they're desiring these larger rocks, they're this probably says something about their knapping [Evan] When you actually look even just flake that the actual blocks of rock are going to of problems do you need to overcome to successfully a level of skill and understanding of that um even at this time. [Stefan] For whatever reason they chose to about the size of the stone, they were also material properties. From all the stones available rocks, basalt rocks, to use as anvils. [Evan] Having uh having more density allows to bounce back up from the Anvil and give going in from the rock you're striking which the density of the Anvil will push the force you to break rocks in ways and also process bi-manual method, so it seems that they have least grasp aspects of rock quality. [Stefan] To make the flaked tools they're has a much better ability to create usable [Evan] and in addition they also have a sort which is another one of these volcanic rocks is used consistently by hominins for over the acheulean, and it's it's relatively good and they have a preference for flaking on for basalt with lots of bits of pounding on you see a lot of the heavily flaked cores we find are in this phonolite, this material than the basalt or one of these really really when you try and flake it. [Stefan] It's really incredible stuff like, just put a ourselves in the mind of one of They had the realization or desire to create local environment well enough to travel to Once there they selected the rock they needed of the geology of the material properties 100 meters to the spot where they preferred tool which can't happen by accident, the rock flakes taken along the edge, and then finally task. Whether that's processing an animal All of this requires a huge amount of forethought. it through all these different steps is incredibly it's just incredible, I don't know any other look at these these guys the same way again. [Nicholas] No absolutely, and that's why you that's why the archaeological record has to the fossil record because as important as it's massively important, there are certain about and one of those is how the brain is What are they capable of in terms of cognitive and how far ahead can they plan? Those aren't the the amount of cubic centimeters inside [Music] I think the main reason why we love use tools, is because we can kind of see ourselves through the same steps to crack a seed open. Amazon jungle and you had absolutely no tools to do something similar to that capuchin monkey and we can easily put ourselves in the mind empathize with that, we can see ourselves that chimpanzee we understand that thought you could see one of these hominins walking to produce the stone tools at Lomekwi, it 100% see ourselves in them and recognise them in my mind about that. [Stefan] We started this talking about this of our tool use do you think you've hit it more to go still more time to go back? [Nicholas] there's been a time to go back [Evan] yeah yeah there's there's more time back but also there's probably tools that I mean think about the swath of organic materials chimps today. There's no doubt that there about, things that were probably critical. [Stefan] yeah you can come in Em, I I know forgiving wife who doesn't mind me waking she probably just thinks you're you're a bit [laugh laugh laugh, much merriment was had