- Same dish, different recipes. From the most classic and to the most controversial, we're going to try it. In this video, every rice lover knows, the great upcycling the one and only fried rice. And today, we're trying each from different people. Michelin Star a personal favorite of mine, British chef and restaurateur, And lastly, Malaysian online persona, who actually criticized So today, we're pitting them to finally answer this question who makes the best fried rice? Let's start with the simplest, He starts with olive oil something Uncle Roger And saute sliced both the green and white. He adds precooked rice and tosses this around and effectively fluffs it up. Jamie Oliver then takes out sweetness, shine, He then adds a splash of water Technically, the water brings back and prevents the dish Makes some space in the center Break the yolks to coagulate likes visible whites and yolk. Meanwhile, he admits Are you ready? Firm tofu. He breaks this and that will be Season this with salt To serve, coat a bowl fill it up with fried rice, and invert onto a plate. Jamie Oliver fried rice, done. The question is, against Gordom Ramsay's? We'll see. Gordon takes out the big wok He didn't specify what oil Over high heat, and galangal paste. He seasons this with salt the vegetables by drawing out He then aggressively scrambles in and cooks them thoroughly. In goes leftover rice and have been hanging around He seasons this with sambal which is an rendang, another paste including lemongrass, You'll also notice that Gordon Finally, Gordon adds and salt to taste. Whoo! Fried rice ala Gordon Ramsay, served. But regardless of who you are, from Uncle Roger. He starts with peanut oil Uncle Roger first saute He then beats some eggs and pours that into the wok until it's almost dry. In goes leftover chicken rice in chicken stock, ginger, He adds in some soy sauce the rice, but similar it brings back some moisture He then adds sesame oil. This isn't an Uncle Roger recipe which is going to add And unlike in other recipes, and spring onions at the end to impart a slight spice and allow the spring onions It's important to note doesn't have exact measurements, to balance out Now that we've successfully or at least I think I did... We tried our best as they did in their videos, and now, (chuckles) - That's hot. - It tastes like... - That's hot indeed. - It tastes very Asian, - I like it. It's kind of hot What a nonsense comment. (laughs) - It's kind of spicy but I'd say it's a good dish. - Conyo. - Conyo. - Sorry. - It kind of tastes I don't know if it's sesame oil - I taste chili. - Same. - But unlike these boys, how it's so spicy that are very hot. - It's weird. It tastes like it has some tofu. - There's actually tofu. This is actually the first time with tofu. - Do you like it? - Is it tofu? - I don't know. You said it's tofu. Is it tofu or sago? It kind of tastes like sago. - Sago or taho? - Taho. (chuckles) - Taho is toshu. I meant tofu. What did you say? Soy, what? - I'll confirm the hint. So how do you like it? - Yes! I love tofu. I love taho actually. (laughs) Useless. So useless. - All right. Please hold on - I like this one better. - That was a bit weird for me. I still kind of like Delicious. - I can taste the soy sauce, oyster sauce as well. So it's very bitter. But it's tasty or like bitter type of food. - This is the fried rice in a restaurant. With the first two, those type of fried rices but this one is like - Is that a word? - Which one? - &quot;Rices&quot; - That's why I said, I did like that. - I didn't see you. - The last one for me. It's very bitter - I like the second one. It's sort of probably 'cause of the tofu. - As a person who loves and something and like eggy and stuff, - Now, we will reveal which is the third dish. It's from Uncle Roger. First one was It's Gordon Ramsay's recipe. Yeah. And then second one And both of them were roasted And actually, the revelation is, his recipes, it didn't have because he said it's just by feel. So it's not like I'm taking - It's really different when... - That's for cooking rice. Would you cook fried rice - Rule of the middle finger. - Well, to make rice, - Uncle Roger, congratulations. to be hailed. You're the best. - I love you, Gordon Ramsay! I love you, Gordon Ramsay! - Gordon Ramsay? You like Uncle Roger's Also, more realizations some people prefer For example, Jiro, So again, just like last time, but at the end of the day, That's it. If you guys want us to try just drop them in the comments. And thank you for watching. See you guys next time! - Asians. Let's go Asians! - Let's go!