Israel is God's chosen people, always have been God's chosen people, always will be God's chosen people. In my last video, I walked through Bethlehem's met Palestinian Christians But I kept thinking about how some of Israel's biggest supporters back home are not necessarily American Jews but evangelical Christians. - Most Christians will tell you, &quot;Well we love Israel because God says, So why do American evangelicals support a state including their fellow Christians? You have my sisters and brothers who are supposed to be my support actually doing all their best to support the ones who are oppressing us. And it makes me angry. Here's something that might surprise you: White evangelical Christians in the U.S. are more than twice as likely as American Jews to believe that "God gave Israel Now, not all evangelicals believe this, their voices are often the loudest The title deed to the land of Israel which gives the Jewish people a clear and unclouded title to that land forever. It belongs to them, and it belongs to them only. People that share this view are called They believe the Bible commands them to support and defend the modern-day state of Israel, regardless of what this means for the Palestinians who live under its occupation. They point to one biblical verse in particular - Genesis 12:3 - that they believe references the - Genesis 12:3 - here it is in the very beginning "I'll bless and I'll curse those who curse her." I met Sharon Sanders in Jerusalem. She's an American Christian who moved here from Illinois in the 1980s, out of a deep religious sense of mission She and her husband founded the charity which aims to help people from recent Jewish immigrants to Israeli soldiers. - It's just simply kindness of the heart to say thank you for protecting us. Thank you for taking care of the land. Her charity is one of several foreign, that have flourished in Israel in recent years. It's estimated that every year, evangelicals give around $200 million to Israel. Worldwide donations from the Jewish community far surpass that, but Christian contributions continue to rise and show no signs of slowing down. And some organizations specifically raise money for Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank, which are illegal We're talking about millions of dollars that is used to continue my oppression. That's Munther Isaac, a Palestinian Christian pastor who lives in Bethlehem - the city where Jesus is believed to have been born that's now surrounded by this massive wall. It's one of the most imposing parts of Israel's military occupation of Bethlehem and other Palestinian territories - an occupation that's now over 50 years old, meaning several generations of Palestinians When you support a specific state who has racist policies and is enforcing an apartheid state, that would be unbiblical in my mind, right? That wouldn't be loving thy neighbor as yourself. You know, we read the same Bible, but then they are using the Bible You know, we Christians call the Bible &quot;Injil&quot; - So they've turned the good news Why is their read of the Bible so different? Evangelicals read the Bible in a very literal They believe that you have to bless Israel So it's like Israel becomes the gauge of whether you receive blessing from God. You know, it makes me wonder what kind of God they are meeting in the Bible. The God I meet in the Bible is a God of love, They see in it an image of God, who's a tribal God, who favors one nation over everyone else based on a promise that's thousands of years old. But for Christian Zionists like Sharon, Many believe that the establishment which displaced the majority of the Palestinians was all part of God's divine plan. - We see all over God's word that the Jewish people at a certain point in history would begin to find their way back home, and we know that happened in May 1948 when the state became a real nation. And ever since then the Jewish people It's a miracle. And we've been living in Bible prophecy ever since. Do you think Jesus, who preached would be OK seeing a wall and cutting off people from their land? He probably would've quoted "I'll bless those who bless my people." When you're talking, I feel like there's and elevation of the Jewish people having Israel, but doesn't that contradict the principles of equality that Christianity preaches? Well then I think we'd have to go back to God and ask him why he chose the Jewish people. He chose them to be a light to the nations, according to his word, he chose them to bring the Messiah through. I think the key is study what God says, To be clear, not all American Christians In fact, in the last few years, several have come out in support of Palestinian rights, even endorsing the Palestinian Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement targeting Israel. But even so, the people who do believe in this prophecy have a huge following. And for them, it all culminates into a biblical grand finale, called &quot;the end times.&quot; Somebody said, &quot;I want to understand Well you just need to look at three things. You look at Jesus, you look at the Jews and you look at Jerusalem. Many evangelicals believe that once Jews Jesus will return to Earth and rapture To believers, it's going to be a time of and excitement and glory. But to those who do not know him, it's going to be a day of judgment. If you're a Christian, you will not be around You'll be safely in heaven. And this tribulation period, some believe, is a violent and bloody war Jesus Christ will speak the word in the most dramatic act of warfare he will bring about the slaughter And in some interpretations they believe that So these Christian Zionists - not all of them believe this specific theology, but many of them do - you're promoting them to come to a specific location in order for them, or two-thirds of them, to die. It doesn't sound like a holy alliance. It doesn't. But this alliance is powerful. Millions of Christians in America and around the world now stand with Israel. OK, pause. We're going to come back to Sharon, John and Munther in a bit. But first, let me tell you a bit more about this guy. Because to understand how influential you have to understand John Hagee. This Texas pastor is the founder and leader of Christians United for Israel, or CUFI, an organization that claims to have That makes Hagee influential outside the movement too, with lots of big-name friends in politics. Even though, in several sermons, Hagee had claimed that Hitler was actually sent by God to force Jews to move to Israel. Then God sent a hunter. A hunter is someone who comes Hitler was a hunter. Why did it happen? Because God said my top priority is to get them to come back to the land of Israel. Wild, right? If that sounds cynical to you, well, it actually underpins Hagee's beliefs when it comes to Israel. For example, this dedication to protecting includes denying the internationally that the West Bank and East Jerusalem are occupied territories. As we saw earlier, Hagee and many of his counterparts insist the Holy Land is actually promised to Jews by God. And so they want to see the West Bank remain under Israel's control because it's a necessary step for But neither the Hitler comments nor have made Hagee a political pariah. Even Israeli leaders applaud and court the support of Hagee's movement. Now there are millions and millions who stand with Israel. So I want to thank you on behalf One group that is less welcome at the CUFI conference is journalists. We sent a producer and cameraman to meet some of the attendees at the 2022 conference, but before they could speak to anyone, they were kicked out by security. Still, I wanted to know, why do so many Christians support the ongoing oppression of Palestinians? I attended a church service in Bethlehem. And I interviewed a pastor there who's really upset at American evangelical Christians What would you say to someone like him Well, I'm sorry for that, but I've also lived here and I also have seen why sometimes rules have to be strong. Why? To prevent terrorism, to prevent death. You know, if you have to build a wall, if you have to do whatever it takes to keep then you do that to save life. Sharon's thoughts mirror the Israeli But in reality, the International Court of Justice has asked Israel to tear down that wall, because it goes so deep into Palestinian territory - a land grab. So I'll say that Christian Zionism, in general, is a very colonial way of reading the Bible and also a very white supremacist-type It becomes easier to oppress the &quot;bad ones,&quot; &quot;because they deserve it, because they We can build the wall because they are the ones who are Whereas, ironically, all we are asking for And for the Palestinian Christians "We are actively being oppressed by the state of Israel. We're persecuted here." What do you say to them? I would say, take a look at the scriptures and love them and be a blessing in any way you can, even if you're being persecuted. He said, "Turn the cheek." You think they should love their oppressor? I don't believe that Israel is oppressing them. The injustices Palestinians are suffering under Israeli military rule are impossible to deny. I witnessed and experienced while reporting this series in the West Bank. There's some hope things are changing back home: Recent polling suggests that young are more supportive of Palestinians But so long as this powerful alliance between Christian Zionists and Israel endures, the hope of justice prevailing in the Holy Land remains elusive. Hi everyone, thanks for watching. Let me know what you thought about this evangelical Christian love for Israel, and make sure you watch my entire series filmed in the occupied West Bank.