My name's Cain Vincent Dyer, and I robbed over 100 banks between 1999 and 2001. This is how crime works. For anyone out there that is watching this and you think you're going to go commit bank robberies the way I did or I'm telling you in here, you are going to find yourself in jail. Leave bank robbery alone. So, one of the things when I walk into a bank is walk in and go straight Because I always knew would more than likely have We've watched so many movies &quot;Hey, put your hands in the air!&quot; I think people naturally go &quot;Hey, this is a robbery!&quot; The reasoning for me asking or telling them to put their hands down is because you didn't want and seeing someone standing in a bank with their hands up or So it was always just, &quot;Put your head down, That way, if someone they wouldn't even really until they were already in it. And what that would kind of do is it would let me read the It would let me see if the people were either very compliant or very slow to move or if they seem nervous and scared. Then I would kind of tailor how I would express myself after that, trying to be more calming. And, unfortunately, if things were moving kind of slower, I would probably be a to the overall crowd. Checking the temperature, that one merchant teller, I knew if I decided that I would still have a reasonable outcome for the payday. That merchant teller is the person I would And like I said, if they were just a little then there were times where Typically, I picked banks that were close to merchants. That way, I knew that that bank would more than likely be the banker for all those merchants that were there. And that would mean that that bank would more than likely The other thing was it that was relatively close to multiple interstates. And one of the other things Were there multiple ways that I could enter or exit? Like, casing the bank would consist of me watching the employees. And I would always watch to see who looked like they So, sometimes, I'd case a bank for a day, for a day and a half, and then go. That's if it was a bigger bank. And I would watch the flow. I'd watch the timing of the flow, I'd watch the pickup. I took probably, I don't know, a few weeks, a month off, and just taught myself At that time, got in a hole of all different employee manuals, employee Safes, lock safes, time vaults. During my bank robberies, as far as attire would go, I would just always try and fit in in whatever element was present. It was always pretty much jeans, a jacket, trying I definitely used the Krazy Glue to protect my fingertips and my palms. I would always wear a pair of glasses, always a baseball cap, and that seemed to cover enough. The mascara would be, basically, it depended where I was. If I was in a place where I would typically do a beard. If I was in a place where I would more so sometimes or a really light shave. I would actually look Because, of course, in an area where it's going to be you can layer more. If it was sunny outside, there are a lot more people out, so there's probably more chances for me even to blend in. On a rainy day, though you still get to know that there So people are going to In certain cities, you had to account for different times that I would be going into a bank and not getting stuck Though there were banks that I absolutely would just because it would take to get to me if there So, we've seen in movies that cops have this response time of about three to five minutes. And that's pretty accurate. That is not just Hollywood. So I would park across the street or in some direction where I wasn't alone, standing out by myself, my car wasn't the only one. And I always used a car that would fit in. Something that was really typical, that you would just see a lot of. What I would always try and do is make sure that wherever I was parked, that it would not be in view of anyone that would be standing in a bank or immediately outside of a bank. So I always gave myself enough space to get away and then kind of disappear. So, when exiting a bank, once I felt I was out of sight, I would turn a corner or something, then I would trot a little bit further once I wasn't in front of a bank trotting. As soon as I'm in my car and my mascara's off, I turn on my radio, roll down my windows, take off my hat, and I'm singing. I've got music on. Cops pass me. I'm looking at them, because what they're actually looking for is the guy that's not looking at them. Listen, when a bunch or even firetrucks, what do we all do? We all look. So the one guy they're looking for is the guy who won't As they're driving to it, they're looking to see if anybody's trying to ignore them, typically. How I would end up checking for dye packs is different depending on If it was just the merchant teller, then of course that money is loose. Even though it's in So what I would do is and things off and I was I would literally put a and go through it, and then throw that money on the floor. I would get back to my stakeout, and I would go through all the money, taking my clothes, making putting my fingers in solution so I could get the Krazy Glue off. I would hide the money in several different places, but to be a little bit more specific, there was this one place that I had opened up the floor of it. I don't know, at one point there had to be just millions of dollars in this floor. There were a couple of times I actually put money In, like, a safety deposit box. Wouldn't that've been had there been a bank robbery The way I ended up a very, very close person to me, a relative, a sibling had gotten involved with a criminal organization. There was just no way he was You know, it would have been Had this debt not been the person would have lost their life. Those first set of banks, that paid off that debt. Those six, though, were and more desperation. Initially, I felt bank robbery was this victimless crime. I thought it would just be I felt like I was taking versus a person, which My first bank, I was literally I was going down the freeway and actually had to use the restroom. So I pull off the freeway. It was at this Calabasas exit. I pulled in there to go to the restroom. I ended up parking, and right in front of me were two banks. There was a Chase and And I sat there for a time period trying to determine just watching the flow of people. Had this baseball cap and stuff, and I kind of pumped myself up. Had this firearm with me, and I'm heading towards the bank. And as I get towards the One, there is this lady who is at the bank that And it was just like, &quot;Ah, I can't go in there while She gets scared and the baby's harmed, so I was like, &quot;Whoa.&quot; And as I went to turn back, there was this car window right there. And I look in the car &quot;Oh, my God, I can totally see myself.&quot; Like, I can make myself out. So I went to this store that I end up getting this backpack. And I also got some mascara and some Krazy Glue to as not to leave any fingerprints. Because I didn't want to walk which is, to me, pretty obvious. It was a sunny afternoon. There was that chord that just kind of struck me like, &quot;What if someone tries to stop me?&quot; It made me purchase a replica, like a air gun or something like that. But it looked very, very authentic. So I purchased that in the robbery instead. Realizing that I probably so I end up grabbing this backpack. I realized that the backpack that I could partially like a perfect sack. That I would be able to put things in and still have another hand free. Hence the name, Kangaroo Bandit. When my consciousness started to awaken again, I think I can no longer hide behind the life and death, imminent danger that was there before. I know if I would have kept doing it, I would have got caught. When I decided to turn myself in, of course I let my family know first. And then, my attorney and I, we contacted the FBI. And at first they were like, &quot;Yeah, oh, absolutely, absolutely.&quot; What I did not know at that time was someone had already I contacted them on a Wednesday, and I plan on meeting them on a Thursday, excuse me, a Friday. And instead, they were like, &quot;No, we're not waiting on you to come in.&quot; They did this huge raid on my home on a Thursday night. But the only way they was if they found something which they weren't able to find. Before he left, though, he and I had this conversation, he being the FBI agent. So I told him, &quot;I'm to go spend with my family. And then, when I'm ready, I'm going to turn myself in.&quot; And I was letting him know, &quot;Don't worry, I'm not going to run. I'm not going to bolt, man. I'm going to keep my word. I told you I'd keep my And I end up doing that. So when he saw me and I saw him after I had greeted my family, I actually walked up to him and we kind of embraced, we actually hugged each other. I surrendered. It was like, &quot;OK, now I begin my life.&quot; Well, I did not understand the psychological tolls The heavy cost I was having others pay to get out of the situation I was in. And so what I've done in an attempt to rectify that, or to make right, I've worked with victims. I've worked with ex-offenders. And, hopefully, any victim that suffered at my hands and because of my actions, you know, maybe they can take some comfort in knowing that today, I actually, you know, I've tried to wrong that. I didn't try, I like to think I am Volunteered for years. For almost four years straight, I volunteered four days to help people get their lives back. Whether it's an inmate or, excuse me, a former inmate or a victim or other people that that don't have criminal aspects but just get stuck in life.