(IN 2016, THE INTERNATIONAL (RULED THAT TRANSGENDER (WITHOUT UNDERGOING SURGERY. (THIS POLICY MADE HISTORY IN (WELCOMING A NEW GENERATION OF (THE OLYMPIC FAMILY. (SCHUYLER BAILAR IS AN ATHLETE (AND DIVING TEAM AT HARVARD (THIS IS HIS STORY.) I've just always loved being When I jump in, and it kind of shocks my system into, like, being quiet Sometimes I just kind of stay for like a second too long, and it's always that kind of &quot;This is the only thing I'm &quot;This is the only place I need That brings me a lot of peace, I think, that I don't have OK, who wants tea? - Tea, I want tea. - OK. What kind of tea? It's green tea. That's when you took my braids That was in West Virginia. Schuyler's swimming started in He was just always so and before he learned to walk Go Schuyler! I don't know if I've ever as a talented swimmer. When I was younger, There were a lot of people who were bigger and stronger but I've always worked hard. This is my bird Chico. Schuyler was a tomboy. He was much more comfortable than anything else. People handed me skirts, and I would throw on basketball people handed me the word and I would hand them It wasn't like I thought about until it became a thing that &quot;Oh, like Schuyler's or, &quot;Schuyler doesn't do other and then it became conscious to &quot;If I do these things, people &quot;OK, I'm going to keep doing When I was younger and my coach my mom and I were watching the I watched all of the women and their chests were and this was the point where my and I remember being like, &quot;how come they don't have and Mom was like, &quot;Well, when &quot;a lot of female Olympians &quot;because they don't have enough and I was like, &quot;Oh, my God. At that point, that was because I knew that my body was from me in a way that I didn't and so there was definitely thought process where I was &quot;OK, I'm going to be good Schuyler's swimming career kind ..and he started breaking both in the local area at the national level on I think when I was younger I was intent on doing things but I got lost in high school, and started just doing things because I wanted to do well in Schuyler broke his back the and junior year is recruiting and so it was actually quite Up until that point, I had used It was my release. It was my social life. It was my motivation. It was definitely a way Breaking my back broke me. I fell so far into depression, eventually and a lot of it was because to release anything, and I didn't know how to deal I had never had to sit down and or what I wanted I didn't have any words why I felt so and the biggest thing was that I was doing really well I had just gotten recruited to and I had gotten accepted into I had made the National Age I was swimming fast, and I was There was no gender discussion, It was just all about, um, getting to know who he was and getting to fix some of and we found a facility that He graduated, and then the day we went to Florida where we where he would spend 131 days, and he did a lot of really ..started the process of At treatment you're not allowed They keep a very close watch so I literally had zero ways and had to talk about and had to talk about how and that was the first place that I was transgender. Hey, guys. Um, so I'm Schuyler. I'm about to start my physical Um, FTM, female to male. Er, and I thought that it would It took me another year until I and asked them to call me and refer to me as a boy, and kind of solidify the idea of like, &quot;Oh, this has actually &quot;and I'm not actually,&quot; &quot;I'm just presenting the truest I'm going to be swimming next Um, so that makes it want to transition as soon as swim competitively and take So what I'm gonna do... ..er, is get top surgery. 'When I was allowed to have top 'it was probably one of the You kind of see that, you know, Let's take a look in the - So, big difference. You can see... I thought that it was going to and being true to being trans, or me being true to me being and that was really hard &quot;Both of these are me.&quot; It was an agonising decision to consider giving up everything he had worked for in terms of his swimming. &quot;Oh, I'm not maybe going to be &quot;I thought I was going to be, &quot;that everyone told me I was I first heard of Schuyler She's our women's head coach of Stephanie and I had been and some of the issues that Schuyler had outside Once we got to a point where Schuyler was thinking of from female to male, Steph kept me in the loop as I did work to educate We found out that it was perfectly acceptable for compete for Harvard Men's I had conversations with and everybody was open The men's coach was like, &quot;Well, if Schuyler identifies &quot;and I have a men's team, &quot;and he wants to swim, But I almost said no because I was so scared of the possibility of losing because, yeah, I'd be but I would transition, and my and I would lose all of my and all the potential I had as That was really scary to me because I had worked really to be successful at swimming. At that point, I decided, &quot;OK, &quot;I've got to try to be myself &quot;because maybe that will On your mark, go! You're doing a better job not but let's get a bit wider in the foot placement All right, 25 dive fast. Schuyler is one of the most I've ever met in my life. Hey, Matt, will you start me? Not only as a swimmer but, he's an exceptional human and a really good team-mate. The grit and determination that and it's helped me not only but a better parent and hopefully a better Your best swimmers have that this is something they can't and I think Schuyler can't live Five years ago, swimming meant 100%, unequivocally, I think over time, I've learned to have a bit more My family has never shown me a what's kind of kept me alive. When I ended up biting and telling my very she said, &quot;Schuyler, &quot;you can be a son. You can be a &quot;You can be a boy, a man, &quot;but Korean daughters take care &quot;and now your mom doesn't have &quot;so you have to take care &quot;and your parents,&quot; &quot;I can definitely do that.&quot; I have those words - take care tattooed on my side, next to my heart in my She wrote it for me and she was very &quot;Thank you for taking this I don't remember the Baltimore Let's get a picture over here. - Picture? Got it. - OK, let's keep walking. Keep walking before we freeze. When I came out as trans, and when I decided to swim for I told people around me, my friends, that I was going When I was younger, I had no role models or people and say, &quot;Oh, I can do this.&quot; I love motivational speaking because I'm really invested in and sharing the possibility for and this kind of peace especially with something as being transgender, but also so simple as just Hello. Yeah, um, Schuyler Bailar. In so many ways, Schuyler's of the remarkable young people whom we all teach but his story has As the first openly to compete in any sport on an NCAA division one team, he has been willing to share His willingness to share are why we are so pleased he is and I ask you to join me in Thank you so much, everybody. I've spoken at high schools and middle schools, and colleges, but I've never actually spoken so this is really cool. Allowing me to be myself at from my coaches, my teachers, and it's why I'm here today. I want to just take you back to I was always a water baby. I've swum since the time I Swimming has been the hugest since before I can remember, and being true to myself as a trans person is also When I used to interact with &quot;Who are they going to think And now I just walk into the If I can be naked in a Speedo and expose my trans-ness you can do your thing too.