A 27-year-old onigiri girl who roams around Hiroshima selling onigiri from a 100-kilogram cart She bumps into a male customer on her motorbike! Do you have fried chicken? We have some! If I find some tomorrow, I'll buy some. The regulars are flocking to the rice balls, which are full of ingredients and full of love! (Staff) You put the salmon skin in whole? Yes, we do! (Staff) Is this a matter of principle? That's right. I was in the mood for ramen, but I came because I saw it. The rice balls that the customers are raving about I saw it parked there yesterday too. An office worker drops in for lunch The rice balls aren't selling. The rice balls are very popular with foreign tourists. I'm struggling with the language! If I didn't have regular customers, I'd probably have quit by now. I get a push from my regular customers every day (Customer) I'm hungry, so I've come to buy something I'm in trouble. Let's do our best! I wonder if the rice balls will sell out safely... Go to main story Naka Ward, Hiroshima City, Hiroshima Prefecture Share Kitchen Homies Kitchen The shop with the rice ball logo in that corner Established in 2024 7:09 On the way to work, she bumps into a customer She puts on an apron and starts preparing the ingredients. She starts by preparing the rice! Rice with miscellaneous grains I want to promote rice with miscellaneous grains more. Soak in water to soak in water Soak in water Making omelettes while the house is flooded Milk and soy sauce Tamagoyaki is a sub-menu! Roll it thinly and carefully The first one is done! Cut into bite-sized pieces 300 yen for the omelette (Staff) What kind of facility is it going to be? It's called a shared cloud kitchen. It's a take-out delivery specialist. It's just a rice ball shop among them. It's a store that just rents out various kitchens. I don't think it's even four tatami mats. I'm making garlic rice. minced garlic bacon Edamame Frying the bacon Edamame Chopped garlic Garlic rice ingredients complete Baking the salmon Cooking the rice after it has been soaked Two sho (2.8 liters) 27 kinds of grain rice blend Cooking has started! (Staff) How does the texture of the mixed grain rice feel? Is it chewy or crunchy? Because it also contains glutinous rice, it has a really chewy texture I used to work at a docomo shop or something like that. I was wondering if there was anything I could do in Hiroshima I ended up selling onigiri. (Staff) Do you have any experience in cooking? My parents ran a restaurant for a long time, so I helped out there. Making the prawn tempura Removing the excess oil The prawn tempura is complete! The rolled omelette with cod roe and mayonnaise is complete! The rice is cooked. The ingredients for the garlic rice are mixed together. Black pepper Salted kelp rolled omelette with cod roe and mayonnaise wrapped in nori seaweed Packed in a bag Each one is 150 to 200 grams in weight, including the filling It's very filling. We put a lot of ingredients in it. we used rock salt but the salt content was lost in the water The rock salt doesn't fly away We choose the salt for this I'm flaking the freshly baked salmon. (Staff) You put the skin on? Yes, we do. (Staff) Is this a matter of principle? That's right. I thought there were a lot of people who liked skin. I turned 27 last month. I want to serve delicious food. I have people who are strict about taste try it before I serve it and if they give me the OK, then I finally serve it I've had people say things like The salmon is done There are 14 types of onigiri, including some that aren't on the menu. 9:23 You can call out to us and buy while you're on the move! Making prawn tempura Yuzu Pepper Tuna Mayo The prawn tempura contains three prawns! The mixed grain rice is cooked. Plum prawn tempura yuzu pepper tuna mayo 30 rice balls made! 30 We also have fried chicken and other side dishes Sometimes we make 60 to 70 pieces at a time Making fried chicken Seasoning the meat Flour, black pepper When it's a nice golden brown, take it out Fried chicken 300 yen I wonder if they sell out everything during lunch service... Cooling agent Rice ball Add a handle and the stall is complete! Japanese omelette with cod roe and mayonnaise 380 yen Salmon 330 yen The store opens at 11:00 (sales begin) The day of the Onigiri Girl begins... (Staff) How many kilometers is the food stall? I think it's probably over 100 kilometers. I think it's probably quite heavy. Even a little hill like this is hard on the legs and back We'll advertise on our official Instagram account while we're on the move Where did you first come to? An office district lined with restaurants The first customer arrives two minutes after opening. Well then, let's go through this. Is that right? I've been wondering about it for a while. An office lady drops in for a quick lunch break Many customers stop to take a look at the unusual sight I saw it parked there yesterday too. I've never seen one before. I guess it's timing. I'll do my best. Please be careful. I'm so happy. I ordered the rolled sushi with cod roe. The other day, I saw you here and I bought some today. (Staff) What kind of job do you do? I'm an office worker. You're an office lady, then. With the power of onigiri During the interview... A regular customer wearing a hat comes in. I was in the mood for ramen, but I came in because I saw it. Be careful. The man in the hat from earlier brought us a gift! He gave me a nutritional drink. The food stall is being moved to a different street. The rice balls are selling like hotcakes from the morning! We've arrived! Ah, hello! You're a regular customer, aren't you? I bumped into a regular customer I sold three onigiri and some tamagoyaki They stay for seven minutes Hello! Don't forget to say hello when you're on the move! We're going into the shopping arcade Where do you usually sell them? Nakamachi, PARCO, etc. And also Namiki Street Kamiyacho, right? We'll be there in 10 minutes! (Staff) Are you using Instagram to attract customers? That's right, that's right. We sold one rice ball... After that, no more onigiri were sold. Five minutes have passed. 10 minutes have passed... 12:16 (Staff) So the food stalls are made by you? I just place the order He's a carpenter I asked him We've arrived at our destination! A male customer appears on a motorbike This is also a regular customer who is a fan of That's Rice Fried chicken! It'll be about 1000 yen in total. We have a quick chat. If I find it again tomorrow, I'll buy it. Farewell 12:23 (Staff) Why are you running a food stall? Hiroshima, be well I feel like I'm going to give it my all Right now, more than half of them have sold. There's nothing else we can do but try. Mr. Azuma used to be an office worker. He always had a goal in his heart to try something new! That's Rice's story began with that goal taking shape Can they sell the remaining half of the rice balls... The first customer to arrive was a French tourist The onigiri he chose was... prawn tempura Japanese onigiri are very popular with foreigners! A customer from Vietnam chooses a type of onigiri He struggles with the language, but does his best to respond. How much is it? Do you want to add it all up? All of it. Yes. The bill was paid without any problems! Instagram exchange meeting We're going to resume sightseeing, looking forward to eating Japanese rice balls! 12:50 (Staff) How many days a month do you work? About 25 days I only get one day off a week. (Staff) Listening to you talk, At first, I was talking to my parents about it and I was like, "I want to quit" in the car If I didn't have any regular customers If you said it was delicious Like, "Oh, that's good." It's worth it, even though it's hard. Motoyasu River I'd like to open a small shop I can serve warm drinks and stuff like that. Soup and stuff like that. I want to open a I'm moving near the Atomic Bomb Dome. I can't sell any more. My steps become heavy The burden on my legs and back is heavy I've got to pull myself together and start selling! I'll keep talking. (Customer) I'm hungry, so I've come to buy something. For the first time I've been watching you at that shop. A customer who has a shop nearby Please be careful. I'll do my best! I'll get power from the customers After that, customers kept coming to buy onigiri one after another (Staff) So you sell out every day? That's right. Yesterday they sold out at 1pm. There are only five rice balls and fried chicken left! Moving into the shopping arcade There are only a few left. The woman in the hat Thank you very much! 300 yen for the fried chicken The junkie-flavored seasoning goes well with the rice balls! Only one left! I'm going to deliver the last one. I'm pulling the cart with all my strength. Super regular customer 400 yen for jako negi The flavor of the baby sardines goes really well with the rock salt! It's simply delicious! Hang in there! Thank you for your continued support! (Staff) Do you use it a lot? He's been a customer since we first opened. Is it a recommendation? Your brother has already ordered the prawn tempura I'd definitely go for the prawn tempura. (Staff) What kind of person is Azuma-san? You've been with us from the start, right? Don't overdo it, but do your best You're always so cheerful. You're always so considerate. You've been saying Please keep trying. Thank you. I'm off to work. Thank you for your continued support. All of the tickets have now been sold. I'm starting to enjoy thinking about how to sell things quickly. Once they're sold out, it's like I'll make you a cup of coffee. (Staff) What kind of schedule do you work to? The menu is getting bigger and bigger, so we have to make new ones, and I draw pictures for customers. I often give presents. I draw pictures. Oh, hello! On the way home, I keep running into regular customers one after another. 14:16 I arrive at the shop in no time at all SOLD OUT A gift from a regular customer Ah It's the best. It's amazing. Thank you for coming today, Azuma-san. I want to promote the use of the trailer. I want to open a small shop in the future. I'd like to own one someday. My personal favorite is and the rolled omelette with cod roe and and the salmon are my personal recommendations (Staff) Could you say a few words to the regular customers who always come here? I get my confidence from the regular customers I thought about quitting, but I've been able to get this far, so Thank you so much for everything. I look forward to working with you in the future. Thank you very much. I'll buy some tea and eat my onigiri in the park Eating rice balls outside is especially delicious. Salmon 330 yen The saltiness of the flaked salmon goes well with the rice! All the onigiri are delicious and very filling! Onigiri made with lots of love Please give them a try!