It's October 2022. Multi-billion dollar company Argo Ai, the race towards self-driving cars, But to understand why, we need to In the world of autonomous vehicles, In steps Ford Motor Company and a $1 cars. The company was backing Argo AI. Everybody thought that autonomous right around the corner. Two years later, Volkswagen joined Ford At its height, the startup was Argo AI had more than 2000 employees, had offices around the world. And then reality struck them on both Robotaxis are not just around the After a rush of enthusiasm, self-driving challenges of developing both the alongside it. Ultimately, Argo AI Argo AI was founded by Brian Salesky Both had big ambitions and years of Argo II's plan was to bring fully At the time, legacy automakers like behind on electrification and autonomy. It's a common technology story. The world gets excited about a a market or revolutionize an industry. The old players get scared. In mobility. There was a lot of talk that Ford and Volkswagen and GM and When Tesla's stock soared to all time past Ford's for the first time. That happened despite Ford having sold in 2016. Companies were plunging into development. Through a partnership with its self-driving research. GM bought Autonomous Driving Startup Google executed its first fully later turned the self-driving car named Waymo. In 2016, Tesla began fitted with all the hardware necessary Rumors were spreading that Apple was well, possibly with self-driving In 2017, Ford Motor Company announced a AI. Shortly thereafter, they replaced the deal. Jim Hackett, a former furniture executive who at the time was In 2019, VW Group, the second largest investing $2.6 billion into the remainder with its self-driving Argo AI was valued at more than $7 And they paid a huge price, which is of missing out on something. But the consequences of being perceived the stock price of Volkswagen and Ford paid for Argo look reasonable compared The joint venture had big plans. Through a partnership with Lyft, it was self-driving taxis on the road by the The company's value reportedly But less than a year later, in October When Ford reported its third quarter It's estimated that more than $100 of level four autonomy, and yet no one at scale. Based on the change in this outlook, business. Level Four autonomy, what Ford was a vehicle that can drive itself in Level Two is what a lot of active that can automatically keep itself in a distance from a car in front. Many automakers have these systems Level three, on the other hand, entails circumstances, but requires a driver to Pulling out of the venture cost the $827 million net loss for the quarter. And as for the future of true L4 sudden aha moment like we used to. Their core technology was solid. The system that they were developing That's not why Argo failed. It wasn't the technology, it was the challenge. Many of these challenges are not unique By the time 2022 rolled around, a lot 2017 seems to have evaporated. When Level four was a hot idea in 2017, in and invest. But once we started technology, that money kind of dried And there are also a lot of high and fleet type companies to larger were unable to get financing. A couple of examples: in early 2020, self-driving car business was key to December of that same year. Uber sold its autonomous driving unit In 2021, Lyft sold its autonomous In the case of Ford and VW with Argo, try to invest. And it's been difficult When you're dealing with an industry at in and invest. It's a lot easier to do carmaker yourself. While money was drying up Argo AI's team. Initially, Ford had planned to would build a robotaxi business using But that didn't happen. Instead, that was handed off to Argo AI So in addition to being the group build the service. An IPO was planned A lot of the companies that did go SPACs, but some through traditional were in the tank. That option evaporated. Then it was reported that Amazon was partnership. But for a variety of reasons, between could not come to an amicable deal. Both Ford and VW have to balance their another massive project that is more or selling cars: electrification. Ford has committed $50 billion to committed more than three times that What do we have to do versus what do we They wanted to do the automated driving electrification to meet regulatory demand. To give you an idea of how far off consider that so many of the businesses that fall under the umbrella of Ford has entered and exited several several years. It bought scooter rental company Spin German company in 2022. It acquired Chariot, a shuttle service, It launched Go Ride Health, a and then shuttered that as revenues Ford Smart Mobility, the division types of businesses, actually shrank in And this is not unique to Ford. You look at companies like Uber and They've been around since 2010. They've never made a dime. None of the micromobility companies Lift lost $1.6 billion in 2022, a half a Uber lost $9 billion in 2022. These companies are losing money even firms. When it comes to their core Uber and Lyft don't own any cars. Running a fleet of self-driving cars the technology. But you also have to You need to fix, maintain and clean cars Keeping the sensors clean is crucial to You also need to devote time, space, charging or refueling them. If a passenger leaves something behind the robotaxi or somebody lights up a detect that and resolve the situation. It's not as simple as, Yeah, we'll get most of our costs. No, it's not anywhere remotely close to Ford has decided to focus on L2 and L3 In March of 2023, Ford said it was on these efforts. Mercedes-Benz was the first car brand It was very expensive. They still had to do it with partners their own solution. And when they gave their financial isn't creating a big financial windfall They're looking at this as really product as a product enhancement. The advantage with these types of available and can be packaged often as These automakers are already selling. Marketing them doesn't require a whole We know that business model well, we can that's how we get to autonomous car company going broke in between. VW has not given up on autonomous As of March 2023, the company continued Israeli autonomous vehicle technology It was also working with a company makes high performance processors and It's continuing a self-driving delivery electric van. Other rivals are still Waymo, GM Cruise and Baidu, a Chinese US, are three that stand out. One that isn't a leader: Tesla. Tesla's technology is kind of a joke. It's not even remotely close to being human being behind the wheel, time. It's a decent level two system Waymo started operating a driverless and then San Francisco In October and hit 1 million ride or only miles in GM's cruise launched driverless taxis announced plans to expand to Austin and The startup also hit 1 million Also near the top is Mobileye, an for autonomous cars rather than the Their business model is very different. Mobileye has their core driver assist Their plan is not to own and operate want to provide the technology. Among the companies At the next level, giant Amazon. The two companies that really don't care Like, Oh, this is going to be really Why? Because they're enormous and they GM however, is a car company like Ford. It spent $2 billion keeping Cruise 2021. Mary Barra, who is the chair and CEO of committed to the Cruise effort. And I think as long as she is in that case. But she's also 62 years old. Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt has said their in 2025. Nobody from Cruise or from GM has for profitable business. Abuelsamid says, for what these services ride hailing service, Cruise would need miles to reach $1 billion in revenue. Assuming the cars are carrying paying 20 hour operational day, the rest set cleaning, Et cetera, Cruise would need by 2025 to hit that target. By comparison, New York City has about vehicles. So it's certainly feasible that they number, but it's probably not going to In the meantime, they could lose the warning and the pool will shrink. By the end of the decade. We don't expect more than 5 to 7 I'd long expected that Argo would It turns out they're not.