.- I have seen your comments, &quot;Buy AliExpress tech. Fine. I'm going to AliExpress to look for some of the most unique Okay, so this looks very Temu or Wish-y. Oh, this actually is interesting. A $4 PS4 controller. I can get behind that. Yo, oh, actually this is kind of cool. Okay, so this is one of the things I know AliExpress is known for. So, I can buy screens for a wide variety of Nintendo consoles. That, I think, is actually one of the main is that they tend to have a but at significantly cheaper prices than you would find on I'm not gonna do it for this video. But there might be a thing to buy a bunch of stuff from AliExpress and fix up and refurbish Subscribe and ring-a-ling if you wanna see that video. I actually kind of want to try to buy some junk consoles to fix them. That actually would be legitimately fun. $3 for a little microconsole. Now, this, I will say, again I'm not actually I've tried some that are kind of similar, and these are kind of bad, but at 3 bucks? Whatever, man, I'll give it a shot. I had so many things in my cart right now and I've spent like 25 bucks. This is great. This is great. Categories. Oh, let's go to Men's Fashion. Exotic apparel? Ha! Woo! Oh wow. A ball lifter? Well, we're gonna censor this. Nope. (speaking gibberish) (gasps) Oh, ho, what the? Someone has taken an actual, supposedly motherboard from They've modded it into a and it's portable. $500. Ah, I've gotta try this. I've 100% gotta try this. Oh, okay. It got a lot more expensive real quick. All right, my friends, it is time to press that big red order button and I'll see you in one to two months when all of our AliExpress tech arrives. (engine rumbling) There we go. So, our items from AliExpress and unlike something like Wish or Temu, they each arrived individually which means that I actually so let's just crack it open. (box contents rattling) This gets shipped all the way from China and it sounds like this? This is? - [Cameraman] What did you order? - So, oh my god, it's a fake. Either this is a knockoff of or they remade the box? I'll say I have a real fondness for the Samsung Galaxy S3. The S3 was the very first phone launch I was ever invited to. I'd never actually like properly used a shiny new smartphone really before this. Yo, wait a minute. Is this actually real? The button feels decent. Dude, remember when This is like a four point, or four point, wait. Open the back. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. Let's see, let's see. That's a real phone. That's a real phone. Hold on. Wait, wait, wait. Okay, I got smoking gun here. Copyright 2015 Samsung Electronics. This is a 2012 phone. Okay, I knew there was about this thing. Okay, we're gonna put this aside. We're gonna let it charge for a minute and we'll come back to that. (plastic rustling) Okay? So again, I have no idea what (cameraman chuckling softly) Definitely forgot I ordered this. One moment, please. Behold, my friends. My brand new shirt courtesy of AliExpress. - [Cameraman] What does it say? - This man ate my son. (cameraman laughing) I think my Galaxy S3 might actually be charged up enough now. This screen is not bad. It is not bad. Just the bloops. Just... (bubble blooping) - [Cameraman] Yeah, just - So right now this is Uh-oh. Your device has been modified. Software updates are not available. Yo. - I don't like that at all. How has it been modified? Okay, you know what we gotta do. We gotta do a camera test. (bright upbeat music) (alarm beeping) Battery critically low. Okay, we're gonna hurry up real quick. I mean, honestly though, This is totally fine. Will I tell you to buy one of these? Absolutely not. But it's a blast from Wait, that's okay. Okay, okay. All right. This, my friends. (plastic rustling) It is incredibly well wrapped. This is the Book 8088. Now, this was actually not - [Friend] Yeah, it was - Okay. All right. Let's see. So this is, I will immediately a lot smaller than I thought. I don't know why looking at the photos I assume this is a little bit I mean that's a hand for scale. Inside we have, oh, it's so cute. The stickers are a little scuff looking. We have a couple of speakers a display which has a little tab on it and a very small keyboard. Like, this is like 75%. You have the... I thought it's got like a new And then we also have a That's our actual CPU which you could literally Let's plug this in and Okay, so I have now gotten Unfortunately without a mouse, I'm a little bit limited in what I can do. Let's play Duck. Can I load Duck? I did it. I'm in &quot;Magic Duck.&quot; Ah, no. - He is shooting up at me. - [Cameraman] It's Grimace. - It's Grimace. Go away, Grimace. I did it! Notepad. There we go. Notepad. That's what I want. So, this keyboard's not good. I don't fully understand why they went with such a tiny keyboard. So, this is really neat. And I think this is a that is perfect for AliExpress, right? Because this is not a and it does have a little bit I just am sad to say I don't to fully appreciate it. 'Cause it's neat, it's have a lot of things I know how to do with Windows 3.1 or DOS. I'm just proud that I could to begin with and I got That's about all I can do. Hey, wait. Hand it to me gently so we can Hello, my friends and So first, I thought that this and I still think it is, But it also looks like maybe, oh no, it's actually Like, is that the shape? Is that a rhombus? (friends laughing) So, this is a Doubleshock which allows me to charge two Wait, do I have a controller? Or do I have a dock for this? What? This is, I know this is a controller. Wait, yeah, yeah, yeah. Controller. - [Cameraman] Will we be doubleshocked or? - Oh yeah, that, well, whoa. Look at the faux. Honestly the buttons don't feel bad. The triggers' like, to me this feels like It's not quite there, but when we plug into a PS4? 11 bucks? Dualshock 4. Yeah, so it shows up. So as far as the PS4 is concerned, this is a proper Dualshock 4. Your mod is gonna vary a little bit on the overall quality of this, but like at first glance, What else do we have from AliExpress? Okay, so this is a set of So, I looked at a similar off of I think it was Wish Yes, Temu. And they were surprisingly How much were my Thinkplus live pods? - [Cameraman] $8. - $8? I mean these can be pretty bad. They're still gonna be worth eight bucks. These look like they're, at least they're, oh, they're not black? Okay, that's not black. That's green. Okay. (cameraman laughing) Well, that's fine, that's fine. Oh, that's a really interesting design. So, they're kind of shaped but they have a very small It's super, super small. I have never seen a pair USB-C charge. Okay, that's a big win And you know what I'll say? This case is delightfully tiny. Look how small that is. It's just a little guy. Okay, so pairing was instant. It just, you just take Bro. Okay. Do they sound amazing? No. Do they sound a little worse than, like regular, normal AirPods? Yes, but they sound a bit worse. They don't sound 96% worse or whatever the actual Do I have, can I have, can someone gimme another thumbs up? I need like three thumbs up. Yeah, there we go. Okay, that's ap-ap-ap-ap. Oh, I caught it. I did catch it. The SF 2000 Handheld Game Console. And this is the other one, right? I got two of these. So, this first one was ultra cheap. So, round back we have three AAAs. Aight. You also have your speakers on the back which is obviously best for the audio to come through my hands. You can get some of these but AliExpress is absolutely And there are dozens and most of which are not very good, but I know that there are I dunno if this is gonna be Okay, we have 128 games. &quot;Angry Bird&quot;, &quot;Super Contra&quot;, So I'm assuming there's a 'Trojan&quot;, &quot;Nuts Milk.&quot; They have &quot;Nuts Milk.&quot; I'm playing &quot;Nuts Milk.&quot; Oh wow, okay. This is actually kinda cool. Very slow but it works. All right, all right, here's the thing. I got the idea with this one. For 10 bucks, I mean of which I don't think this is, I mean it's 10 bucks, But like, aah! Maybe spending a little bit more like our SF 2000 might be a better move. Okay, so going from 10 to 15, we have U S B which is? USB-C. So instead of using AAA batteries, we've actually got a We have a microSD to USB adapter. So, I'm assuming you use but the fact that it comes And then we've got the Oh, you know what? It's actually kinda weird. So, it's like very thick on this side. Clearly the battery is So, it's a little bit but it's not terrible. Okay, so we've got AB XY, D-pad. We have one little thumb stick which feels actually like In fact, I feel that's from a Joy-Con. Like, that feels and looks Let's give it a try. Let's see what we've got. Hmm, we need to plug it in? The red light turns on? Like, it's acting like it Turn it on, locate the power switch, and slide it to the right. The indicator light will turn It's turning red and yet the - Hmm. Let me try plugging it in. We may actually have an issue here. Oh no, I think it's (mumbles). 'Cause the light's turning on. Like, it's got power. I'm gonna plug it in and let it charge. I think it's dead though. That's so sad 'cause like, if For 15 bucks, this would legitimately be a cool little emulator. I guess that's one of the to ordering stuff from Good luck trying to get a refund or shipping the product back. I mean you can probably but are you actually gonna get it back? I don't know. All right. Do you have something over there that's gonna cheer me up? - Yeah. a real cheering. - [Cameraman] Will this cheer you up? - I don't know. - [Cameraman] Well you should catch it if- - It's over there now. When we were looking through AliExpress, there are a large number looseness. So this is, someone made this ROM. A Pokemon black and white &quot;3 Genesis.&quot; It's even got a copyright Wait, so it says 2023, but the card said it was 2020, I thought. Okay, so this is a very new ROM hack. So, basically this is using but it's actually based in Unova which is the fifth All right, I'll be Matt. Matt, Marlow was waiting for you until just a few minutes ago. Can I take a Pokemon? Yeah. Can I have a Pokemon, please? Wow. Yeah, they remade the whole region. Look at that. Pokemon League Victory Road. Okay, this is cool. Again, I will restate, ah, I'm a little of someone on AliExpress profiting from loading someone's ROM hack onto an actual cartridge and buying it? Like. that to me. Not great. That being said though, it does work and also it is functioning. What? This is very fabricy. What is this? - [Cameraman] It is related. - Is it related? (laughs excitedly) Is this what I think it is? I'm a big fan of Pokemon. To put that out there. And I would like to share the love. So, I have acquired a series of masks to let us all live our best Pokemon life. (friends laughing) I call Bulbasaur, so y'all can Well, here goes nothing. If you see the three of us go the other way. - Yeah, you're- - Jiggly Puff. (laughs) Jiggly puff. - You gotta do the right - Jiggly Puff. Jiggly Puff. - Why can you do that? (friends laughing) - Jiggly Puff. - Can you serenade us as Jiggly Puff? Jiggly Puff Jiggly Puff - You know what? I'm not gonna sleep anytime soon. I'll be honest with you. - [Redhead] (indistinct) reminders. That's... (everyone laughing) This is also well because it is shipped a very long way. Oh, okay. All right. So we have a power adapter, so we'll put that off to the side. But it actually comes in a carrying case. Inside this box is a So, AliExpress have a handheld actual modified consoles. And this is one of them. This is unbelievable. Oh my, God. - [Cameraman] Whoa, the - So, lemme get my head around it. So we've got our L and R buttons. We have two shoulder buttons, We have an AUX. We have our barrel plug and our switch. All right, is everyone ready? I just forgot he was Jiggly Puff. - Go and take it off. - It's too funny. - It's, okay. Okay, here the fan spinning up. Screen's coming to life. Yes, there we go. So, we've got a bunch of GameCube games which look like they're So, let's try &quot;Mario Kart&quot;, shall we? I will say the screen is not amazing. It's a little bit rough. That being said, I mean whatever, right? So, what we've got here is a jailbroken Wii So, it's actual native hardware to a small seven-inch display, right? So as far as this thinks, it's just a Wii sitting on Oh, wait a minute. I'm just realizing something. It's a Wii, but obviously we've So, maybe it's a Wii just down for a Wii, but all the So it's actually probably a portable GameCube, even if technically the underlying guts are a Wii. This does not come cheap. I believe this was almost 500 bucks? - [Cameraman] Oh, my friend. It is $550. - Here's the thing, I can't Like, this is a really niche item. But the fact that this on AliExpress is massively cool. You're not gonna find this on most places just 'cause it's so custom But just the engineering that went into something I gotta say, AliExpress Temu and Wish have a Certainly a lot cheaper when and shipping and all that kinda stuff. But if you're looking and the truly custom. AliExpress is kinda where it's at. If you too enjoy seeing weird, make sure to subscribe to the channel and ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling button. These GameCubes don't buy And what happens if you miss a video? Have you watched all my videos? Have you watched all 2000 of them? - [Friend] Jiggly Puff. (friends laughing)