Translator: Florencia Bracamonte In 2009, a man, a journalist wanted to find out this: Is storytelling really And in order to do this, he went on his computer, And the average price of the objects He then called 200 authors, &quot;Hey, would you like to be part Which means that I would like you And 200 authors said yes. So there he had 200 objects, and I assume that it was that he went on eBay again Would there be a difference? Do you think there was a change? One of the objects was this, this beautiful horse's head. There we go. The beautiful horse's head. Now, this beautiful horse's head and was sold, when the story (Laughter) That is a slight increase of 6395%. So, was this a one-off situation? Not really, because he bought the 200 objects selling them for $8000. Now, that's insane. But you know what's even more How can you and I go to the movies and pay good money [that] are absolutely unrealistic? And we sit there; And some of us, we really enjoy the movie. And we leave the theater, I would like to be more like him. I'd like to walk like him. I like Bond. (Laughter) I wonder how I could be more like Bond.&quot; And then this weird revelation and you come up with a brilliant idea And wow! It just happens that resembles the one And you pay $10,000 And you leave that store How is that possible? PQ Media tells us is turned over in product placement How is it possible for you by something so simple as a story? Because you are tricked. Well, it all comes down to one core thing, and that is emotional investment. The more emotionally invested you are the less critical and the less And the greatest is falling in love. Now, falling in love Do you remember Yeah? Good for you. (Laughter) Do you remember how you longed Then you looked at her, &quot;God, I love the way you chew that apple - so crunchy. (Laughter) And the way you slurp that tea, Oh, it's so sexy. Love it!&quot; And then about 13 months later, 13 months later, on an average, suddenly you find yourself &quot;Jesus Christ, where Oh my God! And where are my friends? This is a weird thing.&quot; Then suddenly you hear a sound; You go over to the kitchen, &quot;Oh, it's you! Could you just keep that down You're kind of spraying the table there. Please, please don't.&quot; And you sit down comfortably again, and just a minute later, you hear somebody drinking tea And suddenly, this is all annoying to you. Have you been there? Sadly enough, 13 months later, our critical thinking and our cortex and we start questioning things. During those 13 months, what happened with neurotransmitters and hormones throwing your objectively And the thing with storytelling In stories, the same hormones Hormones like vasopressin, oxytocin, And you know what? That's what I would like to do I would like to induce I call it &quot;the angels' cocktail,&quot; I would like to start with radically And I need your consent on this. Is it okay? Cool. And if you don't like the idea of that, So, dopamine. This is what it looks like. And when you have that in your blood, you get more focus, more motivation, So what does dopamine feel like? About six years ago, I received who represented one of the biggest and she said, &quot;Hey, David! We've got a lot of trainers and we'd like to increase and we think you are a perfect pick. Would you like to come to a meeting?&quot; I'm like, &quot;Wow, I'm honored. I'd love to.&quot; And I come up to Stockholm, and just as I am going what I don't know then is that I'm walking into I'm ever going to have in my life. But I don't know that yet, so it's okay. I open the door, and I meet this woman. Her name is Liana. And hurriedly she says, I'm not the one you're having you're going to have it And I'm like, &quot;Okay, Usually you know who Then she progresses and then suddenly she says, And I'm like, &quot;Yeah, She says, &quot;Just so you know - And I go like, &quot;Yes, I can see it.&quot; &quot;Well, in that room Just so you know, they're all They've all got an ex-military background, and none of them wants the training (Laughter) I'm like, &quot;Come on! Why am I here?&quot; And it's like, &quot;Well, but the management are on too high horses. They can't see that they need it. So it's pretty simple. The only thing you have to do just prove the opposite.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Yeah, that sounds And I can remember myself, my sweat is coming down and just halfway there, she calls my name. And I still, to this day, don't know if this woman or just downright unintelligent. Because she calls my name, It's like I'm going to get the tip so I turn around to ask her, and she says the following - And if I don't tell you (Laughter) Well, actually, as an example, I just wanted to prove to you Would you say that Your attention was increased? You were creative; and you probably already figured out And you'll remember that I Now, the feeling you had there was high levels of dopamine, So how do you do that? Well, what you do is you build suspense, you launch a cliffhanger, and the most beautiful thing of all is that all storytelling is, because it's always something So just imagine, just by using You don't have to do So that was the first hormone. I'd now like to go to oxytocin. Is that okay as well? I'll induce that? All right. The beautiful effects you become more generous, You want to do that? All right. All right, so this was a ... Nine months had passed, and it was a planned caesarean. And the little brother, who was he was kind of really looking forward what's going to happen. He was going to become a big brother. And he had helped us he'd helped choose the bed linen. He'd even saved his own pocket money which was placed on the pillowcase. About two days before something happened. Something wasn't right. The parents couldn't - something was off. And the day before, there was simply there was no heartbeat. You couldn't feel or hear anything at all. So the parents were rushed into hospital, laid down on a bed, and doctor comes in, checks the stomach, looks at me and sees what I see, and that is that the heart This was me, nine years ago. It was the worst thing And, I don't know, can you just imagine how you tell that to a five-year-old? Can you just imagine that? Because he's home there, waiting But it won't happen. So a part of me and to handle that, I talk about it. And I've talked to you about it now. And now you got higher levels whether you want it or not, which means that you feel more human; you're bonding to me, So how do you do that? In storytelling, you create empathy. So whatever character you build, And oxytocin is the most because you feel human. The third, and last, hormone is endorphin, and I would like to show you a woman which, we can say, Let's just look what that looks like. Ah, we'll go here. (Video) Priest: (Muffled laughter) Are you speaking or listening? (Laughter) Woman: To speak and to listen. (Laughter) I'm sorry. Okay, um, to speak and to listen? Priest: To inspire and to respond. Woman: To inspire and to respond. Priest: And in all circumstances Woman: (Laughter) Woman: And in all circumstances Priest: Of our life together Woman: (Laughter) Woman: I'm sorry - of our life together Of our life together Priest: To be loyal to you Woman: To be loyal to you Priest: Until death parts us. Woman and Man: (Laughter) (Audience) (Laughter) Oh, the timing of that So how do you create endorphins? What happens then is that they become and again, they become more focused, Now, all these three hormones is what I call &quot;the angels' cocktail.&quot; But there is an opposite of that cocktail, And the devil's cocktail has high levels And they feel like this. (Quick yell) (Laughter) Sorry to do that to you. So, high levels The problem with that is that which I didn't give you there - but when you've got [Intolerant, Irritable, Uncreative, Is this something that you want have in their blood, in their system? Now, in our stressful work lives, many times, when you present, Which one do you think The devil's cocktail Most commonly, the devil's cocktail. And the problem then is that you've got But all of that can change today. All of that can change by you starting to use something And functional storytelling means One, you have to understand that in front of a fireplace with a dark voice In my experience, when I train people, everybody is a good The only problem The second thing You'll notice that you have three than you thought that you had. Three, index those stories. Which of your stories make people laugh, Which make people And the next time you go into a meeting, you pick the story you want in the person that you're talking to to get exactly the desired And that's a beautiful thing. Now, you know me, some of you I want to round off And my point is this: 100 000 years ago, we started It's sound to say that we started from generation to generation. 27 000 years ago, we started transferring through cave paintings. 3 500 years ago, we started transferring through text. 28 years ago, PowerPoint was born. Which one do you think Thank you very much. (Applause)