No! Zombie vampires are killing people across our city. Los Angeles is full of them nowadays. Gosh, I'm listening to too many scary podcasts. Good morning class. Nick and I have planned a special camping trip for you all. A campsite where a mysterious asteroid- fell to earth thousands of years ago. Sorry, nice to meet you, I'm Alan. Chelsea. I think we have astronomy together, but I missed class today. We're going to some secret campsite to study an asteroid. Asteroid? Oh, I think someone just called your name. [WHAT?] [THE ORIGIN OF THE ASTEROID...] [Astronomers have discovered many Eternal life by sacrificing their own people. Beware of the gem. Who's there? Hey, is everything okay? Everything's fine. You ready for today's trip? Guess so. Welcome to Star Camp, where a mysterious asteroid fell to Earth thousands of years ago. Go, set up your tents. Alan, grab your things and let's go. I'm so excited for this trip. Yeah, for sure. I'm very cold. Shouldn't we... Explore? Let's do it. [WHO IS IT?] I think it's getting late, Alan. We should probably go back. I'm here for you. There's nothing to be afraid of here. [???] Again? Vampires are not always evil, but they do always crave human blood. Pack your things. I'm gonna call your parents. Alan...Alan! Stop! Don't touch me, you- Murderer! You're just an animal thirsty for blood! He's right. You're an animal, Chelsea. You're created to kill! Not to have relationships with ordinary people. Do you really think you could scare me? Get lost, murderer. Yesterday, an unknown animal attacked Lena. But she's fine she'll be back to school very soon. Stop! This is serious! Not something Lena and you're acting like nothing is wrong! I saw Lena and she's not [WHAT?] See, Alan? She is fine. What happened? It all started two years ago, when Nick found a mysterious gem from an asteroid. [NO NO NO] Then, I became a vampire. Nick began to kill, turning all his classmates into his own vampire kind. I immediately suspected something was wrong. One day, I was just in the school bathroom, when the door suddenly opened and a crowd of vampires attacked me. I thought I'd die. But I woke up in the forest with a gem on my neck. My eyes were red and there were bites all over my body. I cried so much and ran home as quickly as I could. Then, I looked at myself in the mirror and couldn't believe that now... I was one of them. Why did you attack Lena? I've always been different from them. When you told me that the teacher wanted to study the asteroid, I realized that our teacher became one of them, too. I went to your house that night. I was watching you and gave you a sign. For a long time, I thought about how to stop this trip. But it was all useless. The trip still happened. That night in the camp, I heard Lena screaming. I ran to her tent and saw that she was already half dead, covered in bites, trying to fight Nevada. I pushed her away and she ran into the darkness. I took my gem and put it on Lena's heart. It helped her survive. Pretend like you're still hurt. They can't know that I saved you. Do you understand me? They tortured you for saving her? Not really. Alan. When Nick saw us together back in the forest, I immediately felt his presence. According to their rules, a vampire should not be in a relationship with a human. They made you think that I killed Lena to keep you away from me. I wanted to tell you the whole truth. Trust me. But they all stopped me and began to torture me, so that I would stop spending time with you, and be with Nick. You'll still be mine, Chelsea. Chelsea, I'm so sorry. Do you know what day is it today, Alan? No. The day of your death. Stop! That's not all. Today is the day we must sacrifice you, Alan. It's our sacrifice to our power source. The asteroid! The time has come. Stop it! Stop! Let the traitor speak. I never wanted to be like you and I've learned how to stop all of you right now. Funny? For now, I can destroy all of you with just one move. Chelsea, I love you. Alan... Alan. Alan. Chelsea, thank you. You saved my life. How did you learn that? You know that podcast that you always listen to? [VAMPIRES] I was crying in bed about losing you. [tonight He Will Die] And then, I decided to put on your favorite podcast. The podcast episode was about mythical lore. And it said, fire destroys any curse. I took my amulet and burnt it. And a sharp red light hit me. I woke up as an ordinary person and then I realized that I could save you and all of them. You're a hero, Chelsea. Now we're free. We're finally humans again. Click here to watch another episode of Alan's Universe.