Translator: Valerie ESPANET Imagine for a moment that you're miserable at work, and you're thinking about quitting. But you're really good at your job. Colleagues come to you clients praise you. You have a supportive manager, and you may even be paid really well. Would you walk away from that? Now, I know what you're thinking. Why would someone walk away But I know that I have. And at first, I actually used to be for feeling so miserable But the more that I shared my story, the more I realized that I was not alone. Because it turns out that great people The real question is: Why? There's a saying in American business that people do not quit companies, From my personal I believe there's something than just people quitting leaders. I believe great people Great people quit organizational cultures. Today, I want to talk to you One, why that happens, and two, how you can create in which great people You see, any organization is comprised employees and leaders. Employees and leaders work This is the definition of a culture. What's interesting is that the culture of a company Like your own body, that transfers messages If we take a closer look we will find that they are encoded values, attitudes and beliefs shared So in this context, culture then provides and code for how people are treated, how decisions are made, who gets hired or fired and what behaviors are rewarded, promoted, valued and recognized. And just like your body, the culture of a company adapts to any environment The human body in that it can go from fight-or-flight depending on how favorable conditions are Cultures are no different. So you see, when people at work are unhappy, especially great people, it stresses the entire organization. This leads to a company culture operating in survival mode. So what does a culture If you hold your breath the moment you walk into work in an attempt to &quot;make it&quot; and you do not exhale and you do this day in and day out, that is a clear indication operating in survival mode. Constantly working is at best uninspiring, The hard truth is, many organizations operate culturally So as you can see, this guy So, what does a culture It is an environment there is a lack of clear leadership. And because there's no clear leadership, this leads to a misalignment where the activities and decisions do not match its core values. And since the vision is misaligned, this leads to no clarity in the roles And because there's this leads to compromised And it becomes a place where mediocre performance Once you have compromised values, being tolerated by employees And it becomes a place for no good reason, and everyone's opinions Once toxic behavior seeps in, this leads to a cliquish environment. And it becomes a place the wrong people being promoted, and no appreciation and recognition of others. And guess what. Once you have a lack this leads to stagnant organizational and it manifests into a place and too political which leads to great people But it doesn't have to be this way. On the other hand, what does a thriving culture look like? I'm going to provide you It's the successful online that disrupted an entire industry It is a place where people in how they hire employees and never ever wavering It is a place where only high performance It is a place where creativity and people are empowered as well as the company's direction. Or take a social media giant that created an entirely new sector It is a place where employees and leaders It is a place where trust to create the perfect backdrop It is a place where it's about being accountable and what behaviors are rewarded. I personally remember the very first time It was actually with a former client That experience still brings I used to love going to that client site because every day I was part It was so amazing. Everyone had a voice, and they rallied And in meetings, I actually couldn't tell from the entry level employee. And that is because in thriving cultures, the line between leaders because everyone An increasing number of companies that culture can be a key to mitigate against market threats. In a global human capital trends report, over 50 percent of CEOs surveyed are currently attempting in response to shifting talent markets. In today's competitive, there is a threat such as artificial intelligence. With robotic automation, your very livelihood may be at stake without a thriving culture. You cannot afford According to a Harvard Business Review, adaptability is a key distinct advantage And companies that get this understand that culture is the key While I'm not saying thriving cultures are about performance. Thriving cultures adapt. Most of all, thriving Are you ready to take on the challenge and creating a meaningful (Laughs) Employees, stop accepting the mediocrity, being dished out by colleagues, management and leadership teams alike. Ask the hard question, get involved in problem-solving, be part of the conversation. And take time to reflect: What is stopping you and your colleagues from coming in and doing your best work? And liberally share those ideas Last but not least, employees, if you have done everything, and there still is no change you have the power to walk away and find an environment But remember, employees, you are the validators of a culture. So if you stay and become complacent, you also bear responsibility Leaders, take charge of the narrative Leaders, you are Step up to your role accordingly. Step up! You do not have to accept or the reality of your people. And that also doesn't mean, leaders, to create yet another forced and then walking away. Because what you're essentially doing, is putting the burden of owning and shaping culture onto a business function Leaders, how are you conveying a vision that makes people excited Walk the halls and talk to your people, and figure out what do they need. Do they need empowerment processes improved, coaching, new experiences, political obstacles removed? Just like the body, it is your decisions that either creates a thriving culture or reinforces a culture So, imagine that instead of being you woke up every day to create a thriving culture you not only attract but you help build and thrive in the digital economy. Employees and leaders have the power to shape And maybe with your help, we can wake up in a world where great people do not quit good jobs, but good jobs do not quit great people. Thank you. (Applause)