A Scientist Spilled 2 Drops Organic Mercury On KW is a 48 year old woman, presenting to emergency gait and speech. She tells the admitting last 2 months, and experienced several brief You see, KW was a chemistry professor She had an influential career and there were few, maybe none, in the About 5 months earlier, she was transferring suddenly 2 drops from the tip of the or backside, of her gloved hand. To her, recall as it was so minor and incidental She tells the nurse that she had cleaned Her hands were in gloves so She was pretty sure she didn't have any physical Over the next few weeks, KW noticed something Maybe she wasn't paying attention she thought. One day, she almost got into a her husband to drive her to university. Skin-deep, KW appeared to be healthy. But, upper-extremity dysmetria. Dys meaning wrong and above her waist were uncoordinated, with intended lengths. Similarly, she had ataxic gait. A meaning walk. It was awkward, imbalanced, disorderly. handwriting and slurred speech, all of which given her past exposure to mercury. She was As the days continued, KW reports that getting stronger. She sees brief flashes concept of white background noise that begins Her gait becomes more ataxic, speech more A blood test reveals KW's blood mercury 4000 times greater than the upper limit of normal. We can conclude here that KW's neurologic something's wrong. Typically, signs and symptoms ceased. She hasn't been in the lab for months now and her neurologic decline is accelerating. meaning there wasn't a constant source of accidentally spilling on the dorsum of her gloved We can prove this. We estimate about 4.5 liters given her weight of This means there are 18 mg of mercury studies estimate that only 5% of a bit troubling given that 18mg is already So, where is the other 95%? Well, there's Elemental Mercury is a metal. But dimethylmercury, mercury, something that does absorb well means that it is highly lipophilic. Philic so it preferentially mixes Because blood is mostly water, then in tissues and organs that contain So if 18 mg is 5%, then there is really a at 5 months post exposure. Given that 400 mg and her neurologic condition is Is there a way that we could somehow Well, maybe. This brings us back to lipophilicity. Your a process called metabolism. The central in question more water soluble, meaning it can and be excreted through the kidneys. This where chemicals are delivered by your The problem with dimethylmercury is that in which is still lipophilic. Even cause free radical damage and oxidative stress, The best solution here we can do is trap the on the outside. This is called chelation-- the molecules. The shape of that molecule is KW is given succimer. The shape of inside. The outside mixes well with water, She receives 3 doses over 24 hours, and it's in KW's urine increased by 160 times the But, it's not enough. It's a week later, neuropsychiatric consult Her husband tries to speak to her, but If we're removing the mercury from her blood now, why is she getting worse. Well, probably not. Chasing a lower blood mercury Clearly just by looking at Her condition deteriorating has little Removing mercury from her blood, So, we've established 2 things. First is that and it's metabolite are lipophilic. definitely isn't in her blood, but in It couldn't be her heart, as that's those are not fat. But how about and it's there the methylmercury is forming protein complexes, and inducing cell It's not limited to just 1 organ though, The axons of the nerves, which feed the brain myelin sheath, which helps conduct signals. This mercury is accumulating, forming complexes reflexes, her speech, and her senses. At 3 weeks time after initially KW becomes unresponsive to Spontaneous and unprovoked eye-openings are impaired, shining a light on their eye would the amount of light entering the eye. This is cognitive factors. When it's slow, it suggests From the depths of her coma, she is with brief episodes of agitation-- screaming, movements. There's someone inside, but that person At the time of diagnosis, her colleagues in the past were the culprit. That mercury vapors causing the toxicity. Mercury toxicity is detectable in the hair, the amount of free mercury found with a maximum excretion recorded roughly 150 150 days coincides with the 5 month time period a period of 75 means that 2 half-lives passed when she had 4000 micrograms per liter. So exposed to 4 times the amount, or 1440 mg. That's means at one point, her blood mercury levels were Given that the mean mercury concentration of fresh million, or 0.022 micrograms mercury per g means you'd need to eat 65,000 kilograms, or Not only are the number of days physiologically but the amount was too. The density of room temperature, the 1.44 g of mercury exposure Because it is 3 times more dense and comes the dosage that the professor came into It was found after the fact that, dimethylmercury wore that day, and it does so within seconds. absorbed into her skin, embedded into her body It's difficult for people sometimes to realize seems like trivial exposure. Even and she may not have even felt any liquid that The concept of a delayed onset of disease is not uncommon. You've experienced it yourself. period that can range from a few hours to nearly happens every year when there's a new flu floating plague in Europe where transmission can occur Today, in China and Iran, farmers were used as rat poison. Warfarin is a drug commonly It reduces that risk by 'thinning' the In a healthy person, bumping your arm forms That bleeding stops due to clotting. Clots can in the brain, causing stroke. Stopping clotting too much warfarin. And those farmers who were massive abdominal hemorrhaging, accompanied with In the hospital due to exsanguination. Because fat doesnt flow as freely in your body into fat tissue can be on a longer time scale superwarfarin and dimethylmercury to accumulate and then release amounts into the Only 3 other cases of dimethylmercury In 1865, 2 lab assistants who were passed away several weeks after doing so. In the He too suffered a delayed neurologic In general, its a good rule to not touch Be cognizant of what comes in contact you probably won't come into direct contact Remember, eating 65,000 kg of fresh Atlantic For KW, extremely high levels of mercury were Microscopes revealed extensive neuronal loss of nerve supporting cells, throughout her explaining her dystaxia, dysmetria, ataxic across her visual and auditory cortices, as well as the white noise as it began to wash As expected, the amount of mercury found in her as the lipophilicity of methylmercury allowed it that could be done that day when 4000 micrograms Because KW was a world-renowned expert what was to become of her. Once symptoms appear chelation therapy can do as the toxin has The delayed onset served as a means to notify others about her story and warn them Today, those who handle dimethylmercury are to laminate type that's found under a pair of long in the science community, as well as her family, together to bring about an extreme awareness of decades later. KW, in both her science and Thank you so much for watching.