I dreamed of having a job After 25 years or 26 years, passed on the water but not only on the water, generally within the Navy, quite adventurous. Have done things I wouldn't have it's something You still have to love the sea! The Charles de Gaulle is the first nuclear powered. Long as three football fields, Charles de Gaulle is a formidable Equipped with 40 fighter planes, they transport 600 tonnes In less than eight days, in the middle of a powder magazine. 2000 men and women At its head, Commander Laborde, The boat separates into 2 large I separate myself into 2 main functions. I am the mayor of a town of 2000 people, with everything that includes And then, I'm also the boss whose primary job is to produce Even if, like many we are preparing to perform a play this piece is intended And naturally, of death, the one we give, The scope of responsibility is vast. But I believe that the first question, she is still, in the purpose of our activity, that we prepare people and the ultimate goal is to succeed 30 hand-picked pilots, whose commander test pilot for the Navy. Its mission, to test the Rafale and push the limits. It's a childhood dream, like I don't remember when For quite a long time, I hesitated between Quite quickly, I oriented myself It was the challenge, the speed, technicality, maneuverability, who attracted me to this profession. A profession that attracts amateurs It requires calm, concentration, rigor. Often, when we see friends who do not really know the profession, they think it's a job Heroes, I'm not sure, because they are professions People are aware On the other hand, a risky profession, they always ask if we have if you're not too stressed... The aircraft carrier gives dimension to all aeronautics. From the top of its footbridge, I told you about a city I told you about a company all that, the city itself, these 2000 people aim One of the aspects of my job who in the kitchen, that the mechanic that the watchman who is on high, some 30 meters above, all these ants, all these cogs which is the implementation of aviation. And then I would say, and that, or me, here in my armchair, that I authorize the catapulting, it's up to me to do everything even in difficult conditions. It's a moral contract that I have whose job is fundamentally Charles de Gaulle participated to Operation Enduring Freedom, which was the French participation with two large shutters, The first was to fight, against the possibilities of exfiltration We left on December 1st A deployment of approximately 7 months. In a few numbers, it's 3 times around the world, that's 6,500 flight hours, we had two planes in the air These are missions Super-Etendard, it's a plane who will deliver bombs, Around 360 to 370 missions In this Super-Etendard section, and flight duration. Distance because planes about 1200 km from the aircraft carrier or even more than 5 hours. The Charles de Gaulle with his group We left, without being certain And we came home very happy and to have been able to respond present, without breakage, if I may say so. Since the Gulf War, carried out missions in Bosnia, in Kosovo, Afghanistan. On landing, their first vision, they are always the "yellow dogs". On deck, everything is settled of their coded gestures, the "yellow dogs" guide the pilots But why "yellow dog"? There is a differentiation because we can't get along we all have different colors, We, our role is and as we usually do and we have to scream we often say that we bark, hence the dog's nickname, yellow dog. Safety of aviation activity forces the "yellow dogs" to do Our job has a spectacular side When we look at the movements it's a permanent spectacle What makes dogs yellow? to be often filmed, photographed and seen by the general public. The second thing, we are one of the rare people and therefore which have movements You have very sharp people and very qualified in their field who do a job ten times but we don't see them, they are It's less spectacular. And yet God knows Under the flight deck, Maintenance of 40 devices There you find yourself in the center The hangar is a bit like the garage the place where we repair The Charles de Gaulle, 40,000 tonnes now and who is armed by Lower still, corridors without portholes. 300 kilometers of pipes, We sink into the bowels You have been at the center you've been on the flight deck. There you are in one of the others one of the two PCs from which we control, the two nuclear reactors. These are machines that produce, overall steam, with 4 major functions, electricity production, the power on board would allow to give you a comparison, steam for and the production of distilled water we produce order Completely autonomous, with almost inexhaustible energy. What are the major risks in As in all boats and I will evacuate I don't fear anything, the 2 reactors are very run by men I think on an aircraft carrier with jet fuel, with planes, the worst enemy is fire. What I fear most, it is the start of fire that we which would be uncontrolled touch airplane hangars. It's the anguish of everything It's not the waterway, I don't fear her too much, it's not It's not battle damage Fire can be sneaky. 4 times a day, repetition of fire exercises, Day and night On board, security, On a Navy ship, an aircraft carrier, like any we are all dependent There are the pilots, And they all depend on each other, which gives a group To run the store, Senior Master Schlick, This super steward is one Here we are in the kitchen The menu: mussels, fries. Always a very popular dish. Molds ! We serve roughly 300 people here. There, 500. And we have the officers at the moment there are 200, 210. This is the superiors' square So here, There, we arrive at the kitchen of deck 04 and they can serve so many people. It's 1000 down, 1000 up. We're going to go down. That's all creamery. We make 300 kilos of flour per day. By regulation, we are required That's charcuterie. And here you have fruits and vegetables. The potatoes are in boxes. I started in the navy, The daily chore of plucking! So there, the freezer. Not very hot, it's -20! Poultry, ice cream, fish, anything frozen but in much larger quantities. Elevators are for We have the stairs, the escapees! In the navy, whether you are a sailor, We are back at bridge 01. There are 1500 people Each person is important. As soon as there is a person in the end, the plane does not take off. Thanks to its 2 catapults, Charles de Gaulle is capable in twelve minutes. The catapulting, we are going to put and we send steam kind of big blowguns and that We're starting from zero, we're going up big maximum for the Rafale. At the time of catapulting, the pilot experiences pressure Normally 4G, Commander Valette cashes in and it's not fun. We seek to see at the pull-up bar we arrive at tractions which go So this happened to me yesterday, of my career in aeronautics. It hurt a little. Coming back from the flight, which were not in place. 2 potatoes, 3 potatoes, 4 potatoes, 5 potatoes. It's not very pleasant. We don't control much, It's part of the tests, The famous three strands across the flight deck, connected to a large cylinder. When the plane lands, he pulls on it and it's this jack The pilot concludes his speed it will get into the strands, below a certain above a certain speed, The contract is simple and in good taste, but it is still quite precise. On the lookout, experienced pilots, we call them chibanes. These landing officers In the line of sight as big as a box of matches, Pull it up a bit. Support the nose. The landing consists of coming, impact 1m20 behind arm two, in an area which is little The size of a tennis court, while following a very specific slope and an equally precise speed, within four kilometers h. He is a guardian angel, who will make us do the pilot first, and then also These are the people we listen to When we don't listen to them, What is important to understand, are former pilots, have a lot of experience Sometimes the pilot says: And in fact, it must be done. These people see that the pilot does not see The aircraft carrier is a medium We're not allowed to have fun. You must always be ready, always serious, always by carat, as they say. The planes enter or technical breakdowns either after very long missions where people returned with they had to settle down Technical breakdowns with their refueling pole in front From the moment when you have to go all the way. There was no time but more moments of great who were in particular So there, indeed, it's something quite my first operational missions where it was a very intense moment and quite stressful. Change of atmosphere, the silence becomes heavy. The tension is growing. From now on, men Only the red of the corridors Suspended moment just before Catapulting and landing at night, are highly dangerous exercises. Despite the rigor, the professionalism are the men ready The permanent confrontation the death of each other, that we are going to give outside, even if we are not completely we are still part of it. We don't fear this kind of thing You have to be prepared for it, it's not The only first question, if we are perfectly Imminent threat. A command is extraordinary. This is the purpose of our profession. Let us order the Charles de Gaulle I started with a ship and I will end up with a boat with 2000. The scale is great, Since I was young, a professional activity When I was a student, my absolute dream was to leave on offshore platforms The oil platform but it has a little common background, Tirelessly, men make a point of honor that they don't want to have to play.