Oh fork? [In Chinese] Do you guys have chopsticks? Yeah... Yeah, chopsticks over here... Thanks Oh, you can use chopsticks...? Yeah, of course! Hey guys what's going on it's Xiaoma And today we are in New York City's Chinatown It's amazing, and I'm going to take you guys into a little bit of my life And what it's like to be a non native speaker of Chinese Ordering in Chinese at Chinese restaurants And we are going to go and see how people react to doing that Because in my opinion, one of the coolest things about learning Chinese is just to be able to order At all the amazing Chinese restaurants here in New York City or really wherever you live Alright lets get to it guys Hi, just me Just one One yeah Okay Here, this right here? Yeah Okay Thank you, appreciate that What's good, what do you recommend? This one? This one Mushroom with duck flattened... Oh, fish dumpling The fish dumplings are good [Cantonese] Is this one better or that one? Two This one This one? Both [Mandarin] You're saying they're both good? Yes So fish dumplings... I've actually never had that before Wanna try some? Is it good? For sure I really want to try Is it...similar to fish balls? Or...? Even better than fish balls Oh, this is better, huh? But...can I get a smaller portion? Because I'm not super hungry right now All the same size All the same size, I see In that case... In that case I'll get the fish dumplings, fish dumplings with noodles That's it then, fish dumplings with noodles Perfect, thanks! [Cantonese] You speak Cantonese, huh? Oh, just a bit Not as good my Mandarin [Mandarin] Not as good my Mandarin How long have you learned? Mandarin? A long time, a long time About ten years now Ten years? Yeah, ten years Wow, amazing Where did you learn it? China? Yeah, I studied in Beijing for a year When I have time now I'll come out to Chinatown to practice Otherwise... You know, my family only speaks English If I don't keep practicing I'm gonna get worse Evan, this is like your favorite restaurant check this out Check it out This is fish dumplings Hey Evan, you want to come down here and enjoy this food with me? This is really delicious I promise you Guy: Wow, his Chinese is really good You make videos on the internet right? Do videos for the web right Oh yeah yeah, you've seen my videos? I have I saw you when you walked in I think I've seen this guy I looked familiar? You speak Chinese, I remember that That looks really good The duck is very good Yeah The soup too [Mandarin] I've actually heard the duck here is great Hello, it's just me One here? Thank you Thanks Hi, what kind of fish balls do you have? Fish ball soup Is this like a soup with fish balls in it? Okay Fish balls with no noodles This is no noodles? If you want noodles this one doesn't have noodles This one is no noodles Oh this is just the soup and then the fish balls Oh okay And if you want noodles This one here or that one or that one But this one here says there's rice noodles or wide noodles...? No rice noodles No rice noodles? Only broad noodles? Broad noodles, wheat noodles, thin rice noodles Okay, let's go with the fish ball broad noodle soup Thanks Excuse me You're mandarin is so good I can understand everything! I appreciate that thank you It's okay, I'm still learning Have you ever seen the movie &quot;Farewell&quot; You're mandarin reminds me of the actress Oh, you mean Awkwafina? When you get a chance, see it Oh yeah I've seen this one That's a really good movie Your Mandarin is better than hers! No, I appreciate it though! [Cantonese] And are you Cantonese, by the way? Yeah Your Mandarin's better than my Mandarin! No no no My mother tongue is Cantonese I appreciate it Let's get some more rice noodles If I wasn't full from this food already Lets go Hello, just one Thank you Hello Thanks Are you ready? Yeah I wanted to get... do you have any recommendations? The red colors are all recommended Oh I see I see And then what about drinks? The drink is Hong Kong tea Yeah, it's recommended That looks good I heard this place is really famous in China Yeah Okay Alright In that case... In that case I'll get a Hong Kong milk tea And then throw in an egg changfen [rice noodle] while you're at it Egg changfen? Egg changfen, yeah Thank you Excuse me Yeah Are you Xiaoma? Yeah How are you? Nice to meet you Nice to meet, my hand is very wet sorry Sorry Hello! I just watched one of your videos yesterday Is that so? It was an older one You went to get Taiwanese hotpot with your friends Oh yeah, that was pretty recent I also saw ones of you giving people food in Times Square For sure They were really funny! Thanks, have a good one! That is some good tea my friends Oh fork? Do you guys have chopsticks? Yeah, chopsticks over here... Thanks Oh, you can use chopsticks...? Yeah, of course! [Cantonese] Excuse me Can I get the check? Yeah Hi just one Right here, okay thank you Thank you It's a big menu, do you guys have any recommendations? For what would be good Do you want fried noodles, or congee or fried rice Oh congee Congee might be good I'm looking for something a little lighter because I've eaten a lot of food today Yeah I might get some congee actually Do you have a... Actually first off what it says on the menu here about &quot;this restaurant not using MSG&quot;, is that true? No MSG No MSG? That's a shame, I really like MSG Okay, I'll take the fish congee then Fish congee Fish congee [Cantonese] And by the way, do you have any salt? Salt...? Okay, thanks Thanks! Much better I'm so full right now guys Oh my god Well yeah that was so much fun I hope you guys had a great time And I'll see you next time, remember to subscribe Bye bye Love you