At the dawn of a new millennium car buyers were and innovative cars. There was the Renault pack a large family into not a lot of car. Then in space management, with a cleverly packaged And don't forget the hideous but highly seating that could be removed to turn a family Audi entered the fray with another highly heels of the TT, another car that took Audi to mass car, a vehicle they hoped would appear on car was a colossal failure, only selling 176,000 cut short. Just why was that, and how was [music] Mercedes, Audi and BMW had seen fat profits as warmed to the quality of German luxury cars. their range to smaller cars to continue capturing mass market what they'd done to the luxury the third largest car company in America as their would end in disaster, but Mercedes had a pretty own invention, the A-Class that launched in 1996. you'll know that they're ultra-competitive. If it with something better. That's what got them So, it was natural for Audi's management to give sector, but with something even more This was a highly innovative time at Audi. and challenged themselves to make the perfect, no with the TT that launched in 1998. The team behind It should transport four people in comfort That's a distance of only 314 miles (505 km), of elevation change that saps the range. So, or it needed to be ultra efficient! be able to handle long road trips in comfort. was to make "a small Audi, not a cheap Audi". The The same attention to detail, the same this as a second car for existing Audi customers, efficiency. They of course also hoped it or from regular mass market compact cars. fuel-sipping engine. That kills performance, and the road, it was an Audi for crying out loud, That meant tweaking the other parts of the fuel The 1994 Audi A8 was what Audi called the first completely aluminium body&quot;. That's a lot of legal car to have an all-aluminium monocoque, that knowledge making aluminium chassis in production. so why not use it on the new car? The team a monocoque that could stand up to crash and use as little expensive aluminium as possible Audi's sister company Volkswagen had a whole one of those would work. In fact, Volkswagen the Lupo, and that used a range of small cylinder diesel with astonishing fuel economy. and Audi had a lot of experience in wind very efficient shape with a drag coefficient another level. That meant changing the shape the cut off teardrop. It's what Toyota would use The car would be taller like the Mercedes interior space for this compact car, but it customers preferred. This meant that like the that would give it a very deep and usable boot. 1997 Frankfurt Motor show. The name was presumably or Audi Space Frame as it was called, that gave a family look between this and Audi's TT concept Both shared a striking, minimalist design with a also clear parallels with the Mercedes A-Class. Toyko Motor Show. If the three or five door maybe there could be other versions like this? But press was sceptical. After all, trying to this scale for the right price would be quite a this outlandish concept had been designed enough interest for Audi's management to approve the design and managed to ramp up production [music] The Audi A2 launched at the 1999 Frankfurt Motor there hadn't been much compromise from the chassis that was 43% lighter than steel. Audi platform. The body had changed a little since had the same excellent drag factor, just 0.28. engines, this made the A2 a very frugal car. The that is it could go 100km or 62 miles on just That's over 70 mpg. your hands dirty lifting up the bonnet, because check the dipstick, add more oil and washer fluid. were two quick-release fasteners, but Audi didn't were designed to be serviced every 2 years. to its main competitor, the Mercedes A-Class. lighter thanks to the aluminium monocoque. It despite both cars having a 1.4L engine, the It was bigger inside as well. Some criticised the extra space was given over to the boot which could and thanks to multiple configuration options Audi said the interior space was almost as big as the shorter, and lighter, than the Ford Fiesta. materials, with a fit and finish to the same Top Gear magazine called it "over engineered" a passion for making the best car possible, so The rear floor was lower, giving more leg room glass roof, climate control, parking aids and base models seemed a little stingy. For example, passengers had to make do with wind down windows of the Millenium. Of course, kids today see them But what was the A2 like to drive? Reviewers There were confident predictions it would be a Autocar said: "The best thing about the A2 is it's a great car to look at, sit in and It was a fun car that also didn't Audi paid special attention to it passing something Mercedes' A-Class famously failed Customers would have to wait to get their hands shown in September 1999, it would take 9 months that could churn out 60,000 A2's every year. promises, and he generally kept them. One could go 100km on 3 litres of fuel. That's something truly remarkable. That car would be diesel engine. Audi fitted it to the A2 and worked The drag was further reduced from 0.28 to 0.25 well as altering the rear spoiler. It included lighter rear seats. The fuel tank was reduced to ditched for a repair kit. All this chopped But this wasn't an underperforming hypermiler. the to 60mph. It's a shame though it wasn't That may have been because the A2 wasn't been the hit Audi thought it would. So, maybe more got the 0-60 time under 10 seconds for the first That was quicker, but not exactly sport car territory, versions got "S-line sports suspension" with There were the 2002 "color.storm" special The front grille had a louvred grille was an uprated 1.4L diesel. a suitably futuristic hydrogen fuel cell. 137 miles (220km) using three compressed gas Hydrogen might be a potential future fuel Audi was losing PS6,300 ($8,200 USD, EUR7,530, and the Mercedes A-Class continued to outsell years before the A2 would normally have cars with the factory running at half capacity. until the A1 arrived in 2010. This wasn't been - it was based on the Volkswagen Polo and it cost a lot less to develop. It could also All of this saved money and meant the new The A2 disaster didn't stop Audi innovating it dies. Audi needed to learn from its mistake Reports of a new A2 surfaced in 2009, and this reacting to the new Tesla Roadster that threatened The A2 concept broke cover two years later than the old car, and surprisingly even new drivetrain Audi used the opportunity to be brake by wire, steer by wire, gear shifting with a car would be done with some sort of wire. thanks to a next generation Audi Aluminium But that light weight also signalled there so not much range. That indeed proved to be the Audi saw the new A2 as more a city car, similar to the range extending petrol engine. Audi had their eyes that would appear in Europe as the Vauxhall/Opel giving all car manufacturers the heebie-jeebies Inside there was a minimal interior with always on Internet connection. It seems Audi's the latest social media posts whilst you were at the flick of a switch. Well, not really a touchscreen after the success of Apple's iPhone. As I said at the start, the German big three were noticeably silent during the whole Mercedes licking their wounds after the Rover debacle. radical small car concept, with an EV twist So, the BMW i3 previewed in 2011, and it was the A2. Forget aluminium, this had a carbon fibre had been used on a mass produced car. Like the and like the A2 it had an engine that acted as a Audi had said it had been produced as an secrets between the German luxury car makers! new A2 would hit dealers by 2015, but almost they'd need to sell it for around PS34,000 more than the BMW i3. But that decision proved to public's imagination and production ended in 2022. until 2021 when Audi hinted they might do another look like was pure speculation. Apparently be inspired by the AI:ME concept that launched whether it would wear the cursed A2 badge though. But as the expression goes, third time's a charm! there were few hits and a lot of misses. it was the Renault Scenic that became the of the A-Class over two generations, but they with something more conventional in 2012. in the bin for a bland restyle that also The Audi A2 was by far the least successful sold 1M cars, the A2 only sold 176,000. So produced car with an all-aluminium platform. car that came before it - the Audi A8. how clever the car was. It used aluminium that In Audi's marketing video they said "in the interior, Instead there was functional design. The but it was playing into the German stereotype, seemed to desire was a car they could connect to A2 and bought the MINI in their droves. That and ironically from another German company! two very good A2 competitors, the Audi A3 and the similar spec, and the Golf was a little cheaper. very specific type of driver - someone but also wanted to save their pennies on fuel, be a fan of the A2's look. Audi were betting Few A2's were built, and they quickly found that crash damage was much harder so more cars were written off before their time. odd in 2000 when it launched, but Audi sells they've just given it another name - the Q2. but it's got similar aerodynamic drag and (4l/100km). Today we'd probably call the A2 a So, was the A2 just a car that was ahead of its time? If you think 94 mpg is good, how about 280? That's what Volkswagen's XL1 got, or story with the link on the right. Thanks for