It's just great weather outside! Sun! Heat! Almost tropical! A little more and you can collect coconuts and sunbathe on the beach. I wonder what the temperature is outside? You have to ask the bee! Look! Wow! The thermometer went off scale! The temperature is below -30 degrees Celsius! Hello, friends! Hey! Hey! Today I will show you that you can make a very cool heater from improvised means! The project and from improvised materials. Empty small propane tanks will come in handy. They will need to be cut. The height is not important, just one jar will be cut closer to the top, and the second closer to the base. Since they will be exposed to high temperatures, I decided to remove all the paint and clean them. I am doing the design for the first time and I need to try it out by experience, whether it will work at all and what are the disadvantages and advantages. For clarity, there will be a glass beaker with heat-resistant glass. As long as acetone is used as fuel, very little is needed. You will also need a small part of a copper sheet, the sheet thickness is 0.5 mm. Have you seen the usual action, but at a speed of 10,000 frames per second? The spectacle is simply mesmerizing! There are so many interesting things around us, but we just do not notice it. For the initial start, you need to heat the plate. To become a burner &quot;Whirlwind&quot;, while the best household burner that I had, but there were a lot of them. This one has a heater and gas vaporizer, it doesn't spew fire like a flamethrower! The reaction is started. This is not combustion - this is a chemical process! Catalytic process of oxidation of fuel components on the surface of a solid catalyst. It was opened in the 1950s by Catalytic Combustion LLC. This combustion reduces the formation of undesirable products, especially polluting nitrogen oxide gases. As a rule, it proceeds without the formation of an open fire, which significantly distinguishes it from traditional torch combustion. Even such a small piece of copper sheet continues to be very hot for a very long time. The temperature is about 150 degrees Celsius. And it really radiates heat and warms! The thermal imager shows how the catalytic process proceeds, how heat spreads, and how oxidized vapors come out. I want to do something similar, but on a large scale, so that they can really heat up and not on acetone. Acetone has a pungent odor and when burned, the smell is also not very pleasant. It's getting colder outside. I even barely opened the car, everything that could freeze was frozen. I think a lot of people understand this. -I: Here we are... Let's start with the heater. I chose between different containers of what can be made and still stopped at steel than on an aluminum can. From the second cylinder, I will make the top cover of the structure. As a semblance of a catalyst, there will be a fine stainless steel mesh. The cell is very small, with a standard weave, like on a window mosquito net. It holds its shape quite well and cuts well with ordinary scissors. Guys, by the way! I want to share and show you my new tool! I found the manufacturer and could not pass by! For me, a small one is more convenient, although there is a large variety. Although he is small, he has all the makings of a professional and very powerful. It can be ordered directly from the manufacturer in parts, separately the frame, separately the rollers, and the motors. A very large selection of different modifications and various accessories. I believe that a belt grinder is the most necessary tool after an angle grinder and a drill. If you want to argue? - this means that you simply never had a belt sander! I just thought the same! And he took a bunch of different kinds of ribbons to him, and they are of good quality, with excellent seams! Hmmm... It has an interesting knot for tensioning and adjusting the tape. I'll leave the link where I got it. Let's continue! I calculated the width of the mesh to the desired diameter, and the height was about 30 cm. To connect the edges, it turned out to be enough just to wrap the ends several times, for this I added another 6 centimeters to the desired width. And using a round mandrel, I tapped the seam so that nothing unfolded. It turned out very worthy and exactly according to the inner diameter of the can. The shorter part from the second cartridge will go as the top cover of the heater. Isopropyl alcohol as fuel, it is better to use ethanol, ethyl alcohol. It is very common, and most importantly not at all expensive. It has many applications, from medicine and perfumery, to the automotive, food and chemical industries. You have seen the remains of an old chimney. From a small piece of the same height, I will make a reflector, which should increase efficiency and significantly reflect heat in the right direction. Now I'm going to test! In general, platinum metal is excellent for a catalyst, but it is very expensive. Often, platinum catalysts are made from high temperature materials (ceramics, stainless steel, etc.). While filming this video, I tried a lot of designs and conducted more than a dozen experiments. And if you like this video, in the future I will make a video with an improved design. Heaters operating on the effect of catalytic combustion are not new, they have been used for a long time since the middle of the last century. And many manufacturers make such heaters. Tests. For a faster start, I use a burner. And he warmed up the alcohol a little so that it began to evaporate more intensively, then after warming up the temperature was maintained by itself. Biofireplaces are gaining more and more popularity, they do not need a chimney and they run on biofuels, conventional ethanol or ethyl alcohol. Ethanol does not emit harmful gases during combustion, except for water vapor and CO2. To show how this design works, I shot both in daylight and in the absence of lighting. I also shot with a thermal imaging camera at various temperature display palettes. The thermal imager shows how heat is distributed and what the temperature is in different areas of the heater. The topic of catalytic heaters is interesting, because they have a huge scope. The design turned out to be as simple as possible and at the same time efficient in terms of heat transfer. Of course, it is desirable to use ethanol, but isopropyl also works. Guys, if you liked the video - you know what to do! The best gratitude to the author is simply Like, Subscribe, Bell. Share links with social networks, let the video help people. All useful links as always leave in the description. It turned out a small, but very warm fireplace in haste. Friends! Good for you and your loved ones! Thanks for watching this video! See you on the channel. Bye. Bye.