- Some people see the thing that they want and some people see the thing that prevents them from getting It's as if an entire generation is standing at the foot of a mountain, they know exactly what they what they can't see is the mountain. People put Harley Davidson to say something about who Ain't not Proctor and Gambles Passion is the feeling you have that you would probably do this for free, you know, and you can't believe - He's an author, speaker, and consultant who writes on leadership and management. He joined the Rand Corporation in 2010 where he advises our military He's known for popularizing the concepts of the golden circle, He's Simon Sinek, and here's my take on his top 10 rules for success. Rule number six is my personal favorite, and make sure to stick for some special bonus if Simon says something that really, really resonates with you, please leave it in the comments below so other people can be inspired as well. (electronic whooshing) (upbeat instrumental music) Let me tell you a story. So a friend of mine and I, we went for a run in Central Park. The Road Runner's Organization, on the weekends they host races. And it's very common, they'll have a sponsor who apples or bagels, or something. And on this particular day when we got to the end of the run there and they had picnic tables set up, and on one side was a group of volunteers. On the table were boxes of bagels, and on the other side was waiting to get their free bagel. So I said to my friend, And he looked at me and said, And I said, &quot;Free bagel.&quot; And he said, &quot;I don't And I was like, &quot;Free bagel.&quot; (audience laughing) And he said, &quot;Nah, it's too long!&quot; And that's when I realized that there's two ways to see the world. Some people see the thing that they want, and some people see the from getting the thing that they want. I could only see the bagels. He could only see the line. (audience laughing) And so I walked up to the line, I leaned in between two people, put my hand in the box, And no one got mad at you can go after whatever you want, you just cannot deny anyone else to go after whatever they want. Now I had to sacrifice choice, I didn't get to choose which bagel I got, I got whatever I pulled out, but I didn't have to wait in line. So the point is, you don't You don't have to do it the You can do it your way, you just can't get in the way of somebody else getting what they want. That's rule number one. Performing under or anybody else is, is the same. You know, I have the same there's time, there's performance, there's financial, I mean, there are, you know, there's deadlines. My pressures are not unique. The situations may be but everybody has the But what I found, or is the interpretation for the stimuli, if, let me explain. So I was watching the Olympics, this last summer at how bad the questions were that the reporters would ask all the athletes. And almost always they whether they were about to compete, or after they competed: Right? And to a T, all the athletes went, &quot;No.&quot; Right? And what I realized, is it's it's their interpretation of what's happening in their bodies, I mean, what happens when you're nervous? Right? Your heart rate starts you know, you sort of get a little tense, you get a little sweaty, right? You have expectation of what's coming, and we interpret that as &quot;I'm nervous.&quot; Now what's the interpretation of excited? Your heart rate starts to go, you become, you're anticipating what's coming, right? You get a little sort of like, tense, it's all the same thing, Except these athletes, these have learned to interpret the stimuli that the rest of us would say They all said the same thing, &quot;No, I'm not nervous, I'm excited.&quot; And so I've actually practiced when I start to get nervous, - Yeah. And so where when you-- of a large audience, &quot;How do you feel?&quot; And I used to say, &quot;A little nervous.&quot; Now when somebody says, &quot;How do you feel?&quot; I'm like, &quot;Pretty excited, actually!&quot; And it came from just &quot;No, no, no, this is excitement.&quot; And it becomes a little But it's kind of a remarkable thing, to deal with pressure by is experiencing as excitement And it's really kind of effective, it makes you want to rush and yet it's the same experience. I talk to so many smart, hardworking kids, and they're in their entry-level jobs, and I'll ask them, &quot;How's it goin'?&quot; And they'll say, &quot;I And I'm like, &quot;Why?&quot; And they say to me, &quot;I'm I'm like, &quot;You know you've (audience laughing) They treat the sense of fulfillment, or even love, like it's a scavenger hunt, like it's something you look for. My millennial friends, they've they're either getting (audience laughing) Or they're quitting because or they're not finding the they're not feeling fulfilled, Love, a job you find joy from, is not something you discover! It's not like, &quot;I found love!&quot; Here it is. &quot;I found a job I love&quot;, Both of those things require hard work, you are in love because you work very hard every single day of your You find a job that because you work hard every single day to serve those around you, it's not a discovery! But the problem is the It's as if an entire generation is standing at the foot of a mountain, they know exactly what they what they can't see is the mountain. This large, immovable object. That doesn't mean you that's not what I'm talking about. Take a helicopter, climb, I don't care, but there's still a mountain. Life, career fulfillment, The problem is, this entire generation has an institutionalized and do they have the to maintain love, to feel fulfilled, or do they just quit, and on to the next, dump, and on to the next? Ghost, and on to the next. In the eighteenth century that spread across Europe and eventually made it's way to America, also known as the 'black Basically what was happening and they would die within This black death of childbirth and it got worse, and worse, and worse over the course of over a century. In some hospitals it was high who would die as a result of giving birth. But this was the Renaissance, of empirical data and science, things like tradition and mysticism. These were men of science, And these doctors and men of science wanted to study and for this black death of childbed, and so they got to work studying. They would study the corpses and in the morning they and then in the afternoon they would go and deliver babies and And it wasn't until that Doctor Oliver Wendell Holmes, father of Supreme Court realized, that all of these doctors who were conducting weren't washing their hands before they delivered babies in the afternoon. And he pointed it out, and said, And they ignored him, and Until finally somebody realized that if they simply washed And that's exactly what happened. When they started and washing their hands, the black death of childbed disappeared. My point is, the lesson here is, sometimes, you're the problem. (audience laughing) We've seen this happen all too recently with our new men of science and these men of finance, who are smarter than the rest of us until the thing collapsed. And they blamed everything And my point is take You can take all the credit in the world for the things that you do right, as long as you also take responsibility for the things you do wrong, You don't get it one you get to take credit when I spoke at an education I also spoke at an At the education summit for Microsoft, I would say that 70% of the executives spent about 70% of their presentations talking about how to beat Apple. (audience laughing) At the Apple education spent 100% of their presentations talking about how to help teachers teach, and how to help students learn. One is playing this way, One is playing finite, and Guess which one gets frustrated? (audience laughing) So at the end of my talk at they gave me the new (audience laughing) And let me tell ya, this It was the most elegant piece The user interface was incredible, the design was spectacular, It was easy to use, and it was bright, and gorgeous, and fantastic, which is a different problem, but it was amazing. And elegant, my God, it was elegant. So I'm sitting in the back of the taxi with a very senior Apple executive, sort of employee number 12 kind of guy, and you know, I like to stir pots, so I turn to him, I said, &quot;You know, &quot;Microsoft gave me their new Zune, &quot;and it is so much better (audience laughing) And he turned to me and he Conversation over. (audience laughing) Because the infinite player understands, sometimes you're ahead, and Sometimes your product is The goal isn't to be the best every day, the goal isn't to outdo that's a finite construction. If I had said to Microsoft, &quot;and it's so much better than your Zune&quot;, they would have said, &quot;Can React, react, react, react. Finite players play to beat Infinite players play to To wake up every single day and say, how can we make our of itself today than it was yesterday? How can we create a product this week that's better than the We also have to play the infinite game. It's not about being ranked number one, it's not about having than your friends, it's It's about how to outdo yourself. It's not about selling more books, or getting more TED it's about how to make sure that the work that you're producing is better than the work you produced before. You are your competition. And that is what ensures you and that is what ensures you find joy. Because the joy comes not from comparison, but from advancement. - When are you at your best? - I'm at my best when I'm around people who believe what I believe. I know it seems silly, but I try very, very hard to sort of stack the deck. You know, to put myself So for example, you know, have you ever had sort of a And I was thinking to myself, But it's not because I'm some sort of, sort of genius or anything, it's because I stack the deck. It's because I want to be there, I want to be around In other words, if I'm and like, you know, I'll Whereas if I'm their first and so I'm more likely to they're supportive of me, And so yeah, I'm at my when I choose to be in an environment where my strengths are there. Nelson Mandela is a particularly special case study in the leadership world, because he is universally You can take other personalities and depending on the nation you go to, we have different opinions but Nelson Mandela, across the world, is universally regarded as a great leader. He was actually the son of a tribal chief, and he was asked one day, &quot;How did you learn to be a great leader?&quot; And he responded that he to tribal meetings, and when his father would One, they would always sit in a circle. And two, his father was You will be told your whole life that you need to learn to listen, I would say that you need to I see it in boardrooms Even people who consider who may actually be decent leaders, will walk into a room and &quot;here's what I think, but I'm &quot;let's go around the room.&quot; It's too late. The skill to hold your until everyone has spoken does two things. One, it gives everybody else the feeling that they have been heard, the ability to feel that And two, you get the benefit of hearing what everybody else has to think before you render your opinion. The skill is really to keep If you agree with somebody, don't nod yes. If you disagree with Simply sit there, take it all in, and the only thing you're allowed to do is ask questions, so that you and why they have the you must understand from Why they have the opinion they have, not just what they are saying. And at the end, you will get your turn. It sounds easy, it's not. Practice being the last to speak, that's what Nelson Mandela did. Every decision we make in our lives as individuals or as organizations, is a piece of communication, it's our way of saying and what we believe. This is why authenticity matters. This is why you have to say and do the things you actually believe. Because the things you say and do are symbols of who you are. And we look for those symbols so we can find people who believe what we believe, our very survival depends on it. So if you're putting out false symbols, you will attract people to those symbols, but you won't be able This is what Tiger Woods He lied. He told us what he and it was great, and we were drawn to it, and all of us who kind of like that idea of the, sort of the good Until we found out it was a lie. He could have been the bad boy of golf, he could have had all and had a fantastic career, as one of the great athletes of our day. But he didn't, he chose to lie. Good luck forming trust again, Tiger. We don't believe you. We don't trust you. The goal of putting something out there, if you say what you believe, you will attract people who If you go to one of your friends, and you say to one of your friends, &quot;How would you like me to dress &quot;so that you'll like me better?&quot; How would you want me to address you, how do you want me to speak, Right? Your friends are going to what the, what are you talking about? You're like, &quot;Come on, come on, come on, &quot;what should I wear, so that &quot;and how would you like me to speak to you &quot;so that you'll like me more?&quot; And your friends are going to tell you, &quot;Just be yourself, that's why I like you, &quot;I don't care, just be yourself.&quot; Now think about what we do in industry. What do we do? We do market research, and we go up and we ask the customers, &quot;what style should we speak to you? &quot;How should we decorate ourselves, &quot;what kind of things are you drawn to, &quot;so that we can do those things &quot;so that you'll like us more?&quot; It's just as ridiculous. It's just as ridiculous. Organizations should say and do the things they actually believe, and they will attract people Or, they can choose to lie, that they might be And people start saying, I'm not sure I can trust these guys because there's not a lot of consistency in all the things they say and do, which means they can't have or they're lying to me. And we call them inauthentic. The entire process of asking is inauthentic, that's hilarious to me! All these positioning studies We're going to do a study so we can be more (audience laughing) Say and do what you actually believe and the symbols you put out there, the things you say and the things you do, those red hats are ways What you have the ability to do as designers, is create those symbols, and allow people to use those things to say something about who they are. Work for companies, work for clients, work for people who you Show up and feel a part of And your part is to put what and words, and symbols, and graphics, so that other people can use those things to say something about who they are. People put Harley Davidson to say something about who Ain't no Procter and Gambles (audience laughing) Because Harley means something, People put that tattoo on there not to tell you that they put that tattoo there to tell you something about themselves. Do you ever see anybody with a Mac laptop put a sticker over that Ain't never going to happen! Then how will you know who I am? Did you ever see anybody the Windex to clean out their computer? Mac people? (breathing heavily) (audience laughing) Have you ever seen a dirty Mac? Doesn't exist. Does not exist. Why? Because it's who I am. These are symbols we use. The companies that are crystal and they're disciplined in how they do it, and they're consistent in what they do, and everything they say, serves as a symbol of the we use those symbols to say We surround ourselves with the people, and the products, and the brands, that say something about who we are. And when we can find what we believe, we're because our very survival depends on it. We need it. And so the more you can give of yourself, the more you can give of what you believe, the more you can say and do the things strange things start to happen. - What are your thoughts, on finding, and building upon passions? - Passion is not an actionable word. It's correct, you know, that they're passionate about do better, but it's not helpful advice. And so the question is, Passion is a result, passion is an energy, passion is the feeling you have when you're engaged in Passion is the feeling you have that you would probably do And you can't believe You know? And I think we mistake that in our private lives, you know, in our careers, for example. And I'm a firm believer and anybody who says, than I am at work, and one of And the goal is to make everything you do, at home and at work, something that you have excitement to do. So how do you find the things Well it's actually easier than you think. What are the things that you love to do? What are the things that You know? How can you recreate that So what are the things that I love, I'm very involved I love to go to museums and galleries, but I love to go see because I want to see how others So that inspires me. New ideas, new thoughts, new are the things that and I seek it out and pay money for it. Right? So does that mean that I have No. It means I have to have a career where new ideas are explored, where people are experimenting and I have to explore new and I'm just as excited as I am to go do something And so the idea of finding your passion is ironically simple because that you enjoy sometimes, what and then what is the stuff that you love? Who are the people that you love, and what do they all have in common? And how do you explain when Or better, how do you explain when others are able to achieve things that seem to defy all of the assumptions? For example, why is Apple so innovative? Year, after year, after year, after year, they're more innovative And yet they're just a computer company, they're just like everyone else. They have the same access the same agencies, the same Then why is it that they seem Why is it that Martin Luther King led the civil rights movement? He wasn't the only man who suffered in a pre-civil rights America, and he certainly wasn't the why him? And why is it that the Wright brothers were able to figure out when there were certainly other teams who were better qualified, better funded, and they didn't achieve and the Wright brothers beat them to it? There's something else at play here. About three and a half years And this discovery on how I though the world worked, and it even profoundly changed the way in which I operate in it. As it turns out, there's a pattern. As it turns out, all the and organizations in the world, whether it's Apple, or Martin Luther King, or the Wright Brothers, they all think, act, and communicate the exact same way, and it's the complete All I did was codify it. And it's probably the I call it the golden circle. Why, how, what. This little idea explains and some leaders, are able to Let me define the terms really quickly. Every single person, on the planet knows what they do, 100%. Some know how they do your differentiating value proposition, or proprietary process, or your USP, but very, very few people or organizations know why they do what they do. And by why I don't mean to make a profit. That's a result, it's always a result. By why, I mean what's your purpose, what's your cause, what's your belief. Why does your organization exist? Why do you get out of bed in the morning? And why should anyone care? Well as a result, the way that we think, the way we act, the way we communicate, is from the outside it, it's obvious. We go from the clearest But the inspired leaders and regardless of their size, all think, act, and communicate Let me give you an example. I use Apple because and everybody gets it. If Apple were like everyone else, a marketing message from We make great computers, simple to use, and user friendly. Want to buy one? Meh. And that's how most of communicate, that's how most marketing is done, that's how most sales is done, and that's how most of us We say what we do, we or how we're better, and we or purchase, or vote, something like that. Here's our new law firm, with the biggest clients, we always perform for our Here's our new car, it it has, you know, leather But it's uninspiring. Here's how Apple actually communicates: Everything we do, we believe we believe in thinking differently. The way we challenge the status quo is buy making our products simple to use, and user friendly. We just happen to make great computers. Want to buy one? Totally different, right? You're ready to buy a computer from me. All I did was reverse the What it proves to us is that people buy why you do it. People don't buy what you This explains why every is perfectly comfortable But we're also perfectly comfortable buying an MP3 player from Apple, or a phone from Apple, But as I said before, Apple's there's nothing that from any of their competitors. Their competitors are to make all of these products. In fact, they tried a few years ago, Gateway came out with flat screen TV's. They're imminently qualified they've been making flat Nobody bought one. And Dell, Dell came out and they make great quality products, and they can make perfectly and nobody bought one. In fact talking about it buying an MP3 player from Dell, why would you buy an MP3 But we do it every day. People don't what you do, The goal is not to do who needs what you have, with people who believe what you believe. Here's the best part, none of what I'm telling It's all grounded in Not psychology, biology. If you look at a cross looking from the top down, what you see is that the human brain is actually broken into that correlate perfectly Our newest brain, our homo sapien brain, our neocortex, corresponds The neocortex is responsible and analytical thought, and language. The middle two sections and our limbic brains are responsible for all of our feelings, It's also responsible all decision making, and it In other words, when we yes, people can understand vast amounts of complicated information like features, and benefits, and facts, and figures, it just doesn't drive behavior. When we communicate from the inside out, we're talking directly that controls behavior, to rationalize it with the This is where gut decisions come from. You know, sometimes you can give somebody all the facts and the figures, and they say, I know what all but it just doesn't feel right. Why would we use that verb, Because the part of the brain doesn't control language, and I don't know, it just doesn't feel right. Or sometimes you say you're or you're leading with your soul. Well I hate to break it to you, those aren't other body parts it's all happening here the part of the brain that controls decision making and not language. But if you don't know and people respond to then how will anybody, how to get vote for you, or or more importantly, be loyal, and want to be a part of Again, the goal is not just to sell people who need what you have, to people who believe what you believe. The goal is not just to it's to hire people who I always say that you know, there's, if you hire people just they'll work for your money, who believe what you with blood, and sweat, and tears. And nowhere else is there than with the Wright brothers. Most people don't know about And back in the early 20th Century, the pursuit of powered man flight was like the dot com of the And Samuel Pierpont to be the recipe for success, I mean, even now when you ask or why did your company fail, the same permutation of Unde capitalized, the wrong it's always the same three things. So let's explore that. Samuel Pierpont Langley by the War Department to figure Money was no problem. He held a seat at Harvard and and was extremely well connected. He knew all the big minds of the day. He hired the best minds money could find, and the market conditions were fantastic. The New York Times followed and everyone was rooting for Langley. Then how come we've never heard A few hundred miles away in Dayton, Ohio, Orville and Wilber Wright, they had none of what we consider They had no money, they with the proceeds from their bicycle shop. Not a single person on had a college education, And the New York Times The difference was, Orville by a cause, by a purpose, by a belief. They believed that if this flying machine, it'll Samuel Pierpont Langley was different. He wanted to rich, and He was in pursuit of the result. He was in pursuit of the riches. And low and behold look what happened. The people who believed in worked with them with The others just worked for the paycheck. And they tell stories of how every time the Wright Brothers went five sets of parts because they would crash before And eventually, on December 17th, 1903 the Wright brothers took flight. And no one was there We found out about it a few days later. And further proof that by the wrong thing, the day the he quit. He could have said, that's and I will improve upon your technology. But he didn't. He wasn't first, he didn't get rich, he didn't get famous, so he quit. People don't buy what you And if you talk about what you believe you will attract those who Well why is it important to attract those who believe what you believe? Something called the law And if you don't know the law, you definitely know the terminology. The first two and a half percent of our population are our innovators. The next 13 and a half percent of our population are our early adopters, the next 34 percent are your late majority, and your laggards. The only reason these is because you can't buy (audience laughing) We all sit at various places but what the law of diffusion is that if you want mass market success, or mass market acceptance of an idea, you cannot have it until you between 15 and 18 percent And then the system tips. And I love asking businesses, what's your conversion on new business? And they love tell you, &quot;Oh, it's about 10 percent&quot;, proudly. Well you can trip over 10 We all have about 10 that's how we describe them, right? That's like that gut feeling, The problem is, how do you find the ones that just get it before you're versus the ones who don't get it. So it's this here, this little as Jefferey Moore calls Because you see, the early until someone else has tried it first. And these guys, the innovators, they're comfortable making They're more comfortable making that are driven by what they and not just what product is available. These are the people who stood in line for six hours to buy an iPhone when you could have just the next week and bought These are the people who on flat screen TV's when even though the technology And by the way, they didn't do it because the technology was so great, It's because they wanted to be first. People don't buy what you and what you do simply In fact, people will do the things that prove what they believe. The reason that person bought the iPhone in the first six hours, and was because of what they and how they wanted everybody to see them. They were first. People don't buy what you So let me give you a famous example, a famous failure, and a famous success of the law of diffusion of innovation. First the famous failure. It's a commercial example. As we said before a second ago, the recipe for success is and the right marketing conditions, right? You should have success then. Look at TiVo. From the time TiVo came out to this current day, they are the single highest quality product on the market. Hands down, there is no dispute. They were extremely well funded, market conditions were fantastic, I mean we used TiVo as a verb. I TiVo'd stuff on my piece of junk Time Warner DVR all the time! (audience laughing) But TiVo is a commercial failure. They've never made money. And when they went IPO, their stock was at about $30 or $40 dollars, and it's never traded above $10. In fact, I don't think except for a couple of little spikes. Because you see, when TiVo they told us all what they had. They said, &quot;We have a &quot;skips commercials, rewinds live TV, &quot;and memorizes your viewing And the cynical majority &quot;we don't need it, we don't What if they had said, &quot;If &quot;who likes to have total control &quot;over every aspect of your life, &quot;boy, do we have a product for you.&quot; That pauses live TV, skips commercials, memorizes your viewing People don't buy what you and what you do simple serves as the proof of what you believe. Now let me give you a successful example of the law of diffusion of innovation. In the summer of 1963, on the Mall in Washington They sent out no invitations, and there was no website How do you do that? Well, Dr. King wasn't who was a great orator, he who suffered in a in fact, some of his ideas were bad! But he had a gift. He didn't go around telling people what needed to change in America, he went around and told I believe, I believe, I And people who believed what and they made it their And some of those people to get the word out to even more people, and lo and behold, on the right day, on the How many of them showed up for him? Zero. They showed up for themselves. It's what they believed about America that got them to travel to stand in the sun in Washington It's what they believed, black versus white, 25 percent Dr. King believed that in this world, those that are made by a higher authority, and And not until all the are consistent with the laws that are made by the higher authority will It just so happens that was the perfect thing to help We followed him not for And by the way, he gave not the I Have A Plan Speech. (audience laughing) I listen to politicians now with their comprehensive 12 point plans, Because there are leaders Leaders hold a position but those who lead, inspire us. Whether they're individuals we follow those who lead, but because we want to. We follow those who lead not And it's those who start with why that have the ability to or find others who inspire them. Thank you very much. (applause) - Thank you guys so much for watching, I made this video because Lex So if there's a famous entrepreneur that you would like me to profile next, please leave it down in the comments below and I'll see what I can do. I'd also love to know which clip resonated the most with you today, that had the biggest impact, to your life or business Please leave it down and I'm going to join in the discussion. Thank you so much for I hope you continue to and whatever your one word is. Much love, I'll see ya soon. (electronic whooshing) - Decision making is a process, right? The question is, what to make decisions? Are you making decisions based are you making decisions based I mean, I remember in college, you know, they would give you this would rate the classes, and how easy the class was, and how, you know, how much do they like professor. And you know, the first based on workload, and I pick You know? And, pretty bored, didn't but nothing was dynamic and And I, thank goodness, learned that, and so the second year by professor rating, So every class I had, I had these dynamic, amazing, incredible human beings and you were excited You know? And so again, the question is, what are the filters we're using? And so if you're only then you will have jobs that'll pay you a little more than the last, And I talked to a guy recently, who was in, he's in bad shape, like, he really hates his life, and he doesn't know what to do. And so we were going you know, and I said, give And he hadn't! Every single job he's he picked because of the him more somewhere else, he took it. You know? Regardless. And the amazing thing is, he plateaued, because if you're only chasing the result, if you're only chasing the Then eventually you will get bored, or they'll get bored of you, right? And you plateau. In other words, chasing if that's your only thing, Whereas if you're chasing the human beings to be around, the stuff that you know, you you know? The irony is, is that you'll Right? Because you're excited, and and they reward your excitement, and you're better at your work because you want to work you don't have to strain to work harder. So decision making is simply And so I've made decisions in my life that I would rather be happy than right, I'd rather do good than get rich, and so the decisions I where when I leave any engagement, when I leave any meeting, I Right? Rare are the times anymore just think of the money, think of the money, you know? 'Cause that doesn't feel nice. And the experience I have, I and I don't enjoy traveling home. Where if I have an amazing experience, I am looking forward to getting there and I'm excited when I leave! - [Interviewer] Yeah. - You know, so it's just decision making, decision making is just a and if you're good about keeping then make your decision. I don't judge anybody by how, if they choose to use different filters, these are just the filters you know? Not right or wrong, just You know, that's my filter. How can you help the human race? How can you help the human race, the human species, progress? I'm not joking, either, this is something we At the end of the day, the And our very survival to form communities, to form cultures. What's a community, what's a culture? It's a group of people with a common set of values and beliefs, right? What's a country? It's a group of people with a common set of values and beliefs. What's a company? It should be a group of people with a common set of values and beliefs. When we're surrounded by people something remarkable happens. Trust emerges. And make no mistake of and distinctly human feeling. You know, we all have friends and yet we still trust them, right? (audience laughing) Trust is not a checklist, simply doing everything does not mean people will it just means you're reliable. We need trust. Right? We need trust. When we're surrounded by people who believe what we believe, when we trust them, and they trust us, we're more willing to take risks, we're more willing to experiment, which requires failure, and go somewhere that no with the confidence that if we fail, if we trip over, if we turn our backs, that those within our community, those who we trust, and who trust us, will look after us while we're gone, will pick us up when we fall over, will help us when we're hurt. Our very survival depends on it. We're not good at everything, You know, if I send you out to go fight a sabertooth tiger by yourself, odds are tiger one, you zero. (audience laughing) It's not going to go very well. But if you go out as a group, And the reason is, is because and we all have our certain weaknesses. And the goal is not to the goal is to amplify your strengths, and surround yourself with the people who can do what you can't do. But it's not just based on skills, and application, and experience, it's based on what you believe, it's based on what you believe. You see, simply being good at something, and having somebody else be does not mean you will trust each other. Trust, the sense of trust, common values and common beliefs. And I'll prove it. How many of you are from New York? Okay, a bunch of you. Are you friends with (audience laughing) Why not? Why not? But when you go to Los Angeles, and you meet somebody from New York, you're like &quot;Hey, I'm from New York!&quot; And you're best friends. (audience laughing) And when you go to France, there you are on the Paris metro and you hear an American and you turn around, and you They say, &quot;Los Angeles.&quot; You're like, &quot;Hey, I'm from New York!&quot; And you're best friends. (audience laughing) Because you're surrounded by people who don't believe what you believe, when you're in a strange environment where you don't feel comfortable, you look for anyone who may share some of the same values and you start to form a very real and very intense bond with them, simply because you know that they have a basic understanding of how you grew up, of the things that you care about, of the live that you lived back home. Well the same is true when we go to work. Do we want to go to work with people who understand us, who who have a similar view of the world that has nothing to do with their opinions and the differences that we share, that's good, that's called diversity, that's called advantages which is we can all look at the same thing from a different angle and What I'm talking about is why should you help each other in the first place? What are you in pursuit of? Now the question is, is what creates that sense of values and beliefs? What creates that sense of trust? Right? Our very human instinct, people who believe what we believe, our survival depends on it. We're biologically gifted with this idea. If I ask you to go out in the street and find all the people who you know exactly what to do. You're going to strike up conversations, you're going to start talking to people, and either you'll have a or you won't. Either you'll have &quot;chemistry&quot;, or you don't. Sometimes it's quick, sometimes it's slow, but we know how to do it. It's called making friends, it's called networking. We have the innate ability to do it. True story. There was a former Under who was invited to give a about a thousand people. And he was standing on the in a styrofoam cup, giving with his PowerPoint behind him. And he took a sip of his and he looked down at the coffee, and then he went off script. And he said, &quot;You know, last year I spoke &quot;at this exact same conference. &quot;Last year I was still &quot;And when I spoke here last year, &quot;they flew me here business class, &quot;and when I arrived at the airport &quot;there was somebody waiting &quot;And they took me to my hotel, &quot;and they had already checked me in, &quot;and they just took me up to my room. &quot;And the next morning I came downstairs &quot;and there was someone waiting &quot;and they drove me to &quot;They took me through the back entrance &quot;and took me into the green room &quot;and handed me a cup of coffee &quot;in a beautiful ceramic cup.&quot; He says, &quot;I'm no longer &quot;I flew here coach. &quot;I took a taxi to my hotel &quot;When I came down to &quot;I took another taxi to this venue. &quot;I came in the front door &quot;and when I asked someone, &quot;he pointed to the coffee &quot;and I poured myself a cup of coffee &quot;into this here styrofoam cup.&quot; He says, &quot;The lesson is, &quot;meant for me, it was meant &quot;I deserve a styrofoam cup.&quot; Remember this. As you gain fame, as you gain fortune, as you gain position and seniority, people will treat you better. They will hold doors open for you, they will get you a cup of tea and coffee without you even asking. They will call you &quot;sir&quot;, and &quot;ma'am&quot;, and they will give you stuff. None of that stuff is meant for you. That stuff is meant for It is meant for the level of leader, or success, or But you will always Remember that, remember and gratitude. You can accept all the free stuff, you can accept all the perks, But just be grateful for them, and know that they're not for you. I remember getting off the Acela, I took the Acela from New and I got off the train and I was walking down the and I walked past General Norty Schwartz, who used to be the chief of staff of the United States Air Force, And here I did, you know, see a guy, in a suit, schlepping his own just like me, and just a couple months ago he was flying on private and other people carried his luggage. But he no longer held the position, and so now he got to And never did it, sort of remind me more, that none of us deserve we all deserve a styrofoam cup.