"Thanksgiving is In this video, I will about Turkey being This recipe proves that I have the secret that your guests will love. They will be talking This recipe changed my mind could be, and I can't Today, we're going to go -- wet brining, dry One of the birds is trust One of them is are kind of like carved And then one of them is The second round of tests Eight portions that we are going to And then we're going to have of characters come This is a young [MUSIC PLAYING] "This is our Edna She is one of the most writers. This one is our control bird. I just loved how easy melted butter application, Second bird is splayed to get the bird wet, brined for There's salt and There's also a lot of spices Third Turkey is Ham El-Waylly. He likes to portion of cook the pieces separately. The purpose of this was to to the temperature Let's taste. Have a little piece Very dry. It's not Edna's fault. So Nigella bird, mmm. It's definitely more Ooh, do you see that juice? I do think this bird cooked a This is arguably the You know it's a I think we cooked I don't think I can definitely do this, or definitely do this. It makes me wonder if the one in this case, and it's to shine. Now that the technique we can think about flavor. I found eight ideas that I A couple of them come from A lot of them are I did a little call out and What I'm going to do is build have them in these containers, them off and then do a little of friends. Flavor test number one -- there's a food She does this marinade of which is the Korean She talks about how it really well. It kind of removes some Flavor test number one, done. Number two, this test named Caroline Cho. She uses sparkling There's a little I already love this. I'm like, obsessed I think what's fun is It has an enzyme Turkey breast number two -- oh my God -- our editor in chief went on NPR last Thanksgiving. Someone told us that their turkey with sangria. I want to try that. Yes, test number three. Number four, canned I think it does tenderize it. There's sweetness. I love the idea of marinating turkey breast, number four. Number five is cool. This read alikes to in that dry brine, which Also, just to be clear, of the one sentence I This called for a bird's eye chillies from So this is like a chili, pepper. Oh my God, this Wow. I just want even coating. Oh my God, this is I was lying before This is the only one I'm just kidding. It's going to be so good. I'm so excited. Number six -- this flavor and the reader said red This idea comes from That smells delicious As I roast it in the oven, Turkey number six, this family likes to use so why not do a dry brine. I'm just going to bring to some chardonnay, add there's some richness. Basting liquid Test number eight, the mystery My heart is telling me So one thing about Bay need to be ground up. Wow, gorgeous. So that's the Bay leaf and I'm going to create The high temp of coconut oil Miso, it can be sweet. It smells like Korean Eric Kim turkey [MUSIC PLAYING] "Thanksgiving is So this is like one of get to actually be together. So thank you for coming." "I love it." "We have eight tests, and these eight turkey breasts and texture." "I had high hopes from this "Does it smell off to you?" "Yeah. It certainly smells a little off." "It tastes off." "Oh, I think it's because But I think I know "I missed something here." "A funky ingredient in it." "Oh, really -- O.K. Then maybe just not used to with turkey." "I'm fine." "Melissa scared the "O.K., tell me what you "Let's compare and contrast. This one looks like -- it has like a Peking duck "Hey, number two is good. I like number two." "What is that pleasant "I'm so delighted." "I like it." "This is good. This tastes very turkey." "It tastes very, "Is it like soy "Ooh, no. But --" "No?" "I feel like I'm expecting of bone-in chicken it's not going to happen." "I'm looking into the Deep fry your turkey. Don't listen to this man." "How do you deep fry a turkey? It's hard." "All right, number four now. Ooh, oh, whoa look at that. Holy crap." "It's leaking." "I'm getting like --" "Whoa, this looks cool." "-- cherry dried fruit." "You know what, though? This might be my It's quite moist. Sorry for using that word." "And you can kind "It's so cottony." "Oh, you said it's cottony." "Like the texture too." "I like a turkey with stuff. Appearance -- I'm that's a good -- that's a nice "I'm on the fence because I it's like we put "Now, this is a good texture. Oh, pepper -- I like it. I like how spicy it is." "I'm giving it a lower rating you why. Because I feel like I wonder the quality" "Huh." "Really?" "Lipstick on a turkey. I didn't get my slice yet." "Oh. You were being so polite." "I think this texture "Yeah, this is "The appearance in the basement." "That's it." "I kind of like it." "I wrote bad fruit "Oh, this one changed colors. It's cutting kind of weird." "It's got some "This is a French turkey." "Yeah, no, the French on their turkey." "Yeah, no they wouldn't. It does not belong on turkey." "This one looks promising. It kind of reminds me "Yeah, it does. It does have porchetta vibes. Yeah." "It's salty. That's nice." "What do you guys think "I like the pesto vibe." "I feel like the but the execution was not." "Yeah, what was "Five." "Yeah, five. Yeah." "Five." "Four or five." "Number five, what do "Cuman, oregano, "Definitely chilies in there." "It was bold and had something we've had was very mild." "Subtle." "They were meeting the like that texture But I really like that I can taste something here, "Would you be O.K. with this creamy casserole or "I think that's a really is this the seasoning you want Because it is -- I mean, we love it, but it may I don't know. What do you think?" "I feel like, can we If people love this flavor, that you want to eat?" "Yeah, good point." "As much as you want "I feel like Thanksgiving "Yeah." "And if we can make any flavorful --" "They described So it's a dry brine, but with So there was there were these amazing red chilies that Fresh mint, which "This spice blend --" "Was fragrant." "But it didn't read -- it to me when I tasted it. It readed more like --" "Readed?" "Italian." "Read. I swear, I write "This was a fun thing to trying something Now, I have to go home I learned that you can dry still thawing. After doing a one-day brine the three-day brine turkey A reader named Nia wrote in a south Asian It was the unanimous Took a few tries to really Cumin adds savoriness, are explosive in flavors. Another major thing is to dry mint in the dry that the fresh mint was making And when it went in the oven, I started with a because I really enjoy Ultimately, I actually I knew I wanted dish to go with the turkey. At first, it was some and garlic. But then switch over because fresh peppers was a nice combination. I really loved the pan because all the However, when I switched that's when the vegetables fat, and became this amazing Happy thanksgiving. This bird has been sitting in And I can already tell it's a But what's great about this it when it's already a Just, like, unwrap My bird has been thawed enough If it's more frozen than this, water no longer than, Again, food safety. The few minutes that I dunk was enough to They're going to be We're going to do something to What this dry what's so genius about it, moisture from the turkey. And that moisture on the outside and suck Account for about a scant 1/2 You really need specifically you get a lot of in the center of the breast, The thighs are You just, like, tuck it in. Don't be afraid. You really want to A little messy, but we did it. You don't need to put a whole You can place this on But this is way easier than This just goes in the The longer, the better. Now, it's Wednesday, the You want to wake and make the spice rub. A tablespoon of a tablespoon of cumin seeds, a chilies. Just over medium heat. You'll notice the cumin seeds, They'll start to brown. But it's really the scent O.K., we're done. Those are lovely. So we're going to go quick. If you guys see -- oh my God. Don't get too close. Finishing it off Mint has a cooling effect. And I'm just going to fortify mild chili. This is an Aleppo pepper. It's a beautiful addition. And last is salt." [MUSIC PLAYING] "Spice rub is made. We're going to get See how the bag is After three days, it'll because all of that into the turkey. Pat it dry so that the Taking, like, a Really getting in there. Just oh my God. And make sure you get the It's my favorite part of If there's any stubborn parts and not sticking, I can loosen this and apply the rub onto the Here's the turkey. Freaking beautiful. It's been drying That's going to result the juiciest flesh. We have, like, serranos. We have really hot Jalapenos, yellow whole poblanos, red habanero. The one thing is you really It's kind of a fire and ice chillies. But you also have You just kind of, There's no reason for that I kind of created a Roasted in a smaller dish of elevated. The heat works really nicely The onion adds I like adding, like, to kind of season Brush some butter over the All that butter ends Almost like confiting that are under there. They get really just You want like 1/4 cup. As this roasts, is going to kind Because of that, I'm going I think this bird is good But you don't have to do much. It's just like I've done the math for you. It's 12 minutes per pound. As it roasts, we're going But you only really need I'm going to pray that because this is the bird. This is my life's work. Freaking beautiful. So delicious." [MUSIC PLAYING] "Let's say you pulled your and it's, like, maybe Like, right when you can put that turkey to warm it through again. It will finish While this sits, I'm going It's kind of worth it to And now for the gravy. That's how much fat there is. 4 tablespoons of the I made this turkey We're going to use it. There's 4 tablespoons And I'm going to add enough I'm going to make a roux. This part's really quick. Equal parts fat and flour. It's going to and then start to bubble. Cook it for about In the best way, it smells I'm going to add the So now, what I'm going to savoriness. And this is all to taste. I love nutritional A little fish sauce to taste. A little milk. Sounds weird, but you need The milk tones it down. Kind of helps the that you want to eat O.K., that's perfect. Gravy's done. I like to do this. Just, like, douse it. I'm not going to The mint is garnish for later. So my guests are I'm going to cover and then I'll pop And now, I'm a free agent. Hi." "Hi, friend." "Thank you. Thank you for coming." "Hey, Eric." "Thank you for coming." "I love turkey. Specifically, I really I know it's kind of neutral flavor wise. So you can season it I'd go turkey breast It's my hot take." "I love a turkey club. Ground turkey, sliced Thanksgiving turkey, It's a lean, mean, "I absolutely love turkey. Turkey, protein, you Protein packed. So what makes a turkey? I want the bottom part. It's where all the liquid Get into it." "Thanks, babe." "Come on, gentlemen." "Well, thank you." "You have very good form." "Thank you so much for coming. Thank you for being my friend. I love you guys so much." "I love you so much." "Love you." "Let's eat." "Oh, and she's tender." "Oh, the breast is so It's really, really good." "Heat to me is a It taps into other flavor "Even with the mint, sometimes herbaceous and bright. And it is a great to the spiciness I don't think any of the either." "You don't get because you always get a little burn. And that just resets So you're just like, I want more." "This notion of being able and vegetables, I hope that this shows turkey beyond Thanksgiving. It's a nice way to Thank you, guys. Happy Thanksgiving. You can find all these recipes Cheers. Happy Thanksgiving, everyone." "Happy Thanksgiving." "Happy Thanksgiving." "Thank you for being here." "And now, we can cut the to do." "I know you wanted to get "Cut the cameras." [MUSIC PLAYING]