Welcome to the Commonwealth Club. I'm George Hammond, chair tonight's event. We've done over 1000 programs and we now have our live audiences back, And we also welcome everybody on YouTube This is going to be the fifth program the Commonwealth Club has done with Mark It's been seven years since the first one that we did, and the last two have been YouTube sensations. Over a million each. And we're here to discuss today of JFK's assassination that has come out As I mentioned in the last one, basis for all kinds of research. People Not all of it is useful, And we'll be talking about We mentioned him last time briefly, but So we're here to discuss something very important and that is JFK's life that he just did not get justice in in the crime that was taken against him. I mean, the assassination, what almost a normal person, a normal person, would have gotten look into what had happened than that. So, Mark, Thank you, George. Thank you. And I got a new hat for this presentation, All right. So one thing that maybe we can do to set it up, and everybody that watches You know, maybe maybe half the people are. But a lot of people aren't quite aware was for his presidency So why don't you give a little bit Just brief ideas. Well, I'm kind of an accidental historian. I had never imagined Everybody knows where they were I was a freshman at Purdue University I think that was my fifth year But I remember that. But I was never interested in it much. And when the Warren Commission said it was But you have to remember that I wrote down George just a few things Of course, John Kennedy elected president. We had the Cuban Missile Crisis. The Berlin Wall was erected. James Meredith registered There was civil unrest, Obviously, JFK was assassinated and Lyndon The civil rights Act had been then passed the first spacewalks, Martin Luther King was killed. And even Bobby Kennedy So and Marilyn Monroe died. And I believe, as I've said in my presentations and in my books, So it was kind of dark days from probably 1961 or two until 68 or 69. And so that's the context then of what JFK and his assassination were Now, so in your books, you talk a lot about JFK they have, the sort of family culture But today, we're going to focus the feeling of hope, the fact that in his he reached out to people to And that that was a very effective thing to do. And I think the audience today he was the first person because he was heavily involved in World But he was much, much younger And we happen And and there is a a spirit of hope when the generation passes to another set of leaders who who weren't. Well, So why don't you talk about that and even young adults and even middle age Well, he was an inspiration. We can talk about a lot of the works, a But when he was elected president, and with Jackie and Camelot that he was going to make He was a war hero, You know, you looked at him. There's nobody was ever more charismatic who was a little embarrassed because, you know, I'm But you know, I think we all felt And he married Jackie And, you know, you have to remember that I talked about the other ones, What he what never playing with the little kids, and and all of the things I mean, he we hoped to He and Bobby Kennedy. And one of their greatest efforts was the Cuban Missile Crisis And then, you know, he lost he lost all of You know, in his forties. It should have never happened. In fact, I'm going to talk about this one and fighting for justice that had warnings about the fact that that could happen to JFK So it's a tragic death But we lost a president that had a lot. Whether you agreed with him or not. We had a lot of hope with him. And that's what a leader I think you would Of of the country. People believed in him. And so it's just tragic. And then more tragic to me I believe she was murdered, my spiritual guide, died, got the justice in that that shouldn't have happened It's sad that it did. But with JFK especially, Boy, from J. Edgar Hoover and and the people Commission, they were never going All right. So let's talk about the new information members of the Warren Commission, I mean, it's not secret information, that they were so strong in their dissent they thought that they had made, So why don't we look at that? So you met So why don't you tell people about who Maurice Wolff is still alive, Yeah, he's a bit ill. Health. It's been amazing for me. And I'm a little bit remiss because I've written six books At one point I put them all in one file. I've written almost 950,000 words I never had any, any idea. I started with this book, Melvin Belli, I practiced law with Mr. Belli When he died, I was very interested in you know, a bombastic guy People remember him for a lot of things. He represented, Faye Baker, Errol Flynn. He sued all the pharmaceutical people But I learned through my working on this book I never knew that before. It took me back to the 1960 election show. I wrote The Poison Patriarch fixing the 1960 election, specifically a Jeune Khana, in New Orleans to win that election and West Virginia. And that's more or less accepted Yes, it is point. Yes, it is by most people, not everybody. So while I was you know, what happens with there are certain moments when you hear some way to go forward While I was working a friend of his who I interviewed I knew Dorothy Kilgallen, What's My Line, She was most known for that And he said, no. He said, you know, And when when when she died, he he said to Now they'll go after Jack Ruby. And I thought, wait a minute, So I started looking into Dorothy and I wrote the reporter Who Knew George knows I've had millions of YouTube It's all about Dorothy Kilgallen. It's not about me because they are So I wrote that book. Then I found out about the Warren Kilgallen, the interest in all of that, Then I decided, Okay, But then I found out that I could connect in 62, JFK in 63, and Dorothy in 65. And that's what Collateral Damage did. I went back about the five programs, and we said in the final chapter of Mark that's the way we described it. Absolutely. Totally inaccurate. But when you you know, you feel a responsibility. As a historian, Georges his story, And I'm so pleased So then I was going to stop again, but not figuratively, but I ran into him And here's what happens. People watch my YouTube views of my presentations, or at the Allen Public Library, And what they do is they go in there, get in touch with me and I get emails Here's a tip. Here's a tip, here's a tip. This will happen with this presentation I'll find out something. So it's kind of amazing you know, the go to guy And I'm always amazed, frankly, And the information in that that you're going to hear about tonight in any venue at all because even I missed it in fighting for justice, that I will correct because the new information came to me There is one afternoon, Lou knows my wife. I got this email said, I am Maurice Wolfe. I knew Dorothy Kilgallen and I just watched your presentation It went viral I saw So I always follow up on these. I answer every email because I never know And I called this gentleman who lives Show, I want to get in touch with you And when that happens, my ears perk up All right. Long time ago. 60, 60 years. Okay. And he said, okay, I just want to tell you He said, first of all, I was a graduate of Yale. I went to work for Bobby Kennedy in the White House I was with the attorney general and I actually wrote Title We used the Commerce Clause, to hopefully do away with segregation He said, And also, Mr. Shaw, I should tell you that I was trusted and JFK to be their I just imagine I'm sitting there, so I'm just writing as quickly as I can This is history. He was about a 25 to 27 year That's right. And he's riding a bicycle back and forth because because they suspect and forth, secret messages Edgar Hoover, the FBI director, Now, just think about that for a minute that the FBI director couldn't be trusted not to tap the phones of the president And so Morris with RFK and down to the details. I interviewed him once last year He's very, very bright, very coherent. And he is so good with detail. For instance, he would tell me, you know, when he went into Bobby with his sleeves of his shirt, rolled up, And how he just sat back in his chair, his chin would kind of move around I mean, he could give me And that's important to historian is giving you a good account of what So he said, Well, he said, one thing I want to remember. He said, you know, there's quite a rivalry especially JFK. I thought Bobby Kennedy was getting And so they argued about those kinds of things, You know, Dorothy Kilgallen was at dinner after the JFK, JFK got killed You know, my my primary sources with that kind of thing really work But she was. Well, now I've got Morris Wolf and authors and everything I don't have to do that because I have my primary sources I'm not going to trick them Second hand. Right. And Morris Wolf, in addition I mean, knowing them so well then was the legislative assistant who was a Republican from Kentucky That's right. So and before that, Morris then one day told me that he had And I don't know if you know who that is, they believe, more than 100,000 And he wrote this book about it. So I'm just I'm just thinking, my gosh, this gentleman that is So he was leaving Bobby Kennedy and And he said, Well, I don't know. And he said, Well, Senator John Sherman the Kennedys, and I have photographs with his wife, with JFK and Jackie, all of the friendship that they had. Jackie Kennedy said that. COOPER was a man of integrity, almost like a father to her, all of that. So I'm learning more about John Sherman And he said, you know, Bobby Kennedy said John Sherman Cooper His his the one that he had left the JFK assassination, So Morris says, you know, Mr. Wolf says, I went to work for him. And I have to tell you that, you know, when somebody is talking to you And then he finally says to me, that I never looked into into it like everybody else Edgar Hoover. And we'll talk about that in a minute. You know, I just believe that Oswald alone made sense. All right. So I never investigated it. And I should have, and that's my fault. So he starts to tell me that are going on And if you have to remember, What did J. J. Edgar Hoover do when JFK died? Okay. The first thing he had to decide was, responsible that I didn't So right away he's in Protect mode. And what does he do? He shouts out Oswald alone. He tells the Justice Department, We want to remember this. We want to convince the American public And to control that, Number one, he goes ahead Police Department documents And two, he quickly, without any authority ships JFK's body off to Washington, D.C. for the autopsy because he says, hey, it's not a state crime to kill the president, That was the terrible lie. It was. And the Dallas the Dallas to look into the case and Congress Everybody wanted to look into the case. Well, he can't let that happen, Kenny, of skeletons in his closet So he decides, All right, well, Let's We'll have Earl Warren be the And Earl Warren was chief which is an interesting thing because, you know, why would the chief justice That's right. Exactly. So then what does he do? He starts choosing people to be on there. The first one that hit me hard was, he appointed Allen Dulles Well, Allen Dulles was the JFK had fired two years earlier. Why is he on the commission? Well, we'll talk about why he's perfect. LBJ is there. Well, LBJ is perfect and he's going to go along He then picks Jerry Ford there on the Internet, on They talk about the fact that they want because it's the old cliche he can't think But that's why they want You see, Hoover wanted to control Then Senator Richard Russell, and Senator John Sherman Cooper, as George said, believing that they will authenticity to the commission, He he can't name Kennedy to it. So he has Katzenbach, kind of be an unofficial adviser And we'll we'll we'll talk about Exactly. So he's got his commission together basically ordering them more than anything We're only going to investigate Oswald. Okay. So I'm Maurice Wolff. And what does he tell me? Well, he says, you know, Mark, We drove. He was a very tall man, And we drove to the commission And I'll tell you what, Nobody has ever gotten inside the Warren They had a code of silence that J. J. Edgar Hoover and Lyndon that they would never talk And it never was for all those years And here's a guy saying, I was at the hearings. I sat in the back row. I watched the staff do And why was that? Because. And not the members. Because Hoover, again, All he wants is Oswald alone, is fed to people and they take it in, anything else, So Maurice Wolfe then says, Well, And by the way, Hoover told me, and I wrote these The commission members already know to organized crime, Jack Ruby, of course, shot Oswald. It's more than Oswald, Justice Earl Warren Conclusion. You know, some of these are so disturbing. Our new president, Lyndon Baines Johnson, The commission members want to bury And Earl Warren LBJ Cooper told Maurice because I am a distinguished senator, My appearance will give the impression beyond reproach. But there's something very wrong The commission members say the Oswald a conclusion is good for God and country, but there is internal corruption commission members are not conducting Staffers are doing so. And this one was one that really hit me I have shared Jack Rudy's dubious with journalist Dorothy Kilgallen, and during the photo of the commission That's it, right there. Look at that. Look closely at it. During the forum, the commission members because I knew He is the second one from the right. He's hiding behind Boggs. Look at a look at the look on his face. Okay. And recently, talk about crowdsource. I've looked at that. Darn. I guess I'll say darn photograph Okay. And I never saw the look on Allen Dulles, Allen is standing right next to Senator He's looking at Cooper like, why? You know what? What are you doing? Because he's going to a minority report on the final report And that's where we're going So that's what what Morris told me. Marshall. And he told you that about what Exactly. So So he had this role and he was he felt So that's the evidence from Morris. Now, we have other evidence Yeah. And I missed it. I missed all this. I looked at the oral history of of Senator John Sherman Cooper He also did But some of that material wasn't really my own fault, because, you know, But the real the real gold was in Senator his oral history So here's what happened. You know, it's amazing. Dorothy Kilgallen led me to Morris Wolfe. Morris Wolfe And what I found was that for justice right here It was not. It was written by Senator Richard Russell. Now, if you want to talk just a little bit as respected as John Sherman Cooper was, back in those days, God willing, They didn't it didn't really matter They were really looking at And both of these two worked They they took on unpopular causes For heaven's sakes, John Sherman, Coover Well, you can imagine that didn't go over By Republican? No, by a Republican. But see, they were after the truth. And Russell, again, And they were men of distinction. They were men of integrity, was a woman of integrity. So here's this a memorandum. This is December the fifth, 1963, Exactly. So here's what Russell wrote. Something strange is happening. W You can imagine who that is. Warren and Katzenbach, Who's the acting And they are. And they are apparently and and others to show Oswald only one even considered. This is to me is untenable position. I must inside So right away I knew that Richard Russell with what was being investigated by the Okay. And again, I might add, right now, I found a letter from Senator Cooper asking to resign from the commission. And the reason he didn't But what it said in that they weren't telling him when certain witnesses like Oswald's interviewed by the commission Just think about that. Now, that's J. Edgar Hoover manipulating the commission that's going to be different Okay, So then we get to this document that I didn't know oral history in, in, in the University of Georgia. Now, he's a senator from Kentucky, So. But he's this oral Yeah. Along with the records of Senator That's right. Yeah. And these are very disturbing documents. They've never surfaced before. Just imagine that in 60 years, I'm the one who found them. Come on. There's no question in my mind In fact, you're going to find out with these points behind before him. What Russell believed of the Warren Commission. His main agenda was to present to sign the commission report After presenting his concerned, John Sherman Cooper and to a lesser which I never knew about in an oral Cooper recalled that Russell's had great influence on Cooper's Like Russell, Cooper was impressed testimony of Governor Connally and thus rejecting the single book Bullet Theory, And doesn't make any sense today. Cooper, it seems, was struck by Russell's emphatic refusal that categorically denied that one bullet although he did not go so far Cooper was willing to join Russell It's interesting to me, too, Warren, was in charge of the commission. He should be used to dissents always puts their dissents in. So you have this evidence, Cooper in his oral history Senator Russell's, But backing up because now we have other information Yeah. And what I don't often forget to say you're always looking to confirm George knows that he as a historian, Well, what does all of this do for me? It confirms what? What, what Maurice Wolff told me, doesn't it? It shows that the disturbing effect with, with, with the, Oswald alone. Focus for everything. And you're probably wondering, well, Cooper and Russell Well, again, they had the code of silence. Okay? And he finally was sharing with Maurice Wolff that took Maurice Wolff And he told me. So what happened then is that And so I went to look Senator Russell knew about the fact Think about this. For 60 years, the Oswald alone verdict has lived Just think about that question the Oswald alone verdict, all of that would have been Here's what could happen and here's why. J. Edgar Hoover couldn't let it be They said it would be. Earl Warren, LBJ. Hoover promised And you see what It's just Because what would have happened if that, dissent would have been in there? It would have changed everything. Okay. There would have been more investigation. Maybe Congress would have investigated, the state of Texas would have investigated the other day he said of the CIA being involved, for that because they weren't They weren't going to investigate They weren't going to ask the Russians, And he said, I never thought of that. And I said, Well, neither did I. But that's what Okay. So I decided to look more into Senator because he was So after the final commission report was delivered to the president, The commission was disbanded and the members had little reason Had Russell done this, It contained no mention of any dissent. The senator resumed his opinion had been documented Now, three years go by before a Senate to gain access to all of the Warren In a letter dated eight eight May 20th, 1968, to the archivist for the United States, Weisberg had found of the September You know, that was the archivist who told Right. There's no transcript of it. There was a of general business being conducted, was there any mention of Russell's defense Rather, Russell's attempt to document And then this is so interesting during a chance Now, four years past the September 1964 Weisberg told the center Commission report with the dissented, it no longer existed that the official transcript Those of Cooper and Boggs from the historical record men, exceptions They basically destroyed the document and then this is how they tricked him. Early in the life of the commission, solicitations would be recorded During the September 18th meeting, of a woman in the room and assumed However, she was not since the survey show the last session the firm was billed It is thus possible to assume was meant to deceive Russell that the meeting They went to that extent to trick them. They thought it was being recorded The presence of the document doctored. Transcripts prove that someone most likely Lee Rankin, of dissensions in the ranks. When confronted with his unmistakable of hoax, Russell was shocked and appalled. Having served in Washington for decades, such treatment. Russell returned to Georgia in 1970 his farewell address to his constituents. He farewell. He knew. He knew he was dying of lung cancer. Seizing the final opportunity quite plainly that he was not satisfied He told the interviewer research refused to sign the report The the clause, the dissent. But he was never completely satisfied and this act together on his own without consulate consultation with else. And that's what a majority of And then and then we go to this, you know, the evidence was evaluated five years after his death Well, the House Select Committee in 76 were shocking. The commission had done its job too well. And so what happened is, although there have been doubters by FBI director during the commission as paranoid lunatics While the dissent of such a prominent certain legitimacy to various critics, in guiding public opinion. The wide variety of books and films and other theories that not had numbed jaded public to find new findings. So they closed it up and buried it. And I missed it. And everyone who has talked the so-called experts and everything, first time it's been exposed is right now. Now, Mark, we talked about what we wanted hour. Yes. That we have. And we're not going to try to answer What we're trying to show two very, very well-respected senators Commission's report, and therefore, or probably some other answer. And But it seems like it. And then the next part is where did Dorothy Kilgallen take this? So you heard the information gave her transcripts that he wasn't because he thought that So we're now in Dorothy And where did she take this investigation? Where did she think We've talked about it before, but I think it's an important part not to come to an answer, but to say, who was trusted with the by the dissenters So the Warren Commission report is issued and it's I mean, it's as bogus as can be. Here's here's their report. Okay. It's worthless. What? sorry. Do it. It's absolutely it's absolutely worthless. I'm sorry, Doug, but it's worthless. There's only one piece of humor So that was it. Well, I get very, very get upset about this. I get very frustrated about this. Three people died here. That should never have died. One was Marilyn Monroe. Bobby Kennedy was complicit in her death. If he would have been prosecuted there would have never even been Kilgallen wouldn't have investigated So I get very passionate about this. What happened after the Warren Everybody bought it. CBS did a three part series They called out They did all these experiments. the ICWA. The commission got it right. The the House Select was convened in 76. Nothing. Nothing in there really. Disturb bring about the Warren Commission. But, you know, again, And then the church report, Frank Church, had a report that they did None of the dissent stuff Okay. And guess who else is in in Dorothy Kilgallen never invited to appear even though, as you'll see in a minute, who was out there crying. No Oswald alone? No Oswald alone. It's something more. She was not at the House Select and she was not in the church report. So all of that information with regard to what these things are But there was Dorothy Kilgallen in Dallas. You have to know that she was a very good He came to her home for parties. He played charades with her She was a very close friend of his. At one point, he invited her Kerry, and made a fuss over some papers that some letters She she Dorothy's And so there was a very close And so when she watched him and then Ruby shot Oswald, Oswald's testimony But she found out that he would be there all of that. So Dorothy knew all of that. She went to Dallas. She interviewed Jeff Curry, the Dallas came from the overpass, She she was in Dealey Plaza. She was doing all of that to investigate. She was at the Ruby trial. I always say to these skeptics of mine, Were you there? No, of course they weren't. Dorothy was there. We have the photograph. She was there with Melvin Belli, The, the video of that is on the Web site, Borgu. A lot of things are up there She went to the Ruby trial, front row. She heard all the testimony. She interviewed Jack Ruby, Out of 400 reporters. Now, how did she get that one? It's not easy to do so in the books, But collateral damage, too. And the reporter hitting too much, She was there. Jack Ruby told his co-counsel, Joe Tannehill, that at the Carousel Club night, as millions of people did, and that somehow they had a mutual friend So during one lunch hour, And she talked to him for about 8 minutes. And then there was another little quick And so whatever he told her, we don't know exactly but she was on the job of the assassination, her column, Justice is a big rug when you when it She reported on Ruby's friendships with the Dallas police. She report she was the only one going situation, putting herself in danger, Edgar Hoover, LBJ, all these people who want to So none of that information was ever in the newspapers It wasn't in the Warren Commission report. It wasn't in the But what Dorothy found was basically this, that you have to look at motive. As a former criminal defense lawyer I always looked at motive analysis of legal analysis of O.J. and Mike Tyson and and Kobe Bryant's case. I always look at motive. And that's what Dorothy did. She was very clever. She investigated the Dr. Sam Shepard case, which became the fugitive, She she was, called by the New in America, syndicated to 200 newspapers A million people She was a woman of action by her colleagues So what did she do after Now, George is right. For instance, let's just go back a minute. We really don't know about the CIA never investigated. We really don't know a great deal you know, come back against JFK for the the problem with the with the assault all those people being killed there, LBJ being investigated the oil industry and other skeletons in his closet We don't know about the Kennedys said, no, no, no, fixing the 60 election We don't know about any of that. All we know is that Dorothy Kilgallen, after she talked to Ruby was New Orleans. And that's where Carlos Marcello Mafia don was who Bobby within a few weeks of JFK is dead. Excuse me. Of of of deported a few a few days or weeks after JFK was inaugurated. Double it was a double cross those Mafioso they would leave them alone Instead, So as 1963 comes along, here's Listen. A motive. Let's see Well, I'd like to go ahead and kill Robert Kennedy But I'm going to go ahead and I think So Bobby Kennedy will be powerless And that's exactly what happened. So Dorothy, in her own mind, as we get to She knows about Ruby's, you know, obviously being involved in the And she doesn't believe from what he told he was ordered to do so. She knows about the corruption She knows about the Warren Commission. Ruby testimony that it doesn't fit She knows about all of these and she's put herself in danger, And is November comes along. She visits New Orleans Oswald, Marcello and and Ruby. And she comes back And she tells everybody, I'm if the wrong people knew would it cost me my life? I bought a gun. I'm afraid for my life and my family. And on November 8th, 1965, she's In her townhouse in Manhattan, wearing her eyelashes, makeup and her hairpiece. And. And she's dead. No investigation whatsoever. The cause of death Circumstances undetermined. No investigation. No investigation of Marilyn's death. No investigation of JFK death. None of them got to the justice But we're talking about tonight He deserved better, didn't he? He deserved. He and his family deserved when he was killed in Dallas in 1963. And that did not happen. And it's unfortunate because so much of You know, if we learn anything from this, Don't take all that bull on the Internet Don't Some of these extreme news outlets. Whatever it is, it doesn't matter. Ask questions. You know, young people, because they didn't ask They bought that whole Warren Commission verdict just hook, line and sinker. And it was it was evident there, you know, but it was all covered disappointing and frustrating. And it seems, you know, there's still have information and saying, well, we have to delay this the lives of people you know, it's been 60 years. Well, at what point at should just give all the information out Well, it's it's it's disturbing. And I think this is of a problem with with government today. The hiding of government, the fake news, We don't have a reporter. How many emails from around the world I wish we had a reporter with integrity There's not one out there. I just chastise a reporter for USA Today that I felt like he really didn't And I was in one of those moods of mine And so I wrote him back Kilgallen because they don't investigate anymore. They look for the sensational headline that might fit with that. Dorothy She went out and found the facts and then That's why she was so, so respected. You know, just for those of you audience, we're showing this series Kennedy's life, from Dorothy Kilgallen, Just just to give you images of So. Yeah. And just one more thing. Very, very critical of the media back then, Dorothy had the story. She was well respected. But I can't find any accounts you know, of her columns or anything else We've look very carefully at that. They were just in the New York Journal, And I'll tell you what, since the JFK assassination in not any of them What they do is they they leave her out and they leave me out, frankly, If you put in my research, research and everything, it goes Gerald Posner, Vincent Bugliosi, all these, all these, these, these authors I even talked to Vincent DiLeo, about Dorothy Kilgallen And I told him about Dorothy's research and he said, Mark, my God, I'm going to include that in my book. No, Unfortunately, what you can do is you can just leave out and just another quick thing. So it's like like a dissent to the Warren Absolutely. Sure is. That's true. You can just leave it out. That's true. And some of my supporters there's a big JFK conference in Pittsburgh in this month and there's one in Dallas. And I assume you know You're going to be there, aren't you? Aren't you going to speak there? They don't invite me. Now. There could be a lot of reasons but they don't want to hear about me and they don't want to hear because it upsets everything they're and then crazies and conspiracy theories Recently as it could be, and then I'm going Jackie Kennedy shot JFK and she did on the White House lawn with a gun And then after she shot him, and they came And there's been a look alike. There was a look alike That's how strange it gets. Now, George, I know It reminds me of something There is no myth so irrational That's probably true. And there is no truth That just seems to be the way You know, go back to being serious. Just look at those two little kids, Okay? And there's a great book out there written by Caroline about her father. And, you know, was the photograph that was sent to me JFK is coming out of the White House teddy bear. And I mean, he love those children. You remember the shot of JFK, of of John-John under the president's desk. I mean, And Jackie lost all of it and everything. But it's just it's just sad to think about that MORRIS Wolf told me, by the way, that Jack Kennedy was in trouble and they argued as much as they could to have a limousine with the top on it. And then he told me that his brother, who had lived in Dallas for 40 years, told him, don't, Somebody is going to kill him. And obviously that's what happened. So the warnings were out there You know. So why don't we talk a little bit more about John Kennedy, You as I said at the beginning, in the Kennedy family and, you know, the the bad habits But why don't you talk the Cuban Missile Crisis and how they relied on each other. And although there's evidence that Bobby wrote is not an accurate but the general arc of knowing history did not want to allow this So why don't you talk a little bit Because I think maybe them Well, One is civil rights for sure. Maurice Wolff told me about that. The Bobby Kennedy was He was not going to allow the African-Americans, and then they would come into a state They couldn't stay at Howard Johnson, they couldn't eat in restaurants, And he was fiercely determined. And one time he he mentioned to me on the desk of the arrests of these people water, and all of that They had to do something. And Maurice was right And there would have never been if it hadn't been for for Bobby Kennedy. So I'm a big I've been an opponent of his in a lot of ways in terms of especially But that is a Sure. And JFK backed him up on that. There was no rivalry about that. There was no jealousy there at all. And they were determined that they were And that way they succeeded. And then their finest moment came about, And you have to remember I read an interesting biography. I'm writing a biography of Lincoln right And I see a lot of traits you know, passion being the main one, passion. If they believed in something and, you know, they were going to follow But I read a biography of Cuba, basically what it was, and it talks about Cuba very disturbing, and the United States making millions But Cuba finally got to a point and it was it would seem to be doing well And then, of course, Fidel Castro came in with the Russians. And what was going to happen, They felt like the US And so they made an agreement And we found out there we didn't that they had had missiles over there So Morris, But the whole situation And there were really tried to to to convince John F Kennedy that the best thing to do was to invade All right. And he listened and he listened. And then he and Bobby and Bobby because he used a backchannel the officials in Cuba. And they basically said they were going to stop those ships And and there was no you know, And so John F Kennedy and Robert Kennedy by stopping those ships, obviously, because Khrushchev was yelling and we're going to invade But they went ahead and did that And I think it's right to say so So you have to think about it. When Bobby Kennedy then was killed in 68, he had a lot of flaws, Some people ask there is a connection and JFK is and I've said many times I think that Marcello in in New Orleans Bobby Kennedy knows. And by the way, RFK is waltzing around the country that the CIA was involved J Bobby and in government officials and everything And and I thought they would get somebody and all of that. He's just making up history doing that. But Marcello would have thought Listen. Bobby He's going to become president. United States. What's the first thing So I have been able to make some connections between Sirhan Sirhan and Marcello, to make enough connections there Maybe maybe somebody will watch with that connection. But I don't speculate. But it's just sad. It's just sad with the two Now, one one last comment about the Cuban They were also realists. The the deal that they made some face back in Russia missiles from Turkey, And they you know, which of course, But but that was effective for for getting that conclusion. So it's time to bring this to an end. But I thought we'd give the last word this watching the live stream. There's two comments. One is from a mr. Allen. He said that Dorothy And there's another comment and he suggested that the Warren Report would make an excellent doorstop. And don't throw it on somebody's foot. Yeah, I'm sorry, George. No problem. Very So I think the bottom line here, is that we have some information We know that they should have at least And looked into it, which they didn't And that there's this reporter, Dorothy Kilgallen, had a relatively reasonable construct of what probably happened but was killed Well, and that's the proof. Yeah, Dorothy had it right. What? They killed her, And end of story. I mean, that's that's basically, you know, they could not let her write She was writing about a tell all book. Because Hoover would have been indicted And in my opinion, although know this. But Marcello would have been indicted That couldn't Yeah. No, but we can talk about it Finally. Yes, we can. And. And anybody who has any other information contact, Mark, you know, being passed down So thank you, After seven years in 66. Well, anyway, so thank you very, And so ends and its 121st year Thank you very much for coming some more information out of that Thanks again for watching. Thank you. Bye.