There is a serious mathematical problem a problem that some of the world's This video is about this problem and about from the basic physics of sound, will then see never be perfectly in tune, and, after looking we'll understand the equal temperament, which is This video has some audio demonstrations so you're advised to use good headphones. Let's start at the very beginning - what is sound? Well, physically speaking, sound is vibrations in air pressure, which are vibrations in the density of the air molecules, The rate at which these vibrations hit our eardrums And frequency is measured in Hertz, The frequency of musical tones is typically meaning that sound vibrations hit our ears so this animation is actually in very slow motion. Our ears and brain perceive tones with a So for example, that's how a 200 hertz tone sounds like, and this is a 1000 hertz tone. It turns out that all musical tones are, in a sense, made in a very specific way out of building that behave according to the mathematical Here is how a pure tone sounds. Now there is a lot to be said about what exactly but for the purpose of our video, when we hear a then this tone actually contains several pure are f, 2f, 3f, 4f, etc. Always integer multiples These pure tones are called &quot;harmonics&quot;. There is the first harmonic, the second harmonic and, so on. So keep these harmonics in mind, because we will need them later. Now in music we have melodies, Here is a melody that uses only three tones, And here's another melody, but this time the frequencies Now are these two melodies the same? Well, strictly one note frequency in common. But on the other hand, essentially the same melody. The answer is that both melodies have the same ratios In melody 1, the frequency ratio between the second tone and the ratio between the third tone and the first is 5:3. In melody 2 the frequencies are different, It turns out that our brains perceive two such note frequencies, as essentially the same melody. melody by the same factor, so that the ratios stay called transposition from one key to another. And transposition is extremely important in music. For example, if a singer who has a certain vocal range but cannot reach some high notes, which mathematically means that he should sing all the notes by the same factor. It would sound essentially the same song, but in the lower key. And hopefully now the notes are within his range. The next thing to discuss is intervals. An interval is the musical distance between it is determined by the frequency ratio of the One important interval is called the octave, For example, two tones with frequencies The octave is very pleasant to the ear. Did you hear how the two tones sounded Octaves are especially important in music, called &quot;octave equivalence&quot;, where people as highly similar. So similar, that and musicologists say that they belong to the For example, a 440 hertz tone is called an &quot;A&quot;, and so is the tone or two octaves above, one octave below, and so on. And all these A's Besides the octave, another important interval a frequency ratio of 3:2. For example, Fifths are ubiquitous in music from all cultures, The discovery that there is some mathematics is attributed to Pythagoras. And if i got my was stated in numerical terms, more than 200 But we are here to discuss the tuning of musical continuum of infinitely many different pitches. her finger at some point on the fingerboard, to say one inch away, to produce another note, infinitely many places between these two points, But some other instruments are limited A standard piano, for example, has only 88 keys, The big question is - which note should they be? and 880 hertz, and create a list of note our piano to be able to play. Now, it's enough octave equivalence: once we decide on the all by 2, to get the frequencies in the next octave, and so on. We said that the octave and the fifth requirement from our piano is that it will be Let's start with 440 as the first frequency in our list. A fifth piano to be able to play fifths, so we add 660 Now 990 is outside our range, but an octave below want our piano to be able to play octaves, so so we add it too. So we continued this occasionally going down an octave, if Now when should we stop this process? Well, then after going down an octave, we will return to new notes to get from the process. But that won't that we will never make it back exactly to will have infinitely many note frequencies. Now piano needs infinitely many keys, for the single To prove that we will never make it back to 440, which says that something is true if its opposite leads to a contradiction. So, if we do return at number of times, let's call this number n, in which of times, let's call it k, in which we went down an multiplying 440 by 3/2 n times, which is And going down k octaves means multiplying this back to 440. Now the two 440's cancel out, and if equals 2 to the power of n plus k. But any is an even number. So we got a contradiction - And that means that it cannot be true that we have So a piano that can play exact fifths and infinitely many keys for a single octave. And this curiosity, but a serious practical problem in the some of the greatest minds in history, including These people, and many others. came up with dozens Each way results in a certain choice of note frequencies for a single octave, and such a choice of frequencies is called a &quot;tuning&quot;, or an &quot;intonation&quot;, or a &quot;temperament&quot;. And We will discuss in this video only a few of the main This tuning is often credited to Pythagoras himself, and it was common in western music until the late middle ages. The idea behind Pythagorean tuning is to use octaves and but not too many of them. Just enough to play some simple melodies. As before, it's enough to consider only a single octave range, the actual frequencies don't matter, and we can conveniently To get the actual frequencies in some specific octave, like between 440 and 880, we just multiply all the values we'll have by 440. We now need to fill this range before the octave is enough for the simple So let's repeat our previous process, but only for a few steps. Another fifth up and one octave down, we and also go down one fifth from the octave note, Let's listen to the notes we got. They may sound to you like the usual notes but they're actually slightly different, as we'll see later. Still, they sound OK, and they're enough One drawback of Pythagorean tuning is that becomes a problem. For example, if we want to started with this note, and start it instead the required notes. But if we use again only note between two of the notes we already have, we And if we add this way a few more notes, things transposition issues with this approach, no matter The picture we now have looks similar to a piano keyboard, Early keyboard instruments had only the so-called white keys, and later gradually evolved to have more and more black keys. Our next temperament is called Just Intonation, and it is associated with the late even though its roots are much older. but replaces others with new ones. The new, Just ratios are numerically For example, the Pythagorean third note, 81/64 And there is also a 1.25 percent deviation Can we even hear such a small difference? Pythagorean third note and the Just third So listen carefully, and try to hear meaning that it's the Just one, or if You can rewind the video to hear again, It was the Pythagorean one. Now 1.25 large enough that under good listening conditions, But what's the point behind Just Intonation? It's because when we play together certain note The combination of the first, third, and fifth called a major chord. Let's listen and then in Pythagorean tuning. Did you hear that the Pythagorean combination why the just combination sounds more smooth, and it We saw that a tone with frequency f contains Let's think of f as the frequency of the first note in this temperament, and look at its harmonics, will be a little bit above 5f, so it's a little bit And these two close frequencies, clash in our ears and create a rough sensation. which is 5/4, then the fourth harmonic of this fifth harmonic of the first note, and there is with the third and fifth notes. There is a clash of in Just Intonation. This ratio of 4:5, key places in Just Intonation, and that's why more smooth. But a downside of just intonation is For example, in Pythagorean tuning, the interval and it's the same as the interval between extremely simple melody, which uses only the first and play it with the second and third notes. But in they are 9/8 and 10/9, so we can't even transpose Our next temperament is called meantone temperament, baroque period. We will discuss the most common Just intonation taught us that it's a good idea so we keep it. But there was a transposition because these two intervals were not equal. So to avoid interval between the first and the second notes third notes. They both equal to some a. So we get and the solution of this equation is that a is the meantone second note. Now in mathematical the first and the third notes. Usually, when we have x and y, their midpoint is their usual average - x mathematics the arithmetic mean, and we use it through how much we need to add to the For example, if x equals 100 and y equals 400, 150 to get from 100 to 250, and the same number, the usual average of 100 and 400. This notion of For example, when x and y are the physical and our number line represents miles. But musical so when the number line represents frequency, the is the point that is an equal distance in the happens to be two 200: we need to multiply 100 by 2 200 to 400. And the formula for calculating this which is called the geometric mean of x and y. And So back to our meantone temperament, we wanted from the first and the third notes, so we used a equal the square root of five over two. But dealing with musical distance, what we're looking 5/4, so we can use our formula for the note should be the square root of one times 5/4, But what about the other meantone notes? which we know is especially important? Recall and then down one octave, to get the second note. A key idea in meantone temperament is to deviate from this exact 3:2 ratio. If we now go up another such fifth, and then down an octave, root of five over 2, should equal b squared over b equals the fourth root of five, which can be So this is the meantone fifth. Now this meantone from the exact 3:2 fifth. Can you hear Try to hear if the second note I'm about The answer is that the second note was higher. much smaller than the difference in our We can now fill the remaining notes using and get this set of notes for We still get the ratio 4:5 in the which is good, and our tiny compromise over the To improve things further, we can add more notes, still using one interval, which in this layout is between This interval is called the wolf interval, and Around the baroque period, people sometimes improved keyboard instruments, but that's not a perfect somewhere in this approach. Now how in practice did people tune their instruments and without the modern technology of tuners and calculators? That's an interesting question, but beyond the I'll just say that the results in practice were often only an Finally we've reached the equal temperament, which in western music since the mid 19th century. and then down 7 octaves, we get almost exactly So if we slightly shrink all the fifths, 12 different notes, or more precisely, through 12 equal temperament is to divide the octave into so if we let r be the ratio between any two adjacent notes, should take us exactly to 2, or that So r is the 12th root of 2, which is about 1.06. We can write and using this notation, the 12 notes The interval between any two adjacent notes in the is called a semitone. Now the fifth in the equal and it is only about one tenth of a percent away such a tiny difference? Let's see in the usual way. The second note was lower, but it's even for expert musicians under ideal conditions. A huge upside of the equal temperament is that it any key to any other key. And that's because there two adjacent notes. This is not only practically whatever key that fits his range, but it also freed change keys in their middle. But there are also the octave, which remained at 2, all intervals any of the other temperaments we discussed, and We saw that the equal temperament has an excellent that good everywhere. The third note is especially away from the Just 5:4 ratio. This time the second note was lower. It was the so many musicians rightfully complain Another problem with the equal temperament became popular, there were other temperaments but these intervals weren't exactly equal. which is lost in the equal temperament. Bach's famous &quot;well-tempered clavier&quot; was probably for the equal temperament, as some people think. prelude from the well-tempered clavier, played Try to hear the slight roughness that is coming Here is the prelude again, still in the original key, but now more smoothly. Well, at least in the first and last Next, let's listen to it again in the two temperaments The equal temperament version still because the equal temperament But the Just Intonation version, which is sounds absolutely horrific, because of the The equal temperament is by far the most popular not the only one. In the so-called historically musicians often use the temperaments that were Arab, Turkish, and Persian music uses microtonal division of the octave, compared to the 12-tone accommodate this, is to divide the octave into 24 equal in these musical traditions is happy with this Some music theorists and composers came up octave to 19 equal intervals, 31 equal intervals, various mathematical and musical justifications A whole different approach to temperaments is to forget about equal divisions of Just Intonation. The Just Intonation network has and some of the problems of just intonation There is plenty more to say but this is it for this video. reading and further youtubing.