Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And the Azure fundamentals certification for the and you don't know anything, and you want Because we're going to show you how to set and more. And as always, I'd love to hear LinkedIn, definitely tell me how the course Azure Azure certified on Twitter, and I'll and I'll see you soon. Hey, this is Andrew what is the az 900. So the Azure fundamentals Microsoft Azure. This certification is generally az 900. The az 900, is about knowing the Azure and having a bit of hands on experience working the top right corner, that is what the certification Azure fundamentals. And then just talking If you want to have a roadmap as to what you up their certifications, the role based certifications So in the fundamentals, we have the az 900. the developer, the AI engineer, the data scientists, engineer, you're gonna see there's two course some certifications require you to pass two a data engineer, you have to pass those two sell the security in associate with the expert where you have two exams, you have to pass. And then for specialties, we have Azure for are all the Azure certifications that are everything that was very service or technology which makes things a lot easier for people will look and say, Oh, you have the data engineer engineering. So that is really simplifying that you like. So if you want to go to the But it's not generally recommended. It's you to expert, but you know, whatever you think So here's the az 900, for what's commonly VPS or CEOs reasons for their company to utilize to show they have familiar knowledge with you've had a program background, but just way to tack on the cloud skill there at az centric concepts, which makes sense because it's going to be things that are going to using the TCL calculator, and, and informing things like that to drive business decisions. if you're developer, it's not going to be going to be trying to hire you just because on to the associate or expert track. But that you are a developer, and you already have say you have AWS skills, you already have that you can work cross cloud grabbing this I poked around the Azure portal. So you'll would be a good case to get it as a developer. and you want to make Azure the cloud provider get. The main reason I tell people always it helps them build confidence before you you familiar with the exam experience, whether can be extremely stressful. Okay, so now you're So you're going to be asking me, well, how certification? Well, if you're developer, and you've been working in industry for a I'm going to say that you're going to have a bootcamp grad. So you don't really have want to try to tack on cloud as early as possible crowd. You're probably gonna be spending 15 so you just do not have a technical background, adopt Azure or cloud for your business, you're I recommend it is you want to put one to three single day, you don't want to spread this you take this exam. And the way it works with with a, a, a company that is also partnered and the one that Azure is partnered with is Pearson VUE is that you can either go in person Pearson VUE website, and it would tell you the convenience of your own home. So if you room so that you don't have a bunch of things you're in a secure location, the lets you what we call the proctored exam. And the reason proctor is a supervisor or person who monitors those, both options available to you, if I recommend going in person because online, to have that problem. But you know, it just what does it take to pass the exam. So there watch the video lectures and memorize key on labs and follow along with your own Azure your own account in here. But when we get it, just don't watch it, because that's going And the last is to do paid online practice pass the exam without using paid practice certification. It's much harder the associate to go get a paid solution, if you are going the favor and use hours because it supports go and use one of those other paid providers for us, if we made enough money, we'd make So there you go. So now let's take a look that we're going to need to do to pass the So the first thing is the content outline. we're going to have to focus our time on the 15 to 25% of the exam, then you have Azure the exam, then you have security, privacy, the exam, and then you have pricing and support, that there are ranges here. So the thing is, 25% of the questions are going to be of that grading. In order to pass this exam, you have what you're trying to get is around 70% to 700. And you could fail because Azure uses that you get doesn't necessarily reflect the a bit higher than 70%. So you want to aim see on the exam, we'll talk about here in So that means you have you have the chance an asterisk here, because people who have presented with 30 questions. And I even reached what is the real number and their official people are taking the exam, they're there, much I can do about it. It's just that's what of what your experience is going to be. But to 60 questions. In terms of the format of choice, you're going to see multiple answer, then you might see a hot area hot areas usually you have to answer two things at once. And that means you get one minute per question is 60 minutes, but the seat time is 90 minutes. you should allocate for the actual exam so instructions before you start your exam reading itself, which is the exam time 60 minutes exam, which is generally optional. And the going to be valid for, it's going to be valid to be able to hold on this for two years before go. So now I just wanted to quickly show you guide, literally exam guide, it's the Microsoft this gives you pretty much the information you might need to learn. But that doesn't in here is actually on the exam. But let's idea. So the first is the cloud concepts domain. such as availability, scalability, elasticity, haven't seen that on the exam before, but describe the economics of scale capex versus to describe the different types of cloud cloud platform as a service Software as a Service, hybrid cloud models. So there's that there, core services for Azure. So these ones I would have to do with networking, then you have core services or extended services, I suppose security, privacy, compliance and trust. So but these don't really show up in the exam in case than Azure identities. So that's creating one there is really Azure Active Directory, knowing about things like the Security Center, services. within Azure, then we have governance. based access, just general access that has here. Then monitoring tools, then we have is generally just pointing to websites under compliance information that we have described the subscriptions, so you know, free versus a bunch of pricing. So like they have a pricing the support plans, and then understand the understanding general availability. So yeah, outline. I mean, it has stuff down here below But yeah, that is the exam guide outline. like the actual exam policies, this page is support team. So it says exam policies and and certifications, or like how to book your retake. So what happens if you paid for it? Did you get or how long the exam hours are? you just want to scroll through it, but yeah, it's 60 minutes, they just say, oh, for general, have to assume that is what that's the time out that page. And check this out if it interests we cover everything in the course that you I wanted to make you aware of those resources, exam Pro. And we're starting at the beginning question, which is what is cloud computing. is described as the practice of using a network store manage and process data rather than we're talking about local, we describe this or your own data center. And so this is where you pay the rent or the real estate, you take if you're utilizing them, it's someone else the IT people someone else who pays or rents being responsible for configuring your cloud care of the rest. Sounds great, doesn't it? a quick overview of how servers have evolved, a technical perspective, and we'll probably But we're just going to get a good overview So way back in the day, what we had was dedicated web app or your technology, what you had to physical machine. And that was for one specific used today. But there's some downsides with maintenance, however, you do get a great level potentially can have better, better security, a virtual private servers. So we still had dedicated to a single business, but we figured virtualize it into sub machines. So now we physical server with running multiple apps, for for four different apps, we could easily sub machines, then we had shared hosting. who's building websites or WordPress is, but and it was shared by hundreds of businesses. class, it was multiple businesses. So this resources, though. So if you had 100 people server than the others, then you could all the very least, you are getting very, very limitations. So now coming down to cloud hosting, So we have multiple physical machines that as the cloud. And that system is abstracted get the you get flexibility, scalability, And it's highly configurable. So that is where computing, Cloud Hosting is. Hey, this is at common cloud services. So a cloud provider into various types of services. And the four is a service. And we'll talk about what that where you have a virtual computer that can then you have storage. So this is where you store files, then you'd have virtual networking, So you need to put them in some kind of virtual imagine a database that is running in the just imagine that it's excel in the cloud, I want you to know about the term cloud computing word, at this point, we just use it as a catch categories. So when I say cloud computing, and databases. But you can also say cloud networking, and people will know what you Pro, and we are looking at what is Microsoft. And Microsoft is an American multinational in Redmond, Washington. And Microsoft makes services, which is what we care about here And we're not just limited to that list. They known for their operating operating system the 1970s. So they've been around for quite us to the question is what is Azure? So Azure service. And so it's called Microsoft Azure, And so here is the logo for it. If you're it means bright blue color of the cloudless hear me say cloud service provider frequently to CSP, but that's what Azure is. It is a this is Andrew Brown from exam pro and we So what are the benefits? Well, we have a So you pay for what you consume, there is abbreviated as P A YG. And you're sharing how you're getting that. That Low, low cost. so launch workloads anywhere in the world, the global market. Another benefit is that care of the physical security. And cloud services ability to configure access down to the granular that you would have that you you would normally Now, the cloud is also known for being reliable. and data replication and fault tolerance. or decrease your resources and services based So you can automate scaling during spikes. longer the demand for that stuff. And it's manner software is patch upgraded and replaced to you. And I mean, the last one, there is interruptions than you would have on prem. from exam Pro. And we are looking at the different nice pyramid on left hand side to help us Starting at the top of our pyramid, we have And this is a product that is run and managed how the service is maintained. And it just not be aware of this, but you probably already could be Salesforce, or Gmail, or office 365. be considered SaaS, and these are really for software, like general software on your computer, is Platform as a Service, abbreviated as past. of your app applications. And so you don't the hardware or less. And this is really for but they don't think about any of the infrastructure Beanstalk on AWS Heroku, which is very popular party service for launching web apps. And are three examples there. And these are really it easy for developers to build apps on the underneath. At the bottom, we have Infrastructure blocks of cloud it. So provide access to networking don't worry about the ABOUT IT staff, data focus of our course here is focusing on this is that I do emphasize your service can have on top of it. And so examples of infrastructure or even Oracle Cloud. And so this is really three types of cloud computing. And there Pro. And we're looking at the types of cloud three categories there. But we don't really for what is the cloud service provider responsible we're going to include on premise into this private cloud and should be in the category as a service platform as a service and software it's going to be the customer's responsibility we have Software as a Service, the cloud service at the data level is going to be the same provider is going to be responsible, but for then on the next level for the runtime. It's drivers for the platform as a service and going to be the same for the O s, like the it's going to be the same, then we get to is responsible with the cloud service provider servers, it's the same as for storage, it's So you can see that on premise, you're responsible the types of cloud computing, the less responsibility Pro. And we were looking at Azure as deployment talk about is public cloud. And that's where you're not using anything on prem, or in your Azure. And generally, this is known as cloud public clouds. So that's what we're going I have an architectural diagram, where we we have a virtual machine running and a database cloud, then we have private cloud. And this data centers, also known as on premise, because like their physical location. And it could be operating their own cloud, but it'd be open source cloud software that mimics what very similar. But you just put an OpenStack or a server, and it's also running a database. with hybrid, you're using both on premise connected together. And so there's a lot of use that will facilitate the connection between Route Express rose is a dedicated connection, from your on premise data center to the Azure And if we wanted to understand like the pros we'll just quickly go through it. So if you're security. It's, it's great controls are stronger the cloud will meet all their security requirements reasons, not because the cloud is not secure. of configuration, it's going to be limited to you. So there's a lot of configuration your own servers, you obviously can do anything you don't need to have as much in depth knowledge you're not physically setting up servers, coming down to private cloud, private cloud So you're going to be paying a lot of money that is 100% secure, because you just don't would have with a cloud service provider. to build out all that software, but you could depending on your situation. But this is becoming organizations move over to the cloud, you you'd like because you literally have bought it. And the technical knowledge, you'll have you might even have a really hard time finding Then down below, we have the hybrid model. on what you offload to the cloud and also forth. For security, you know, you have more easier to secure on the cloud than it is in you're going to get the best of both worlds knowledge, you're going to need to know both on premise. So that's the most work there. just wanted to talk about cross cloud. This exam, but it's something that you should understand using multiple cloud providers, sometimes cloud. And so I just have an example here. what Azure arc does is it extends your control containers on different platforms. And so Eks and GCP Kubernetes engine and so you could treated like they're on the same network. extremely large organizations where they they want you to know what that is, because it that is part of the industry. So there you And we're looking at the concept of total between on premise so having your own data notice above it, it says capex and OPEX, we're But for the time, or for the time being, we're So to really make sense of this, I always what that is, those are icebergs, people sometimes make this drawing a little bit more clear, no mistaking it. And the reason we're using the top of the iceberg, which are the costs then we have those hidden costs, those costs is underneath the water. And if you know icebergs, know. So on the left hand side, the cost that fees. And then for the cloud service provider, you're comparing these two, sometimes the license fee. So you think, well, we should cost effective. But when we take in the total we're gonna see a very different picture. you have to deal with the implementation, also have to deal with the physical security hardware, you have to pay for the IT personnel, the right hand side on the cloud, you still and training. But that's about it. So there's to do. And you might ask, okay, well, what people find that when they move from on prem of money, okay, 75% of what you generally the left hand side is now Azure is responsibility, is going to take care of it for you. So that's Brown from exam Pro, and we're looking at on the left hand side, we have capex, so capital operational expenditures OPEX. And so looking is spending money upfront on physical infrastructure, over time, a lot of companies larger companies And they know how to work their tax bill. to move on to the cloud, because they're used talk about some of the things that would be anything that's physical, and then you're so that would be your server costs, if you if you bought routers, cables and switches for backup and archive costs, if you had disaster supply would be an example that you have your physical security, your technical personnel, And so with capital expenses, you have to let's look at operational expenditure. So when an on premises Center has shifted that this case, it's the cloud service provider, with non physical costs. So what's examples features, training employees in cloud services, the cloud metrics, so compute usage, and storage expenses, you can try a product or service of investment. And we also from the previous cost. So there's two reasons, really good Brown from exam Pro. And we are looking at are very important to help you conceptualize going to go through these terms and then we're in further slides. So at the top of our list, to ensure a service remains available. And being highly available or high availability know. Then we have scalability so your ability a lasticity. So this is your ability to shrink tolerance. This is your ability to prevent This is your ability to to recover, recover as high being highly durable or high durability. Brown from exam Pro. And we are looking at is your ability for your service to remain of failure, or ensure a certain level of performance. that is describing high availability. So, server, which runs your web application, if server, if anything happened to a single server, servers. And that way, your service would is great. But even what's better is having because something could happen to a data center, issue. So by being able to route traffic, available. And and running a workload across zones is what Azure calls their data centers unavailable, your service will remain available, across three data centers. Now, how would to all three, and that's where an Azure load with the arrows that is the representation you to evenly distribute traffic to multiple a data center or server becomes unavailable, the traffic to only available data centers, availability. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from of high scalability. And this is your ability demand of traffic memory and computing power. to have to scale up, you're gonna have to are different types of scaling. And the first obvious one people are gonna think of, and we just upgrade to bigger servers, we need vertical scaling. But there's another kind scaling is is described as scaling out. And servers, because we saw with the high availability, traffic to multiple servers, and three servers So horizontal scaling is when we add more Brown from exam Pro. And we're looking at your ability to automatically increase or demand of traffic memory and computing power. but the key difference is that it's automatic. increase it. And so the way we would do that machine or server, and if we needed more servers, less servers, we'd remove less servers. And horizontal scaling. So when we say we're scaling of the same size, when we're scaling in this size. And generally, you're not going to use just extremely difficult to, to vertically increase, let's say, your storage drive, and So it's not a good idea, or even feasible Now, how would you accomplish being an elastic set, so scale sets automatically increase on a defined schedule, and we'll talk about And then we have SQL Server, or server stretch cold transactional data from Microsoft SQL we're going to cover, but it's generally the you go, that's high elasticity. Hey, this at the concept of high durability. So this and to prevent the loss of data. So this could is known as disaster recovery d r, and so to help you think about how to be highly durable. a backup? So do you have a backup in place? your backup still work? How do you ensure is the concept of high durability, there's it's not just a single service. But there terminologies. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from of computing. And this is going to really of compute. And so we're going to start from our way all the way to functions. So what about dedicated This is a physical server, so the idea is that this customer has purchased thing with this is that you have to guess a capital cost or you're purchasing for for you're going to fully utilize it. So you're servers. And the reason why is that when you and then you're expected to grow into that until you grow into it. So it's considered capacity, this is going to be slow and expensive, that's larger, and then move everything over, system. So whatever operating system is installed, to have multiple apps, if you do install multiple conflicts in resource sharing. But generally, application on a dedicated server, you are and full utility of the underlying resources. of having a dedicated server is sometimes of everything is called bare metal. And that's a server on premise or back in the day, and move on to VMs. So now we're moving on to the idea here is that if you had a physical virtual machines, that's like running a machine run multiple applications on a single machine. VMs is known as hypervisor there, sir, there know is hypervisor, so just know that that's you are now sharing the physical server with thing, because you are paying a fraction of outright, you are still gonna be overpaying of virtual machine, because it solves that choose a particular size of virtual machine, application, you are going to be limited by that you've chosen, that's what you get. So want to run multiple apps on a single virtual resource sharing, but now customers that are with you. So you can run, you could run, if three virtual machines. So you're not have you still have that issue. So there you go, to containers. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from of containers. And so this takes it a step we're running multiple containers. So we're we run our applications. And the technology or on a physical server is called Docker, cleaner education, that's the most common containers, and you can maximize the utility more cost effective, right? So that available more servers within or you can or you can available space, your containers share the more efficient than multiple VMs. But the OSS. So the idea is that each container can so now you have a lot more flexibility. It further, but we will we move over to function. of computing for functions and I bet you didn't And so we've taken our applications that were into little pieces of code called functions. of our compute. So we have a Managed VM running about the containers or configure them themselves, known as serverless compute, because you don't And it just works, you might choose the memory And that's all you pay for. You're only responsible And it's extremely, extremely cost effective, individual function to run and all that underutilized provider, it's not your issue. The only downside meaning that when you launch a function, or has to provision a server, because the the, be running servers, when they don't, they might experience a cold start where you're code will execute. There's definitely ways evolution of compute. Hey, this is Andrew regions and geographies for Azure. So a region for Azure, they call their data centers, availability 140 countries. One thing Azure likes to promote all cloud service providers, then we have is a discrete market of two or more regions boundaries and the geographies that are available there's Azure Government, us, this is a geography citizens cannot use it, then you have Canada, And I just want to emphasize that data residency I just want to give you an example. So imagine, Canadian company, you want to guarantee that government regular regulatory reasons. So geography because that data would never leave I just want to give you kind of a visual example. we have US East one. And we have the Europe, I'm not showing it here, because I don't want be availability zones, and we could launch machines, those are the images you see within work in Azure is that when you go to launch time of creation. So if you're launching virtual to choose a region and you just choose from made my way over to Azure. So I just typed just wanted to show you the big map of all all throughout the world. Because sometimes stuff down in Australia, we have regions in we have a lot in North America, we have a in Asia here. So we have Japan, China, all look a little bit more into that, there's infrastructure pages. But that's about it. So now we're looking at paired regions. So 300 miles away. And the reason why Azure does then the other one is still available, meaning to make sure that you never have downtime, region, and you're gonna have higher availability. for disaster recovery. So when you turn those launch in that paired region. One service, region would be a service called Azure wall. Azure geo redundant storage so replicate your ensuring that the data is durable enough In And just to give you an example of a paired so with Canada, you'd have Canada Central, for North America. And when we say North America, Its East us region paired with the West us Central, and German, Germany, north east. are 300 miles, that's quite a distance. But exam Pro. And we are looking at region types I want you to know about a service availability are available in every single region. And there's compliance reasons as to why. So Azure regions. These are regions that provide the that means is that the majority of services And this recommended region is designed to alternate regions. And these are regions that boundary, where a recommended region also availability zones. That doesn't mean you means that when you go to launch a resource, zone. And these regions are labeled as other talk about general availability. So general service is considered ready to be used publicly and it was in beta, and now you're ready to it's, but just because it's where you sell it's actually available to us. And that's that the Azure cloud services in. And so Azure for services. And the first one is foundational. going to be available immediately in a recommended at least in fifth 12 months of the time that So these are cloud services that will become or in 12 months when it goes GA. But for the based on the customer demand. And then the are in this category will become available on customer demand. So hopefully that clears Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And So Azure has specialized regions to meet compliance they might want to work with specific governments basically give them their own region. And have three regions that we know about. So the US government, Virginia region, the US an additional three that we just don't know So maybe they're for area 51, we don't know. regions is that if you just want to do business of regulations. Then on the other side, we east and China north. And these regions are Microsoft and 21 via net. And so Microsoft but they worked with 21 v net to give you to operate these regions, you'd probably be be an employee of the government. So it's you go. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam for Azure. And so availability zones, abbreviated revision a lot in this course. And you should location made up of one or more data center. that contains hundreds of 1000s of computers of a data center. And there's a technician dog in the data center. You should definitely probably hear me refer to available availability way to think of it but It actually can be generally contain three availability zones, where there are less than three. But there's exactly three availability zones, data centers other. So there'll be in different buildings, latency. And that low latency would probably it is for Azure. But that's generally how like you're, it's on the same network. It's three azs. And that's why I was saying that remain available. In the case, one or two high availability. And we'll definitely cover give you a bit of a visual, on the left hand one. And we have multiple availability zones. And so when you go to launch a resource, if your region. So we are choosing us, East us, zone, and then we choose which one we want to, it's going to go into availability zone two instances, it just means availability Brown from exam Pro. And we're looking at every region has support for availability section, but we'll touch on it here again. or others and these do not have availability regions, and these are supposed to have three is because it's a newer region. And Azure months or whatever time period that they say. you have cloud resources, you want to launch which regions actually have three Z's. And Europe, France, Central, north, Northern Europe, want to run your workloads. Now, what does resource, and they and you choose a region that gonna look like what's gonna look like going to be blanked out. And you'll have to And so that would be an example for Brazil, single az, but it's described as not having So there you go. Hey, this is Andrew Brown and update domains. So an availability zone domain and an update domain. So a fault domain a single point of failure within an AZ. So that share a common power source and network that so if part of the data center fails, its let's say, there's a fire within the data affect other hardware that is running, then is when Azure needs to apply updates to the thing is, is that because Azure is updating the idea is that if you run your workloads domain, neither domain will be updated the downtime because of updates. And so the way you use availability sets. So availability in Azure to ensure that your VMs you place update domains to avoid downtime. And just I'm going to do is just show you this here. is assigned a fault domain and update domain. see those gray boxes, those are racks. In like a closet for servers and all those servers servers in that is where your virtual machine if you have a server and it's deployed in could be any of the, the servers on that rack, very particular servers in that rack that makes that a bit clear and a little bit confusing. domains and update domains. And just to give the Azure portal, if you go ahead and create call it production. And you would choose the domains. And so I believe that what you're of domains that you want your, your virtual on saying virtual machine, that's your server, means that when you launch two servers, and gonna be cross to fault, two different fault your update domains is at five, that means that are isolated from each other. So hopefully, domains. So I quickly just wanted to show in Azure here. So the idea is, if you're launching the availability set, what you can do is you options, we're going to drop it down and choose availability set. So I'm going to go ahead so when we create a set, we'd say, you know, these two dialogues here. And so what what domains, that means that if you were to launch availability set, it'll be spread across three to other racks are operational, and so your below, it's the same thing on a rack, there will will be will be scheduled for updates, time. So if you're saying this, you'll say all there really is to it. So I just wanted launch it for a virtual machine. Hey, this looking at creating ourselves our own Azure with Azure. So what I've done here is I've what I want you to do as well. And then when they have it everywhere. So they have it here even get it through sign in. Well, what I'm in the top right corner. And then when I'm button. So we'll go ahead and click that. account. Or if you don't have one, we'll create an email just for this tutorial here. It's need to set a password. So I'm just going Great. So I just generated myself out a very in there. And I'm going to proceed forward. just going to send me an email to my email code. So I'll be back here in a moment to and checked my email, and immediately I received is going to be different. So I'm just going was 6599. And I'm good, I don't need any tips And so now, before we proceed, we have to it a go. So we have x and five, w w w Q. All for this page to load, we have some information. country, your first name, last name, email, identity verification by card. Oh, wow, they our way through here. So now I'm just going And I'll see you here in a moment. So I just what I'm gonna do is I'm going to just proceed verify my identity by phone. So I want a text And so I'm just going to check my phone for the text message for the verification code, in. So mine happens to be 351033. Your codes to go ahead and verify that code. Alright, to identify our verification by card. So we're so what we're gonna have to do is we're gonna So we'll just go ahead here and fill that credit card information, I'm just gonna proceed verified, I can go ahead and just go ahead say I agree to the subscription. And the second I want to get tips in offers. But the first have to, and we'll go ahead and sign up. Great. we are ready, I guess you could schedule a But I'm just going to go ahead and proceed it into Microsoft Azure. And what you're looking I have $250 worth of credits. If you're wondering yours, notice that it's in Canadian dollars. converted my currency, it's a bit higher. But there you go, that's all we had to do start learning other things in Azure. Hey, just wanted to quickly show you that you can if you just go all the way up here and click home or dashboard, you can change the flyout when you're navigating stuff all the time. your theme, you can go to a dark mode here. old school, but very easy on the eyes. So you may feel that you want to change your go. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. starting with Azure virtual machines. So virtual of compute whenever you're launching a server, your virtual machines could either be running the great thing with virtual machines is you your address, the amount of memory, the amount thing here is that because it's a virtual customers, you can get dedicated, but generally, So it seems like you have like 100% of the instances. So this I would describe as Docker probably runs Docker in both windows containers, well, but runs containerized apps on Azure makes that a lot easier for you. The next Kubernetes service. So it's Kubernetes as containerized applications. So the idea here working with containers. But it's using an become the de facto for containers. And so make their own service or orchestration service, see it on all platforms. The next one is Azure because it's described as many things. But enterprise container as a service, application system platforms, it runs on on the Azure is easy to package, deploy and manage scalable hear the word microservices, think of also and Azure Kubernetes services, that's where Azure Functions. So this would be event driven about serverless compute, we're used to talking bytes of code that you can just upload. And the servers or provision anything. And you So serverless functions generally run for done, those underlying servers are shutting Batch. So you can plan schedule, execute your in parallel. When I say jobs here, it's just spot VMs spot VMs might not be out at the But generally, it's known as low priority machines that are being underutilized. And more cost effective costs. And so if you're things, and it doesn't matter if these services low priority VMs, that is a great way to save. is Angie brown from exam Pro. And we are looking Blob Storage. So I would describe this as heard of object storage or service storage, able to store very large files and, and large here is that you pay for only what you store. have to resize the volumes, you don't have upload files. And that's why it's considered on to Azure disk storage, this is the most we can describe it as a virtual volume. So So it's basically a hard drive in the cloud. to virtual machines. So anytime you're spinning up also as your disk storage attached to it. is a shared volume that you can access and use protocols such as SMB, the reason you'd virtual machines, multiple servers, and you that's what you use it for. Or if you need That's another way of doing that. Then you in front of it, because this is just a weirdly a messaging queue. This is actually for application the word storage on. So I just think it's it is is just makes you think it's storage. delivering messages between applications. together, passing messages along. Another I would put this in the database categories. it's a wide column no SQL database. As they data independent from any schema. So just worded. Then you have Azure Data box, and box heavy This is a rugged briefcase, computer petabytes of data. So imagine, somebody shows a computer and you plug in your USB or whatever, files locally on your on premise data center, to ship the data on a physical piece of device what Azure Data box is. And then we have Azure storage for when you need to hold on to false options. If you have lots of data. And it's want to be putting on the cheapest possible that they're not reliable just means that actively spinning, nobody's accessing the Azure, Azure Data Lake storage. And so this allows you to store all structured and unstructured big data from multiple different sources, for you. And so that is the Azure storage Pro. And we are looking at Azure database Cosmos dB. This is a fully managed no SQL of 99.999% availability, as your loves talking because it works at incredible scale and incredible like, like super large databases, think of SQL database even though it doesn't have its you're running Microsoft SQL, you're going auto scale integrity, integrity, intelligence, built around this four MSL SQL databases. using something like MySQL, Postgres or MongoDB and scalable. With high availability and security. doesn't have its name, but it's Microsoft just assume that it's the Microsoft flavor if you already have SQL servers running on want to move them on to Azure, this is where virtual machines and directly moves them onto that you would with Azure SQL Database. But Then you have Azure synopsis analytics, previously because they added an analytics component with integrity, integral security at every have Azure database migration service, so application code changes. So there's that So if you need an in memory cache, that is And last on our list is Azure table storage. But to me, this is a database, it's not a such, so why column no SQL database, a no of any schema. So there you go, that's the Brown from exam Pro. And we are looking at Now, I didn't have room on the slide for this. is, these are services that are designed to So it's basically the glue of services. The hub. This is using publisher subscription push notifications to any platform from any this is essentially an API gateway. So you And then the those API's will have API endpoints, or maybe functions or containers. But it's you have Azure Service Bus. And as the name Cloud Messaging as a service, ma s and simple clear. That is the language that Microsoft to know is that it is a service bus, then serverless, real time analytics. Remember service from the cloud to the edge. Then you automate orchestrate tasks, business processes, SAS and enterprise applications. Then you because we have another service called Azure call the service. They say it's a hybrid multi all environments, whatever that means. But put this in front of an existing API to add API, you put it in front of it, and it's a all this additional stuff. Then last on our our storage service sections. And I had said service, I consider it an application integration it's a data store for queuing and reliably So there you go. That is the application integration from exam Pro. And we were looking at developer Azure. The first on the list is Azure signal, service, not to be confused with azures notification web functionality to applications. So if you So that is the equivalent there. The next service for deploying and scaling web applications I'm a bit sad, I don't see Ruby in there. developers want to focus on building your infrastructure. So if you've ever used Heroku you have Visual Studio And Visual Studio is integrated development development environment for Azure. You might have heard of Visual But I just wanted to make mention of Visual I'm pronouncing it right. And it's a mobile and scalable native mobile apps and dotnet, and mobile tools for Azure. Hey, this is Andrew Azure DevOps Services. So Azure DevOps is of modern dev services. And we'll jump into if you've ever used a combat board, that is GitHub projects, it literally is that because Microsoft. And so they brought over that technology using proven agile tools, to plan, track and Azure pipelines. So build, test and deploy and Cloud Connect to GitHub or any other provider deployments, that's what Azure pipelines is exactly like GitHub repos. So get unlimited to build better code with pull requests and just like GitHub repos, because it's just have as your test plan, so test and ship with tools. So this is just a way of setting up Cypress or any other like, or any other testing it'll open up a browser and literally test expected, then you have Azure artifacts, so team. So this is just package management, CD pipelines, they have to set up the servers, that's just going to make it a lot easier is just an easy way to create dev test environments DevOps Services. Hey, this is Andrew Brown Resource Manager. And just to understand the as code is, so also abbreviated as IAC. This computer data centers through machine readable configurations, or interacting configuration is that we're using scripts, we're using scripts or storage. So you don't have to manually script to another team or company and they seconds. So the the infrastructures code service or arm for short, and allows you to programmatically I'm just going to show you what that template it will allow you to launch a virtual machine. and clicking and doing a bunch of stuff, you JSON. This is a very short version of it, that would be required. But here, this would using code. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from templates. So Azure quickstart templates is by the community partners to help you quickly scenarios. So in the last slide, we just talked a template to or a JSON file to quickly set and just sharing with other people, right, so you could go to the Azure quickstart. And And I think it's like also vendors and also to deploy an Azure or sorry, a Django app, to deploy Ubuntu with a Docker engine, you CD containerized app. with Docker enterprise you wanted a web app that was running Linux it's just a quick way Getting Started. Hey, are looking at Azure virtual networks, also So a virtual network and as we said, It stands of the Azure network where you launch and a virtual network, you have to define a certain use, which we call a cider range. We'll come representation of your V net. So here we have have a region, so US East one, and then we can launch our Azure resources within. And a private one. And then in the public one, one, we have a database and the end in the have access to the internet, where's the private a V net. But most do so because you just have have to go into a virtual network, which are public or private. And then there's other let's take a look at the cider range. So cider addresses that you're going to use in your that C versus 10.0, point 0.0. That's the slash 16. That is the cider range. And the you get, I'm not going to get into the math understand that the forward slash 16 is a IP addresses that we can launch. So we could virtual network. And so we can subdivide our partition of an IP network into smaller network breaking up into smaller IP ranges. And when So you have to you have to define a cider be smaller than the V net. Remember, I said when you have forward slash 24, that's just more thing is I want to note is that we have subnets, public subnets, reach the internet, things like your database, you don't want which generally has traffic coming from it And that's all we need to know here. Hey, looking at the cloud native networking services. super important for the exam, but I like to diagram for this, but it's just a bit too and list them. So the first is Azure DNS. course here. But this provides an ultra fast So if you have a domain name, and you just it with Azure DNS, then you have Azure virtual talk about it again, short for V net, a logical customers to launch Azure resources within, the name implies, it is a load balancer, but doesn't really understand requests, like what level. And so that's what that is, then you an HTTP load balancer. So it does understand what you can do with it is you can actually But it also you can apply a web application balancer. That's why you can ply that web service, then you have network security groups. So it's a virtual firewall around your subnets ports to be open. And, and from who and and, native networking services. And the reason you wouldn't use these with enterprise or you normally use. And most startups would services. So next we have enterprise or hybrid using networking. That is going to work on door. So this is a scalable and secure entry such as making sure you have a secure entry Azure Express Route, you want to remember will show up as a question. This is a connection it can be between 50 megabytes per second it's also secure. But the point is, is that from your on prem data center to Azure, you'd it's going to be on your exam, then you have many networking security routing, functionality interface. I know that sounds complicated, easier by creating like a hub spoke model, securely connects to Azure local networks a secure connection with Azure. Then you have connection between Azure virtual network and connecting with Azure. So there you go, that Brown from exam Pro, and we are looking at at the DNS layer to quickly and efficiently routing method of your choice. So what you got performance weighted priority, geog, geographic your traffic so you can route traffic to servers to redundant systems in case primary systems machines to simulate a B testings, I think, at the DNS level, like that's a great one. had exam pro.co. And we had a production server of our users to see the beta server. So we we'd say 80%, on prod, 20%. There. And that's Azure Traffic Manager. Hey, this is Andrew Azure DNS, I told you, we would come back slides, I just did not describe this in detail. names on Azure, you can create DNS zones and to add a record, like let's say we had example DNS, we could add beta as a sub domain. And balancer or virtual machine. And then that that is interesting on is kind of like a downer, domain. So it only gives you the ability to they allow you to purchase and manage but in the future. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from balancer, we had only mentioned this briefly look at it more here. So as your load bouncer traffic across a group of back end resources on the OSI layer four, that's the transport it's just sending packets back and forth. imagine you have the internet, and somehow the load balancer is going to do is it's going virtual machines being your servers. And the machines in different availability zones, to those and that's how we get high availability. can create both a public load balancer, so to public facing servers of servers that have way described would be a private load balancer, facing servers, so private IP addresses, so exam Pro, and we are looking at scale sets. virtual machines and automatically increase the change in CPU, memory, disk network performance, about elasticity, we're talking about using or decrease the amount of servers. So here internet traffic, and it hits that load balancer. on the existing server is greater than 80% servers. And so what happens is the skill one or two more servers. And when that CPU don't need those servers anymore. Get rid this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro, and we so before we get into it, what is IoT? So of internet connected objects, usually hardware, is a graphical representation of IoT devices, a quick list of things that could be IoT devices. light bulbs in your house that are controlled want one of those smart light switches, narrowband, connecting to the internet, it's just like, cameras, then you have voice command speakers. temperature pressure or humidity sensors, use you can leverage leverage IoT devices have phones, that could be an IoT device, called AWS, or dash buttons. They weren't press a button and like purchase something. for your washer, you could have that button about the IoT services here. So the first to connect your IoT devices to the cloud, highly secure and reliable communications that manages then you have IoT edge is a fully and allows you allows data processing analysts computing, I really should have highlighted to offload your compute from the cloud to phones, or home computers. So it's just a network for compute. Then you have Windows services subscription that provides the essential on Windows IoT, or 10 IoT Core, so basically, manage device updates, and assess device health. services. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam services on Azure. So before we jump into it is a term used to describe massive volumes so large, it is difficult to move in process So we need special services just to handle synopsis analytics, formerly known as SQL and big data analytics. So it's intended to to generate things such as reporting. Then But anyway, it runs open source analytics I imagined was called HD Insight because it additional services, but that's just what So we have a patchy spark based analytics Service platforms. So third party data, bricks, bricks, was made by the creators of Spark. Insight. But data bricks is its own cloud them so that you can use it within the Azure so an on demand analytics job service that lakes were when we looked at storage services, bit. different way, a data lake is a storage data in its native format until it is needed. analytics services, we need to know. Hey, are looking at artificial intelligence and way of describing that is to always have this onion thing where each is dependent on the So what is artificial intelligence or AI, mimic human behavior. Now, that doesn't mean It could be if all statements, but it could utilizing deep learning. But the point is, have machine learning. And this is where machines programming. So they are smart enough to learn And so deep learning is where machines that by the human brain to solve complex problems. brain. Maybe not as not as great as the human could be leveraging ml, and deep learning. want to do machine learning on Azure, they service. So this is a service that that simplifies you to build flexible pipelines to automate can run your deep learning workloads using what you'd use. Now, there was a service called still around if you if you're still using service. And it does basically what Azure some limitations. So does not have like a you're wondering if you could easily migrate to migrate. So basically, you definitely always Services. No reason you'd want to use Azure it for legacy reasons. Hey, this is Andrew at AI and ml services, specifically just AI and I'm just going to quickly go through them first one is personalized, it delivers a rich, AI. Then you have translator it adds real apps, websites and tools. You have anomaly identify and troubleshoot issues. Azure bot at scales on demand form recognize, recognizer pairs and tables from your documents. You vision models for unique use cases, language understanding into apps, bots and IoT devices. Question and Answer bot from your existing such as sentiment, key phrases, named entities so moderate text and images to provide a safer and identify people and emotions in images, and such as handwriting shapes, and document of services, and they haven't even made time they have. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from services on Azure. So what is serverless This infrastructure and OS is taken care of by be highly available scalable and cost effective. a service function can be triggered, or trigger application and just scale. So with serverless Then you have abstraction of servers, so servers as functions. These functions can be running people like to use Python, or some people there. Then you have micro billing. So when be billed by at least a second some bill by using the server for the whole second or hour, using. So serverless functions will bill you because you're not paying for unused computation. serverless services. I'm sure there's more highlighting. So the first is Azure Functions functions in your favorite languages, you PowerShell. And if Azure is listening, please Ruby. Then you have blob storage. So this your files, don't think about the underlying space, and you can upload pretty darn large to build serverless workflows composed of is you building a state machine for serverless seems a bit similar, but it's not it uses react to events and trigger other Azure cloud you go, that is serverless services. Hey, are looking at the Azure portal. So the Azure provides an alternative to command line tools. the Azure portal, build, manage, monitor everything So what does that mean? It just means the you're logged into Azure, that is the portal, thing about Azure Portal, and that's Azure there are new features, or new products that available, but you can get a sneak peek of So that could be previews, betas, or other similar how to how you'd access the regular new features, you go to the preview dot portal release, in production, ready features, you all you need to know about the Azure portal. the portal looks like. We are going to show account and work within the portal. I already in. And if I go to the top here, I actually we can see what the portal looks like. So telling me about my spend, but I'm on the we have this hamburger menu where we can explore them as well. So whatever I'm looking for, pretty much it. This is the portal. So it's can interact with any cloud resources. Hey, are looking at PowerShell for Azure. So first is a task automation and configuration management just it's a command line shell it's also a line shell, I mean this thing, this blue thing. can actually you'd have to I think have Windows this. And it's allows you to automate things this, this program. Now, the PowerShell is to that a moment, let's just talk about the shells. So shell could be something like bash But PowerShell is built on top of the dotnet and returns dotnet objects. So those objects And so PowerShell is available on Azure, and have a set of command commandlets for managing command line. And if you're wondering how Shell, which we'll talk about here in a moment. PowerShell, I'm on my Windows computer right my windows 10 computer, and I can type in a list of all my, my my directories in in to show you that we have PowerShell here in up here, and I've chosen to use PowerShell. experience with some extra things that make this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And we're code is a free source code editor, meaning Linux and Mac OS. And you can even run it looks like this is the editor. And this is Visual Studio is an ID, and is also for programming. here is Visual Studio Code open source? Well, degree I don't know if it's 100% open source. code editor out right now. And Microsoft has Visual Studios workspaces that's on Azure environments using this editor right in the exam. But I just thought it was cool to mention. recommend downloading this one for your computer show off Visual Studio code here. So if you in Visual Studio code into Google. And you it's for Windows, Mac, and Linux, so you can in the cloud on Azure, or even launch your I just have happened to have Visual Studio Just to show you what it looks like. The thing looks great, and it has really good plugins. anything you need, you can add it and enhance editor, I strongly recommend downloading this. with this editor here. Hey, this is Andrew Azure Cloud Shell. So Azure Cloud Shell is shell for managing Azure resources. And so shell experience that best suits the way you we just talked about PowerShell. And this So just to give you a visual, if you ever way up in the header there in the portal. PowerShell or it will depends on what you And then you'll be able to use PowerShell we'll talk about next is the Azure Salesforce. we are looking at Azure see ally. So what line interface. And it processes commands of text. And the operating system implements So we saw a shell earlier, which was PowerShell. here in a moment. So the Azure COI can be its installed, you would type A z followed view and manage your Azure resources. And like, down below, we have a bash script. But the commands AZ and then you'd have what it create a group, you type a C group create let's say you wanted to launch a virtual machine, then provide those other parameters. So that resources. And there's tons and tons of ci you're looking at pretty much can be created Andrew Brown from exam Pro, and I'm going And the reason why we are going to make one be able to launch pretty much any resource choose a resource group when launching Azure on our dashboard, if it doesn't, I want you group. And we'll go ahead and click resource hand side, I want you to click on Add. And which is our type of subscription. I'm just group. We're going to stay in US East, because are available Azure and that's what I'm going using US East. So we'll go down here and hit there's really nothing else to check. And for you, you might have to wait a few seconds, created our resource group. And there is no happiness, or whether you keep it around, that the group hasn't showed up just yet, Azure is a bit slow about showing resources delete them. So I'm just going to wait a little And I'll see you back in a few minutes. All if you just go ahead up here and hit refresh, So that's all there really is to it. Nothing Microsoft Azure at the top here to get back follow along. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from our own virtual network. So we made a resource or V net. So we actually have some network want you to do is make your way all the way and type in V net, which will get virtual notice, you don't have any network. So we're So go ahead and hit the Add button. And we're just going to name this, or sorry, we're going and we're just going to name this exam pro here, we'll just take a peek here, we don't just take a look. So for IP address, you can to 10 dot 0.0 416, which is very good for is great. It's going to create us a default 24. That's going to be a subnet with like Security tab, we have DDoS protection basic that is free. Same thing with the firewall, cost extra money, I'm gonna go back to basics, just gonna wait for validation to complete, could wait a few seconds, it's different for we'll go ahead and hit Create. And so we'll so it's created. So it's just saying deployment a little bit here until says deployment is we'll go ahead and hit go to resource. And we have a bunch of settings on the left hand Nothing we need to know at this level, we resources in. So now that we have resource launching resources. So there you go, I'll is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And I'm going on Azure. And so a server would be considered we're going to do right now is we're going at the top here to search, I want you to type here. But just to get in the habit of always the search. And then once we're here on the we're going to be presented with a lot of to do is choose our resource group, we have here for us for Azure, I wouldn't worry about I'm going to name this virtual machine, I'm in USBs. If we want to choose an AZ we could I'm just going to stick to no infrastructure, version, it might be different for you, I need to choose our size. This is going to Canadian, I'm just going to go ahead and hit on the right hand side based on cost and we're which is the b1 Ls. So that's one VPC, eu just an example app. We're not going to do with it. So might as well make sure we're the option to add a public key This is what a lot of work. And so for this demo, so we're finicky about the passwords here that it has Number, and it also has to be 12 characters. T testing, 123, exclamation exclamation, and Explanation exclamation. So there we go. We none because we're not SSH. Again, I'm just of the other options. So we could choose our by default on premium, you might want to use you're launching web apps, you want SSD, if you should really use premium. So we're just to notice that the disk is encrypted by default, a very good default option. If we go over select our V net that we chose, and the default the V net. And then here, we could choose had no IP or public IP address, it would still that would mean that it would like it's really security group set on two basic here. And it behind a load balancer, we're not going we have a couple options here, like identity, fine, we're just gonna leave it alone for that means we could provide it a script that we're not going to do that. And that's about going to scroll all the way down the bottom, And what we're gonna have to do is wait for it might take multiple seconds for you, or others. So now I'm going to go down below for that deployment to be submitted, it's soon, it's going to say deployment is complete. deployment is complete. Great, so we had to deployment is complete. And we can press proceed machine, we have some CPUs and networks on wanted to gain access to it, there should to be able to gain access to it, because we case, we have a few options down the left attached to it, and maybe the size here. So to a larger size, we could go ahead and do here to do, I just wanted to show you how that we have our own virtual machine launch, to go ahead and delete that because this is a lot of money. But again, we're done here. to say yes to delete. And now it says it's just gonna wait until this is finished a leading. progress up here. And it'll say deleting the it could take a few minutes, it just depends. this is done deleting. So after waiting a deleted the virtual machine. If we want to our way over to virtual machines, the talker that it's still showing up there. But it said Azure is that it takes time for it to propagate. and now it's gone. So just be aware that sometimes the UI is a bit delayed. And so if you remember it, just have a bit of patience there and sure that's the case. So there you go. Okay, actually go learn how to do a different kind So if we want to launch your own serverless screen, just click on Microsoft Azure here and we're going to type in functions. And on Add. And then what we're doing is we need be on our free trial. We're going to choose going to name this I'm just call this this my my app. My app is not available yet. They're app, you might have to change this a few times publish, we're going to use code, we don't work. And we're gonna just use node j s, which to me, we're going to change this to make little easier, there's nothing wrong with consistent. So everything's very predictable go all the way to the top and look at hosting have a storage account. Okay, nothing exciting this doesn't really matter to us, we can let go ahead and hit review plus create. So we're here. So again, it could take a second or day with Azure. So we'll just wait here a validating, and it go ahead and hit Create. So we're gonna see the deployment is on its to be complete. So it's in progress, it's should say that it's complete here in a moment. our deployment is complete, we'll go ahead to do is we need to go create ourselves a way to functions. And then in here, we're so we have a lot of presets here for us, it's does, and I'm going to say, Let's choose HTTP name, that's fine, we'll have it stay as function create that function. So once that function done, let's start adding our code. Because you don't have to worry about servers, you some code it already has for us. What I'm log. console. log is just like saying, hello, then I'm gonna hit save. And now it's just know if it's actually running it. Yeah, it's hit test. And so we have a bunch of options just going to hit run. And we're going to know, I'm just looking at how this actually need to actually pass a name and to the, to we're just going to go ahead and type in query Andrew. Um, and so that should do it. So let's hello, Andrew. So there you go. That's all And it doesn't cost us anything to keep this it. If you did want to go delete it, I guess functions here. And I will just click Delete. And there you go. So that's, that's all there back to Microsoft Azure here, back to the along. Hey, this is Andrew Brown. And in this blob storage. And so if you remember through storage, so you don't have to worry about So let's go to it. At the top here, I want to go to storage accounts. And this is where you can see that we have a couple of storage we created the serverless serverless function going to do is choose exam Pro, or whatever groups step. Then we're gonna have a storage be all lowercase my blob storage. And that's storage and it can't have hyphens. There we We have the difference between standard and We have storage type v2, or v1 or Blob Storage, options here, I'm just gonna leave it alone. gonna leave it hot. And we can just look at leave this alone, we're just gonna look advanced we go back to basic hit review, plus create, ahead and now hit Create. And then it should see to say deployment complete, you might services now it's almost always the same process. Okay, great. So I just waited a minute there. and hit go to resource. And then we have a to do is want to start uploading files. But to go all the way down here, left hand side a new container, I'm going to call this Star So it's only just for me, we'll hit Create. container. Alright, so now we know that we ahead and upload our first file, I just happen just going to go select that there and upload. we'll just hit upload. And there we go. So Yep, so that's all there really is to it. go ahead and delete this container. So I think sure if we have to delete the containers, go here to Blob Storage, we'll go ahead and delete. And there you go. So just go back desktop, and I'll see you in the next follow Pro. And I'm going to show you how to use doesn't matter where you are, because Cloud in the Azure portal. It's actually this icon and click that. And what it's going to do I'm going to choose PowerShell, we're going going to need to create some storage with So we'll just wait for it to create that storage is very typical of PowerShell. And so it's we're just gonna wait here a little bit until Cloud Shell. And so one of the advantages to do the CLR, and start doing things programmatically, here. So we already have the CLR installed, here, AZ account list. And there we go. So So that's all I wanted to show you for PowerShell, power it off, or that would restart it, we this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And we all it is it's a public facing website portal and regulatory compliance information. So in Azure Trust Center, that's the way you whatever information your organization needs, even have to log in to get access to it. But for your company. Alright, so I just went Microsoft Trust Center. And so this is the a little bit, we'll see that we have Microsoft where we can read about their security, security, into compliance for Azure. and here we can that Azure is meeting. So we have a ton here. sign in. So I'll just hit Andrew, in Canada. about GDPR. So it gives me a lot of detailed and how it applies to Azure. So there's a back here, we can click on security. And so here. But generally, what you're looking for compliance programs. That's what everybody's stuff in detail. And so that's all you have Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro, and So enterprise companies will not buy your And so how would you go about meeting their where compliance programs come into come into is going to say to you, we'll only do business your P IP da compliant, or if you are HIPAA two compliant, you might say, well, that's you just start to remember them. But at first, be fun to go through some of the compliance exam, they might ask you about some of these So the first one here is the criminal justice any US state or local agency that wants to to adhere to this security policy. So that's Cloud Security Alliance star certification. of a cloud providers security posture, then the GDPR. So a European privacy law imposes nonprofits, and other orgs that offer goods and analyze data tied to EU residents. So got to care about the GD p r. You have EU guarantees around transfers of personal data is the one that you're going to want to remember Accountability Act. So for US federal law whenever you're dealing with hospital stuff ISO 27018. So this is an international standard. of Practice covering the processing of personal a good one to remember. Then we have Ida. outside of Singapore, it is Singapore's the So operational. Singapore security management cloud service providers can apply to address confidentiality of data in the cloud and impact one you have to remember but interesting know controls sock One, two and three independent how the company achieves key compliant controls Then we have the National Institute of Standards CSF, you definitely want to know this one. standard guidelines and best practices to have the UK Government, G Cloud. So that's used by government entities in the UK. And about FIPS. Again, in this course here. So that specifies the security requirements for information. So there you go, that's compliance Pro, and we are looking at Azure Active Directory. ad is Microsoft's cloud based identity and employees sign in and access resources. If Microsoft products. They're probably using with this. But if you're not, let's learn service to the Azure and Microsoft ecosystem. resources. So it would maybe give you access is what we're using for two different types us access to internal resources. So if you or maybe you're using Azure Active Directory so actual workstations with Azure Active Directory, Active Directory comes in four edition. So security and usage reports user management, And by the way, each version has the features get company branding SLA to sync between on premium one, you get hybrid architecture, and then premium to you have identity production it clear, active directory is what you use That is what it does, it controls access to Brown from exam Pro. And we are looking at So MFA is a security control where after you and password into a login portal, so this could be you logging into Facebook, the idea as a phone to confirm that it's you logging against people who have stolen your password they don't have your phone or whatever device most cloud providers have. And just as I said So Facebook, Twitter, they all have it. So a forum where I'm entering my email and password, this case, and then we get authorization. so if we didn't have to use a phone or another then multi factor or two factor authentication to confirm that that it's you. And pretty phone and to install an app on your phone. give you a random number that expires, like to enter that in with your username and password to Azure Portal. Hey, this is Andrew Brown Security Center. So Azure Security Center system. It strengthens the security posture threat protection across your hybrid workloads let's take a look at what that is. So that's And it's gonna tell you, if you are compliant about your security, hygiene, all sorts of about your security within Azure. So there Pro, and we're looking at Key Vault. So Azure keys and other secrets used by cloud apps has a bunch of functionality in it. So one store and tightly control access to tokens, secrets. It also has key management. So it to encrypt your data. Then we have certificate deploy public and private SSL certificates resources. And then it also is a hardware protected either by software, or FIPS, 142 I told you that we would be talking about HSM The last thing we're talking about, which a piece of hardware designed to store your something like that. So Azure would have bought is what is storing your cryptographic keys. when you store keys on it, they're stored disk. If that thing shuts down, the the keys just a security measure. And that security 147. Two is a US and Canadian government standard cryptographic modules to protect sensitive they're generally going to be a 140 hyphen, that there's more than one customer that is they're virtually isolated from each other. they're generally going to be FIPS 140, hyphen, dedicated HSM, it's better to be FIPS 140, hyphen two is pretty good for most people. from exam Pro. And we were looking at Azure protection, let's talk about what DDoS is, attack, this is a malicious attack, to disrupt large amounts of fake traffic. So to get this that doesn't like you, and you have your servers, to stop your your server from running. So commands to a bunch of computers that they service provider or their own data center, do is they will send 1000s upon 1000s of fake have packets they're sending to you with IP up so we so they're just fake traffic, and that your your servers are going to crash, gonna be able to do anything. But the great providers, including Azure have built in DDoS provider, you're going to have a certain level talk about the different levels. Azure offers basic is free, it's already turned on. It's So if you're using Azure, you already get advanced, because the attacks are extremely and you need professional support. There's starts at $2,944. You might say that's high, And when you're a DDoS, you're willing to get metrics alerts reporting, you'd get a a team that you can talk to. And they'd have So SLA, so if, if they couldn't prevent the they're going to give you credits or help for Azure. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from which is a managed cloud based network security resources. So the way it works is you're going and you're gonna attach that firewall, you're your traffic. And then what you're going to when I say spoke, I just mean other virtual to your traffic, so the traffic is gonna pass And our V net with the firewall is going to and what's not to which other v nets that get protection. But let's talk about some the first thing is you, you essentially create logs application network connectivity policies So subscriptions, meaning multiple accounts, network resources, allowing outside firewalls virtual network that's very useful. high availability don't have to create load balancers and do you can configure it during deployment to There's no additional costs for a firewall an additional cost for inbound and outbound is, is, is typical. So there you go, Hey, looking at Azure Information Protection, also sensitive information, such as your emails access based on rights. And it's integrated PowerPoint, or word or exchange or any of to have this, this button called protect, the access controls the privacy controls of you are a larger Corporation. And this kind Azure Information Protection, just think of those security controls. Hey, this is Andrew Azure application gateway. So I believe we And it is a load balancer. And specifically, on layer seven. So it's dealing with HTTP requests, it can actually understand the nature route traffic to other places. Another really is you can attach a web application firewall. you can set up rules, just as you were setting rules about what should be able to flow in a visual down below, you have the internet, can optionally attach your your wife to it. some rules. So let's say you had a server and a server that served up all your images, path matches this, only send it to this server it to that server. Okay, so there's, there Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And also known as ATP. And so before we talk about and IPS. I know there's a lot of acronyms intrusion detection system, and IPS stands that is, it's a piece of technology that monitors activity or policy violations. And so the IDs and an IPS is an IDS detects an IPS protect, And I'm not sure if advanced advanced threat it doesn't hurt to call in the same category. Threat Protection, ATP is a cloud based security Directory signals to identify, detect and identities and malicious insight actions directed what it does. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from Security development lifecycle, also known So STL is an industry leading security security wide initiative and a mandatory policy since they made it. The STL has played a critical Microsoft software, software and culture. the development lifecycle helps you catch development costs. So it's talking about these have training requirements, design, implementation, to implement this yourself, I bet they have read through, but it's just a business process. stuff into our pipeline in terms of development, that is actually called pushing left because the earlier on the better. Security will be Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And is a service that you can use to create, assign enforce or control the properties of a resource. by comparing the properties of those resources described in JSON format are known as policy do not worry, we're going to be looking at what Azure policies do. They're used to create, properties of your resources. Hey, this is at Azure role based access controls our b it's more of a concept of how all the components your role based access control helps you manage do with those resources, and what areas they And this is the way you control access to three elements, you have the security principle, about the security principle, first, this to the Azure resource. So this is who wants is an individual profile in your Azure Active in your Azure Active Directory, you could identity used by applications or services. what a a service wants access. And you'd have Active Directory that is automatically managed describe. But that's not that important for here is scope. So this is the set of resources is going to be granted access to. So scoping, subscription or resource group level. So to get here is that you have resources down below, to. But you can set scope at the management level, you can set scope at the resource groups group is when you're managing a bunch of accounts, resource groups is a grouping of resources. you can choose any any one of those three, or role definition is a collection of permissions. earlier, this is kind of where that comes definition lists the operations that can be roles can be high level like owner or specific give you an example, so as your has built roles, but I think you have to pay more to through Azure Active Directory. But the built contributor reader, and user access administrator, Now, look at the graphic there, we have the read, you can grant you can create, update as a contributor, all you can do is read, access, you can't, you can't allow other users have a reader. So a reader, as the name implies, and delete, they can't grant access to other only grant. So their job is to give access themselves. So there you go, that is role Brown from exam Pro. And we are looking at to lock a subscription resource group or resource other users delete or modify critical resources. lock levels you can set it to be cannot delete. be called delete. And this authorized This and modify resource but they cannot delete in the Azure portal, it's going to be read users can read a resource, but they can't Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And let's look groups is a way of managing multiple, multiple subscriptions in Azure just think accounts, it into a hierarchical structure. So each group called the root Management Group. All inherit the conditions applied to the management So at the top, you have your root management So human resources, it marketing, production you have those individual subscriptions. Again, Management groups. Hey, this is Andrew Brown monitor. So Azure monitor is a comprehensive on elementary dental telemetry from your cloud to go into Azure monitor on the left hand log alerts, metrics, logs, service, health, it's it's like an umbrella for a bunch of of a bunch of information in the form of a So with Azure monitor, you can create a Visual smart alerts, you can create automated actions, log monitoring. So there you go. Hey, this at Azure service health. So this is about such as service impacting events, planned your availability. So going down the list, service outages in Azure as your service health the Azure service and regions you're using. about the health of the individual cloud resources, the state of your health, you can use Azure an option under Azure monitor. So if you're it. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro, Azure advisor is a personalized cloud consultant your Azure deployments. The ad, the advisor, for all your subscriptions for the following performance, costs, and operational excellence. that's what we mostly care about is security. section there as well. So the first thing advisor recommendation for costs. So here, most impact can occur and leaving, tell you its recommendations of the new app security. we click into it, it would tell you what kind to improve your security. So there you go, from exam Pro. And we are looking at SLA s agreement. And this describes Asher's commitment like if you have a web server, Azure is going it's going to remain running throughout the kind of the idea behind an SLA for Azure SLA service. So they don't have broad SLA is you're figure out what the commitment of Azure is these SLA is in terms of uptime and connectivity target is just a representation in the form to you, you know, this service hat is 99%, And then you have the three nines, and then nines. And the higher this number goes up, this SLA is going to give you so you want and it's not always just nines, it could be someone says nine nines, they're talking about of the highest. One of the highest guarantees like 11 nines, there might be 11 nines. But just to mention it is that for Azure, if you do not get SLA because they just do not provide everything for free. So you have to be paying So I did say that the SLA is our service specific. all you got to do is type in Azure SLA into way to this page. And what we can do is we go to database, and we choose Cosmos dB, and tons of information about their SLA s. And So we have this for availability, this is of information. And as I said, it's for basically into it. And they have all that SLA information. from exam Pro, and we are looking at service when a custom customer would get a discount for an underperforming Azure product or service Azure gives, if they don't meet those guarantees, do it is through credits, right. So credits know what a like what a service credit is if they do not meet those SLA is they're gonna sense. So just an example here, if we have machine is a server, if you had monthly uptime then you get a service credit of 10%. If it of 25%. And if it was under 95, you get a means is maybe it's the cost of what you spent. take a guess that if let's say the uptime a service credit of 100%. Maybe it's 100% you spend $100, you get that $100 back. So exam Pro. And we are looking at composite services have different SLA s. And the problem servers different SLA is it's kind of hard when you use them in combination. So composite actual SLA guarantee underneath is for the web application. And that web application guarantee of 99.95%. Because maybe that's and then the SQL databases 99.99%. So what We don't know. So if we had to calculate, and SQL database, that would come out to 99.94%. that we are given. But just understand that would come up to 99.94%. And so you'd have SQL database would have 99.9%. So how could design, so we get the the SLA that we want. systems that will improve the overall SLA. sense why that would work. So imagine you if you had a queue, and that queue was saving app was trying to write to the database and database went down. Because once the database, there. And then those transactions would then a 99.9% uptime, based on the math down below, the the outcome would be an SLA of 99.95%. that is called composite SLA isn't there you and we are looking at the TCS calculator for course, we talked about the total cost of about showing an enterprise enterprise that would save if they moved on to cloud on to it estimates the cost savings, you can realize it can do is it can generate, generate out to your decision makers. Now you have to input you convince your boss convinced the executive because they'll be saving tons and tons of you just got to go to azure.microsoft.com, and it's going to give you an idea of how bit of what it generates out. Because it's example, it would compare on premise add to this person would be saving $130,000 over case. But yeah, that is the TCL calculator. calculator in action, if you want to find into Google. And you should be able to find defined my workload. So in my workflow, I servers, we have 10 of them four processes, here I've added four servers that are databases So I said three terabytes, two terabytes backup, So going on to the next step, we're going make it even more accurately estimate. So additional features, we might want to consider hybrid benefit. And then down below, we can for our on prem. So there's a lot here to if we go to next, we're going to get our, so over a five year period, we should save if you want to do one year we'll go to one lot of graphics here, as you can see, and it. So you can just go ahead and download Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And the Azure Marketplace is a place where there by third party publishers to quickly get started apps and services that can be available could be paid as you go, or that could be bring that looks like if you were logged into the what you could do here is you could type in in WordPress. And here I have a bunch of WordPress that have been vetted by Azure. And and again, trial, it could be 100%, free, but whatever it's a great place to go check out. So just show you the Azure Marketplace. So you'd have we do show you that in this course. But anyway, type in marketplace. And this will pull up a huge amount of categories of things that think I showed before WordPress, but we'll and there's all these servers. So you can plans associated with it if there's any price, then that would start the process of creating and you'd subscribe to whatever the underlying tons of stuff in here. So and you can sort you go. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam And so we have four support plans. We have direct. Technically, we have five we count on the exam. And there's not a lot of information find out that those enterprise price and support. these things is it's definitely important support plan and everybody gets the basic support only for billing and accounts. If or questions about your account, you can get standard and professional direct, you get for all levels. And generally, over talking reply during the business hours. But if you have people answering emails, 24, seven around for email support, no matter what level it just going to vary. So I would say that if you're going to want that phone support. And direct, and that's 24. Seven. So if it's a support, you can do that. And sometimes you sure if Azure has chat, but it's very common chat and phone support, and you wait 10 to for third party support, if you are using those things aren't really part of Azure, to build your web application. And Azure is you, even though it's not what they've built. going to do their best effort for developer is advantage for paying for support. Now, up a ticket, you can say, the severity of how fast they respond if you need the response. has minimal business impact, so maybe it's going to be considered a severity C, and for within eight hours or less, for professional So again, it's just general questions. Now, a moderate business impact, then the time severity be. So it's going to be less than is going to be less than two hours. And so compromised, but it's not taking your business impact, that means your your web app is 100% you open up a ticket called critical business be severity a it's just a spelling mistake hour or less. So what I find is that there's it's not always the case. But that's generally other services, you get as your advisor, the Azure documentation, all these support plans. and they mentioned it on their support page, be aware that you have these additional support are self serve, so the community support and general guidance on your architecture, you're So you can definitely ask questions there. actually get access to team in that in that you may get when when you talk to them, where those operational support and proactive guidance directors, it's called pro direct. And so if that means that they're developers. But some extra effort to help you there. And then by Azure engineers. So that's really cool So just going through all the support plans when you sign up, if you don't use the plan, $29 per month USD for standard, it's $100 it's 1000 USD dollars per month. So there I just wanted to show you how to get to this a bit further, but pretty much my graphic SERP support plans. So if you want to find as your support plans and you should be able the four plans and then there's enterprise on this. But again, you'll have to call support there. But yeah, just take a look here and pretty sure I have have everything you need Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And many customers have invested already in Windows their investment on Azure. This happens because servers even before Azure existed, or they to use the software. So they purchased the to Azure. And so since they've already got purchase those licenses, they want to keep that's where the Azure hybrid benefit comes it's called Azure hybrid use benefit in Microsoft they just dropped the word use, but the abbreviation to use these licenses for virtual machines would be Windows servers, or SQL servers. with a lift and shift, which I think we described on and off at any time for existing virtual time for new VMs. And I just wrote, bring are talking about licensing, and I just want your own license, b y o L. And so that just and they want to apply it, they want to bring hybrid benefit. So I just wanted to quickly hybrid benefit page. If you were to type into make your way here, what I wanted to show calculator down below. So if you do have licenses, to run workloads on Azure, you can fill this you might save. So I just wanted to make you is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And we are subscription, I would describe as the equivalent they use the term subscription, because to to reinforce that it's just your account. The first is the free subscription. So when that your subscription you're going to have, the process, you're going to get 200 USD credits will be free for 12 months. Now, the whole you avoid charges. And there are some limitations. user. I couldn't grant them access. So there too, to prevent you from being charged, but to get charged and count if you start using through your credit. So just be careful there. upgrade and unlock everything, then you can abbreviated to PAY g some people might call need a credit card required. But since you've stage, no problem here, you're going to be consumed cloud resources, then you have an you can make a deal to Azure and agree to cloud service. But I bet you're paying a lot but the deal is worth it for you. So just to Azure, they want to make a deal. And the students subscription, you do not require 12 months, but it requires a valid student process there. So you definitely have to be option to have. So there you go, that is the Brown from exam Pro. And we are looking at estimate the costs of Azure products, you what you can do is download an Excel spreadsheet So to get there, you go to azure.microsoft.com And from there you can you can go in here there's a bunch of different categories of machine. So you go in there and you say what all the types of configuration it's going down below is an upfront cost of $0 with a not sure how to make sense of all the pricing, clear picture of what you're going to spend pricing calculator. So if you just went to you should be able to make your way to this products. We also have example scenarios, we wanted a CI CD pipeline here, and we said for all these components, I'm just going to easier to view. So let's say we wanted to just go to storage here. And we will try storage storage. And so we can enter some information do blob file storage, table storage, I'm gonna go with blob, it's just easier to calculate. two premium redundancy LRS. And we're gonna I guess it's a terabyte, that's $150. If we of listing, create container operations, read cost. So here, you just have to tweak it based they'll show you like purchase options. But an Azure account. But I just wanted to show know that you can go explore any cost, and it. Hey, this is Andrew Brown from exam Pro. And so this service allows you to perform of your Azure cloud resources. But you can when you set a budget, you're going to, you're to be alerted when you're approaching or you've you a visual representation there that is get beautiful graphs, and you can drill down how you're spending stuff on Azure. So definitely is Andrew Brown. From exam Pro, I'm going az 900. So what I want you to do is type in into Google, and you should make your way want to do is on the right hand side, go ahead what certification you want to type in the there, then we're going to see this page is about the certification, what we're going Now there is a sort of certiport. But that's neither. So we are going to be choosing the that literally does nothing. I don't know would change the price. Maybe it would change But we'll go ahead there and hit schedule us to log into our Microsoft account. Mine account I created when I created my Azure in there. We'll hit sign in. And then the in my certification profile. So this is all that you have to enter in exactly as your book the exam. So I'm going to fill this in you there. Alright, so we're on to the next separate exam discount, I'm not a Microsoft getting any cool discounts here. So we're VUE to schedule our exam. So just wait here it's going to ask how do you want to exam or private access cloud, I'm going to show not have any options here, but we'll give English is the case here. And it's going to so what it's going to do is it's going to down below, you have a graph and you have here. And so what I can do is I can click the Mississauga center. That one's pretty app. And we're gonna have to select at least this one and that one will proceed to next. I want them to stop One will have to go back our time. And so from there, all we have to that's all it takes to book your exam. So,