- Good morning, good afternoon, My name is Mark Manzano. I am the general manager of the cybersecurity And today we are gonna be standardized PQC algorithms and all the initiatives that around transitioning to Today I'm joined by Colin Soutar. He is managing director at Deloitte and he's a global quantum cyber leader. We are also joined by the lead of the cryptographic And we're also joined who is the chief scientist of cybersecurity, Welcome everyone. We are topics, and we are going an introduction about what is HQC and what are the NIST standards. Andy, my first question goes to you. What, what are the NIST standards? How are they supposed to be - Yeah, thanks, mark. NIST to develop computer to protect non-national security systems within the US government. But going back to the, the data encryption standard in the 1970s, we've really viewed our to develop trustworthy, broadly accepted cryptography and transparent manner of government and industry. So we have a broad suite of primitives like digital and modes of operation, hash functions and key establishment key cryptography. With the threat of quantum computers against systems used today, eight a worldwide effort to identify vet and standardized new public key algorithms that are secure against by a cryptographically and secure against attacks This effort included, you around the world, starting before we were finally Now, just back on August 13th, we released the first three standards for quantum resistant public these included two digital and one key establishment mechanism for public key encryption. These were, you know, FIPs for key establishment FIPS 204 MLDSA and FIPS 205, the stateless scheme, SLHDSA. We think these standards will by industry and standards organizations really address this emerging threat of that quantum computers face. - And you know, maybe to what Andy said previously around, of cryptography, I think they're certainly recognized you know, cryptographic or less around the world, right? That's a very important fact. We, we recognize that, to be tackled globally. Obviously a lot of our clients are global and so we wanna make sure that but, but interoperability. So, so why now? Right? And, and you know, in the workshops and different panel presentations and so on that we do on this topic, I feel like there's of the conversation around how can it affect cybersecurity? You know, what is the timescale for that to actually manifest itself as a cryptographically And then we talk about error And then usually it's, There's harvest now, decrypt later. We find that a lot of that timeline sort of, of things together and it I think the way that we tend that if you accept with if you accept that there's that a cryptographically will be available, let's say the real question is how as an organization to repair your third party fix your supply chain and so on. Is it eight years? Is it I mean, you know, past which was relatively straightforward, we hear some organizations after that was, was prompted is we're still doing upgrades, right? So, so our view is not to be alarmist and say that the world We see that the NIST FIPS as a great starting point in we are asking organizations or suggesting to organizations to take methodical steps now to understand what their exposure is, to start thinking about And in that way they can do of business and not end up down the line where there's a scrambling and conditions will not is fabulous, Colin, thanks. I'd like to move towards of PQC on business operations. Carlos, I would like to start that cryptographic protocols and systems will have to undergo given the new set of standards? - So the, the new cryptographic algorithms have different profiles in, in performance than what we had up now. So we, we have at some points higher sizes for keys or for cipher And those changing profiles will imply that we have to adapt some protocols too. So these new standards are being followed by a significant set of other for, needs to publish the final FIPS. And over the next 12 to to see quite a few standards but waiting for the final So there is going to and a half of other STAs that And there is also some new complexity, no, like right now we have that is very small, very efficient, and they're going to be of alternatives that have So the management is going and the decisions of and what's the optimal that will require some and will require some consultancy and it will require So yeah, it, it's going - Thank you Carlos. Colin, what do you think that we need to start thinking for our security infrastructure? - So maybe before I answer that to add to, to what Carlos implications of these new that we are starting to see a fairly pronounced that this threat of a cryptographically relevant contemplated by business and government operations as an example. They are starting to think more about what are the business implications as the cryptography reliance through infrastructure to And I think that that's a of the maturity and the understanding and the board level. Prior to that, there was a lot of interest within For example, the chief obviously, and other parts they have competing priorities And they are trying to fund and move forward different initiatives. I think that the impact, of a cryptographically relevant operations is sort of so vast and immense that it's that in a way we're starting now to see businesses thinking about what does this mean specifically in the financial services we'd be a huge impact to them. And if, if you've lost that trust from a transactional integrity perspective, where do you start? Right? And so those are the Now I think people are beyond the historical understanding starting now to think about which is one of the biggest impacts. And then ultimately, of course, if organizations don't act in time, availability will become 'cause systems will have to shut down until they're upgraded. So I think that's a very good and pronounced step that we've been seeing over the last few months. And I think that all the not only on the cryptographic you know, with the global but also through the, the of Excellence in terms of that they are offering there. - Thank you, Colin. Andy, I'd like to talk a little and compliance considerations. From your point of view, what are the most origin or the upcoming new that we are going to especially here in the US but potentially also in - Yeah. Well, I, I I should you know, NIST is a, a You know, our, our responsibility is to develop standards that are required for use by US government non-national security community. But outside of that space, are adopted voluntarily. Some of you may have seen the US government released that established 2035 as the deadline for transitioning most to quantum resistant cryptography. And that may seem like a long ways away, but just due to the, you and the, the breadth of this really means we need you know, with planning and with our, you know, you know, refresh cycle, to, to begin to, you know, procure and implement and deploy systems that use So I, I think you're government agencies be, you you know, do you support cryptography standards? And, you know, what's your implementing those into - I, I, I think that this is a So I would like to kind of Carlos, based on, on, on How can businesses start and comply with upcoming regulations or regulatory frameworks in this space? - Yeah, so there, there for the proper CATE committee Cybersecurity Preparedness Act. That is very interesting and describes the, the first views on, on all these subjects. And well, unsurprisingly, for par first paragraph of inventory No, and more precisely that automated inventory and that the inventory to be a one-off thing. It's going to be mandatory every year, and thus their automated tools There is also going to be a, to ensure we have the maximum But yeah, for sure, No, everyone who wants needs to make an inventory. What wasn't unclear is to be pushing quite strongly, not just for a onetime inventory, but So that's very, a very - We always, Deloitte, anticipates and hopes that organizations in a sense And particularly on this topic, we wrote a blog on it about and this sort of came outta for example, working with and engaging with industry I think it's very important the timelines that we've talked about before, there is some ambiguity in some organizational minds And I think we've been clear we prefer that certainly an understanding of the exposure is gained and starting to build out a for regulations to be applied and understanding that there's this as a non-regulatory They will likely be integrated standards and frameworks and the like. And then industry specific We are certainly starting to in the financial services what this would mean. But we don't view that they're likely to regulate in the short term. I think what's more likely is that will ensue, whether so the like that again, help to articulate what this threat really 'cause one of the challenges that again, there's a good of the algorithms and why but I don't think that there's what the business implication is. And that means that it's not and the CEO level in the same way as other more immediate And so that balance between and board awareness of it we to say, we'll wait until We prefer that organizations of this risk and start to take the steps towards addressing it. - Definitely. And I think that also move the discussion towards cost and resource planning. Colin, again, I'd like to What are your thoughts that organizations need to to PQC and how many resources need to be allocated for this portfolio? - So at this moment in and costing, what we advocate to organizations is to make sure you have This is a multi-year effort. This is not something that one or even 18 months. And so we very much advocate that an organization should champion of the needs to look And typically that's someone security officer purview. But really it needs to be done in some cases the chief technology officer and the, the CIO with, again, exposure and awareness up at the So that is the first steps that we, we suggest is identify a champion and then start to think about for your particular Because as you start to of this task, it's really what are the data that Not that all data is not but there are particular data and transactions that really of an organization and those should be the ones that are first remedied in terms of that particular organization. So those are the first steps running forward and doing a whole scale inventory probably not the first step At this point. We think that most of an organization's architecture sort of archetypal prototypes of the broader network. And if you start doing it really sets you up in the crown jewels and where and then you can build picture and longevity. But again, it's a multi-year effort. That's the important, the important point. I'm kind of interested. Carlos, do, do you have - Yes, so I, I find two things very interesting and important. So as you said, this is going and I would like to highlight that this is not just a burden, Today's cryptography is Like there is quite a lot of outages because certificates There is quite large cost to maintain cryptography And it's truth, the truth is that we, we have seen some technologies the last 20 years, like virtualization for our computer centers, and things like that, that have scaled up to a very modern way of dealing with them. But cryptography is basically dealt with as it was in the eighties of cryptography is isolated, et cetera. And I think one of the tendencies we, we, we, we seem to, to see and standardization bodies are trying to lead us towards better cryptography. And I think we can have of costs and ensuring business continuity that can go out of this And so the, both the and governments are play a key, a key role here in ensuring that we don't just switch the algorithms, we switch the algorithms and Some, some of them like the Institute of Quantum computer proposals, like relying on two pillars of cryptography using hybrid that if one of those pillars secure position, that's to the PQC transition, but we have never been or others can be unified to have reduced costs and better observability, more agility. And so I think the, the budgets and projects are, are very large, but we really will have two sorts of people doing the transition. Two sort of companies The ones that will just wait and endure this transition and the ones that will push their companies so that there is a significant improvement on their cryptography. - These are definitely Andy, I'd like to know what could be recommendations for public organizations from people that might be listening from for them, what are this first steps that they could take and transitioning to post - Yeah, I mean the, where government is, is really of i identifying what systems you have that will need to migrate. You know, because of the, the broad use of public key cryptography, of our systems, IT by the pqc migration in some way, but it's gonna impact different You know, I think Carlos alluded to this a little bit earlier with cases where you are an commercial products and services where another perhaps update updating those and that you'll be able to address those through a technology or cases where you have legacy components or enterprise applications to be responsible for. And really those places where, you know, you will be bearing the brunt the, the, the, the PQC algorithms and potentially, you maybe proprietary protocols or tools is gonna be where a lot of the cost and complexity will be. You know, I I, I do think federal agencies and really need to look at this as just, you know, a a a technology modernization problem. You know, that some of these will have to be, you know, between now and and that time anyways. But, you know, unfortunately through technology re refresh So I think this is, you know, where there's, you know, to prepare for this. We're going to need to act quickly. But, you know, we are you know, agencies and process of understanding what they have and then start to adapt their, you know, their requirements development process, their acquisition processes, for the, you know, d deployment before 2035. - Yeah. And if I may and Carlos made excellent of this being an opportunity, right? I mean, again, we don't but we have time, right? That's, that's the main thing. And so organizations can take to, to refresh upgrade some people call it crypto agility. I think crypto resilience I've I kind of prefer 'cause upgrading the algorithms. It's also policy, you know, The way I characterize it it's never a bad time Like there's always things you know, it, it's really and I think Carlos, you said this earlier, cryptography has become so endemic and it's just been, you through homegrown applications or, you know, hardware, components that have been added in. It sort of then becomes endemic And so untangling that and put maybe pet putting you know, more concise policies to the business operations. Again, this is a good opportunity and I think that I, I hope once these upgrades are and we'll say, wow, we actually on, you know, the security integrity and availability. And we are much more that we are accumulating, and how that's adding And we're not capturing to be responsible for. I think that would be a big - I I, I love this part and I love the comparison with the attic. It's never a bad moment to but it's very hard to convince and money on that. So cryptography, I mean, everybody knows that cryptography is mishandled, but there is a lack of sense But now there is the PQC wave and for the PQC wave, of urgency in this 12 to 24 months between the regulations, the the verticals that will Everyone will have a sense And that's the moment to go to your attic. And, and that's where you will to, to spend money on getting that done and getting that done right. And we have multiple examples. We have examples from Google and from Apple that have that transition in a very awesome way in which they but they have strongly and their workflows So clearly there is a, a, a correct path to take today. - This is a terrific way of to everyone listening to this conversation. Thanks for tuning in. If there are questions or additional comments, and Carlos will be very glad to answer any information requests that might come out from this conversation and we could leave it here. Thank you everyone. - Thank you.