Doctor Josef Mengele of the Nazi Holocaust. He is the embodiment of evil. When he fled, but he knew enough had been the greatest He took a leak which was effective. It represents Cain, the criminal who flees to the end of the world and we can't catch up. What really worried Mengele, it was the kidnapping by the Mossad Adolf Eichmann. He should have been arrested, But things didn't work out German justice, for several decades, was very lenient. Josef Mengele is born in the Kingdom of Bavaria, in what is then He is the eldest son and Walburga Mengele. From birth he is a young man He was born in a town where his family Their business dominated the city. She dominated the economy cultural and social life. His father is the founder of a thriving business Mengele's name is synonymous throughout Bavaria. A notoriety which earned him in the family factory in Gunzburg. This largely guarantees its future. But don't want to follow the example He wants to become a doctor. And of course, we encourage it. Mengele is a studious student. He is passionate about music, At the end of his secondary studies, he joined the University of Munich, to study medicine. Munich is then the center of the party In 1931, Josef Mengele, joins the organization Steel Helmets, which became the SA in 1934, the Nazi Assault Section. Nazi medicine and ideology, shape their vision of the world. He learns medicine by the yardstick which affirms that there exists that there are inferior races. His doctoral thesis focuses on between racial subtypes. If people like Mengele it's not just because Hitler but because in the medical field, taught students like Mengele, that a new science is racial science. And he grew up with it. In 1935, Mengele obtained at the University of Munich. He is particularly interested in the factors of the chin dimple. His thesis on the subject with congratulations 1937 is a fundamental turning point, in the life of Josef Mengele. In January, he became the assistant, of Dr. Otmar von Verschuer, the leader of Nazi racial medicine. Ambitious and determined within the establishment Mengele also joined the SS. A man like Mengele, quite well off, gifted student and who now when looking at the organization he considered joining the SS. He's an elite within the elite. The SS goes back six generations to ensure that we come There is a genetic marker, so much so that if you join you received a tattoo under your arm. It meant that you had that you were of pure blood. Of course, Mengele decided not to because he was too Barely married and a few months of the Second World War, the doctor is sent to Posen, within the office This Nazi organization is responsible ideological and racial Mengele evaluated individuals. It was a kind of inventory The shape and color of the eyes, hair colour, the type of chin, the height of the forehead. And all this was supposed to give and then racial purity. He did this for quite a long time and I think it's important kingpin In June 1941, Nazi Germany launched his invasion of the Soviet Union. Mengele, is also sent to the front. He is assigned to Ukraine, For his bravery, Seriously injured in the summer of 1942, he is sent back Josef Mengele is transferred to Berlin, at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute Doctor Verschuer. At the beginning of 1943, the latter encourages his transfer to Auschwitz, where he will be able to continue on human subjects and build his sinister reputation. For the greatest number, were real sadists. One of the traits of human nature. They delighted in it. And there was also a small group, men like Mengele, to advance the cause of what they The Auschwitz-Birkenau camp, associates a concentration camp The deportees, mainly Jews arrive every day When they got off the train, Most arrivals are sent These are almost all children, the elderly and the sick. The others are directed where they die of exhaustion. It was during this sorting that Ruth Elias, meets Mengele for the first time. Mengele was there, with other SS men. And from afar I saw pass between two SS. Mengele waved his hand, left right. And this hand gesture, meant life or death. Life, death. It's very easy. Unlike most who see selections as Mengele appreciates them. Prisoners see him often He is particularly interested for his genetic research. Identical twins, it was great for someone who We are experimenting on one, and we can observe the differences, because we work on the same DNA, The German Foundation grants him a work grant. The grant allows it to equip in building 10 of Auschwitz. Mengele's work on the superiority of heredity over and thus support the doctrine of the Aryan race. These studies may have Today's doctors don't know the eggs split in two. Why Most have a child If they could unravel this mystery, it Every German mother could have and we could replace the losses For him, it would be If one of the twins died of illness, Mengele killed the other to be able to Vera Alexander, a deportee, reports how to try to make them Siamese. An SS brought them back The girl or the boy, the one who was hunchbacked, was sewn to the other, back to back. Cuffs sewn back to back. There was also a horrible smell. Gangrene. Their incision was infected and the children cried day and night. For his actions, Mengele received and is promoted to chief physician His cruelty knows no bounds. The baby is born. In the morning Mengele came &quot;This woman must be placed She must not breastfeed the baby. I want to see how long a baby Every day, Mengele came The baby started to become It was horrible to see. On the eighth day, when Mengele &quot;Tomorrow at 8 a.m., be ready I will come to get you.&quot; And I knew he would come to take us to the gas chamber. At 8 a.m., Mengele arrived. I was ready to be taken away. He asked me: "Where is the child?" I answered him : "She died in the night." "I want to see the corpse!" And he left. I was told he was looking for him, find such a small body, Doctor Mengele, it was difficult. In the winter of 1945, the steamroller stop the killing factory With many Mengele is transferred in a German camp in Poland, not far from the German border. He takes with him and documents about his experiences. The Red Army liberates Auschwitz It's in his escape He disguises himself as an officer Mengele's name appears on a list a long list of several No one knew if he was still And apart from the highest Hitler or Goering, those who were lower did not know He still escaped because He wasn't a stupid person and he understood the enormity He knew that Auschwitz was the largest of centers Upon arriving in Germany, he was taken prisoner twice, by American forces during It is even initially His decision not to saves him the first time. They made them take off their shirts, raise your arms before Those who had the group tattoo to be questioned. If we didn't have a tattoo and we we could be released. He gets away with it partly because he Hundreds of thousands and millions civilians, soldiers, who had gotten rid of The refugee camps created by were full. Chaos and mischief, save the SS doctor. This Nazi war criminal He narrowly escapes justice. As with many Nazis success sometimes holds and partly to luck. Mengele was lucky. He had identity papers that he was able to use and hide in the handlebars of a bicycle in Germany. Everything went well for him. Josef Mengele leaves the camp under his real identity. His luck is to get a double he too, freed, of which he made This is Fritz Ullmann. Once his papers are in his pocket, and becomes Fritz Hollmann. Mengele, of whom we do not know like all criminals was the subject of a declaration wherever they are, the Allies Implementation of this promise with the Nuremberg trials, against 24 of the main perpetrators They are accused of conspiracy, and crimes against humanity. But the criminals What they didn't know A British officer delegated &quot;We were absolutely not to which we are Obviously, gather then track them down, and which takes a lot of time. Even if the Allies denazification of Germany, few resources are implemented responsible for tracking down British teams chasing only had a few They operated in a very And they were trying to track down Thousands ! Mengele's name is, however, during the Nuremberg trials But the Allies have dozens scattered throughout Germany. American Crime Investigators and Mengele's name appeared, but like Megel or Mengela, like we There was indeed a doctor called who worked at Auschwitz. It was a starting point, but it was for an investigation and that downhill Mengele could also have died of the German army. A feeling reinforced by the declarations and his family at the GI's, who visit them It is said that Mengele's wife I'm interviewing a woman near New York, She said that Josef Mengele had The Mengele family comes together All were pro-Nazis and beyond considerations financial interests Economic survival is at stake, of one of the greatest This man who came from did what one would expect. He returns to his family. They will help him. He returns to his wife and his family told him because the Americans came For his safety a hideout is found at near Rosenheim, Officially, He is Fritz Hollmann, and harvest the potatoes. His wife, Irene, visits him He welcomes her at the station and often, Mengele thus spent three years before a new event His name is mentioned during the trial which ends at the end of 1947. Doctors, colleagues, people he knew. 3 and a half years found himself on the bench the death penalty. They did the same things He starts to say to himself Maybe he should go The fugitive doctor is consumed by fear. He spaced out Irene's visits Mengele cherished the hope of seeing again born in 1944, The doctors' trial ends up destroying this hope. Everything he held He was a convinced Nazi and Nazism had lived. He had played a role as a doctor in a camp, which no longer existed. He was a married man and well he no longer had a family life. The life he had known Fearing that his capture and a death sentence, Josef Mengele clarifies The Odessa network, which allegedly led to the escape is a legend. Also, unlike others this SS war criminal doctor, has no value in the eyes These pseudo-scientific works Neither for the Vatican networks. But, it has important There were independents, assistance in obtaining And the Mengele family of one of these independent networks, It wasn't officially It's not something it was money that allowed him The chosen destination and more precisely Argentina. To get there, he needs First of all, and a new identity. Thanks to the International Red Cross, by Fritz Hollmann, he becomes Helmut Gregor. They were documents It was impossible was not the one So, in the absence obtain documents was relatively easy. Let us keep in mind that besides there were millions The situation was chaotic, even several years later But this new identity He must travel Josef Mengele, alias Helmut Gregor, left Germany on April 17, 1949. Its objective is to join The road is long, a little more The road is also strewn with pitfalls. He has three countries to cross. Germany, Austria and Italy. The 3 countries are occupied in addition to local authorities. The roads are crowded with refugees, who might recognize him But everything is carefully planned. At each stage, an accomplice Its first objective is to arrive in the Alps. He achieved this at the end of April 1949. Second step, always arrive by train, to the small border town From there it is only a few hours from Vipiteno. But first you have to cross Early morning, the weather conditions are good. He launches into via a small mountain path. A few hours later, relieved, he is in Vipiteno, Italy. There's a little less left At the end of May, he took a train which, leads him to In Genoa, in the capital of Ligure, he can blend in with the population and the hundreds of thousands of refugees for New World destinations. Helmut Gregor is hosted by while waiting for him to get and the visa for Argentina. He has money He is alone for this departure His wife, Irene, refuses to follow him and join him, Nevertheless, with a port official. Mengele does what he thinks he is They offer him money and get the stamps It does not work. The official takes it badly He thinks he's cursed, He will miss his departure for for South America, because he is stuck and that makes him very bitter. With a few bribes, But this arrest seems to be It could have ended here but this is not the case. Finally, at the beginning of June 1949, Mengele, alias Helmut Gregor, manages to corrupt another a little less careful. Luckily, the North King, is still at the dock. With his papers in order he gets on board. After 6 weeks of crossing, he arrives in the port While waiting to contact Mengele settles in for a few days where he takes a room Who's better for a Nazi that a country where there is where the landscapes of the south would remind him of Austria The lakes, the mountains resemble He speaks German. He will make many friends And there already exist kinds likely to help him. Therefore, this makes it This important community is also one of the richest. She has immense and all kinds of industries. With the rise of Nazism, she will provide support and his Third Reich. The Germans of Argentina and send thousands of men The Argentine diet is also fascinating. The political system therefore appears If fascism is dead in Germany, he is doing well in Argentina. The Nazis therefore integrated very well. When Mengele arrived in Argentina, Juan Peron has been in power since 1946. After war, huge assets clandestinely in Argentina. Ultra-nationalist and populist, he agrees to protect the interests still very widely He makes his country a sanctuary for and pro-Nazis. The Argentine Catholic Church was set up by the Vatican. And some of the worst criminals sent wanted Croats, such as Pavelic in Argentina. Because we considered that it was The list of Nazis who found asylum or even thousands. Among those important we can find Klaus Barbie who was a captain in the SS. Erich Priebke is also a famous case. He wasn't really worried And also arrived in Argentina, a certain Walter Rauff. Walter Rauff is infamous gas chamber trucks. As for Otto Skorzeny, thanks to the journey of Eva Peron Quickly, Mengele enters Nazi aid center in Buenos Aires. The first 2 people are two former aces Hans Rudel, and Adolphe Galland are installed Their help is very valuable to him. Thanks to these two Germans, On arrival, by a man called He is also one to the protection granted to Mengele thanks to his very high-ranking contacts. He himself was responsible for receiving the money that Mengele's father towards Buenos Aires. Mertzig even makes work in his own business. All these people are part The president sometimes appears like in this new photo, where he is alongside Otto Skorzeny, a German officer and SS commando, particularly well known often on direct orders from Adolf Hitler. Peron, in his own memoirs, his meetings with Mengele, in the presidential villa of Olivos. In the 1950s in Buenos Aires, But we must remember that there was a very large Jewish population. Nearly 200,000 Jews lived These Nazis must therefore have lived next to which must have disturbed them. At the beginning of the 50s, Mengele leaves the neighborhood for the neighborhood a lot He rents the house at number 2458, from Arenales Street. Rounded portico with columns, green garden. It's a house much more in tune Mengele finds here a little Discreet charm He's a loner. He does not strike from his side He's a pretty serious person. After all, he wanted to become a teacher At the beginning of 1953, the Doctor moves again to where he rents an apartment from Tachari Street. A strange choice considering how few in this noisy street. Maybe at 42, was he looking for more possibilities What we know, and frequents a restaurant in particular If we went to the cafe in the 50s, we could meet there There we found Mengele, Eichmann, important people, not the most senior leaders, but ranking officers. All these beautiful people tasting food We can not say who exactly were the others. But Mengele, alias Gregor They even start With the help of his family, he invests in a company thanks to his friend Hans Rudel, he also develops trade Rudel notably connects him where Mengele frequently travels. Recently published documents indicate that he might have including abortions. One of my biggest surprises, it was to discover to what extent, he adapted easily and how it prospered. Mengele was rich. It made a big difference. Other criminals who fled like Adolf Eichmann who managed Eichmann worked in a Mercedes factory, not Mengele. In fact, Mengele didn't have a job At first he didn't work at all. He started investing He was taking his time. Contact is also permanent In 1954, a court in Dusseldorf, grants a divorce to his wife Irene, A separation Mengele also knows died in 1949, leaving a widow, He also knows that his father is worried Don't remarry anyone. She owns shares of the company. The solution to preserve the company, is to marry Martha to Joseph. The only problem is making sure For this to happen, To do this, he must find In 1956, he's so comfortable that he goes to the embassy &quot;By the way, my name is not that's the name I used My name is Josef Mengele. I would like to get a passport &quot;No one said to themselves: you are and you want to find your true self "No, we'll give it to him." After obtaining a copy via West German Embassy Mengele obtains a permit He uses this document to mentioning his true identity. He then undertakes a journey which seems In February 1956, as Mengele. First stop, Switzerland, in the ski resort of Engelberg. He found in this hotel to whom we said Martha and her son Karl Heinz, are also holidays. Everyone gets to know each other of the Swiss German Alps. Mengele then pushes his stay with Martha. He goes to Gunzburg. He goes to Wiesbaden, for three days, to former colleagues of the Institute Besides, it would be very interesting In the spring, back in Argentina, Mengele decides to live In the summer of 1956, the doctor goes to the embassy He plans to remarry to invest To achieve this, a passport from his country of birth. Few weeks later, he obtains the famous sesame of the How is it possible ? How do diplomats not I don't think there was because it wasn't necessary. If you were a diplomat, a doctor, a lawyer after the Second World War, 10 or 11 years old No German would ever "What did you do during the war?" It was a taboo subject. The Germans, at that time, How to say... did not have the will which caused problems Now, Mengele was a doctor. The doctors who had in a completely legal way, high-level intellectuals, these posed problems This German negligence, allows Mengele to carry out He personally invests massively plus 1 million Deutsche Mark, lent to him by his family. The doctor intends to put medical science. The offices are installed The first case that is purchasing a part whose premises were located The director of this laboratory, a certain doctor Bahizi, put him in contact with two Together they founded, from the Argentine Ministry of Health, the Fadrofarm laboratory. He continues to manufacture there too, products intended Like nothing ever happened On the papers presented for the Mengele's name appears. I called him Doctor Gregor, because it's under that name And then he corrected me and said not Gregor. This surprised me quite a bit, that he had taken this name when he due to political problems. He was very kind, and always told jokes. He loved to whistle tunes I don't remember which composer Happy in business, Manguel In October 1956, Martha and her son Karl Heinz, join him in Buenos Aires. They all settle into the new to shelter his new family. It is located in Virrey Vertiz, in the upscale suburb of Olivos. We even find the Mengeles in They married in January 1958, during a stay the capital of neighboring Uruguay. Martha is a woman of character and it was mutual. She has a son around the same age. who will not be before his 14th birthday, So even before Rolf Martha packs her bags with his son and wife Mengele. This is a striking example with a capital P. She is ready to live with him and his son thinks he's doing The logical continuation for Mengele after it is a definitive return to Germany. He feels he is not wanted at the head of the family business. But a series of elements goes again, force the fate of Dr. Mengele. He probably performed operations when he lived in He was even denounced for about a young woman who died The police then arrested him. He clearly benefited who allowed him to escape which could have cost him dearly. All this to tell you the type Mengele was only Innocent, but shaken. He fears that bad publicity does not lead to the discovery At the end of 1958, he is going on a long business trip to be forgotten. He returns several times to Buenos Aires and visit his family. Meanwhile, in Paraguay, Mengele begins to prepare in the Alto Parana region, more precisely in a known place, under the name of New Germany, It was there that he met Alban Krug, a sympathizer of the Nazi cause. This man, who is responsible sells him land Another event, will rush his plans. The only people who worked were people Serge and Beate Klarsfeld. They were amateurs without any official support, but really impregnated The incessant efforts of hunters and Hermann Langbein are starting to bear fruit. Langbein, a survivor of Auschwitz, on Mengele's activities During his research, Langbein discovered which indicated an address Wiesenthal and him put pressure for him to issue a warrant On June 5, 1959, a German court in Freiburg accusation against Mengele. The prosecutor initiates a procedure We ask the police But Gunzburg being a city under he is immediately informed Josef Mengele, informed, makes his arrangements and flees. In the meantime, Germany has launched followed by an extradition request Argentina starts by refusing and when the extradition is approved, Mengele already lives in Paraguay This country, led by Alfredo Stroessner, a dictator of Germanic ancestry, even grants him nationality At one point he must have thought he could and avoid being extradited to Germany. Paraguay had no treaty no more than Argentina for that matter. He could have thought Stroessner would need money. His family had and the Germans there And once in Paraguay, we never extradite At the same time, in 1959, without anyone being informed, the secret services trigger Operation Attila. Since 1958, the government know the location the architect of the final solution, but don't reveal it It seems that fear denounces Hans Globke, and then a member of the government Konrad Adenauer. This is information reported by in Buenos Aires There was a German-Argentinian called Lothar Hermann, whose daughter was dating a young man And this young man of the identity of his father. And when it came to my ears it made him think He sent an anonymous letter This letter landed on the desk, of a certain Fritz Bauer. Stroke of luck, on Fritz Bauer's desk, the first Jewish German prosecutor. Little confidence in justice it transmits the information notably to the head of Mossad, When the Israelis to kidnap Adolf Eichmann in 1959, they had in their possession proving that Mengele found himself At that moment, Isser... Harel decides to kidnap both, Eichmann who is the project manager, of the final solution and then, Mengele. The operation to capture Eichmann who wishes on this occasion the Nuremberg of the Jewish people. On May 11, 1960, the SS was kidnapped right in front of his house, in Buenos Aires, in the popular district of Olivos, by a commando of Mossad agents. Agents hope to do the same When Mossad agents they imagine themselves capturing but he is already in Paraguay. He would have very well It is an extremely for Israeli agents. It would have been difficult to introduce yourself and politely ask, Josef Mengele. Mengele passed between Eichmann is sequestered rented by Israeli agents. He recognizes his identity by which he accepts On May 21, he was transported on board a company plane Mossad learns that Mengele But after this feat and openly assumed in Argentina, the Israeli agency is wary Josef Mengele is protected, by his new nationality. We could not hope to seize By the use of weapons. But due to the situation and tensions with Argentina and in order to avoid a scandal I decided that we could not I started exploring other More elaborate ways to infiltrate and finally reach it The accused, with other accomplices, during the period 1939-1945 implemented the execution of the Nazi plan killing millions of Jews. After a trial, Eichmann He was hanged shortly before midnight, on May 31, 1962. While she had provided Mengele with the which had enabled him to regularize West Germany ended up offering Mengele feels hunted. Now that Mengele is in Paraguay, he erected an impassable wall And of course he doesn't live but in the countryside, From that moment on, he started And I think he was constantly living Ultimately, this group of neo-Nazis tell him they know a guy Wolfgang Gerhardt. He will know where to take her and Gerhard He's still the former flying ace which puts him in contact with a His name is Wolfgang Gerhard, a former Hitler Youth member. He smuggles Mengele waiting to find him he welcomes her into his home for a few months We have rather forgotten the role of Brazil but many Nazis One of the most famous the former commander of Treblinka, where 800,000 to 1 million Jews, were massacred upon their arrival, which therefore makes it one of the largest Stangl lived many years Brazil was therefore where he could go. Wolfgang Gerhard, Geza and Gitta Stammer, a couple of Hungarian expatriates. Thanks to a contribution the couple buys 300 kilometers to the west Gerhard introduces Mengele to the Stammers, under a new identity. The doctor uses the fictitious name an emigrant of Swiss nationality who plans to start a new life in Brazil. He becomes farm manager. His life consisted of hiding, in diapers to mix with people he hated. All this diversity. These lower classes, these dark-skinned Brazilians. These blacks, these immigrants. Because in doing so, they could remain free. Mengele's presence is They need arms Furthermore, Mengele refuses He only asks in exchange for his work. Geza is an engineer who travels They often leave Gitta for long periods. We attribute to them a sentimental adventure. They were going to stay loyal. It is likely that they perceived transferred to South America, from the family It was a very They had a tenant for many years. But it is also the time becoming more and more paranoid. This is the time when Mengele begins This is also the time when he wrote He is isolated and passes In his somewhat senseless diaries, written feverishly, in which he talks about himself he justifies what he These are justifications and convoluted for what it boils down to, to atrocities. But he called it a job He considered himself to be But the real Mengele shines through addressed to his family. Hundreds of pages and which he did not imagine He thinks his family to get rid of it. These letters show us that hates his life there more and more. He feels isolated. The press mentions things From his point of view, and the success accumulated by his father. He should return to Germany within the family. It's Martha's return in December 1959, that Rolf learns along the way that Uncle Fritz Mengele sends him a letter He has enough free time whom he has never met, that he is lazy, He poses as a demanding, distant father, a war criminal in hiding, to play a role in the family. Thanks to a new contribution the couple bought in 1962 in Serra Negra, 150 kilometers away But the Stammers end This is the first time that Mengele One day someone left and there was an article about an executioner I saw a photo of a young man And I told myself that this face with this smile I showed him the photograph &quot;Look at this photo, You are so mysterious. You live here with us, and tell us if it is Later he said: &quot;You are right, then you have the right to know. Unfortunately, it's me. And he also realizes, it also appeared that a name comes up more and more. And that name is his, Mengele. He realizes that he is becoming more not only within but he becomes a kind of incarnation Mengele manages to convince them arguing that it could be And above all by buying their silence. Witnesses notice paranoia who feels more and more hunted. Wherever he goes, He had 14 or 15 dogs, sometimes more, sometimes less. He didn't bring them here, but he was used to with her binoculars And I did the same thing. Could you see the road from here? We can see a large since the view is quite clear. At the same time, informed took refuge in Brazil, West Germany expands In parallel, Zvi Aharoni, one of the Mossad agents who is placed at the head of a new and arrest Mengele. Investigations in Paraguay The Mossad cannot succeed either between Mengele and his wife Martha, which is based in Italy. These men follow a news of Dutch origin This is Willem Sassen. The noose is tightening. He was one of those independents and who had a lot of contacts. And when the Israelis caught him, they told him they were going He had nothing of Eichmann, unless he Sassen gave them the name He said : a 1.90 meter Austrian. He knows things about Mengele. He places Wolfgang Gerhard One day he moves into Mossad team spots a the one he's been looking for for months. It was quite difficult but we did our best. We tried to use local I remember that one of these men just to make it local. Once, as we passed I met a man because I had seen photos and it was the same man. The agent informs immediately But the heavy logistics financial limitations on Israel's immediate neighbors, push Mossad leaders Again, Mossad team withdraws And when I say that the Israelis they do like everyone else the French, the English, they discover new information They don't talk about it they do not return to Brazil, they do not inform Simon Wiesenthal. And therefore the only organization on where Mengele was, it was Israel from 1961, and a conjunction of coincidences works in Mengele's favor. He has no idea what and how everything would have At the end of the 60s, they are private Nazi hunters to capture Mengele. The best known of them a survivor of the Shoah. Wiesenthal tended And also to exaggerate he was about to For Wiesenthal, Mengele was a good If he said he almost then he would receive more funds He's a Nazi hunter, but not a Nazi finder. Mengele and the Stammers bought in 1969, a new house in Caieiras, located a hundred kilometers away A large villa at the top The trio wants to get closer while continuing And for Mengele, undoubtedly, In 1971, Wolfgang Gerhard, gives Mengele his ID card. The Doctor changes identities again, the fifth since 1945. He becomes Wolfgang Gerhard. But far from being reassured, Mengele feels At that time, a long, very full mustache, in a pitiful effort But he was so anxious to chew his mustache. And in doing so, just like cats he starts to have intense As a doctor, he knows he will have to impossible to digest. But he lives under a false identity, that of a much younger man. The doctor who comes to operate has difficulty But it's symptomatic although clearly it is the doctor operates on him anyway. Without asking too many questions, and do not report it to the authorities. Weakened, Mengele is more Relationships deteriorate after this dozen I feel sorry for the Stammers, because he's a host Mengele is very demanding. He has a bad temper. He constantly argues with them. Some days he didn't say He set to work, but he remained silent. He started to do He walked for hours. Other days he was more talkative, was more cheerful and got along And suddenly, started to complain. Following an argument maybe because of the old man and also because of this relationship the trio separates. For the first time since alias Gerhard, settles here, in a little house located at 55 rue Alvarenga, in Eldorado, a poor neighborhood This time he lives completely alone, in the middle of Brazilian diversity. It was very smart to move in the most popular in Brazil, in one of the poorest neighborhoods, and live in the open, in the middle of so many people that no one But Dr. Mengele lives in fear. We wonder about the reason for Was he preparing to shoot who were going to break down his door? Or did he fear crime Both are reasonably If someone asks me, I would say that But also because I would like This would mean that he lived To try to reassure him and always increasingly important, Wolfgang Gerhard presents him the Bosserts. There is Wolfram, his wife Liselotte and their They live in Sao Paulo, approximately Reading the letters exchanged the latter was very close He was also an intelligent man. That's what's great there are always Germans of origin was badly treated after And yet, time has passed. At the time he is with the Bosserts, 30 years after the end of the war. And yet he continues to think, that the fact that Mengele is still This protection had become not but an honorable act according to them. The two men like each other and for Mengele, children He spends a lot of time We found a recording dating from this period. He is at the piano and sings He also takes care of children He takes them fishing. Mengele becomes a little Thanks to this family, He feels protected, as his name leaks But Mengele's health He suffered a heart attack He suffers from hypertension which disrupts his sense of balance. Alarming news Rolf, who has not seen his father, since his stay in Europe in 1956, decides to give him back He also travels incognito, under an assumed name. I really had to force myself to express He was very moved by the situation. His eyes were shining with tears. He was also very proud because he said to himself that everything would not have been able He considered me who had crossed enemy lines. He wanted to go to South America and hear his father tell him that he had done what he had to do, but this place In the first days I avoided mentioning That is to say Auschwitz. Subsequently, I approached them and it exploded. How can you imagine Can't you see it's a lie? Propaganda? He justified himself by saying thousands of people such a terrible system, He justified himself by saying that he had helped some. I could never understand could act in this way. And the fact that it is For me this goes against Of all morality, And human nature. But for all that, Still, He states that even today, I also think that Rolf who was still alive at the time And he knew that if his father she would find herself On February 5, 1979, Mengele takes a bus to in their house in the city This is where he often comes during the Brazilian summer. On February 7, 1979, he has another heart attack. It was around 4:30 a.m. We are Suddenly my son saw lying on his side. I saw it too. I shouted to my husband that he was His head was half in the water His gaze was fixed, He was trying to swim towards the shore. My husband tried to bring him back Mengele dies without having seen again He is buried in the municipal cemetery in Embu, located about thirty He is buried anonymously Wolfgang Gerhard's mother, whose identity he has used since 1971. No registration, does not indicate the presence I am absolutely convinced that for for the Bosserts and the Stammers for everyone who had it was imperative because as far as they were concerned, It was all over, he was dead and we would continue Some people who had could have been taken to court So the family thought it was worth as late as possible. The silence is total. Nothing is filtered about this death. It's a combination of events and alert the authorities on the fact that the Nazi criminal Five years later, in January 1985, for the commemoration of the liberation survivors demand Faced with this scandal, Israelis and Americans, pool resources They decide to end it with the hunt for Mengele. Rewards for its capture by governments The New York Times, the Klarsfelds, or the Simon Wiesenthal Center. Germany receives a lot of pressure to find out if this guy West Germans which should have started 15 years earlier. We could have solved this case consisting, to follow the money trail. And it could have been done many years ago, when Mengele was still alive. From the moment they agricultural equipment as we encouraged them to do, to discover the route Everything accelerates and on May 31, 1985, the police search He is an old friend of Mengele, company sales manager and financial link since 1945, between Mengele and his family. She discovers an address book including one written by Bossert, informing the family The authorities carried out a search While searching Madame's room in a secretary, It was a surprise and a huge surprise who would have said afterwards to keep these letters. The German authorities inform who questions the Bosserts. These reveal the location The remains are exhumed The news has meanwhile In the Embu cemetery, The international press is present Then begins a long Forensists and specialists come to help the Brazilian team. We have a whole protocol This protocol has a series Gender, age, height, special signs such as fractures On the skeleton we had, we were able to note the after-effects We compared them on which there was an accident in In total, and thanks to this file, we had access to a set to make a scientific cross-reference These elements were to allow us that it was indeed Mengele. In the end, these 11 forensic experts from Israel and the Simon-Wiesenthal Center, have all validated that on the basis although some have debated it, it was On June 10, 1985, the only member of the Mengele family is Rolf Mengele, he publishes he recognizes that the body and admits that his death to cover those who protected him One death confirmed but doubts remain. And a few years later, he is a British expert who proved, using that the bones were those of Mengele. The survivors needed because they had seen what was there If we told them there was 1 chance for them, they were finding someone who matches Most of us have before science proves it You have to wait until 1992 this file opened in 1945. A business which, with a little good Should have only taken a few months. The most frustrating he got away with it. His life was miserable for but not enough. The only true justice would have been to Even his execution would not have that he reigned at Auschwitz. But a trial would have been important. This did not happen. His death was too sweet stricken by a heart attack. He died at the age of 69. The peaceful death of Mengele, is a source of frustration who were interested in his case. The one who remains synonymous with of Adolf Hitler's regime, is kept in drawers Irony of history, even his family didn't want to for one of his own. After war, have thus slipped between the meshes Mengele is however The hunt to capture was late and very insufficient. But overall, taking into account and record number never achieved before in history, justice has been done guilty of crimes against humanity.