What I have here is an account one of the world's best mathematicians, What's interesting about this exam is that Terence thwarted his math career. But instead, he says to succeed. It was the results of this exam that and knuckle down and try harder. It was which Terence took at age 18 after a year the Princeton graduate classes didn't have any major thing that you needed to pass in order kind of like an interview where three Terence Tao is one of today's greatest including a Fields Medal. On this channel as a child prodigy, so I was a little surprised We know what questions Terence was asked, students writing up their memory of the exam other students wanting to know what to expect. My examiners were Stein, Klainerman and minutes late. The first questions they asked me what I knew. And I said, basically no real harmonic theory at all. So they For every math student, the general exam real analysis, complex analysis, algebra, Probably what they want to pursue their PhD in. and analytic number theory. Give examples what theorems do you know about them? And how do which nobody seemed very acquainted with, boundedness on L2 was sufficient to prove Harmonic analysis is the representation of transforms. The questions that Terence was don't understand the answers, but that's You could make it all the way through a math Calderon-Zygmund results of singular has told the examiners he is prepared for, and Since my T(b) theorem was martingale based, Stein gave the sigma algebra purely aeasure theoretic of conditional expectation. I think Stein though. Stein then asked me what other any concrete ones offhand. But I mumbled about a transform was bounded, and had some smoothness It's here that we see things and each step going forwards, he's being but chokes up on the details and in providing analysis for his master's thesis, and later he only spent a few days reviewing analysis. This so he does okay with questions about it. his lack of preparation is starting to show. of the Hilbert operator and an easy way of proof. should do it for L2. They seem to be hinting to Riesz potentials, but again, I didn't know With this being an oral exam. We see how different and the examiners are coming up with questions them to really find the depth of his knowledge The format can be pretty intimidating. At age than his fellow students. and had found math easy interest and talent for the subject, he had never past. And in earlier studies could get by with and spending the rest of his time just playing According to an article he wrote years that he had made it all the way to Princeton, I was asked for a couple of definitions of H1, I potentials, I've got the limit of harmonic how to prove that any of them were equivalent. So they made me realise that the latter definition Instead of treating the qualifying exam as an embarrassingly large fraction of his time which might be the most relatable thing I've Web in his first year, and played computer Student Dormitories computer room. While his Terence said that he only did about two weeks with doing less work than those around him. Then they asked me about fundamental the denominator a few times. So they began with a lot of prodding, I got the exponents of Here, the examiners are asking easier and easier able to give a satisfactory answer. And they're fundamental solutions of the Laplacian. To be clear, for me, none of this is easy, comprehensible. But I suppose it's considered easy Klainerman asked me about the connections between any more than vague generalities. Terence later analysis for its own sake, but had never paid such as PDEs. This was the all is lost moment. Then they switch to analytic number theory. In a stroke of luck, only one of the three number theory, but had mistakenly thought that number theory instead of analytic number he wasn't able to use any of the difficult he had prepared, because that wasn't what Terence was given just the standard which weren't that difficult. Rudnick mainly give one that allows analytic continuation, and thus derive the functional equation. Analytic number theory is using the methods of function is perhaps the most famous example, where of prime numbers. State a form of the prime back up anything with messy calculations, Talk about primes in arithmetic progressions, of primes of the form of four n minus three. had prepared for and so breezed through them. The went on to prove quite a famous theorem about of numbers which are equally spaced. For example, prime numbers, where the gap between each number it is always possible to find somewhere in the numbers of equal spacing and any length. What infinitude of primes in arithmetic progressions? me to talk about characters? And they asked how Chi was a real character. I was going to write and logs, but then realised that they were talking though, that this was a disgusting way to do log formulas. Then they made a comment that or something like that. Anyway, I stated what out an explicit equation. Again, Rudnick waved me It seems like here that Terence has the class number theorem. But when he said thinking about writing out some other messy but maybe they all laughed about it. Then Rudnick over. Talk about Galois theory. What do you know The monster but I backed down quickly, saying I meandered a bit as the professor's talked of order 168 which I mentioned was sporadic. though they said that my harmonic analysis any real or complex analysis, but I guess from that wasn't necessary. Besides, we were almost After the exam Stein, who was his thesis that his letters of recommendation had been Terence said that this moment left him in a state poorly on an exam that he had been genuinely time he had done poorly on an exam. In fact, he was for a Fortran class where he had refused to program in BASIC. And the other one was a quantum that he would have to write an essay about the and he had to be escorted from that final exam exam was a wake up call and a turning point his classes more seriously, because he had I listened more to my fellow and I cut back on my gaming, I worked that my advisor gave me in the hopes of nearly failing the generals was probably the best Being told that his harmonic analysis because Terence Tao was awarded the to partial differential equation,s and additive number theory. Either he did or these exams are not great at and measuring about Terence Tao struggles with this exam is i'm test. It's a reminder that tests themselves don't what's more important is what you do after getting and intelligent people can sometimes mess up or assuming they can coast by purely on natural because of his creativity and problem solving and skills that are being tested on a qualifying matter. Terence himself says that one does not Talent is important of course, but how one This video is sponsored by MEL Science, whose This is a cycloid drawing machine, and rise to different mesmerising patterns, a gear ratio of three to one and draw out a cycloid large gear. Other combinations will create nature. This drawing machine is from The Art of which aims to change kids perceptions of math encounter at school. The math subscription which includes monthly boxes on STEM, physics, 16+. The art of math kit also contains a puzzle to Lieber from Vsauce2 provides guidance alongside the concepts accessible and fun. I think that and have the potential to inspire a lifelong out. You can get 50% off your first month of any That link will be down in the description. Thanks, for making these videos possible. A special shout