(audience applauding) Our next guests are on a without means across Central Florida keep their homes maintained of Hurricanes Helene and Milton. Their task is as big as From Rebuilding Together Central Florida, say hi to Lee, and from let's welcome Candie and Amanda. (audience applauding) Welcome to the show. It's great to meet you all. So how are you personally How's everybody doing? - Good, good. The family is good. The community, not so much. We were flooded in and But we're getting there, power's back on, and so it's a slow recovery, - Yeah, how 'bout you, Candie? - Well actually, we had to evacuate My mom, my daughter, and we did not know what to But when we did return, there was debris everywhere, Anything that you can think was out in front of their houses. So it was just devastating. - Yeah. I'm a Floridian and had never Yeah. Well, Amanda and Lee, explain what Rebuilding - So on a typical day without a hurricane, we repair homes, revitalize So we're really focused on, aging in place. We'll do a lotta We do a lot of roofs, HVAC. We wanna make sure everybody where they're safe. So people don't have to and things like that. Tampa also has a children's program, where they focus on asthma and allergies and getting rid of things in the house that could cause them or exacerbate them. - Mm hmm. during hurricane season, We're boots on the ground. We go out, we assess the damage. We tarp roofs that have been damaged. We muck and gut, which is the drywall, the cabinets, anything- 'cause of mold alone. Exactly. - And that's exactly why we from getting sick or being in that house and having to be around those things. And so the first phase is And then once we can accomplish that, then we'll go in and start the drywall back, the cabinetry 'Cause we're in it for (audience applauding) Amanda, you say as much you see hope in these communities as well, right? So right now, the water's receding, power is getting restored, I mean, that's half the battle. And then, you've got wonderful people, like Rebuilding Together Tampa Bay, and also the community. Our neighbors, the people coming out and checking on each other and keeping up with everybody, and making sure that the and taken care of and everybody's That sense of community It does provide a lotta hope. It lets you know that And you know, we've like Miss Candie. We've got wonderful donors that help us to continue to do what we do. Because we absolutely couldn't do that without our volunteers of the wonderful people who - So how can people watching help? How can, what's the Obviously, donations. - Obviously, donations. If they could donate sleep, (Kelly laughing) around the clock. - Yeah, yeah, coffee. - But donations, we work - Yeah. directly back into these communities that were so hard hit. - Yeah. as well as previous hurricanes. We do long-term, so So we're working on Hurricane - Yeah. And it's one of those like growing up in church, I always heard this as a child. It's like, hey, if you're maybe help somebody else. 'Cause you never know when that is in need. And I've definitely been both. I've been somebody that can So it's one of those things. Man, if you got extra right now, maybe you got extra for a reason. - Yeah. Humanitarian nonprofit Endeavors has supported disaster and their families for years. Right now, their team is helping local communities with And they want to help keep up their hard work, so they're gonna donate (guests and audience applauding) Yes. Man, you are angels, what you're doing. It's a lot of work. Even like hearing my in North Carolina, it's a lot of work. But really, community is the thing. You know, helping- - Each other out and - Absolutely. - The storms, they come they destroy our cars, they but they can't. crush hope sometimes, yeah. But they can't destroy - Yeah, absolutely. Rebuilding Together is to revitalize it, to for all of the residents that live there. - Absolutely, all right, well thank you so much, ladies. (audience applauding) to get involved in Rebuilding Together, head to our Insta Story. We'll be right back, everybody.