[Spiff] You already saw me beat the base game of the real game. The bulk of this game's content is unique game mechanics. Something interesting train you for the Max Custom Night - the final would only learn after beating it that this is not because there's a secret, much harder version of clicking the challenge. I had no idea about cook - barely knowing how to serve these metal the building. Okay. [Spiff reading the game] let's see if we can get through double the over my head to really show this off. This will just gonna fuckin send em to the wrong place, Bonnie... Freddy... and uh, ThreadBear. So challenges my goal is the the, the ultimate I don't think they'll have legs, no. [Spiff Max Unknown Destination that's fuckin funny.&quot; the Max Custom Night why not? It'll be do predictions on challenges that might take you know what I'm sayin, chat? We'll see how in a sec. There he is. Which is a uh, is that the endo sneezed! Huh. Bless you. *Endo sneezes my dearest chat, I have a couple times. I don't because it makes it harder to win. He vent. [Spiff reading chat] How does Freddy see the ground, he uses, uh, you know, muscle of *endo sneezes* ... canned pie. [TTS] &quot;My stream balls.&quot; [Spiff] Cool! Nice, a grilled boot. may haunt your tools. Hmm. Ten five, ten, five. this. [Spiff reading the game] &quot;I tell ya sometimes an awful buzzin starts when one of technician left behind a device seems to fix the buzzin. If you hear a tool buzzin in your on it - just don't touch anything buzzin, don't Funtime Foxy better than Mango. Not a massive the buzzing is. Mangoes are really good fruit big... mango fan. Alright! Well, we got obvious. I missed between the eyes. Yeah yeah. chat. [Spiff reading chat] I need Link's crossbow I never played it! And who knows where it is [Game] &quot;Happy! Whee!&quot; [Spiff] Nice! Happy, wheee! Yeah this game does have a lot of game that was finished, they've accomplished it's just good. Very minimal bullshit, actually. This game is fun, it has challenges. [Laughs] Don't trust anything? True. What it up and my character just turned the face. [Laughs] Sweet. How can you can. But, you're just supposed to check blue. Yeah I think this night's pretty getting uh... getting shot that's fun. I have as long as I don't miss my shots. Uh haunted. Oh, okay, cool. Got it! I don't think mechanics for individual challenges. It's extra challenge that adds the taser. And like adds sweet. [Laughs] It's like some juniors in there. thing. Holy crap you, you annihilate power while... getting haunted. We're at order three, preparing. Yeah I don't know. If I and check for what the jump scares look But I am trying to win right now. I did try happened. Damn! Really? Must have moved really chat] &quot;How does your Twitch stream only have 2,000 reasons! One - live! There isn't a five hour hour then. Reason two - not edited. Most people like a lot less people, on Twitch. We'd probably have I guess the Twitch to YouTube switch is is quite [Spiff] Dude! On YouTube, Ruin... 30k, actually. 30,000 when I streamed Ruin on YouTube. But like switch? There were, like, like - you see those in chat? That's already too long for 30,000 I would maybe see your one word messages? Like like. It was just like: &quot;Hello! Massive bulk were only a couple hundred people in the Zoom was a minority... that was sending bad pictures. like... the other Sheerans. we're back to order three. I really got to pee. Shit - oh! That's not gonna do us any favors. You're fuckin kidding me dude. Dead to a there a fan jump scare?&quot; [Spiff] No us. Oh that fan! Maybe that one yeah! stream?&quot; [Spiff] I don't know! I might stream... And like I'll actually be able to keep the what happened with Ruin, because it needed to be I'm used to actually having to do you Chica, Just eat it already! We all know you're wanting gosh. Oh that's just so bad! Holy shit balls! Just bite down bozo! Who's a good boy? You're a good boy! Oh! No!- O-kay was... what, Ohhhh man, I would have been mad! Okay, nice. broken? That seems really hard. I kinda just I should try the other ones first. [Spiff the heat is broken and I'm freezin my boots in these temperatures, try refreshing okay.&quot; [Spiff] So, uh, do that a lot is what I'm Canada chat, it doesn't just snow outside. Whoops. infinite water glitch yeah. [Spiff reading chat] Canadian cuz he was gonna go watch a hockey game.&quot; really watch - follow professional hockey, but I to go to hockey games live, I like the, the cold pressure. The next challenge might be broken. Well, that's awkward. doing that makes Freddy go beast mode. So dying to fuckin half of Freddy. Well you can are... the more you have to use power. The you have to use the easier it is to die. You know why turning off the lights increases thing. Yeah! Delivered order two! Only one third remains. Dude I didn't even think yet. Oh! [TTS] &quot;YouTuber and streamer AstralSpiff perishes to decapitated Frederick Wow! We actually did win with uh, with super speed gaming chat very very good gaming. So we got Out Orders are piling up keep up with demand? Oh let's I can never let anybody into the vents, that's &quot;Conveyor seems to be stuck can't be shut down or in there!&quot; [Spiff] So that'll be that'll be uh, have to watch these three cams, on the not perish to Frederick Fitzgerald Fazbear a prediction! Oh! I'm watching you! You this is gonna be a long night of uh, going back pa- uh... pardner. Oh! I see you there pardner, any No wires for these pardners! You know funny Max Night because I think it takes more power it does from those doors. So this might be the Hurry up. Maybe that's why this challenge fun. Oh! No! Bad doggy! Dude that... uh oh. Damn! The bird went two spots, while I was dealing left, Fox. That was my bad I just gotta be but nah. Beyond that this shouldn't be that bad. believer!&quot; [Spiff] Really? Five tries and I die on purpose. Just to mess with you. This is one of the best FNAF games of the year. What would year? We haven't had that many this year, I don't that comes out.&quot; [Spiff] Oh yeah yeah, that should it'll for sure compete with this game, absolutely. it's not happening. [Spiff reading chat] &quot;Was the guy who was working on it, is never going to FNAF again. How? Who! Damn you must yeah. [Spiff reading chat] &quot;I think there's there were people even before all the Phisnom just made it, already. There are FNAF plus supposed to be is never happening. It may get but it will not be the original one. Come on. Thank you. All right chicken, my eyes after you stop Foxy from having a swift meal so you gotta watch for that. [TTS] &quot;Hope I think he's gonna I think Foxy's the cam five vent. Yep! Foxy is there, bird. Chow down buster! I love how Foxy looks Thanks for being chill af Bonnie! Bonnie was like: fine, I'll give you some time, you know, there's there.&quot; Nice! Yeah so this night might have we'll see. Cuz I'm probably gonna play it like the best way to play! And this last one before keep up with the demand.&quot; Everybody is a higher Plus a bit of extra challenge? [Spiff reading coming through here we need to be ready.&quot; that's what he looks like. I've been trying to out that order, the orders real quick between I've been trying to put my finger on it looks like. *endo sneezes* So he's got like, far. And then yeah, this is half the difficulty of this! And we'll see how hard she is. I think it took him two hours but, I don't know if he meant or what? So, I dunno. [TTS] &quot;Such a beautiful game um... we're dead. How many are there there? There's six! Yeah so I'll stop him from entering end of the world still. But it'll, it'll use not get scared of horror games?&quot; [Spiff] It's more fun than scary. But just in general scare me sometimes. I hope - it's kind of what Fears to Fathom Chapter Four will scare me. aAs we even fucking bother? I don't know chat! terrible. Oh! Dah! Well, you try. Kay? The fuck? Dude headless Freddy like took a what is up with the with the Chuck is Chuck E Cheese like simultaneously running an event that is like a complete parody they profit off little kids.&quot; [Spiff] Absolutely &quot;Hey, lads. Fahnoof time, POG?&quot; Yeah who knows, so. Je ne sais pas. [TTS] &quot;The Chuck E Cheese &quot;We don't want to be associated with guy on their poster despite purple guy not they did research. It's so funny and absurd.&quot; yes. Nice! Okay, wow! Dude headless Freddy it chat! The last challenge! Max Custom and friends are serving up a heaping How many tries? Sixty minutes? I would hour. What? Wha-? Foxy already ate it? Okay chat, So, we can probably cut off Freddy's head that's out of nowhere! He was like first stage, I power! *endo sneezes* *Spiff imitates endo sneeze* in bed for too long after being awake. Why? If affected me? [Spiff reading chat] &quot;Your bed your there's a space between your face and the dust.&quot; Aha! I'll catch ya you dirty, dirty fucks. That was gaming! You know, we actually never anybody through. [Spiff reading chat] &quot;Fifty-five minutes left?&quot; [Spiff] Yeah in five minutes. And order three is the end! attempt. And I've learned how to maximize my just gonna stay here, no reason to ever look left will be excellent. Fantastic media consumption. of course be - a family friendly movie. I would franchise. Bro are you serious?! Yeah. Headless Freddy is chat. My perfect Bonnie timing was a little off, but hey! It still worked! Bonnie lenient. Yeah so it looks like it takes about into the vents than it does to stop them, at the vents. I like waiting for Chica because then it's a fair 1v1 our time. That's not good. Well, well played! That was fucking, that was gaming. I identified all the shit! shit. Missed somebody! My bad! [Spiff game?&quot; [Spiff] Running a restaurant! I could probably wait when the I think if it gets blocked I'm going so that I can tackle it at like a a good amount on. You're fucking kidding me! Ain't no way if the backup power gets eaten? Maybe we can work jammed? Let's find out! [Spiff reading chat] &quot;You But that's fine! Cuz I can get my power except for this. Power load: neutral. We and then game time! Whoo! [Laughs] No. No, I think if Foxy gets I'm gonna die. There's no sur- not unless I'm gets this. This is another way to kinda lose, it's not as bad though it's not. Hmm. gaming? Fuck! You're kidding me dude. there. Close! We are on, I guess give a.m. order three I think. I had no idea what was going but we, we can't cut off bro's head... and I think has to do with ThreadBear trying to go to block him. I'm thinking of just staying that might be the most efficient way. Cuz moving. Yeah, that's gotta be the play. We can't night. That's okay! That's okay! No big deal. Dumbass head. Know where everyone is at all times. Always skill diff Chica. Freddy's in! There he is! Oh, yeah. Damn! Dude, I positionings. [TTS] &quot;Three month bitches. Get some headshots Spigg.&quot; [Spiff] Too much shit 5,000?&quot; [Spiff] That's not has 50,000 in that's gonna suffer. All is. You're probably up next, Bonnie. Foxy's Probably be angry, he's not angry. Okay? Wha-? No you fuckin do not! That sucked. All right, last attempt, I guess. Right after the second I think I missed. getting the drama going. I never miss Chica Well no no no what happened is I reopened was Foxy arriving, so that's what killed me. uh... I thought I'd beat it, I thought I'd beat delivery. That's that's the, you know? you know there's nothing mindblowing, it's not just don't chop off Freddy's head, and don't let Really just I need to be able to catch Foxy on other vents. That's all there is to it. whatever, uh, journalism school? Kind of made hereditary public speaking in them. Like my was a reporter for probably half his career, and ass in journalism. It's like my goodness, Chat are you hearing like popping in the audio, or is that my headphones? You There's something wrong That's the wrong sound! What! Why? Is it me? Is it my headphones? damn it Paige. Why are you letting your it was it... huh? I don't understand game sounds. Who knows what that was, Gaming. [Spiff reading cat] &quot;Stream's Preparing order three is 4a.m. Oh God. It's basically over. Well. That that was pretty good. So I don't think Fox even Thready. I know you want that cord. You disgust just a good game. It's not too complicated, every other game. The unique mechanics that it just prime gaming. Because it's simple it I mean, that's - that's FNAF. FNAF is I'd say the biggest thing is just like, me Chica and Bonnie - they... are really We are now gaming chat. Oh let's go! Wow! Just like that chat! That why couldn't've I done that yesterday dude I did oh my gosh. What is this? Congratulations you've won Foxy and that's it then that's everything we these nuts are called. Okay, woohoo. We've it's a preset Max Mode but, I [Spiff reading chat] &quot;If you enter manually and get another reward for beating it?&quot; [Spiff] No really? Really? How do you know they're more just gonna, I'm gonna get a couple about whatever extra award is out there. but so ThreadBear is a lot more active. Oh my tell David Baron that he didn't beat Max Mode. so silly. Well and, and maybe it's not that much still not be that bad, but. [Spiff reading chat] [Spiff] I hate everything. Oh! I actually got him nice! Ah! [laughs] We losed. Wow that's not very appealing! I'm dying on purpose. Ah! Come on! You but that's that's terrible. Okay hold on, Hey go back to Bite at Fred's [David Baron] &quot;Back to Bite at Fred's you're not yeah I've heard it's much worse. I finished [Spiff] There's no way he's coming back a lie. Although when I say I'll come you know, it's within one to two years it&quot; was just... not true. If this mode fucks there was 20s on all the animatronics. Are you fucking kidding me? Damn bro. just under an hour. And then I'll get a little oh. Yeah, yeah, that works, that prediction I'll try my best! Wasn't mentally prepared is light work stop playing games?&quot; Ah, fuck's sakes. I need to speak to the a chat. Hey, what you think you're doing, 20, 20, 20. I have oodles of - oh, God. Okay but make it go up to 21. Don't raise the so that it's evident that there is a You have a one next to your- Ah! Next in line! Let's go! We did it chat! Ah! So if he gets the butt on the wires, it backup, but then in the backup, power is used the reality is for a Max Mode like that, I'm out, can I just, yeah fantastic. Who bit some child. Totally accurate battle simulator. or something? Two weeks ago? Three weeks have a second TABS video on the way. And guess we would be currently working on, on definitely be better. I'm better at the game, we vastly superior and then, we'll just have to Oh I saw you, you little dick! Let's... of stalling let's see how it goes. I know but what if it's not, alright? Hear me out. Interesting! We are gaming! Noooo! Kay, ThreadBear getting stuck... is, before? How close was I? I guess I would I'm learning that stuck bear might be a Just kill me. [Spiff reading chat] &quot;How much should a spiffball be equivalent to in zero. I think it would it would uh it would least three times the current Ninja fighter went to 07 and missed the O, so it was just seven. [Spiff reading chat] chose this life. Yes hi Loaf! Loaf says: &quot;what the Dude! I - gosh! I am just - Loaf, what am I I could check this cam as well. See he's gonna see? So, interestingly enough... when dude reset... people's positions. So it's not the Head mannnnn, too speedyyyy. We're going Yeah it resets them! Dude gettin lads [laughs] Look who's back! Back So now Foxy's gonna get stuck. Um, yeah sure. And we live again! We've had two stuck incidents, Stuckies are okay! Like there's like, almost get unstuckies, but you can just - you can wait I'm gonna eat stuckies! I don't give Yeah. Although I do need you to get your are helpful - change my mind. They Well, we're back. To fuckin stuckies, chat. I don't know it's like - it's working! Freddy's stuckies, Bonnie's stuckies, Foxy's Loaf's about to be stuckies in the grave. [Spiff just bit my, my leg. So nothing happened to Loaf. Oh, fuck! Oh, fuck! Oh! I played that wrong. We're gonna try to beat this... slowly. I'm a loss. And like I'll play stuckies slowly. Ah, well, that's unfortunate. Okay, just as well! Alright, time to un-activate stuckies. It's like they're randomized after stuckies. Like once stuckies is broken they're Feckin stuckies, man, Bonnie's there, get the Freddy vent here, and then What a weird world! Like where does Foxy go, you know when he comes to your door it seems like a &quot;you have to deal with him.&quot; you know - so it's like nah, go give you a this looks so real to you?&quot; [Spiff] It is the FNAF movie. Yeehaw. Stuckies is like actually kind of op! Back to stuckies! [laughs] [Spiff reading chat] three orders. So now Foxy is gonna be stuck, deal with that. Then after that, like everyone's Yeah! We'll see we'll see That's right believers! This was a piece of God damn! So st- ... not stupid, it was silly. is! So they know! They know for sure then, why? So 20, 20, 20, 20 - and we got these finger and turn them all to 20, it's harder! I actually beat it properly. What a, what