So we bought this abundant piece of land way of living and so far we have been and documenting what we do. And in this video basin that we found on the Middle Land and we're we're doing on how to deal with Mimosa stumps. So, about a year ago we discovered this water the edges so we could see it better, and we never really properly saw it. Really kept because the basin is leaking. So we figured this whole thing is about. And before we do that So I can show you what it looks like in the basin. As you can see quite a bit of water. looks pretty intact on the edges. This thing, I or should be all the way, I don't think so. But they also just built like that here, bit rough I don't know. If someone has ideas let me know. up to here, because over here you see some sort yeah, this thing just melted down, but probably would go? Maybe somewhere around here. Maybe we'll sure what that does. So yeah. Yes originally the from that hole right there. And you really see the camera, but there's just a constant flow of water the well. So the only thing I do wonder if, now, rise up to the edge, I guess then this would be yeah, I'm also curious: what, is this a tunnel? we're going to find out. Maybe put this GoPro on one little rose. Only rose really around here. here you see a lot of mint growing which means just constantly flowing out here all Winter. the water can fill up here, and we might have some and dirty also because of years of vegetation here to see what is all here, maybe we find more out. Maybe we need to fix the holes where it's here. Because it's an interesting thing. So first [Music] Really a lot of water in this area. And on the one here. But also all the mimosas you see around, and they started growing at the same time. the thickest I've seen so far on the land, so it and a lot of water from that reservoir. So water is. So next we're going to clean some because they slowly start to break the wall. and this wall starts to have some cracks, less of this stuff is going to fall [Music] So it's a nice sunny day so I figured so it's a good cool down. However I just need some rubber boots. Maybe we see the I don't know, I've never cleaned something [Music] It's good that the snake made me put on So, I've been emptying the water with a bucket, then I realized I just found the pipe, so And while I was thinking that I also found a that goes to the outside, but the outside is fully because then I don't have to scoop out So now it's flowing by itself. [Music] So at the moment the basin doesn't hold there is a pipe here which we just opened up, but the water flow there. And I'm not sure where to see because there's water in here as looks man-made but it's all dirty and full we're going to move this, flatten this up a [Music] Because the thing is leaking there's a lot of be okay now. Well, not that it's fixed, but is there. Found some pipes. So over here which was originally pipe here, but it burned and went in this basin here which is probably I think wider here, maybe so that a bucket fits to take here, goes underground. No idea where it's going. but, yes, another underground pipe going yeah, at some point we need to fix this leak. but not sure. Maybe wait for summer So I think that's it for today, a lot of mud inside and I think there's still a lot of mud if at some point you hit concrete or... let it run for a while that tomorrow So it's really hard to clean here so it stays wet coming from this little wall there to see how high the water and then you can clean this thing up properly it. This tiny wall prevents the whole thing from leave it like this now for a bit until all the then hopefully we can clean it a bit better and So here we are a few weeks later after already got a bit greener here on top grow back. I don't like that. All the really starting to overgrow my grass. And Yep, this just continued to run and flow. the fun of it, and the water level really goes up, which is quite cool. Takes a while but maybe go up all the way. Which I did not expect. So he has a house now. So in order I have to wait a bit longer, maybe in Summer when the water table really know. I'm just going to wait and when the to properly clean it, fix it, maybe some Okay as you see the water didn't actually building quite a bit up. So which looks quite nice. But in the end we still and how to go about it? We don't know But I also have something on the other side of base camp so come with me. Okay and about this, Alana knows more, so been cutting down a lot of mimosa. We've been more accessible. This year we've been working of mimosa. So far has been just to cut them as they've already started re-sprouting. These and this means that then we have to go and take not practical with the amount of stumps that we drive over them very easily, so it's best if we we called in a digger to remove the stumps. That all of the stumps. However we can't get the Digger and it's also quite aggressive for the soil. So that we can kill mimosa stumps that don't require are less aggressive for the soil than using the on the research module and we found five different we want to try out. The five methods are: using Epsom salt and covering the stump with a tarp; chips as mulch over the stump; and using wool as a really big waste product so if we can use wool, going to do that in two different ways - the going to do right here by the big cork oak, and to do that in the wider Project Kamp area because First step is going to be to cut it with a chainsaw. So I'm going to [Music] [Music] with the treatment. This treatment is Epsom salt. salts are made of magnesium and sulfur, and a put too much then it will start to rot the roots to overdose the plant on Epsom salts and they We chose to use Epsom salt because this is quite the ecosystem, but, we're not sure. And... then of different sizes, a cutter for the tarp, and blue tent that they did in season 2 and the chairs [Music] So this one's done, it's time to move [Music] For the Epsom salt without a cover process as before we're just going to [Music] Last thing we need to do here is just then wrap some twine around it later on. And the reason we're doing that is we found that both with a cover and so we thought we would just give it a let's move on to the next method. Okay, this This one we're going to be covering build a little structure around it and then wood chips on top. And for some smaller stakes to secure the thick logs Nearly finished, just the wool left. BOOM! [Music] We chose to use wool as well because when is sometimes used as a mulch in the same way that it works on mimosa stumps as well. We just sheep's wool from the sheep he sheared a couple Got a little baby, 3 days old. [Music] Wow! It's so cool. Look at it! It's only once a year like around now, normally a For the wool we're going to do the same method as and then we're going to pile a lot of That's not too much. We're doing that so that if there's a big storm or a day with lots of wind the So that's the wool secure. Now we've finished on to doing the big individual stumps and With these large stumps we started by using a intensive, and the drills kept overheating, method that we saw online which is using [Music] Okay we've prepared the stump, the Epsom salt with water, the Epsom salts themselves, and the tarp with a cover, just one more Epsom salt treatment [Music] as well because it's a pretty simple method to do Yeah. Now it's time to move on to wood chip and [Music] Right. So... that's this wood chip one ready. The last one we have to do is [Music] That's it, the wool's also finished, which now we're just going to leave and we'll check up on them every month to see how It's been quite a few weeks check on this stump and see how it's going. and... I would say it's looking pretty good quite a lot of salt, and I can see that here it's got some mold, so... that's looking others look like then you should check out be an update posted on how they're doing one That was it for this update, if you want support us on Patreon. If not, subscribe,