The Big Island of Hawai`i is an island in Its lofty horizon, having emerged from beneath storms. Far below its vast surface, these storms melt and boisterous up and over the land. (Music) When cool and dry, this formula of inner Earth (Music) Smoke and snow is an unlikely combination Found only at extreme altitudes where the winds at Mauna Loa's summit. (Music) Black cinder cones, like the smoking barrel But they have sent forth a constructive element (Chanting in Hawaiian) It's a young island, the youngest in the Hawaiian Allegedly, the Big Island of Hawai`i was on their voyage northward. Valuable traces of their residence exist throughout The Kings Highway is one of them. Down this stone road walked the Hawaiian King The petroglyph is a symbol carved in stone. These symbols were carved by Hawaiians leaving Such brief symbols denote items of fundamental Sometimes a petroglyph portrays an object In this case, an event of intense and spectacular ship. An early Hawaiian description called it a The emergence of Captain Cook and later European change in Hawai`i. (Music) The surprise of the 18th century was quickened A desire for the stately trappings of monarchy. The Hulihe`e Palace was a frequent residence New conceptions of rank and dignity arose, Ancient authority, the beacon of order was forms of command. But in this flux, where does tradition then While forms of order come and go, the arts One enduring form of artistic tradition is It tells an old story in human dimensions. (Drumming) What is the meaning of a place, a place where Drums were often beaten here before. It is the place of refuge. Pu`uhonua o Honaunau, also a national park. Here, the vanquished and the lawbreaker could Today kumu hula George Na`ope perpetuates Dancer Lauren Mikahala Roy honors ancestral (Chanting in Hawaiian) The hula is alive because the hula is the of the Hawaiian people. These were the words of Hawai`i's last King and brought it back to Hawai`i. As a Hawaiian, it's always a great honor for of our forefathers. (Chanting in Hawaiian &amp; drumming) Artist Kathy Long is a recent immigrant to She has brought to the Big Island, a pronounced to heighten the details of her subject, giving I worked a lot in color, and still enjoy doing But I never left drawing for long. For one thing, it's a very easy medium, you No matter where you are. You can be sitting in your living room at You don't have to bring a lot of things with you're ready to go. (Chanting in Hawaiian &amp; drumming) Kathy observes how hula dancing influences It does not deform the body in any way. It only makes people more graceful. It makes them more fluid. And even though they work, I would assume can always tell a ballet dancer, they look because the muscles get toned in a certain Someone that dances hula, you take them out on the street. But they always walk with a certain amount toward it. (Chanting in Hawaiian &amp; drumming) (Classical music) Brett Weston is a photographer of international His prints are an exhibit in contemporary Atlantic. I love this part of the island as much as Here, he explains to fellow photographer Boone Kona Coast as one of his homes. Weston is a photographer who relies on natural Does subject matter as much as light? They're both equally important, but without you can't do a thing about beautiful light. It can illuminate it and make it exciting. Weston believes in making himself available picture. It's a rather an unconscious intuitive thing. My eyes are instinctively always seeking and It's one's vision, you know? Boone here's my new portfolio. Have a look. Oh, I'd love to see it Brett. Some of my best work is here. This is all Hawai`i? All Hawaii, yeah. There's work from all over the Hawaiian Islands Well, several islands. That's on the Hamakua coast, in the Hilo I think one is born with some kind of strange You either have it or you don't. But I think 90% is environment. You think we can get out today? Let's do it. After a drink. Good idea. Let's have a drink. A lot of people philosophize about their photographs. It's not a verbal thing, it's a visual thing. And I just don't like to talk about it. I can enlighten students technically, but I mean, composition is the strongest way of If my hair stands on end, I get excited, then There's not an intellectual thing with me. Just a very spontaneous reaction to beauty Anyway, there are no rules of this, because somebody else's rules, it wouldn't be your So, I think art schools are the bunk. They're good for techniques, art schools, If they really have it, they'll go through I did. I starved for 40 years. You've done almost no commercial work? I couldn't compromise. Thank God. I'm not that kind of a person. I just have to do my thing. You know? How many photographs have you taken Brett? I probably made 50,000 things that would be But maybe, maybe 500 knockouts. Maybe, that sounds egotistical, but I think just say, well, this is it. Like this, you know? We hear so much these days about so and so's Not mine. I'll tell you exactly why Boone because I negatives. If I let somebody else print my negatives, work. So, you feel that the, your hands on that Your judgment on that enlargement, that's Of course. Obviously. The photographic negative is a very personal After all the years, don't you get tired of Boone, no! It's a continual excitement and enthusiasm. How long has it been? Over 50 years, yeah? Boone it`s going on over well over 60 years. I'm as old as God as you know. Oh, close eh. Boy this country is so beautiful, huh? Incredible. What you doing Boone? I'm just playing around with the wind in this What is electrified? It's about a recognition that this comes with just born receptive. Some people are. Most people are not. I think an artist, a painter or a musician, You know, you do it superbly. Otherwise, you're watering things down if Brett Weston is the son of famed photographer, We're like brothers, no rivalry, no sense We have very different vision. We were both influenced. He was influenced by Stieglitz, by other people, Picasso was. Then you add your own little thing, whatever all influenced, we're just part of the stream, Among its early settlers, Kona attracted the Earlier settlers came, coming to look for of what they found here. Sherwood Greenwell is a third-generation descendant There were no ties that brought them here. There were no businesses that brought people They came because they wanted to come here. The Kona Historical Society was created in One of the problems of the past was that no Greenwell encourages the historical sense Even if those moments, just passed. The past is yesterday. It's not 10, 20, 35 years ago. The cowboy has a place in early Kona. In the old days, they used to say if you wanted depend upon you always got a Kona person because Kona has long been known for its coffee. Kona coffee can only be grown in one place It was first planted here in 1850. Growing up to an industry by 1870. Today, it thrives. To share with Greenwell a life in Kona speaks forebears. The most important thing in my life is the My father spoke of the land as being not just And so, every day I'm reminded of my past Living in this present moment of the past But schools may also illuminate the hidden ancient skills such as chanting. Here Mona Kahele and Diana Aki impart their I'm gonna say the words to you, and you ho`opili. A Honaunau ao la. The chant was very important to the Hawaiian Because it's it spoke of the, it told of events, and genealogies in the ali`i class. A Honaunau ao la. A Honaunau ao la. I ke. The values of these chants that are taught of what Hawai`i was like in the early centuries I ke kai, kai, I ke kai, I ke kai la. I ke kai la. Mahalo. We're gonna try it now with some music, we're Makaukau? O makaukau? `Ae. A Honaunau ao. The chant was composed by Diana Aki to render O makaukau? `Ae. A Honaunau ao. (Chanting in Hawaiian) I am at Honaunau and see the sea. (Chanting in Hawaiian) The road of kiawe filled with beautiful flowers. (Chanting in Hawaiian) Bubbling waters of life is hidden in the sea. (Chanting in Hawaiian) (Chanting in Hawaiian) Returning to the upland of Honaunau with (Chanting in Hawaiian) Tell the story of my love for Honaunau. (Chanting in Hawaiian) In honor of the children of Honaunau. To some, the present moment of the past is To others along the Kona Coast, the immense an interpretation that brings the wild fringe Into a lustrous possession that comes a little Kona is home to Wilfred Yamazawa. Kona is where the vastness and the forces Like the blacks and oranges, I think the strongest it's the volcanoes. Learning his art through the University of Kona to practice it. As a child I remember working really hard I didn't know it back then, but it was a good a, long hours of just tedious work. This is what I mean about the art process, I had to forget all about mathematics, forget and learn about myself and my environment. Learning more about the environment and ourselves in a little corner town called Holualoa. university life of the mainland behind. We started with this idea and a dream and When they were offered the old Mauna Kea Coffee decision was made. As soon as we opened the old building, people arts and crafts. And I think people are definitely more conscious Now, they realize that there is a green tree Once a month we have Hawaiian crafts. We have enlarged our teaching and our education Consequently, many people can participate Another immigrant to the Kona Coast is Jorge, I learned how do this baskets a long time That's what we do in El Salvador which is Jorge specializes in baskets of a rare design needles. Nature is an inexhaustible source to this So much beauty, you see beauty everywhere The Kona Art Center was the fulfillment of (Bell rings) Oh, here we go. Hey friends, lunch is served. I know you're hungry. Jorge is not going to be first today. And will the nice guests step forward for And look at our beautiful table. As the Kona day dims, another element brightens Diana Aki is joined by members of her family expression of found a home on the Kona coast. (Singing in Hawaiian)