I am stranded on a floating island with void below and the only way to escape is Greg Tech - Create - realistic chemistry - trees stand between me and freedom. We'll need addicting mod pack in order to beat it and ingots and chemicals so we're going to need we're rushing through the entire early game Now normally in Minecraft you just go mining for got nothing but a tree and some grass. So how chopping trees is still the start and expanding and build machines. Immediately though our starts we no longer have to sieve dirt for stone. in infinite quantities. The true clicker game tree Sky Block start. Crooking leaves for worms and making our first sieves. Our first sieving destroying cobblestone with cobblestone. We crush cobblestone into gravel and running gravel most importantly: iron. With iron unlocked we we can start pulling off some useful automation lava which actually first needs water and that leftover saplings inside of an oak crucible. But in some more cobblestone and andesite but hammered left just enough time for the water to ooze out of of making an infinite source of water I used into a single clay block. And then I had to wait to actually get the infinite water. You might and don't worry it'll make sense soon but first we composting saplings. Did I mention I was playing of saplings for just one single bone meal and we for a while again and after two stacks of saplings balls which we could combine to create porcelain gets hot enough to melt cobblestone into lava time to move on with plan infinite cobblestone. what I'll do is use a gregtech hammer to mash two terrible ratio but it's what we've got and use hooked up to a stone barrel. We now have to move with an iron bucket which we'll need more plates create press lets you make one to one sheets for so I made sure to set one up. With cheaper sheets you need sheets for that and safely transport our automatically pull cobblestone out of them into a Letting that build up I did some storage sorting we wouldn't have to wait for things to smelt worms loose again so that we can make 20 more once which I used on sand to get gems and sea life and sulfur all of which we need today. We're steel and so first we have to make a Primitive of clay and our only way of producing it is to holding dust not wanting to do that one bucket at barrels to a cobblestone generator so we didn't a lot longer than it needed to since I could have have gone way faster but if you think I learned more barrels to this thing when I felt it was slow of fire clay dust but before we could make the PBF and rings and other weird micro crafting parts Using the new tools we could shape the dust into fire brick blocks. Now we just needed some surprisingly easy to get if not a bit annoying. and they'll pop right off as wrought iron. More With a bunch more micro crafting we finally have going to need to make our first multiblock. The and two charcoal over an agonizing 40 seconds to hundreds if not thousands of these ingots today keep it producing. Now you might be thinking hey And it doesn't. Steel makes a machine that makes make the machine that makes the gold. No foolish which is a multiblock that requires input and and those require rubber coated wires and those reason the developers of this pack made glass mine gravel for flint then grind that into flint of flint dust combine the quartz dust and the that into a furnace instead put it on a campfire to make one single block of glass but now that the only tree it works on is jungle, for some time to sieve up some dirt which explodes into seeds but importantly saplings including jungle Greg Tech parts and a few thermal series bits and draining them. Course one of these is really to make seven more of them connected them all to pipes so I wouldn't have to wait until all of and make rubber out of it but finally we had the as rubber is easy to make from latex and after micro plating we had synthesized our our first LV input port and an item output port. All the other at ULV so they're pretty simple. So with just a all the blocks and ports we needed to run this water wheels we had all the stress units, RPMs, brick eyesore. Not only does it have a chance finally it unlocks for us gold and that means our of heaters and tanks and I plan to fuel them wanted to superheat the burners by blowing fans that consumed fuel so quick I couldn't produce and failing to make it work I ended up making same effect. We have nearly 300,000 stress units It's time to finally dive into early cobblestone unlock the recipe for creates crushing wheels cobblestone-into-gravel and cobblestone-into-sand manually but in the future it'll be so easy else can be easy? Video games with the help of my that's right, a fully Accredited Online college you'll be learning from industry experts to build dream games into a reality and potentially design and it's helped me make things today like bring some of the joy of game design to you guys. languages and one of them is Java the language think this is just a stuffy programming class about game design like how to bring environments and interesting challenges for your players. And will be there to assist you in your postgraduate information about SNHU's game design degree go snhu.edu/Dejo and fill out the form, it'll SNHU for sponsoring this video. Back to ores and gems within our grasp is easily next tier of materials from the flint meshes. Getting into Greg Tech however asks us to do storage all over the place is going to make that game storage solution using colossal chests and a colossal chest it just costs a ton of wood and I right on top of it to give us full GUI storage System that we're going for for the goal of this doesn't have autocrafting and there's a lot of solution. But still all the crafting trees that easier to handle and if you know Greg Tech you need LV circuits and they're a crafting tree ingredient that we're actually completely missing of that really easily. Earlier I'd made a coke wood into treated wood which we can use to make to hold my mycelial seeds from dirt sieving and will use that witch water and a sliitake spore to those to get slime and cook slime to get sticky I only have like five sugar cane but thankfully completely for free so paper is well within our GO! We have to craft resin boards and then turn need glass tubes and steel bolts to make vacuum and paper with a mix of charcoal dust and mashing us one LV circuit. Yeah, not a lot, and we're expensive for us especially the red alloy wires. tubes take enormous amounts of glass to produce in machines that are going to make these way easier require more than one circuit so the first LV crafting everything until we have a healthy nest to our heart's desires. And our heart desires steam engines really come out to play because units on a generator coil to create our first on a carbon brushes block that will connect to the special magnets which are easy enough to make an ore that we have plenty of access to from spot of FE being generated. FE is, uh, modded it's not a lot. Thankfully making a new create mod and gold and use those with the basic magnets tiers above the regular ones we were just using I was locked right in so I grinded out two more 4,000 FE a tick. Thing is, Greg Tech is too good in order to actually use it which needs the ingots which is an alloy of soul sand and invar. since we have nickel dust from the ore Factory and witch water from our sliitake farm to make sand a soulfire to turn sand into soul sand for free. sadly their wiring is quite expensive. Remember, these guys don't work in the mechanical press so with our new converter in hands, we have access a factor of four! First up though we need a and not wanting to waste redstone to actually Machine. The Polarizer. It'll magnetize my rods electric motors of the game which are needed for into two wires. An amazing upgrade! We can also which can finally make one to one sheets of my God we're free. But we're not done yet we have craft the Lathe for cheaper rods and even make it already have access to buckets of new recipes and with flint meshes in hand the quest can begin for The Electric Blast Furnace. Oh the EBF, the the MV tier of technology in order to unlock MV uses aluminum a metal that's so unlike with cupronickle coils to smelt it and if you then please leave a detailed comment about not familiar with the EBF it's an upgradable order to smelt resources. We're going to need pretty much. Right now the only coils we have lowest tier of heat and will require a huge amount alloy. As you might have guessed we'll need to Although copper is plentiful the or factory those flint meshes I made earlier come into play. I make a new machine called a Macerator that'll we can sieve over the flint meshes and produce way more than we ever had access to. We'll to smelt the cupronickle ingots and we'll actually also get to use our new bender on bronze plates we need is liquid tin alloy which is a lot more tin and iron and an alloy smelter, but melting it requires the dubious electric pump, a micro part to make. I mean just just look at all the steps is such a pain. But our reward is a machine that our tin alloy with all the ingredients we can now (told you it was important) and we'll need to make we still have to make heat resistant invar blocks invar ingots into dozens of new shapes to make all outputs we already have but a noteworthy one where our multiblocks now need electrical power buried the lead on something. Aluminum requires MV ports and converters and to make the MV ones Well obviously not the video hasn't ended. can be overclocked having two ports of the same above them for an increased energy cost so all MV power. Finally our first beautiful EBF can coils though I feel like I'm kind of forgetting So I sieve sand on flint meshes for raw sapphire and clean inside of a cauldron. Then by making and oxygen just out of it giving us access to amount of oxygen which we can use later for better aluminum dust inside of the blast furnace and of power and emits just a Godly glow. The aluminum some time to make some high storage fluid cells of oxygen because we're going to need the space. goal was becoming close. I mean we're on the was only a matter of time and circuits yeah circuits to do anything meaningful since they're we'll need MV circuits for a few required MV three LV ones, a price that we cannot afford so powerful that it can reduce the crafts of truly going to get back to where we were in But first we do actually have to get our hands resources entirely like gallium arsenide and new all. I make a centrifuge to extract arsenic dust with gallium that we got from the ore factory more of a headache as from now on we'll need up on the acid train is sodium persulfate. Get sodium persulfate has me crafting four chemical since they're going to be our first semi-automatic sulfur dioxide and then combine that with more than sulfur trioxide? Wet sulfur trioxide, which not to eat. We can now dunk some salt inside of bisulfate dust which is almost useful it needs sodium persulfate. And now that we have the acid is also a really easy product just combining are right there. Using some silver foil the tasty can make our tier 2 MV level circuit boards. Now wire, and a drop of liquid glass, we can make the what are we actually going to do with our first circuit assembler is that Godly powerful machine insanity and the way that it can reduce cost above itself to craft but it's so worth it. You of circuits themselves. So at LV there's three on and so forth each tier of circuit is cheaper higher tier machinery and crafting materials and that's only half the battle. We need to create 2 LV and MV circuits and that requires silicon into the throws of medium voltage the silicon smelt so I get those started immediately by making using oxygen, crushing that into glass dust, and then EBF'ing that with some gallium arsenide into circuits though we'll need two machines: an to require us to progress so deep into medium even doing. Our work is cut out for us. And so the conductor we used were easy to make soul steel to make but requires absolutely ages in a blast while waiting and opted to just make a single amp bite me in the butt later but it works for now so that we can turn ruby dust into aluminum and for vanadium steel. If you've ever rushed applied send shivers down your spine. A material that is its own tech path to achieve. See not only do we extracted from vanadium magnetite ore, a resource It's time to create the medium voltage assembler assembler so it's faster and unlocks new resources makes it one of the best blocks in the entire have loads of aluminum copper wires and circuit so and we begin to craft our new iron meshes. And unlocks the rocket boots in the shop which once makes moving around our void world so much easier second to last episode of this pack. We really to vanadium steel land we'll need an MV mixer so I of just EU which is actually cheaper to craft and stress units around and make our MV line look Now we can sieve gravel on top of iron meshes to crush and then centrifuge to separate the vanadium in our new mixer to produce the vanadium steel Naturally this takes ages to smell so through the done and we can finally make the buzz saw needed inside of it and we can make a Distillery at LV than regular water. Now finally we can process We can now cut the silicon boules into silicon laser engraver with different colored lenses is already grabbed a ruby lens earlier on in order back into the cutter to produce final IC chips. make the ultra cheap tier 2 LV and MV circuits We are finally right on the horizon of applied medium voltage, obtained creative flight, mastered voltage and medium voltage circuits that we're applied energistics is still locked behind a metal it: silicon. Silicon ingots require a kanthal tier we haven't even encountered yet but let's start ingots. They need that chromium I was talking but luckily I rubbed my last few functional brain use deployers to sieve for me and use item load more ruby ore was actually pretty convenient create kanthal dust, which requires high voltage circuit wafers we've got in order to create two voltage. And since we're now at that stage of the more and more ingots which take longer and longer Furnace. Unfortunately we lack sufficient power to to give our power supply a big boost. In order to higher tier of ore factory, The Electrokinetic it takes nearly 200 ingots of the stuff. Luckily and oxygen way faster than the Primitive Blast craft the frankly excessive amounts of decorative at that as expensive as it was we have ourselves complete with distilled water, power inputs, and the time it takes to process all the ores that we Most importantly we now have access to neodymium to produce since it takes multiple machines of in the mean time I sieve down dust on flint meshes we'll need for spplied energistics called Star long enough that I made two more steam engines 12 neodymium magnet array to upgrade our power requirements but also push our FE production EBF's it's...not enough power? At least I thought enough amperage which is a part of the &quot;Realistic have time to explain realistic electricity to amperage. I hope that helps but basically I just which gives us all the speed and all the power However when kanthal is smelted in an EBF it comes have to turn my blocky little hands as I rush the cool them down into usable materials. Side note, actual coil making process though isn't really bad the coils needed to upgrade both of our EBF's our grubby little hands we have the power to melt takes years but there's an alternative method that from glass processing and carbon dust which we into silicon ingots considerably faster. Much like hot so just know that for every ingot I use I have way too long. But finally with silicon ingots at to have access to all the machines we'll need to circuit presses. Inside of a forming press I can silicon, diamond, and certus quartz crystals presses. To actually use the circuit presses since there are four of them I craft up three more once and I decide on making a stack of each of the you'll know we're going to need oogles and boogles since to turn a raw circuit into a proper circuit if you thought I was free from silicon processing, type of applied energistics circuit at our EM system that we have been dreaming about for so cables and create an energy acceptor, a block our new circuits to create a terminal to access don't-don't tell anybody but I do disable the AE with all of my heart with cables, an acceptor, off we finally have the bones of an ME system digitally store our many many many things, and am able to make a ton of 1K, 4K, and even 16k cheap cell housings with one fell swoop of an axe a magnet to drag all the items towards our new item storage system! From nothing more than a technology of item management and storage. So and if you're ready for the return of Star [Music]