Governments and tech into the wildest ideas for removing carbon dioxide from the air. Once you capture it, you or you can sink it into the sea. And some startups are even trying to turn captured carbon Jet fuel, laundry detergent with Tide, and even sunglasses with Pangaia. I found that one of the biggest a Swiss startup called Climeworks, sells removed carbon to individuals at more than $1,000 a ton. So that got me thinking, can from any of these companies and display it on my desk? All right, so, hi. I understand you capture carbon dioxide and store it somehow. Is that right? That's exactly right. We capture CO2 from the with a retrofit device. So if I wanted to buy so that I can put it on my desk and show people that can I do that? Unfortunately, we can't really share a I'm not sending you a ton of CO2, you realize? for a ton of CO2, I'm afraid. And do you have some of it right now? I can go grab some. Should I go grab some? Alrighty. There you go. Show it to me a little bit. And so, like, what the I mean yes, it's black, but what is it? This is bio-oil, and Can I get some of the captured carbon? Unfortunately not, but for It's captured as stone, it's mineralized. No. Okay, so you won't sell but can I come and visit Absolutely, you're very and we will- Can I touch it? Absolutely. Great. I expected to see a barren but seeing it from up Under the Paris Agreement, all to keep global warming or if possible, below 1.5 degrees Celsius. Now, what does that translate to? It means that the world needs to not just stop emitting carbon dioxide, which it is doing currently at nearly 40 billion tons every year, but also remove existing carbon dioxide that's already in the atmosphere. An estimate suggests we will 2 billion to 10 billion from the air, every year, for the rest of century, somehow. Iceland is the only country in the world where you can witness climate change, the melting of the ice on the glaciers, firsthand, but you can also discover the solution. This is Olafur Ragnar Grimsson, the former President of Iceland. The solution he's talking between two of the biggest players in the carbon removal space: Climeworks and Carbfix. Oh, wow, this is stunning. So we are surrounded by volcanic rocks that have been solidified, and in the distance, we see just going straight up into the air, which I expect is the This is energy that you can draw from just beneath the not very deep, maybe a few hundred meters, and you can convert it into We are headed to go and see the that removes carbon dioxide from the air and then turns it into stone here in Iceland. The reason these startups geothermal power that is carbon-free so that they can do the work to remove carbon dioxide from the air. So what are we looking at? So this is the world's first direct air capture and storage unit called Orca, operated by Climeworks. It is the first of its kind, and it's also the largest in the globe. So the whole process works that you have six chambers So each chamber has a specialized filter and vents that pull in So you have the ambient the CO2 is captured in the filter, and the cleaner air But what do you do when Well, then we have to And then what's happening behind the closed compartment? When it's closed, behind the closed doors, we apply heat, so around And that releases the CO2? This releases the CO2, and vacuum sucked back where it's further processed, so it's 100% CO2, and then we send it through over to Carbfix for the mineralization process. Carbfix is- Is further down that way. The surprising thing, which but when you see it, is that the world's largest It's tiny in the sense of the Like, this plant is doing and it's doing it in a place where you get to see a large that's pumping out big steam plumes. There's like real activity If you look at the actual it's a small, tiny thing not doing anything as far as you can tell. The plant captures 4,000 tons but that only makes up of about 250 US residents. The important bit is in a scale-up process. So what's next? Well, you can actually see This is the construction of Mammoth, which is the next Orca-type and this will capture Almost nine times as much. But right now, the problem being pumped into the air. Yeah, we need to reduce This is not a magic solution So what we need to do is, like, 90% reduce and then this is 10%. This is for the historic emissions. This is for the unavoidable So not a magic bullet, but a part of the arsenal that we have to fight climate change. We are inside a lava tunnel. About 5,000 years ago, there was a lava And when volcanoes erupt and cool down, they leave behind lots and lots of basalt. So all this rock is predominantly basalt, that's pretty much what and basalt rock is really good Basalt is made of lots of iron, magnesium, calcium, and when carbon dioxide it forms calcium carbonate and it traps the gas as a rock. Carbfix imitates and accelerates to permanently store carbon These futuristic pods So here we are actually doing something for the first time in the world in collaboration with our They are capturing CO2 which we then take and and turn it into stone. And how do they move Once they have collected enough CO2, it's piped towards our injection well, just as this one. And there, we co-inject the CO2 with water to ensure that the CO2 gets And once the CO2 is dissolved in the fluid and we have the sparkling water, we inject it into the bedrock. There, the sparkling water and dissolves metals out of the rock that combine with the CO2 So when you inject CO2 underground, you can actually now show Yeah, this is actually a nice example of kind of before and after. Yeah, can I touch it? Of course. but it also feels a little soft to me, like it feels like I'm You won't . Now, this is basalt, right? Yes, it kind of looks like a sponge, and these pores, and they can actually host the CO2 once you've turned it into stone. And that's what you see here. In this rock, we've You can see all these white spots. So here, the pores are actually filled with these white minerals, and this is just simply How long does that stay Forever. Yeah, we are talking about geological timescales there. Okay, so you're gonna- the bottle you'll send me, Yeah. But can you show me the process Yeah, let's walk out back. Alrighty, well, this is the corn stover, the agricultural residue of choice for us. And it's a mixture of as well as the stalks and Capturing carbon dioxide from the air isn't the only way to do it. A lot of carbon dioxide is The problem is the plants when they die and rot. A 100 million acres of all over the US that's capturing something About 95% of it rots on and it's a shame, we just and all that CO2 that we've already done by doing all this plant growing just goes straight back Charm Industrial says why not take these dead plants and bury their captured so it can't escape? So today, we have farmers up off their field, rake them into windrows, bale them, transport the bales to then load the bales onto a truck and drive those bales to So once the biomass arrives it goes through first a step of grinding to less than half an inch in size. And then those very get very rapidly heated and that effectively And so a really important is that the pyrolyzer's is coming from the biomass itself, it's not consuming power off Aside from a little bit it has then become self-sustaining on the energy in the biomass. And from there then, we separate out, first, This what goes back into the field, improves the soil health. Then that vapor stream where we condense the bio-oil out. This is the bio-oil. So this is the barbecue sauce, and that barbecue sauce, it literally is the natural in barbecue sauce, is very rich in carbon, and we can inject that into In the US today, there's about 2 million end-of-life oil and gas wells, places where we extracted oil previously, so in many ways, we're where it came from. Late last year, Charm of about 5,500 tons of None of these companies are on a scale to make much of an impact on addressing climate change today. The industry must remove from the atmosphere this century, which will require growth that eclipses even that of the computer and software industries in recent decades. So carbon removal technology, The ideas are quite basic chemistry, quite basic chemical engineering, and all they really need now is money. So far, most of the money has gone towards electricity and for transport. Very little money has gone So currently, some hundreds are being spent on these every year. That number will have to go into the billions of dollars to be able to make an impact on actually removing lots from the air, and the more you do it, Some governments, including the US, are finally starting to step up and put money towards carbon capture, but most of that money, from large corporations wanting to reach those net zero goals. There is proof right here on my desk that this technology can work. We just need to make it work at scale.