The Art of War by Sun Tzu. Translated by Lionel Giles. Read by illacertus. Introduction His Art of War brought him to the notice of Ho Lu said to him: "I have carefully perused May I submit your theory of managing soldiers Sun Tzu replied: "You may." Ho Lu asked: "May the test be applied to The answer was again in the affirmative, so of the Palace. Sun Tzu divided them into two companies, and at the head of each. He then bade them all take spears in their you know the difference between front and The girls replied: "Yes." Sun Tzu went on: "When I say 'Eyes front,' When I say 'Left turn,' you must face When I say 'Right turn,' you must face When I say 'About turn,' you must face Again the girls assented. The words of command having been thus explained, order to begin the drill. Then, to the sound of drums, he gave the order But the girls only burst out laughing. Sun Tzu said: "If words of command are not understood, then the general is to blame." So he started drilling them again, and this the girls once more burst into fits of laughter. Sun Tzu: "If words of command are not clear understood, the general is to blame. But if his orders are clear, and the soldiers of their officers." So saying, he ordered the leaders of the two Now the King of Wu was watching the scene he saw that his favourite concubines were and hurriedly sent down the following message: ability to handle troops. If We are bereft of these two concubines, It is our wish that they shall not be beheaded." Sun Tzu replied: "Having once received His his forces, there are certain commands of I am unable to accept." Accordingly, he had the two leaders beheaded, order as leaders in their place. When this had been done, the drum was sounded through all the evolutions, turning to the back, kneeling or standing, with perfect accuracy Then Sun Tzu sent a messenger to the King drilled and disciplined, and ready for your They can be put to any use that their sovereign and they will not disobey." But the King replied: "Let our general cease As for us, We have no wish to come down and Thereupon Sun Tzu said: "The King is only deeds." After that, Ho Lu saw that Sun Tzu was one appointed him general. In the west, he defeated the Ch`u State and the north he put fear into the States of Ch`i the feudal princes. And Sun Tzu shared in the might of the King. Ssu-ma Ch`ien (c. BC - BC) Sun Tzu said: The art of war is of vital importance It is a matter of life and death, a road either Hence it is a subject of inquiry which can The art of war, then, is governed by five in one's deliberations, when seeking to determine These are: The Moral Law; Heaven; Earth; The The Moral Law causes the people to be in complete follow him regardless of their lives, undismayed Heaven signifies night and day, cold and heat, Earth comprises distances, great and small; passes; the chances of life and death. The Commander stands for the virtues of wisdom, By method and discipline are to be understood the graduations of rank among the officers, may reach the army, and the control of military These five heads should be familiar to every he who knows them not will fail. Therefore, in your deliberations, when seeking them be made the basis of a comparison, in imbued with the Moral law? Which of the two generals has most ability? With whom lie the advantages derived from On which side is discipline most rigorously Which army is stronger? On which side are officers and men more highly In which army is there the greater constancy By means of these seven considerations I can The general that hearkens to my counsel and be retained in command! The general that hearkens not to my counsel such a one be dismissed! While heading the profit of my counsel, avail over and beyond the ordinary rules. According as circumstances are favorable, All warfare is based on deception. Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe him believe we are near. Hold out baits to entice the enemy. Feign disorder, and crush him. If he is secure at all points, be prepared If he is in superior strength, evade him. If your opponent is of choleric temper, seek Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant. If he is taking his ease, give him no rest. If his forces are united, separate them. Attack him where he is unprepared, appear These military devices, leading to victory, Now the general who wins a battle makes many is fought. The general who loses a battle makes but few Thus do many calculations lead to victory, no calculation at all! It is by attention to this point that I can II. Waging War there are in the field a thousand swift chariots, mail-clad soldiers, with provisions enough at home and at the front, including entertainment and sums spent on chariots and armor, will per day. Such is the cost of raising an army of , men. When you engage in actual fighting, if victory grow dull and their ardor will be damped. If you lay siege to a town, you will exhaust Again, if the campaign is protracted, the the strain. Now, when your weapons are dulled, your ardor spent, other chieftains will spring up to Then no man, however wise, will be able to Thus, though we have heard of stupid haste with long delays. There is no instance of a country having benefited It is only one who is thoroughly acquainted understand the profitable way of carrying The skillful soldier does not raise a second more than twice. Bring war material with you from home, but Thus the army will have food enough for its Poverty of the State exchequer causes an army Contributing to maintain an army at a distance On the other hand, the proximity of an army the people's substance to be drained away. When their substance is drained away, the With this loss of substance and exhaustion be stripped bare, and three-tenths of their expenses for broken chariots, worn-out horses, spears and shields, protective mantles, draught-oxen of its total revenue. Hence a wise general makes a point of foraging One cartload of the enemy's provisions is a single picul of his provender is equivalent Now in order to kill the enemy, our men must from defeating the enemy, they must have their Therefore in chariot fighting, when ten or be rewarded who took the first. Our own flags should be substituted for those used in conjunction with ours. The captured soldiers should be kindly treated This is called, using the conquered foe to In war, then, let your great object be victory, Thus it may be known that the leader of armies on whom it depends whether the nation shall III. Attack by Stratagem the best thing of all is to take the enemy's it is not so good. So, too, it is better to recapture an army a detachment or a company entire than to destroy Hence to fight and conquer in all your battles consists in breaking the enemy's resistance Thus the highest form of generalship is to prevent the junction of the enemy's forces; army in the field; and the worst policy of The rule is, not to besiege walled cities The preparation of mantlets, movable shelters, three whole months; and the piling up of mounds more. The general, unable to control his irritation, ants, with the result that one-third of his untaken. Such are the disastrous effects of a siege. Therefore the skillful leader subdues the their cities without laying siege to them; operations in the field. With his forces intact he will dispute the a man, his triumph will be complete. This is the method of attacking by stratagem. It is the rule in war, if our forces are ten to one, to attack him; if twice as numerous, If equally matched, we can offer battle; if the enemy; if quite unequal in every way, Hence, though an obstinate fight may be made by the larger force. Now the general is the bulwark of the State; the State will be strong; if the bulwark is There are three ways in which a ruler can the army to advance or to retreat, being ignorant This is called hobbling the army. By attempting to govern an army in the same of the conditions which obtain in an army. This causes restlessness in the soldier's By employing the officers of his army without principle of adaptation to circumstances. This shakes the confidence of the soldiers. But when the army is restless and distrustful, princes. This is simply bringing anarchy into the army, Thus we may know that there are five essentials fight and when not to fight. He will win who knows how to handle both superior He will win whose army is animated by the He will win who, prepared himself, waits to He will win who has military capacity and Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, Chapter 4, Tactical Dispositions. Sun Tzu said: The good fighters of old first and then waited for an opportunity of defeating To secure ourselves against defeat lies in the enemy is provided by the enemy himself. Thus the good fighter is able to secure himself defeating the enemy. Hence the saying: One may know how to conquer Security against defeat implies defensive taking the offensive. Standing on the defensive indicates insufficient The general who is skilled in defense hides he who is skilled in attack flashes forth Thus on the one hand we have ability to protect complete. To see victory only when it is within the excellence. Neither is it the acme of excellence if you &quot;Well done!&quot; To lift an autumn hair is no sign of great of sharp sight; to hear the noise of thunder What the ancients called a clever fighter with ease. Hence his victories bring him neither reputation He wins his battles by making no mistakes. Making no mistakes is what establishes the an enemy that is already defeated. Hence the skillful fighter puts himself into and does not miss the moment for defeating Thus it is that in war the victorious strategist won, whereas he who is destined to defeat The consummate leader cultivates the moral thus it is in his power to control success. In respect of military method, we have, firstly, thirdly, Calculation; fourthly, Balancing Measurement owes its existence to Earth; Estimation Estimation of quantity; Balancing of chances chances. A victorious army opposed to a routed one, against a single grain. The onrush of a conquering force is like the thousand fathoms deep. Chapter 5, Energy. Sun Tzu said: The control of a large force few men: it is merely a question of dividing Fighting with a large army under your command one: it is merely a question of instituting To ensure that your whole host may withstand unshaken-- this is effected by maneuvers direct That the impact of your army may be like a effected by the science of weak points and In all fighting, the direct method may be will be needed in order to secure victory. Indirect tactics, efficiently applied, are as the flow of rivers and streams; like the like the four seasons, they pass away to return There are not more than five musical notes, to more melodies than can ever be heard. There are not more than five primary colors in combination they produce more hues than There are not more than five cardinal tastes of them yield more flavors than can ever be In battle, there are not more than two methods these two in combination give rise to an endless The direct and the indirect lead on to each It is like moving in a circle--you never come Who can exhaust the possibilities of their The onset of troops is like the rush of a in its course. The quality of decision is like the well-timed and destroy its victim. Therefore the good fighter will be terrible Energy may be likened to the bending of a trigger. Amid the turmoil and tumult of battle, there at all; amid confusion and chaos, your array proof against defeat. Simulated disorder postulates perfect discipline, weakness postulates strength. Hiding order beneath the cloak of disorder courage under a show of timidity presupposes with weakness is to be effected by tactical Thus one who is skillful at keeping the enemy according to which the enemy will act. He sacrifices something, that the enemy may By holding out baits, he keeps him on the in wait for him. The clever combatant looks to the effect of much from individuals. Hence his ability to pick out the right men When he utilizes combined energy, his fighting or stones. For it is the nature of a log or stone to move when on a slope; if four-cornered, to to go rolling down. Thus the energy developed by good fighting down a mountain thousands of feet in height. So much on the subject of energy. Chapter 6, Weak Points and Strong. Sun Tzu said: Whoever is first in the field fresh for the fight; whoever is second in arrive exhausted. Therefore the clever combatant imposes his enemy's will to be imposed on him. By holding out advantages to him, he can cause by inflicting damage, he can make it impossible If the enemy is taking his ease, he can harass him out; if quietly encamped, he can force Appear at points which the enemy must hasten are not expected. An army may march great distances without the enemy is not. You can be sure of succeeding in your attacks can ensure the safety of your defense if you Hence that general is skillful in attack whose he is skillful in defense whose opponent does O divine art of subtlety and secrecy! Through you we learn to be invisible, through fate in our hands. You may advance and be absolutely irresistible, may retire and be safe from pursuit if your enemy. If we wish to fight, the enemy can be forced behind a high rampart and a deep ditch. All we need do is attack some other place If we do not wish to fight, we can prevent lines of our encampment be merely traced out All we need do is to throw something odd and By discovering the enemy's dispositions and our forces concentrated, while the enemy's We can form a single united body, while the Hence there will be a whole pitted against we shall be many to the enemy's few. And if we are able thus to attack an inferior be in dire straits. The spot where we intend to fight must not to prepare against a possible attack at several distributed in many directions, the numbers be proportionately few. For should the enemy strengthen his van, he his rear, he will weaken his van; should he should he strengthen his right, he will weaken If he sends reinforcements everywhere, he Numerical weakness comes from having to prepare from compelling our adversary to make these Knowing the place and the time of the coming distances in order to fight. But if neither time nor place be known, then right, the right equally impotent to succor or the rear to support the van. How much more so if the furthest portions apart, and even the nearest are separated Though according to my estimate the soldiers advantage them nothing in the matter of victory. I say then that victory can be achieved. Though the enemy be stronger in numbers, we Scheme so as to discover his plans and the Rouse him, and learn the principle of his Force him to reveal himself, so as to find Carefully compare the opposing army with your superabundant and where it is deficient. In making tactical dispositions, the highest your dispositions, and you will be safe from machinations of the wisest brains. How victory may be produced for them out of multitude cannot comprehend. All men can see the tactics whereby I conquer, of which victory is evolved. Do not repeat the tactics which have gained by the infinite variety of circumstances. Military tactics are like unto water; for high places and hastens downwards. So in war, the way is to avoid what is strong Water shapes its course according to the nature works out his victory in relation to the foe Therefore, just as water retains no constant conditions. He who can modify his tactics in relation may be called a heaven-born captain. The five elements (water, fire, wood, metal, the four seasons make way for each other in There are short days and long; the moon has Chapter 7, Maneuvering. Sun Tzu said: In war, the general receives Having collected an army and concentrated different elements thereof before pitching After that, comes tactical maneuvering, than The difficulty of tactical maneuvering consists misfortune into gain. Thus, to take a long and circuitous route, though starting after him, to contrive to of the artifice of deviation. Maneuvering with an army is advantageous; If you set a fully equipped army in march are that you will be too late. On the other hand, to detach a flying column its baggage and stores. Thus, if you order your men to roll up their halting day or night, covering double the LI in order to wrest an advantage, the leaders the hands of the enemy. The stronger men will be in front, the jaded one-tenth of your army will reach its destination. If you march fifty LI in order to outmaneuver first division, and only half your force will If you march thirty LI with the same object, We may take it then that an army without its it is lost; without bases of supply it is We cannot enter into alliances until we are We are not fit to lead an army on the march country--its mountains and forests, its pitfalls We shall be unable to turn natural advantage In war, practice dissimulation, and you will Whether to concentrate or to divide your troops, Let your rapidity be that of the wind, your In raiding and plundering be like fire, is Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as When you plunder a countryside, let the spoil new territory, cut it up into allotments for Ponder and deliberate before you make a move. He will conquer who has learnt the artifice Such is the art of maneuvering. The Book of Army Management says: On the field far enough: hence the institution of gongs Nor can ordinary objects be seen clearly enough: Gongs and drums, banners and flags, are means be focused on one particular point. The host thus forming a single united body, alone, or for the cowardly to retreat alone. This is the art of handling large masses of In night-fighting, then, make much use of day, of flags and banners, as a means of influencing A whole army may be robbed of its spirit; presence of mind. Now a soldier's spirit is keenest in the morning; evening, his mind is bent only on returning A clever general, therefore, avoids an army it is sluggish and inclined to return. This is the art of studying moods. Disciplined and calm, to await the appearance is the art of retaining self-possession. To be near the goal while the enemy is still is toiling and struggling, to be well-fed art of husbanding one's strength. To refrain from intercepting an enemy whose attacking an army drawn up in calm and confident It is a military axiom not to advance uphill he comes downhill. Do not pursue an enemy who simulates flight; Do not swallow bait offered by the enemy. Do not interfere with an army that is returning When you surround an army, leave an outlet Do not press a desperate foe too hard. Such is the art of warfare. Chapter 8, Variation in Tactics. Sun Tzu said: In war, the general receives his army and concentrates his forces When In country where high roads intersect, join Do not linger in dangerously isolated positions. In hemmed-in situations, you must resort to In desperate position, you must fight. There are roads which must not be followed, must be besieged, positions which must not must not be obeyed. The general who thoroughly understands the knows how to handle his troops. The general who does not understand these, of the country, yet he will not be able to So, the student of war who is unversed in though he be acquainted with the Five Advantages, Hence in the wise leader's plans, considerations together. If our expectation of advantage be tempered the essential part of our schemes. If, on the other hand, in the midst of difficulties we may extricate ourselves from misfortune. Reduce the hostile chiefs by inflicting damage them constantly engaged; hold out specious point. The art of war teaches us to rely not on the on our own readiness to receive him; not on on the fact that we have made our position There are five dangerous faults which may to destruction; cowardice, which leads to by insults; a delicacy of honor which is sensitive exposes him to worry and trouble. These are the five besetting sins of a general, When an army is overthrown and its leader these five dangerous faults. Let them be a subject of meditation. IX. The Army on the March Sun Tzu said: We come and observing signs of the enemy. Pass quickly over mountains, and keep in the Camp in high places, facing the sun. Do not climb heights in order to fight. So much for mountain warfare. After crossing a river, you should get far When an invading force crosses a river in in mid-stream. It will be best to let half the army get across, If you are anxious to fight, you should not he has to cross. Moor your craft higher up than the enemy, Do not move up-stream to meet the enemy. So much for river warfare. In crossing salt-marshes, your sole concern any delay. If forced to fight in a salt-marsh, you should back to a clump of trees. So much for operations in salt-marches. In dry, level country, take up an easily accessible and on your rear, so that the danger may be So much for campaigning in flat country. These are the four useful branches of military to vanquish four several sovereigns. All armies prefer high ground to low and sunny If you are careful of your men, and camp on of every kind, and this will spell victory. When you come to a hill or a bank, occupy rear. Thus you will at once act for the benefit of the ground. When, in consequence of heavy rains up-country, and flecked with foam, you must wait until Country in which there are precipitous cliffs hollows, confined places, tangled thickets, all possible speed and not approached. While we keep away from such places, we should them, we should let the enemy have them on If in the neighborhood of your camp there by aquatic grass, hollow basins filled with must be carefully routed out and searched; insidious spies are likely to be lurking. When the enemy is close at hand and remains of his position. When he keeps aloof and tries to provoke a advance. If his place of encampment is easy of access, Movement amongst the trees of a forest shows The appearance of a number of screens in the wants to make us suspicious. The rising of birds in their flight is the Startled beasts indicate that a sudden attack When there is dust rising in a high column, the dust is low, but spread over a wide area, When it branches out in different directions, firewood. A few clouds of dust moving to and fro signify Humble words and increased preparations are Violent language and driving forward as if When the light chariots come out first and that the enemy is forming for battle. Peace proposals unaccompanied by a sworn covenant When there is much running about and the soldiers moment has come. When some are seen advancing and some retreating, When the soldiers stand leaning on their spears, If those who are sent to draw water begin from thirst. If the enemy sees an advantage to be gained are exhausted. If birds gather on any spot, it is unoccupied. Clamor by night betokens nervousness. If there is disturbance in the camp, the general's If the banners and flags are shifted about, If the officers are angry, it means that the When an army feeds its horses with grain and do not hang their cooking-pots over the camp-fires, tents, you may know that they are determined The sight of men whispering together in small to disaffection amongst the rank and file. Too frequent rewards signify that the enemy betray a condition of dire distress. To begin by bluster, but afterwards to take lack of intelligence. When envoys are sent with compliments in their for a truce. If the enemy's troops march up angrily and either joining battle or taking themselves great vigilance and circumspection. If our troops are no more in number than the that no direct attack can be made. What we can do is simply to concentrate all on the enemy, and obtain reinforcements. He who exercises no forethought but makes by them. If soldiers are punished before they have submissive; and, unless submissive, then will If, when the soldiers have become attached will still be unless. Therefore soldiers must be treated in the control by means of iron discipline. This is a certain road to victory. If in training soldiers commands are habitually if not, its discipline will be bad. If a general shows confidence in his men but the gain will be mutual. Chapter 10, Terrain. Sun Tzu said: We may distinguish six kinds ground; temporizing ground; narrow passes; distance from the enemy. Ground which can be freely traversed by both With regard to ground of this nature, be before spots, and carefully guard your line of supplies. Then you will be able to fight with advantage. Ground which can be abandoned but is hard From a position of this sort, if the enemy him. But if the enemy is prepared for your coming, impossible, disaster will ensue. When the position is such that neither side called temporizing ground. In a position of this sort, even though the it will be advisable not to stir forth, but in his turn; then, when part of his army has With regard to narrow passes, if you can occupy and await the advent of the enemy. Should the army forestall you in occupying fully garrisoned, but only if it is weakly With regard to precipitous heights, if you occupy the raised and sunny spots, and there If the enemy has occupied them before you, entice him away. If you are situated at a great distance from is equal, it is not easy to provoke a battle, These six are the principles connected with The general who has attained a responsible Now an army is exposed to six several calamities, faults for which the general is responsible. These are: Flight; insubordination; collapse; Other conditions being equal, if one force the result will be the flight of the former. When the common soldiers are too strong and When the officers are too strong and the common When the higher officers are angry and insubordinate, own account from a feeling of resentment, or no he is in a position to fight, the result When the general is weak and without authority; when there are no fixes duties assigned to in a slovenly haphazard manner, the result When a general, unable to estimate the enemy's a larger one, or hurls a weak detachment against soldiers in the front rank, the result must These are six ways of courting defeat, which has attained a responsible post. The natural formation of the country is the the adversary, of controlling the forces of dangers and distances, constitutes the test He who knows these things, and in fighting his battles. He who knows them not, nor practices them, If fighting is sure to result in victory, forbid it; if fighting will not result in ruler's bidding. The general who advances without coveting whose only thought is to protect his country the jewel of the kingdom. Regard your soldiers as your children, and look upon them as your own beloved sons, and If, however, you are indulgent, but unable but unable to enforce your commands; and incapable, soldiers must be likened to spoilt children; If we know that our own men are in a condition is not open to attack, we have gone only halfway If we know that the enemy is open to attack, a condition to attack, we have gone only halfway If we know that the enemy is open to attack, to attack, but are unaware that the nature we have still gone only halfway towards victory. Hence the experienced soldier, once in motion, he is never at a loss. Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and in doubt; if you know Heaven and know Earth, Chapter 11, The Nine Situations. Sun Tzu said: The art of war recognizes nine ground; contentious ground; open ground; ground difficult ground; hemmed-in ground; desperate When a chieftain is fighting in his own territory, When he has penetrated into hostile territory, Ground the possession of which imports great Ground on which each side has liberty of movement Ground which forms the key to three contiguous most of the Empire at his command, is a ground When an army has penetrated into the heart fortified cities in its rear, it is serious Mountain forests, rugged steeps, marshes and this is difficult ground. Ground which is reached through narrow gorges, paths, so that a small number of the enemy men: this is hemmed in ground. Ground on which we can only be saved from desperate ground. On dispersive ground, therefore, fight not. On facile ground, halt not. On contentious ground, attack not. On open ground, do not try to block the enemy's On the ground of intersecting highways, join On serious ground, gather in plunder. In difficult ground, keep steadily on the On hemmed-in ground, resort to stratagem. On desperate ground, fight. Those who were called skillful leaders of enemy's front and rear; to prevent co-operation hinder the good troops from rescuing the bad, When the enemy's men were united, they managed When it was to their advantage, they made still. If asked how to cope with a great host of of marching to the attack, I should say: &quot;Begin dear; then he will be amenable to your will.&quot; Rapidity is the essence of war: take advantage by unexpected routes, and attack unguarded The following are the principles to be observed into a country, the greater will be the solidarity not prevail against you. Make forays in fertile country in order to Carefully study the well-being of your men, Concentrate your energy and hoard your strength. Keep your army continually on the move, and Throw your soldiers into positions whence to flight. If they will face death, there is nothing Officers and men alike will put forth their Soldiers when in desperate straits lose the If there is no place of refuge, they will If they are in hostile country, they will If there is no help for it, they will fight Thus, without waiting to be marshaled, the without waiting to be asked, they will do be faithful; without giving orders, they can Prohibit the taking of omens, and do away Then, until death itself comes, no calamity If our soldiers are not overburdened with for riches; if their lives are not unduly to longevity. On the day they are ordered out to battle, their garments, and those lying down letting But let them once be brought to bay, and they The skillful tactician may be likened to the Now the shuai-jan is a snake that is found Strike at its head, and you will be attacked be attacked by its head; strike at its middle, both. Asked if an army can be made to imitate the For the men of Wu and the men of Yueh are in the same boat and are caught by a storm, just as the left hand helps the right. Hence it is not enough to put one's trust of chariot wheels in the ground. The principle on which to manage an army is must reach. How to make the best of both strong and weak--that ground. Thus the skillful general conducts his army willy-nilly, by the hand. It is the business of a general to be quiet and thus maintain order. He must be able to mystify his officers and thus keep them in total ignorance. By altering his arrangements and changing knowledge. By shifting his camp and taking circuitous his purpose. At the critical moment, the leader of an army and then kicks away the ladder behind him. He carries his men deep into hostile territory He burns his boats and breaks his cooking-pots; he drives his men this way and that, and nothing To muster his host and bring it into danger:--this The different measures suited to the nine or defensive tactics; and the fundamental must most certainly be studied. When invading hostile territory, the general cohesion; penetrating but a short way means When you leave your own country behind, and you find yourself on critical ground. When there are means of communication on all highways. When you penetrate deeply into a country, When you penetrate but a little way, it is When you have the enemy's strongholds on your ground. When there is no place of refuge at all, it Therefore, on dispersive ground, I would inspire On facile ground, I would see that there is On contentious ground, I would hurry up my On open ground, I would keep a vigilant eye On ground of intersecting highways, I would On serious ground, I would try to ensure a On difficult ground, I would keep pushing On hemmed-in ground, I would block any way On desperate ground, I would proclaim to my lives. For it is the soldier's disposition to offer fight hard when he cannot help himself, and We cannot enter into alliance with neighboring designs. We are not fit to lead an army on the march country--its mountains and forests, its pitfalls We shall be unable to turn natural advantages To be ignored of any one of the following prince. When a warlike prince attacks a powerful state, the concentration of the enemy's forces. He overawes his opponents, and their allies Hence he does not strive to ally himself with of other states. He carries out his own secret designs, keeping Thus he is able to capture their cities and Bestow rewards without regard to rule, issue and you will be able to handle a whole army man. Confront your soldiers with the deed itself; When the outlook is bright, bring it before situation is gloomy. Place your army in deadly peril, and it will and it will come off in safety. For it is precisely when a force has fallen a blow for victory. Success in warfare is gained by carefully By persistently hanging on the enemy's flank, the commander-in-chief. This is called ability to accomplish a thing On the day that you take up your command, tallies, and stop the passage of all emissaries. Be stern in the council-chamber, so that you If the enemy leaves a door open, you must Forestall your opponent by seizing what he arrival on the ground. Walk in the path defined by rule, and accommodate a decisive battle. At first, then, exhibit the coyness of a maiden, emulate the rapidity of a running hare, and you. Chapter 12, The Attack by Fire. Sun Tzu said: There are five ways of attacking The first is to burn soldiers in their camp; to burn baggage trains; the fourth is to burn dropping fire amongst the enemy. In order to carry out an attack, we must have The material for raising fire should always There is a proper season for making attacks conflagration. The proper season is when the weather is very is in the constellations of the Sieve, the four are all days of rising wind. In attacking with fire, one should be prepared breaks out inside to enemy's camp, respond If there is an outbreak of fire, but the enemy's do not attack. When the force of the flames has reached its is practicable; if not, stay where you are. If it is possible to make an assault with out within, but deliver your attack at a favorable When you start a fire, be to windward of it. Do not attack from the leeward. A wind that rises in the daytime lasts long, In every army, the five developments connected the stars calculated, and a watch kept for Hence those who use fire as an aid to the as an aid to the attack gain an accession By means of water, an enemy may be intercepted, Unhappy is the fate of one who tries to win cultivating the spirit of enterprise; for Hence the saying: The enlightened ruler lays his resources. Move not unless you see an advantage; use to be gained; fight not unless the position No ruler should put troops into the field should fight a battle simply out of pique. If it is to your advantage, make a forward Anger may in time change to gladness; vexation But a kingdom that has once been destroyed dead ever be brought back to life. Hence the enlightened ruler is heedful, and This is the way to keep a country at peace Chapter 13, The Use of Spies. Sun Tzu said: Raising a host of a hundred entails heavy loss on the people and a drain The daily expenditure will amount to a thousand There will be commotion at home and abroad, As many as seven hundred thousand families Hostile armies may face each other for years, in a single day. This being so, to remain in ignorance of the the outlay of a hundred ounces of silver in One who acts thus is no leader of men, no victory. Thus, what enables the wise sovereign and achieve things beyond the reach of ordinary Now this foreknowledge cannot be elicited from experience, nor by any deductive calculation. Knowledge of the enemy's dispositions can Hence the use of spies, of whom there are spies; doomed spies; surviving spies. When these five kinds of spy are all at work, This is called &quot;divine manipulation of the It is the sovereign's most precious faculty. Having local spies means employing the services Having inward spies, making use of officials Having converted spies, getting hold of the Having doomed spies, doing certain things our spies to know of them and report them Surviving spies, finally, are those who bring Hence it is that which none in the whole army than with spies. None should be more liberally rewarded. In no other business should greater secrecy Spies cannot be usefully employed without They cannot be properly managed without benevolence Without subtle ingenuity of mind, one cannot Be subtle! Be subtle and use your spies for every kind If a secret piece of news is divulged by a to death together with the man to whom the Whether the object be to crush an army, to it is always necessary to begin by finding and door-keepers and sentries of the general Our spies must be commissioned to ascertain The enemy's spies who have come to spy on led away and comfortably housed. Thus they will become converted spies and It is through the information brought by the and employ local and inward spies. It is owing to his information, again, that tidings to the enemy. Lastly, it is by his information that the The end and aim of spying in all its five knowledge can only be derived, in the first Hence it is essential that the converted spy Of old, the rise of the Yin dynasty was due Likewise, the rise of the Chou dynasty was Hence it is only the enlightened ruler and intelligence of the army for purposes of spying Spies are a most important element in war, to move. Thank you for listening to this audiobook. For more bonus content like this check out off with the discount link in the description..