Transcriber: Yoshie Asahara About seven years ago, I saw this photo of myself and decided that I had to do something about this thing. So I ate less food, and lo and behold, this happened. I lost 16 kilograms. And you're probably wondering, How did he do it? But I was wondering, Where did the 16 kilograms go? And I've been infatuated I ended up publishing a paper about it very brief paper - 850 words, two figures. And then, I published a book about it, because it told you that you had to eat less No one wants to hear that. But it's now a first-year subject and so I better explain that I did not figure out That was done a long time ago. In fact, here's some time posts for you. When Captain Cook sailed we didn't know what happens to fat But when the First Fleet we did know the answer, and it was all figured out His name's Antoine Lavoisier. He figured out that respiration You turn food into And in the process, nothing is lost. Nothing is created. Everything is just transformed. And so, what did I do? Well, when I lost weight and I first I wanted to know if I lose 10 kilos, where And it took me months to figure this out. But it turns out that 8.4 kilos out of every 10 which I think is the best fact you've got to add oxygen to do this, It takes a while. So I gave a talk about this at TEDxQUT and then I did a story and I met this fellow, who teaches biochemistry. And I showed him my calculations, and he said, &quot;That's pretty interesting. Let's try and get that published.&quot; And so he helped me get it And the other thing we did was we surveyed 150 doctors, and asked them what they thought. And here's the thing: what they think happens is impossible. You can't turn fat into energy, And you would need antimatter atoms So that's literally impossible. And since then, this is part of a much bigger gap I've asked literally thousands When you breathe in, And what are you exhaling? Carbon dioxide. What they don't realise and two go in, but three come out. And it's this atom here It's also the secret to weight loss because it means that your exhaled breath And when you ask around, Well, have a listen to these people: (Audio) Ruben Meerman: What's that keeps you alive called? Oxygen. Oxygen. RM: And what's the gas you breathe out Carbon dioxide? Carbon dioxide? RM: Now third question. Where did the carbon atoms Oh ... I don't know. (Chuckle) No idea. I've got no idea. I wouldn't have a clue, mate. Ooh, ahhhh. Ummmm, wow! Good question. I should have concentrated So where do carbon atoms come from? Or ... Umm, pollution? Fumes? Gas? Cars and stuff? I don't know. Yeah. Vehicles. Don't know. Cow poop? (Laughter) Should know, but don't know. So to be somewhere in the body, right? Out of my lungs. My lungs? From the environment? From your blood stream? From living things? Maybe from the blood? From plants? My chemistry days are over. From the food we eat? RM: You know that! You got there! Really? So you eat it. RM: Yeah We eat it? From what? RM: Have you heard of carbohydrates? Yes. Oh, yes. Oh, OK. RM: What do you think Carbon dioxide. Probably carbon dioxide? Like carbon and hydrogen RM: Yes! Carbon - carbohydrate, yeah. It's not the same word. Never thought. It's C-H-A. OK, interesting. RM: What do you do for a crust? I'm a PDH PE teacher. (Onstage) This is not a gap This is a gaping black hole And the amazing thing is we supposedly We learned all the dots, but no one ever So the word carbohydrates is the big clue, and that's because it stands that have been hydrated by - well, if you're dehydrated, And water has a chemical formula, So where do these carbohydrates I mean what is this stuff? And it all starts in plants. So Step 1 in making carbohydrates They take the water molecules, stick it into a molecule you've all heard of. It takes a photon of sunlight and now we have the atoms free. You do that twice, and you've got enough atoms now which is the waste product And by the way, you breathe that stuff. So every oxygen molecule you inhale Step 2 is to take carbon dioxide and into a chemical process, And if you get six carbon atoms you can make glucose, which is the most important If you rearrange those atoms, which is what sugarcane does, which I have a stalk of over there, and if you stick it in sunlight, it will turn carbon dioxide If you stick glucose to fructose, you get table sugar, and if you stick galactose to glucose, you get another famous disaccharide. It's called lactose. If you're lactose intolerant, you can't break the bonds between So all of this stuff is understandable and it all starts in plants. But you don't just eat carbohydrates. So here's everything that you eat, all the macronutrients. We've looked at carbs. Here's fats. The three most common palmitic acid gets its name from palm oil, oleic from olive oil. There's only three atoms there though. Three kinds. Three elements. And if you stick those three fatty acids you'll make a triglyceride. This is what olive oil is; this is what every fat in nature is. It's the fat in your fat cells if you're trying to lose weight. And when you burn it, what you're really doing is turning it You call it metabolism. People say they're burning fat. It means you're turning it And there's two ways to do it. The main highway is called but there's another way and the low-carb people It's taking fatty acids and turning them acetyl acetate - which can then and beta hydroxybutarate. But the point is you still add oxygen and it still turns so it doesn't matter If you're burning fat, And alcohol's made Protein's an interesting one. It's made out of 20 kinds of amino acids, but there's only two more kinds of atoms. So for all their complexity, And if you eat them - Because to make a human, All the protein in nature A baby, a human, is 60% water, 16% protein, 19% fat And when you burn protein, if you eat a lot of it, So you'll burn it, and you'll turn it a bit of urea and some sulfate. Those two things will end up and now you know You might be wondering, though, &quot;I'm eating carbon, hydrogen, oxygen. What's all this talk about diets?&quot; Amazingly, this junk diet is also made but you're not getting So let's take a look at those. Here's all 14 vitamins If you don't eat them, you'll get scurvy, But the amazing thing is per day, you only need The 14 elements that you have to take, Here they are. These are the recommended daily intakes, and if you stick all that together, It's not very much. That's why we call them micronutrients. So when I tell people this, the first question I get asked is And they'll start hyperventilating. (Laughter) So let's talk about breathing. Talk to anyone who works in an ICU unit, and they'll tell you that a human needs 3.5 millilitres of oxygen, and 2.6 to 2.9 millilitres of CO2 per kilogram of that person. Now, I weigh 72 kilos, so that means I need about just to stay alive. That's 15 litres per hour, and over here, This is how much air I have to breathe just to get that one balloon of oxygen A balloon is about 15 litres. So that's how much oxygen I need per hour not awake, sorry - I mean alive. It's my resting metabolic rate. And in that hour, when I breathe it'll have a balloon worth of CO2 in it, and these numbers just get better If you add up all the carbon it's 136 to 151 grams a day It's about a kilo a week. It's about 49 to 55 kilos a year. If you want to lose weight, That's the whole key Doctors will - if you are not breathing, If you're having an operation, the anaesthetist This is how much CO2 If you hyperventilate, You're just breathing out and so this will happen. You're pumping out the amount in your body will go down. It's called hypocapnia. It will lead to a loss of consciousness And some people ask me: &quot;What about people Could they get overweight Well, they can't do the Calvin Cycle - a plant can - so you can't turn the CO2 back into fat. It's impossible. So, you know, there's a lot Now, it takes a while to breathe out So let's have a look at how much carbon I quite like this stuff, and there is a lot of sugar It's one of the highest. So, how much sugar are we talking about? Well, one stick is 3 grams, so there's 23 which looks like this. And if you want to turn that much sugar well, it's going to take a while. You're going to need to breathe in You'll make that much CO2. How much is that? And it's four balloons' worth of CO2. So, how long is it going to take me It's going to take me four hours because I only breathe out one balloon if I stay still, but if I go for a walk, If I run, it'll only take me 30 minutes. That's why they say eat less, move more. Because when you're moving more, And there's always CO2 in your breath. What about if we compare it Because this has got vitamins and all the good stuff in it. But if we take those ingredients, and we chuck it then you discover that, actually, And so is this tuna salad sandwich grown on the north side of the hill, (Laughter) But it's still four hours So the point is they're not equivalent but they are equivalent An apple takes an hour; a fun size chocolate bar, regular size, 3.5 hours; If you're trying to lose weight, because that's got carbon atoms in it. Drink water. If you like this stuff - a large coffee and a piece of cake. That's 10 hours of breathing between breakfast and lunch. So be careful. A large, lovely burger Have a large fries with it, 13 hours; large drink, 16 hours; bang in a large sundae - You can see why but no one knows what really So, usually, we talk about How's this information going to help you? Well, I would like to talk about And when you're counting calories, because the energy in food is wherever you see a carbon And it's in all food. So just - and it's sunlight So my project that I really want to get up is let's teach your children this, and you can do it. Little kids love learning about atoms. Adults freak out at the idea. But little kids absolutely love it. This is Ithaca Creek This is a school in India, and these kids are using amino, and sticking them together You can do that with amazing resource They're called &quot;sticky atoms&quot;. He's a retired physics He taught in Brisbane. They have magnetic bonds can play with these things And for the educators in the room, they conform to the concrete It's a fantastic pedagogy, and Ian and I are hoping to work together. We took this out backstage, Because what we want to do what's actually going on in their bodies. And you can't do that if you're not talking about Unfortunately, the curriculum does not introduce until kids are in Grade 9, and they don't see the periodic table Why? Because a fellow called Jean Piaget, He thought that kids until they're about 14. We don't use Freud's psychology anymore. We still learn it, but we don't use it. But our curriculum is still under the spell whose ideas about education were, well, but they were wrong. So I hope to see what happens In 10 years, what do obesity rates if all the children learn this Will they grow up to accept the advice that to lose weight, just eat less, Thank you. (Applause)