[somber country music] [music fades] [Peter] Good morning, guys, Today we're gonna go The city of Lahaina. And most of you know of Lahaina because of the fires Well many months have passed by and the cameras have left but the story continues. What is it currently like? So that's what we're gonna get into today. We have the great privilege who said, &quot;Peter, I can show you &quot;Potentially even get you and give you a greater perspective Let's do this. [somber country music] [Peter] So this is the north side -Yeah. [Peter] The fire cam up to what, -It actually went around it. It came back down That burned as well. The fire started over there The fire moved downhill super fast, You know, pretty much -...in an hour or two. -Hour or two? Our home hung on for a while. My wife is a firefighter as well. She was working the initial push through When it initially burned through My wife was driving in and out and the third time they were in and out Definitely nobody feels like but no firefighter feels good but they did their best, Whole crew just about died. There's a whole story about and barely making it out of there. [Jonny] You can't stop thinking about it. It's hard to to go back to sleep. You start reliving things Some of the people with FEMA, the people that were searching the ashes, they've done this a lot of like, your body is still It's in adrenaline mode before that kind of wears off and you can I think sadly, some people, They haven't... I think it lasted much longer -You know? So we're gonna get into it a bit today there are many different stories. Some people's houses didn't get burned. Like if you're over here I guess. Your situation, Your house was taken out but you're -Yeah exactly, there's a lot of Everybody lost their town. You don't end up in Lahaina on accident. It takes a lot of work to be here. It's expensive, it's out of the way. You either have connections out here and probably both, you know? [Jonny] The loss everybody shares that we all put a lot of effort to be in. But then after that I couldn't imagine having lost -Just let me know whenever you want. They're doing their job. Like I'm supposed to be here -So I just... [Peter] Wow, [Jonny] Yeah. [Jonny] It started in the grass, Once the houses got going, There's chunks of wood So imagine a chunk of wood that big If it lodges under your deck, whatever, It's everything's spreading. [Peter] The house survived right there Were they just watering their house -I think part of it is the wind shadow. -Maybe this neighborhood got spared but... [Jonny] The wind wasn't consistently It would push and then relax. It would push and then it would... It's not like there was this massive -Right. It would push, and let off, And so as the houses get there's less fuel to spread it. It's not gonna burn every single one. -Yeah. [Jonny] This is just above our house. It's all burned and then all our neighbors So I think that's what happened some of the grass in the back yard We had a rental right there. So this is our house, That was a little detached studio and then our main house [Peter] I'm sorry, this is terrible. [Jonny] This is our house, We actually found our cats -Uh-huh. -Or like a few days and a few weeks later. We had two cats but the neighbors -These guys over here? Okay. [Jonny] That's pretty gangster [Peter] What is that stickiness -There's a few solvents So obviously none of this stuff's -No. -We don't want to be breathing it This was our Ohana. That's what they call That was a room... or a studio and then this was our house. -Okay. -So we bought it four years ago now. -Oh, man. So our home didn't have the lead paint, -Okay. We sifted though this. That's why this is kind of a pile, This was our bedroom. We're looking for jewelry, I gave up pretty quick. There's nothing in here that I want You know, nothing survived this. That's my gun safe. You can look in it. -Oh my God, it burnt the safe! But those are guns. -Yeah, that's the barrel of a gun -Yeah, I mean it burned through the metal. Part of that's probably Which don't put ammunition in a gun safe. -Where you want to put it? In a separate safe, -Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. -So a lot of people learned that lesson -This was your stove? -Yeah, yeah. [Peter] Why are your ashes still here? [Jonny sighs and chuckles] That's a good question. I think honestly it comes down to The reality is -There's not enough construction crews. There's some lots that are cleared The construction crews It's hot, it's sunny, They're cleaning these down And they're just out here And then you have We CPR land, condominiumize land It's different than subdivision. It gets complicated pretty fast. We don't even know when There's not a lot of developers, -The scope of this thing is so big. Nobody has the blueprint for it and nobody could just But at the same time We have no control It's up to Army Corps of Engineers, And in the meantime [Peter] Whoa, you gotta pay -Yeah, so... -We have homeowner's insurance. And homeowner's insurance, they give you a specific amount Let's talk real numbers, -We paid $800,000 for this house. They're giving us $270,000 to rebuild. That's what our plan was. Then there's if you max that out it can go up to 35% over that. So less than $400,000 to rebuild our home. -In one of the most expensive areas? Maybe we had a sh*tty plan. But who honestly goes every year, &quot;Oh, inflation is up 8% I should When you think of insurance &quot;Oh, we're taken care of.&quot; We'll pay someone to build it, That's kind of what -You're firefighting and doing what else? -I work security sometimes. We had two businesses So that's kind of a... -You and your wife had two businesses? -We had a surf school -Man, I'm sorry. In complete burn down, They pay us for 12 months, -So they pay our rent for 12 months. -The insurance company or FEMA? If you have homeowner's insurance They gave us our $700 check &quot;You guys are denied benefits [Peter] I did hear of that. I think most people heard of that -What is that for? Just to help. [laughs] -To help buy groceries? I don't know. Who thought that one out? I mean... -Any amount of money helps. -Yeah. -But in that situation at that time in poor taste to give that. -$700 these days doesn't go very far. -Especially here. -There's literally people and they're talking about a $700 check. [Peter] You're holding very calm -Yes and no. -Okay. It doesn't seem like it's gonna help -Sure. -But I mean there's times where We have no control over this process. The government has blocked off our land. Whether it's to search through the ashes, All these things we need to happen and all these things but to be blocked from your own land and then still have to pay It's insulting Once this goes over a year or two... -Right. -Who can afford to pay I guess our mortgages-- -You're saying now your mortgage is being deferred, there will be a time -So Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, you get 18 months of deferral So much of this is just what you hear. It's not like there's a big portal that But at some point you're eating up all your equity, -You're not living in it. -We're gonna have to take out an SBA loan -So that's eating up more equity We're gonna have to build just to have equity in it You know, so it's... There's a lot of players involved The banks, insurance company, As an owner of it with all the liability, we have the least say You can't speak for everyone obviously but people that are in your you think you guys all sort of I'm sure you're talking with your friends -Yeah, it's hard because the town itself It's 87% renters is what-- -Are you serious?! -When they did a presentation on housing. -They said 87% renters from somebody that would -Uh-huh. -Said there's only less than 600 -In all of Lahaina? -'Cause the rents are so high The rents are... -What would rent be -Uh, 1,100 square foot house, [Peter exhales in disbelief] -Before the fire. Now, who knows? -So rents have gone up big time? -So obviously the supply is gone. -Yeah. -Then FEMA is paying They're paying them outrageous amounts So if you have a a home anywhere you get up to $12,000 a month from FEMA -Okay, so some people are doing -Yeah, and that's a hard thing as like, I hate to label myself as a victim but as and there's plenty of people but um... It's hard to get ahead in any of this And then you see other people and I want them to. but I want to be able to get ahead too. -I want to be able to pay my mortgage too. -So you have to resist. It's like a a natural human instinct. You have to resist when you see coming up in this. It's easy to say, But most people are doing what they can. It's hard enough -Yeah. -So most people are just If you were in their situation most people would [Peter] Explain these to us please. [Jonny] So after the fires After every major FEMA disaster After that... And that took a few months. That is what it is. You gotta search for the bodies. You gotta understand But after that, The first step is EPA comes through You know, propane, compressed air, Partially environmental, -So that's what this is. They check on there and say it's done. So now it's ready Each one of those gotta be signed off We're waiting for debris removal. -Okay, you've gone through all of this -Yeah, because this ash is toxic. There's so much of it. Nobody wanted this stuff So they proposed Where it's going now They excavated a big temporary place, lined it with thick plastic so this stuff Nobody wants it anywhere, Olowalu's a lot of history there. The reef is a key reef So nobody wanted it there. But all that takes time. -We're sitting months... months. And if they wouldn't approve they wouldn't have cleared a single lot. We'd still be sitting here -What we drove into -Yeah, this is just [Peter] So with your businesses, -We didn't have insurance on that. So that as of now is just a total loss. So... -Your wife and you, both firefighters -Yeah. -Yeah. -You're busy people. And to add to our situation we're pretty... In all of this we're doing pretty good. We had homeowner's insurance. -We have jobs. We have family around, We can help with the construction process. -Mm-hmm. -There's a lot of people There's people that they had their family They paid it off. That was their savings, their retirement. -And they didn't have it insured. -That's not from what I've heard, that's not super uncommon. -So what happens to those people put them in a rental? FEMA comes in? -Yeah, so they're eligible and they'll be taken care of but where are they gonna get -I don't know. -And so that's old local Hawaiian -I've never seen any numbers but from what I've heard that's what it is, yeah. People that been multi-generations. They've had houses paid off for a while. -People can't come in here, right? We had to go past security there. -They can't just drive through here? -You have to be a resident? -There's a handful of people a handful of people that are working -Now with the construction crews, -No, it's almost all local people. [Peter] And then you come out and it's -Yeah, so this is pretty much This is in the wind shadow and Lahaina Gateway. Anywhere that has big parking lots, -Right. -There's big open space. -[Peter] Was this empty for a long time? -Then it came back to life? -Wasn't because it was burnt, -It closed down, They gotta figure out A lot of businesses weren't sure [Peter] What was this here? -That was Choice, and a smoke shop, -Gas station? [Jonny] They're piling it up to recycle, So they're moving This is still where we're at. This is probably at least the remainder It's all gone, like... [laughs] Very little to spare. -Wow, this is a lot of territory. -Yeah. So this, I came in here a couple days ago I used to drive down this whether we were going to I almost missed the turn -And this house stayed. How is that? -That's... You know... -Some of these houses, The wind shifted Other ones, It's hard to say why some made it [Peter] So this is Downtown Lahaina? -Yeah, this stop sign is Front Street. So this... Oh sh*t, they just did this. This is our surf school right here. There's not much to see anymore. -Right behind the CAT? That's where the surf school was and then the coffee shop The surf school we had and then the coffee shop I mean we're just So yeah, that's hard. I mean we put a lot of money into that and it was just... Building the business -Geez. -So the have the drains all filtrated off? They put up these socks and try and keep [Peter] So a year ago, streets were busy, [Jonny] Oh yeah, everyone asks -Yeah, I was reading about that. This is the oldest banyan Um, I don't know if it's the oldest Basically they planted it They recognized it was pretty prolific. It was spreading out You know, to grow these pillars and then at some point they said, &quot;This tree's doing really well, So you can see where -It's still surviving though, right? -It's still going, you see all the green? So it should be good. [Jonny] This is the harbor. This is where we had and he had it in this harbor for 40 years. That's the last thing Is a boat in the harbor. Almost all the boats in here, Once they catch on fire I've heard there was a big explosion I don't know. It would make sense So I don't really know what happened [Jonny] That one, honestly my wife's... The house they grew up in burned down. Her sister's house burned down. But losing that boat, family of five for a couple years and I think that's the biggest loss [Jonny] The other side of all this money billions, hundreds of billions and then we're here in a town that's That's super frustrating They weren't here the day after the fire and they've done a lot of things as a local community but they've spent Not necessarily just FEMA Whether it's in charitable giving, Countless resources have been put here. And we're still here eight months later. That's... I don't... I'm not smart enough but it infuriates me, you know? That billions of dollars has been spent It's just such a-- [Jonny to attendant] Thank you. It's such a crazy thought and anytime you get something it slows things down. Coincidentally, the town Medical Lake Washington, they had a catastrophic forest fire. It's a small town, like 4,000 people. I think 250 houses burned down. So a big portion of that town burned down. Obviously it's not the same, It's way less buildings but as far as timelines you're probably not gonna get much closer and that town is halfway rebuilt. That town is... There's people getting So obviously it's a different disaster, There on the mainland but it's hard to say that FEMA I'm not saying FEMA shouldn't be here it's a compromise. If you're gonna get all the resources you're gonna get some of the bureaucracy, Not that they don't get along So when I say they're spending it's like I don't know what they're gonna... If they spent twice as much money here I don't know. [Jonny] It is gonna be frustrating we're not really Everybody wants a timeline -Because I don't think they really know... -What needs to happen, where the sticking points are gonna be. I don't think... I don't think we've gotten that far. -That's the frustrating part. I mean from the outside, I've been here a couple hours. Just first impressions, It seems like as a country we'd be able to All hands on deck. You know if we can go into Iraq -Yeah. -We should be able to come in here You know, bring a barge in -Yeah. -With contractors and all the materials, -Yeah, yeah, I mean... I don't know how that would go -[Peter laughs] I mean part of it is don't trust the government -Yeah, I think more so these days. So you'd have to give over and then you'd have to be okay So you know, that's hard too. And that's... I mean everything is damned if you do, As far as from FEMA's point of view, If they try and push and get us back into then they're gonna make somebody mad. They're gonna make somebody mad -Right. ...they din't do You know it's... We'll turn around. We'll just show you Just so you kinda have This is where West Maui started and the ocean front hotels, Super famous beautiful sandy beach. Black Rock is there, It's a tourist spot. This is from what I've heard, and get all this this is the second biggest tourist [Peter] Do the locals -Um, most... -That's a really hard question. -Everybody, their life would be easier didn't have to deal with people but also a lot of people's lives if they went out of business. So that's that reliance upon tourism But yeah, nobody wants what just happened Nobody wants to be in a hotel room and that's where they have to live and listen to people Like that's... -Oh, so is that happening? Some of the victims from the fire are -Yeah, this was -Okay. -This is where And you know so... Again, I don't think these hotels to fire victims without FEMA FEMA, and Red Cross, and whatnot. So it's hard to say that FEMA is but in the same time and then they pay for other rentals. Which raises the rental price and everything is like This is the park. This is like a walkway between Kaanapali That's the result -So they're not getting housing? -I couldn't speak for all of them For some reason some of them but these are people She knew some of them in there and they So I can't say why but that's the reality for some people That's their best option right now. Everybody evaluates their life and you do what makes sense. Not everybody knows the perfect path, or nobody really knows, and you just try and make educated guesses Some people that are living family or friends over here. Maybe they didn't have an ID -Okay. -But they're just doing what they can. For us, if we had to sell our property it's because that's what makes sense. That's our best option. We don't have another fund of money As a firefighter with six years in I make about $2,000 a paycheck, My mortgage is $3,500 a month and we have other investments that have mortgages. We will have to find another source -Why are firefighters paid so little here? Because California firefighters At least my friends They were getting paid -With overtime, I could probably break But then 12% of that goes to our pension. The government workers out here because they don't want -Hawaii's taxes are pretty harsh. -What's that? -Oh, the sales tax? -The whole package, -I've only lived in a few other states but I believe the fire department, gets its money from property taxes and our property taxes are a fraction -You lived in Portland before -Yes. That was kind of the plan is we had the jobs at the fire department Gotta figure out a secondary income and my wife had always wanted So that's where the opportunity came up We just kind of took it on, you know? We came over here, we did okay in Oregon and that was kind of to make it safe to move over here. The point of me saying this is There's people with a lot less than us and I don't know how we're gonna do it. And there's... You'll see signs &quot;Keep Lahaina lands in Lahaina hands.&quot; people are gonna run out we need something different. We need something that says, Let's do something. We can't just keep deferring it work a job, build their home, pay rent, Like it's naive to think that anybody Like Lahaina's great, I love Lahaina. I was ready to live but if we have to do all of those, pay rent, mortgage, it's not worth being here. We'll sell, we'll do And that's to sell to whoever So that's the reality of being... You know, we don't have a trust fund. My wife's parents, he was a carpenter, He worked his whole life. He just retired in his 70s. [Peter] Is there any of that going on now? Like people coming in with huge money or it's unknown? -There has hardly been any sales -Okay. -There's definitely not anything listed -Okay. -I think they have to I don't think there's anything happening but there's very few sales. A few months ago and there had been one sale of So people haven't come in and, you know... There's' people... bullsh*t investor from Florida. You know, they don't even have So it coulda been a scam as far as I know. -Okay. -But yeah, there's definitely... You hear about people getting calls, But I don't think right now people but that stuffs stacking up on how long we can do deferred mortgages. How long we can pay rents and at some point there will be is to sell your home and go somewhere else or sell your property -[Peter] These are all new power lines? They replaced all this stuff. They have some existing ones For a long time if the wind blew you would lose power in West Maui. Power lines would break That's been a known thing for a long time So obviously and there's dry grass underneath 'em, that starts fires, you know? That's not me saying anything official That's just anybody that can see, -Is that somewhat of the consensus -There's' literally a video of a downed power line but I mean that's part of the problem. Is they're all back up. These power lines They were blocking this road We had to drive back into the fire. So as a resident here it's concerning that we're just waiting for the wind again, It's gonna be expensive cause outages, it's gonna be but I think anybody Part of why this fire was so catastrophic, A lot of houses, they're built up and maybe it's not permitted. That's not uncommon out here. People have to, in order to pay you have another rental that people are willing to live -Yeah. -So that's part of the problem You can't just go out and slapping on citations You're gonna... That's not a winning move. You know, so that's a hard conversation and people need to have. Is the building code and once we start ignoring it then it [Jonny] I'm one person out here. I don't have time You got two jobs and kids, It's not like even if and sign petitions and all that sh*t, [Peter] &quot;In loving memory&quot;. all the people that passed in the fire. [Jonny] Yeah. [Peter] &quot;This memorial in honor of in the August 8th, 2023 wildfire. I think a lot of people &quot;What can I do to help?&quot;. What can people from the mainland, is there anything they can actually do Sadly, and I know it's not the most but what most people still need -Yep. -But kinda more long term, crews of skilled construction workers. -Yep. -Whether it's through churches There's gonna have to be but I mean there's' gonna be building their house. -Okay. -We don't have the housing -Okay. ...groups of people -Gotcha. Is there a website? to become part of this? -We're not there yet? There will be organizations and sadly I can't say which ones are the ones -If there is a good one out there please leave the link below. And not one of those 2% -Yeah. -Overhead costs, yeah. -Okay. -Yeah, I mean I think the big thing is to make this town anything of what it was and to keep the people here -We're gonna need help, so... Jonny, thanks for bringing us in. You didn't have to do that but you gave us a very calm, and thanks for sharing your story. -That's what I try to do. -Thank you. -All right guys, Until the next one. [somber country music]