Only a fool would risk making Kim Jong-Un mad... and that Russian forces are using North Korean frontlines with barely a plan, let alone weapons. in defensive positions, are instead getting Ukrainian artillery and drones. If true, it's a from Kim Jong-Un himself. What happens when one of his soldiers are being sacrificed in Russian consequences of North Korean soldiers fighting Putin's risky new alliance. But first, it's worth in Russia and/or Ukraine is considered a reality danced around the claim that there are North Vice Foreign Minister in charge of Russian Affairs that the world media is talking about, I think it international law." What Kim is referring to, of agreement between the DPRK and Russian Federation, Jong Un during Putin's visit to Pyongyang in through the Russian government. After passing Kim's comments, it quickly received approval and has now been signed into effect by Putin buried in Article 4 is a clause that takes this Article 4 is essentially a mutual defense pact, parties to come to each other's aid militarily of the Kursk region fits that bill, meaning troops not only have a right to be in Kursk, at an informal UN Security Council meeting in of North Korea's Permanent Mission to the UN said, they are nothing but dirty maneuvers of the to instigate the protraction of the Ukraine lethal weapons prohibited by international about as much as the North Koreans have had to for their part, have neither confirmed nor denied on October 21 a group of Russian Armed Forces dug-in in the Pokrovsk direction, causing a huge The head of the Ukraine Center for Countering step in to shut down the rumor, urging people not operations." Russian President Vladimir Putin after the BRICS summit in Kazan on October 24. alleged satellite images of DPRK troops, he said, If there are images, then they are a reflection Treaty on Strategic Partnership, which contains that North Korean leadership is very serious about it's up to us to decide after holding talks with Russia's permanent representative at the UN we imagine that everything our Western colleagues and the DPRK suddenly turns out to be true, why impose on the whole world the rotten logic that mobilizing all their military and intelligence have the right to do this?" So, neither Russia their chests. Both claim there's no hard evidence afford to carry on in the same way. Basically, Koreans actually fighting in Kursk or Ukraine the government." But what about that video? Based geo-located videos on Kyiv Post, it seems certain are indeed on Russian soil. On October 18, two in Russia speaking Korean "with an accent atypical videos show the Koreans in training exercises and uniforms. The Kyiv Post also cited Ukraine's Security's claim that the second video was taken in Russia's Primorsky Krai. They added that they video was also taken at the same facility. Those the day before by Seoul's National Intelligence images of a concentration of troops deployed to special forces from the areas near Chongjin, by "four landing ships and three escort ships October 8 and October 13, marking the first Korean waters since 1990. The agency said the bases in Russia's Far East, including Vladivostok, claimed that they were issued "fake ID cards of Siberia" on top of Russian uniforms and weapons in stated that the troops are expected to be deployed adaptation training. The same report stated that Pyongyang's first vice director of the Munitions country's missile development had been discovered. launch site near the Russian-Ukrainian front Korean military officers." That correlates with unnamed Ukrainian sources that there were dozens that provided support for the launcher systems that the Ukrainian military had said that they on a depot in the Bryansk region, 75 miles from Kyiv Post report that more than 20 soldiers were on Russian-occupied territory near Donetsk. The North Korea, who came to confer with their Russian Three more North Korean servicemen were wounded, the Main Intelligence Directorate of Ukraine arrived in the Kursk region. One day earlier, U.S. evidence that North Korean troops have gone to seen." Then on October 26, Spanish newspaper EL targeted buildings in the Russian region of to be stationed. They cited yet another source, in Guard. On October 28, Anrij Yermak, a top aide to "We are at war with North Korea." Mark Rutte, I can confirm that North Korean troops have military units have been deployed to the Kursk growing desperation.... He is unable to sustain That is because the Ukrainians are fighting back on November 1, Zelenskyy claimed that the Russians have clear information," he said. "This is discussed this issue with the West and confirmed: fight in Ukraine." His assertions were supported North Korea approximately 700,000 tons of rice exchange for support in the war against Ukraine. send North Korea space technology and possible on the Korean Peninsula. Despite all the claims of North Korean troops in Ukraine has been documenting the brutal hell that is the battle video footage that has emerged from either side or alive, is of the supposed wounded North Korean allegedly intercepted calls between servicemen October 26 and 27. According to the Ukrainian calls prove the presence of North Korean troops exactly thrilled about it, as they voice numerous to do with the "Chinese" who are arriving and other things. Whether the intercepted calls are concrete evidence that North Koreans are fighting to the question, "Are there North Koreans fighting of evidence individually are strong enough considering the sophistication and skill of the up, it looks like too much smoke for there not to Korean soldiers are most likely on the ground in what they were told they'd be doing there remains the beginning of the video. Are North Korean really be that shocked to learn that Putin and troops in such a manner? Kim certainly has a few military have an estimated 1.3 million active-duty drive, the national press agency KCNA reported conscripts. Because their training is questionable perhaps they know they're intentionally being agree to that? Well, there are many factors that soldier mentioned above might be well worth it to be given to his family. Or maybe North Korea so bold as to lie to Kim and merely use his troops Korean portrays? There seems to be very little jeopardizing the reported supply chain providing forces use each year - a resource his war effort seeing him possibly invade and seize Vladivostok, a move that would cripple Russia's trade with launches his nukes toward Moscow? For now, we can Koreans turn up in Ukraine, and how it changes the North Koreans already in Kursk? And if so, are else? Let us know your thoughts in the comments NATO Enter Ukraine Now That North Korea Fights