- [Jimmy] This is a real prison and me and the boys are the next 50 hours locked up here. - Get in here, put your hands against the wall. - There against the wall. I'm just gonna do what he says. I am officially locked How's it going? - Not good. - Basically me, Nolan and to spend 50 hours in prison. How's it going, boys? - I feel right at home. - Just so we're clear. We are gonna be treated Okay, we're gonna be We're gonna have to mop and all around subjected that is being a prisoner. I hope you guys are ready. First thoughts on my brand new These sheets, oddly feel like... Hey, get your foot off my bed. (Jimmy groans) 49 hours and 55 minutes to go and I'm already sick of him. - What? - I would like to discuss the toilets. What are your thoughts on them? - I'm not gonna lie, mine - That's what I was about to ask. Now that we've established, Let's all taste test the fountain. (Jimmy grunts) There was something in it. Look at all that stuff. I'm just not gonna drink water. I'll just die. (clock ticking) - Last name, inmate. - Weddle. - Doyon. (Zealous chuckles) - What kind of last name is that? - I'm French-Canadian, all right. - My last name? - Yes. - Imagine dragon. - I'm gonna back up. - Imagine dragon theses (inmates laughing) - I'll be back for you guys. - Hey, it's him, I'm not doing it. - I'm not scared, come get us. Get him too. - Lights out. - Do we have to get in our bunk? - Lights out, get in your bunk. - About to spend the night in prison. It feels like I took a blanket and just laid it in This is gonna suck. It's currently 3:00 a.m. and in prison, the guards do roll call to make sure no prisoners escaped. (alarm wailing) - Roll call! State your name. - [Noah] Noah. - [Guard] State your name. - [Jimmy] Jimmy. - Nolan. (head bumps) - [Jimmy] Did you just hit your head? - Have a good night ladies. I'll see you guys in the morning. - Wake up ladies. Five minutes, get out of bed. Dress, ready to go. - Slept like a baby. If the baby got hit by a truck - These things are constricting. - [Guard] Over here, face to the wall. - I feel like I actually Oh, this is hard, okay. Oh, is this the kitchen? What's that? - Food. This is my first prison meal. Not bad. I give the meal a four out of 10. Raise your hand if you're glad you're at least not in your cell. He's a psychopath. - Yeah, I couldn't sleep last night and this wasn't worth waking up for. (upbeat music) - And we're back to the (clock ticking) - Shower time. (inmates whooping) - [Zealous] Why does he - It's for the cavity search. - I've never taken a prison shower before. - [Guard] Towel, You have 10 minutes. - Ooh. - So they're letting us take showers now but there's no hot water. That really seems like torture to me. - Brush teeth. - What kind of sorry excuse- with toothbrushes. - Stabbings? What kind of prison is this? How am I supposed to brush my teeth? I'm gonna get a cavity. - Inmate coming out of shower. Inmate out of shower. - [Jimmy] What's on your finger? - This is a toothbrush, - [Jimmy] Oh really? - [Nolan] What is this? I dropped soap. (all laughs) Hey fellow inmates, we have officially survived (inmates cheering) - [Jimmy] We were all just taking naps and relaxing peacefully in ourselves, and then this happened. - Rec time! Come on up. Get up. (metal clanking) - Looks like it's time for rec. All right, let's see what A crappy chessboard. We've got a nice TV and we Does everyone here know - Yes. - You guys wanna wager something on game? - [Zealous] I have nothing. - [Jake] I have no money. - [Jimmy] While, we were The other inmates got jealous - It feels like y'all - [Neil] I swear Chris. - [Darren] Yeah, let's go. - It's already been an hour, there's no way it hasn't been an hour. - [Jimmy] Hey, we're just having fun. - Let us out! (inmates grunting and screaming) - It's been like 12 hours - [Darren] Hey, we got a little bit of a - [Jimmy] Darren, what did you do? - You made us do it, man. - To your cell, to your cell. - They're not letting us out. They're showing favoritism over here. - You were next. - Yeah, got tired of waiting man. - These guys tried to and then get mad when they get cuffed. - [Neil] This prison sucks. - [Jimmy] I think you - [Neil] Jimmy! - I want this floor to be - [Jimmy] You can't even mop That looks horrible. - Good behavior leads to good rec time. Bad behavior leads to this. - I woke up for rec and nobody's in here. You know, everybody got in trouble so I guess I'm just gonna - [Jimmy] Nolan and I woke up to learn that we're on kitchen duty which means we had to - Here we go. Oh, we get cosmic brownies. - I love prison. (intense music) Is that the cell mates? - Jimmy, you cooked? - Yeah, that's pretty good. We have tons of beans. Everyone here is getting lots of beans. Wait, how many beans are you putting on? - [Nolan] Darren was hungry! - [Guard] All right, let's get moving. - I asked for no mayo. - [Jimmy] We sat down to eat And at this point we were so bored that we started gambling our brownies. - [Jake] I already got nine pair. - [Jimmy] Oh, give me a (Chris clapping) (inmates cheering) So this is my brownie. - This is ring! - I just won so many brownies. - [Guard] Inmates line up. (upbeat music) (bell dings) - Inmates line up! Hit the wall, face the wall. - We're getting cuffed up again. I assume that's normal - [Guard] All right, - What does the cell check mean? - We are searching your So anything we find will be a ride up and possibly solitary - We've only been here for 20 hours. What's the worst they could - What is that? Nolan got a knife! - It was only for protection. - I think you should search his butt. - No! Not my butt. - He's going to solitary. (suspense music) - Take me back, let me go outside. - [Guard] Since you guys you get to go outside. - Now we get some time There's an outdoor basketball Lovely. All right, who wants to play basketball? - Guards against inmates? Three on three. Oh! - Okay. Let's just say the guards while we were playing some basketball. Turns out they were (guards whooping) - Looks like we gotta I love how our stuff is still from the search. Our mattresses, what? I mean, is it necessary to lead the I feel like the objective of prison is to make you feel like an animal. Since Nolan's in solitary confinement, I could steal his pillow. I get two pillows. You hear that? It's silence. It's so nice having Nolan gone. (Nolan screaming) I'd take it back. Meanwhile, Weddle and when they heard this. (Nolan screaming in the distance) - Oh, that Nolan? (Nolan screaming in the distance) - Hey Nolan, how's it going man? - Open this door. - It was time for our next meal and I guess the guards because they let Nolan out of Bund me up. - Yes, sir. - All right. - I'm so excited. - [Darren] We're hungry scoop faster. - We've been through a lot in prison. Wouldn't you guys say? - Some more the most? - Yeah. Surprisingly, I saw one and noticed we're not even 24 hours in. - [All] Really? Are you serious? - It just felt like four days, I swear. - It really does. - [Jimmy] So Neil, why - We're in prison, this Three, two, go! (Neil screaming) - It's so fast. (Neil screaming) - Let's do Noah versus Weddle and Nolan. - [Chris] And Nolan, let's go. - [Jake] Let's go! - Whichever side wins, (inmates sighs) Five grand on the line. Three, two. - Oh God, oh God. - One, go! (inmates grunting) (inmates screaming) - That was so fast! - Hey, do you wanna do double or nothing against the big guy? - Sure. - Oh! go get him! Go get him. He looks bigger than I remember. Three, two, one, go! (inmates shouting) Inmates, inmates! I'll pay you when I get out of jail. - [Guard] Back to your cells. (upbeat techno music) (bell dings) Wake up! It's yard time. Everybody line up outside your cell. - Every time I finally fall I'm so sick of this place. We were so bored out of our mind and even though this is just it was a massive blessing. That's a goal! Hey, that's a goal, that's a goal. Header. (inmates shouting) - And that's the game. - For a second out there, The outside courtyard with a It's my turn to shower and I'm free. (video game music) Oh my gosh, I feel so much better now. I'm literally about to cry. Here's the problem, in prison they strip So even something as simple as literally changes the (bell dings) Gentlemen, we have less than (inmates cheering) In prison the only way you is through visitation. - Mom, dad? - Nolan, Nolan, what have you done? - We raised you better than this. - I don't need to follow I run this place. - You will behave the rest of - Listen, I might escape. - No. - [Guard] Time's up, let's - Hey, hey, mom! - [Jimmy] Chris has a visitor. - Come on, come on, come on. Just hurry up, hurry up! I wanna see him. - Look up, there's daddy. - Hey little man. - Look, there's daddy. - I wish I could hold you buddy. (baby crying) - No, I just got to see my son. He's so cute, look at him. - Time to go. - Well, everyone else was having loved ones I paid a lawyer to come visit me and told him nothing about why. How's it going? - Good Jimmy, what's going on? - Well, I just wanted to make sure that they knew I did nothing wrong. - Okay, but why would they - I'm here for a video I'm - You can spend 50 hours in prison but I'm here to help you get out. - Well, I don't wanna get out. - Okay, not sure I understand. Am I still getting paid for this? - Of course. - Okay cool, have a good day. Don't worry, boys, I talked to a lawyer. Things make much more sense, now. - He wants to be in there but I'm an attorney trying to get him out. It doesn't make any sense. (clock ticking) - I'm so tired. I can't stay in this place - [Jimmy] I'm gonna be honest guys. This prison food gets bland really fast. I'm only in here for two days and I couldn't imagine Gentlemen, do you know - [Inmates] Wieners. - No, your last meal in prison. Round of applause. Also prison might come across than it actually is. Let me assure you it's not fun. We're just idiots that can Don't go to jail. (clock ticking) but I'm not gonna miss this place. (somber music) - [Nolan] I'm getting out of here. (intense music) - On the ground! On the ground! On the ground! On the ground! (Nolan screaming) - [Nolan] You can't me! - Hands on the back. - There's the exit! No it's locked! It's - On the ground! Hands on your back. - I'm glad you found me. - I was actually lost, I - Nolan booked it. - There's like three hours left. What's going on? - Let's come down boys, Pineapple. That's tight, that's real tight. - We're going to your cells, - Okay. Wait, this is hard. Oh, that hurt. - Hey, let's talk about this. Come on, no! No, at least take the - Like if he ran away but we have like three hours left. What's the point? Probably the weirdest Nolan, you caused me to have to do this. (clock ticking) It's the home stretch, one (clock ticking) Inmates! - [Inmates] Yeah? - We officially have less (inmates cheering) Our friend Nolan is still Let's salute him. (trumpets music) - [Inmates] Five, four, three, two, one. (inmates cheering) (Jimmy clapping) (inmates cheering) (man vocalizing) - Hello? Hello?