Around 2004, thieves drove down to a remote village targeting in southern India. They stole a couple of bronze Later they returned and stole a few more idols until all the bronze idols were gone. These statues, they're and they've all been plundered and stolen right from under our noses. It wasn't in the psyche of people that they could be looted because they're considered so sacred. They're central to the faith For them, gods are A single village will have one idol that they have worshiped for 2,000 years, and now they worship an empty pedestal or they worship a photograph. Most of the stolen idols across the world, some art galleries and This was not some random theft. This was an organized looting where the best of Indian art was priced and then smuggled out of India. The mastermind became one of the most prolific commodities smugglers in US law enforcement history. Even today, when you talk in that case, they'll tell of the true extent of When we opened up the and saw tens of millions of dollars of looted idols piled I'll confess a little My day job is in shipping. I've been in the shipping My second job, that is basically hunting Is it here? It's here. India is losing about 10,000 major works That's about 1,000 a year. So our goal is to bring back artifacts that have been smuggled out I hail from a small where my great-grandfathers and there are small temples So you could say that a little bit of temple building was in the blood. I had built up my own portfolio of lesser known ruin temples within India, and a lot of friends why don't you share what you So I started writing and Yahoo forums. And that led me to cast a net for like-minded friends out in the world who had similar interests and ideas. I would say the vast that you see in American museums The question is really when. A lot of the objects since World War II and would of the contemporary black In the absence of really in the illicit antiquities trade, different people started to connect across international lines and compare notes on what they were seeing about the black market. So I had a blog called Chasing Aphrodite. Vijay had a blog called Poetry In Stone. We were writing about these of view, but found that our and that we were actually of the same criminal network. So anytime I would have a new I would tweet about it and ask for help and solicit volunteers to help me track down objects Vijay similarly has used a Tamil Nadu has, let's These bronzes and the stone sculptures have survived for 1,000 years. But when we went to some of these sites, we realized that what should Obviously, there was rampant And that's the point that we that was coming into the markets in Europe and America on a very regular basis. I would say that it is naive to think that most museums do not have at least some stolen artifacts, but in many cases, the when they acquired it, it was stolen. Not only would the pieces but also they would get bills of sale and the like. There are names that are radioactive. If you walk into a museum and one of these names is on that list, chances are it's probably stolen and we just haven't gotten to it yet. In every Shiva temple in India, you can see the dancing Nata means dance, and the So this is king of dance. So the dance represents the source of all the movements within the universe. And foreigners also love this idol because it has a symbolic and also because it is very beautiful. These statues, they're central to the faith system of the community. They believe that those gods have powers and they have genuine would be listened to by the gods. So what typically happens is you have a very Maybe there's one or two but the people who live that they could sell or more million US dollars, and the smugglers prey on that ignorance. So both these temples had amazing bronzes, the Suthamalli temple and Including four foot tall dancing Shiva. The smugglers met at an and they exchanged That was quite unique. You don't get to see early bronzes of this vintage all set in one temple. These two petty criminals, after the other temple, and they load the stolen idols in a truck, and they use some glue to fix the lock so that without alarming the villager, they can come back again and again. And they don't even So in 2007, Indian authorities got a tip of a shipment of stolen and they tipped off the US customs. They went on and seized the of antique idols and statues. When customs inspects a crate and finds illicit antiquities inside, the dealer is faced with a choice. They can claim the crate and go through a legal process of those objects, or they I got to know through the police that there were some which was destined to Nimbus Exports. So when the US Customs into the case, they found by a gallery owner, Subhash Kapoor. So we began to understand that Subhash Kapoor was and we began working that investigation and we did it the way you do How do you eat an elephant? One bite at a time. Subhash Kapoor is a long time dealer. He owned a gallery here in New York and he developed a Many people called him and he was very good at what he did. Kapoor was born in Delhi and his father was an antiquities dealer. As a child, Kapoor was kidnapped, and in the incident, Kapoor's and sent his proof of life to his father. So Kapoor left India in the 70s, moved to the United States with but carried with him this kind which he felt disfigured him. He also carried with him in ancient objects, and so when he came to the United States, both he and his brother in Manhattan selling Indian antiquities and paintings to the western art market. I'm covering crime So I have noticed a lot of criminals. They start their business legitimately, and then after a point they'll and suddenly they embolden to He was legitimately selling which was brought from But after a while, he started which was abandoned near the temple, and finally he thought, we can go ahead with a larger network. It was really not until the early 2000s that he became a prominent donor initially and later dealer to some in the United States and in the world. He donated a series of paintings to the Metropolitan Museum of Art. In 2009, they hosted a to celebrate his contributions where a number of prominent curators and other guests attended. Subhash Kapoor is a master salesman, definitely, because he when he was in the US. So he learned a lot about the antiquities, and he became an expert in art. After a while, he that the priceless antiquities And then he'd market these things and catalogs that he published every year. Often, you know, asking Both private collectors and museums around the world and then come to Kapoor's But the problem that dealers face when they get looted antiquities from the market is they need to create and invent some other story about how this object One of the more prominent This was acquired by the for $5 million. Kapoor provided them with documents that suggested it was formerly of a woman named Raj Mehgoub. When I started investigating and discovered that she lived and was unlikely to have ever much less the $30 million of other art that had been associated with her. I also found that on with the Kapoor family, so So Kapoor had used Raj Mehgoub and had used family members for these objects that he was selling. I published pictures of the dancing Shiva as it had looked in the to the object on display at the National Gallery of Australia. Vijay Kumar, he did a very and was able to confirm that That evidence we thought was that the ownership history that the museum had been and that this object had We helped the law enforcement in India. We worked with Jason and we were able to prove that it was the Sripuranthan Nataraja. When we provided the of the National Gallery there are hundreds of bronzes. You guys don't know the difference. You can't tell one from another. But people do not realize by the lost wax method, that the mold has to be broken and the mold cannot be reused. So every Nataraja is indeed unique, and so we managed to that could not be challenged in court, and there was no escape. So another large Nataraja in the Kapoor's gallery in Manhattan. An anonymous scholar, because it has an inscription on the base of the idol and should belong to and he tipped off the Vijay Kumar. The Shiva Nataraja and so it reads Su tha valli in Tamil. We were checking, searching everywhere for a temple or a village So we couldn't match the temple because over a thousand years, So this Va had become Ma. So the village today and because of this one alphabet change, we were stuck for almost Police investigated in a So after they came to and Suthamalli Temple's idols were stolen, they started probing it. And they started targeting in stealing smaller idols and they found that a couple and they gave some tip off about two more petty thieves involved in this Sripuranthan They inquired them and they spilled the beans of the key person Sanjeevi Aosokan. So based on his confession, that Sanjeevi Aosokan in Chennai, based on the and to piece it together and to narrow down Kapoor And when these two bronzes it was where we could Indian authorities arresting in American soil is not possible. So they started looking to get the stolen idols. That was the primary thing in the minds of the Indian authorities. So they were waiting from Kapoor's side, and they It was actually Kapoor's ex-girlfriend and the police got some bits and pieces, and finally they managed When you mix love and looted antiquities, things go wrong. And that's the big breaking news from rare artifacts to objects as many as 300 believe it or not, have been seized by the US Immigration and Customs Department from arrested art dealer Now many of these... Kapoor was arrested in 2011 while on a business trip in Germany on an Interpol red notice. And soon after, federal authorities descended on his gallery in Manhattan and his storage facilities and seized not just $100 million worth of looted antiquities, but His hard drive proved to because his correspondence with traffickers really around Asia, across Cambodia, and India, revealed his business dealings and how he'd sourced all Operation Hidden Idol was the case name for Homeland Security Investigation of Kapoor and his network. We ultimately raided more than in and around the New York area. We seized over 2,500 ICE put out a release after that this was the single biggest in the agency's history. This put antiquities for law enforcement in a way I think we've recorded only about 5% of what he has stolen, stashed, and sold. We are still looking for So Homeland Security is being going after his storage locations, buyers, collectors, dealers, and we are continuing to So Operation Hidden Idol is still ongoing. So, Subhash Kapoor is in prison in India. He has been convicted. My feeling back in 2011 was He pillaged them the most, and so they asked to prosecute him first. So I consented to that. I didn't know the trial itself in India would take more than 10 years. They have just concluded of all charges, all counts in India, he has been sentenced and now he's still in He is fighting extradition but he will be prosecuted by truly for his crimes against humanity. He completed 10 years in the but in the remaining seven and if he's convicted, for 70 years almost. Once I met him in the prison and he claimed that he was he can be freed very soon. He didn't have any kind of grief or remorse for doing whatever happened. He was so arrogant to say that &quot;I have not stolen It's all gifted to me. For museums, the argument and sculptures have a historic So museums are the best places On the other side, the to be preserved, they should be preserved within the community or I think we'll see an in the coming years, but this and I think without citizen without people in the that took this seriously, Subhash Kapoor would most doing this work today. We are far from reaching the goal. Antiquities trafficking is still active all around the world, and Manhattan in particular where looted antiquities are When I started this job, that were ever asked by anybody or anyone about an antiquity and is it real? Those are two fair questions. Keep asking them. I just want a third question. Is it legal? How did you get it? And the good news is, they're starting to ask those questions because one pillaged idol is too many.