- [Narrator] For decades, this 50-mile-long stretch has been a top choice for of dollars of goods around the world, but it's not as reliable as it once was. Say you're in charge of from Shanghai to New York in the most efficient way possible. Your go-to route the Panama by nearly eight times and size of ships that That's because water levels You could reroute via which would add nearly costing you time and money. But what if you could cut of land right here? Enter Mexico's $7.5 billion stretching 188 miles across This railway aims to in what has become a global shipping mess. But it's not clear whether is going to be faster or cheaper. This is Mexico's plan to grab a slice of the multi-trillion dollar (gentle music) Now, this is an actually to take advantage of The Interoceanic Railway to move goods like Hawaiian to the US East Coast, but it was essentially A few years later, after to be used by armed forces and a few years after that, the Panama Canal opened and much more attractive So a lot of people may be wondering what makes it viable now. - There are lots of since the beginning of the 20th century. - [Narrator] Today, reviving the railway is part of a bigger plan to spread wealth across the country. You see, the new corridor runs of Veracruz and Oaxaca, where around half of The Interoceanic Railway and cargo across 10 stops between ports in the Atlantic and Pacific. The hope is that the line will eventually link up to Tren Maya, which will connect to the once it's complete. There are also plans to build along the route to take to the trade corridor, think car part factories But all of that takes money and buy-in from the rest - Mexico needs to convince and economic viability and reshoring. - [Narrator] So far, the project has received from the Mexican government and more than 2 billion in financing from international sources Now, supply chains are incredibly complex, but for this video, we're going to simplify the practice down to its building blocks. Time, money, and shipping containers. If you're a shipping company, the more containers you move, means the more money which is why the Panama Canal would probably be your first choice because you can move a lot Over time, ships have been of every square inch of real When shipping companies couldn't through this narrow stretch of water, they built even bigger New Panamax ships. And in 2016, Panama actually by 70 feet. But now, some of those through the canal as often as before. You may have to wait more or bid millions of dollars That's because there's been which is leaving water levels at record lows. That's a problem because the Panama Canal relies on the water from that lake to operate the lock system that moves ships through the canal, and that means shipping companies That's where Mexico's Interoceanic Say you reroute to the port you can then transfer and pick them back up with In theory, sounds great, but in reality, Mexico still to get its ports ready - Mexico might have a to put itself as a key player on this map of international maritime shipping. - [Narrator] But it's not clear whether Mexico's railway than the Panama Canal, which is about 50 miles long. While the railway is around 200, it takes about 8 to 10 hours to sail through the Panama Canal, while it could take 6 to 7 on the railway. But when you add in the and unload thousands of onto a train and back onto another ship, it's more like 15 hours But recent waiting times have caused delays of up to two weeks as they try to preserve that's displaced by heavy ships. So it's not clear exactly who And then there's the question of capacity. - Even within few years from now, after the project has been completed, it's not going to reach that the Panama Canal allows to transit through the canal. - [Narrator] A company of Mexico's corridor says of the global trade passing but it's not just the railway The ports still need to be modernized because they aren't that many new freight shipments right now. So this corridor isn't but it could be a promising plan B. - This can be a very and Panama are actually going on the long term, and They can reroute the vessels whether it is in the - [Narrator] The Panama &quot;This route remains the and that we are always that could compete with our route.&quot; Now, it's not just Mexico that stands to gain from this trade route. Remember that order from It's one of the most through the Panama Canal, and businesses have been trying by moving operations closer to home through a tactic called Nearshoring. - So Nearshoring or Backshoring is when businesses relocate their supply chain processes Mexico is benefiting from as a bordering country. - [Narrator] Those involved with the project say all those wants to build could be used to make goods in everything from cars to - In general, Mexico is ambitious and trying to play a role in So bringing back all the to the US and be manufactured - [Narrator] Now, all of billions of dollars in trade - This gives a lot of Soft power, basically. - [Narrator] The Panama to bring in $5.6 billion in Even a slice of that is a lot of money. An Oxford business group and the surrounding developments could boost Mexico's current GDP by 3 to 5% once it's operational. But not everyone in Mexico Indigenous communities have said dozens of families along the railway and that the construction poses - People should care about this project because it really relates to our daily lives. When we place an online order or when we pay for a product it is our money that finances Probably also partially finances these infrastructure projects. - [Narrator] In late 2023, both freight and passenger service began on the first section of the railway, but there's still more work to be done to upgrade the entire railway and ports. As for whether it will take on Panama. - I don't really look at this between Mexico and Panama. I really think about this project in terms of what we call co-opetition. I think it could be more beneficial for the global supply chain networks to actually use both to ensure that there is a and the Atlantic Ocean. (gentle music)