This is a video about the most important the Fast Fourier Transform or FFT. I mean, you use it all the time including right now to watch this video and it's used in radar Basically, anytime a signal is processed, there's a good chance that is involved. But on top of all this, the FFT trying to detect covert And if they had discovered it sooner, it may have put a stop You know I always assumed was inevitable, that once on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, it was just unavoidable that would develop nukes. But maybe it wasn't because that nuclear weapons were game changing. The bomb dropped on Hiroshima more energy than the biggest so other countries were At the end of the war, Canada and the U.K. requested a meeting to about nuclear weapons. And contrary to what I expected, the U.S. was actually They realized that they with nukes for long. So they offered to decommission if other nations would This was known as the Baruch plan and it proposed that an all radioactive materials on earth, from mining to refining for peaceful purposes as a But the Soviets rejected the proposal. They saw it as just American nuclear dominance and so the global nuclear arms race began. To develop new nuclear weapons and most of it was done in or the South Pacific Islands. The U.S. also created a the radioactive products of so that outside of Japan, the by American nuclear weapons The U.S. soon graduated to thermonuclear bombs which to release even more energy. They were as big leap from as those devices were from a thousand times again more powerful. - Annihilation of any life within the range of technical possibility. - [Narrator] In 1954 at Bikini the U.S. tested a new thermonuclear design that used lithium deuteride as a fuel and they expected the to release the energy equivalent but they were wrong. (bomb blasts) It released two and a half times that due to unanticipated And as a result, more and it rained down over a Residents of neighboring three days later suffering And further east, the 23 crew were caught in a flurry And by that evening, they were suffering from One of the crew died from six months later. - [Reporter] As a result brought about by his exposure - These events triggered public outcry against nuclear testing. The modern peace sign by combining the semaphore standing for nuclear disarmament. A number of world leaders test ban, no more testing of and this call was actually taken seriously by the world's nuclear powers. They entered into negotiations at meetings with very literal names like the Conference on the Discontinuance held in Geneva in 1958. And to show just how serious they were, they even stopped all testing which is why 1959 is the when no nuclear weapons were detonated. But there was a big a comprehensive test ban that the other side will hold The U.S. worried that the testing covertly and and the Soviets similarly So to address these concerns, they convened the Conference the Possibility of Detecting Violations of a Possible Agreement on Seriously, that was the name, Now detecting atmospheric tests The radioactive isotopes in the atmosphere and can be detected thousands of kilometers away. Underwater tests produce that travel efficiently around of the ocean and these can But underground tests are much because their radiation and the Soviets refused to which they regarded as espionage. And this is ultimately why when in 1963, it was only a partial ban. It banned testing underwater, in the atmosphere and in space, places where compliance could be verified, but it didn't ban testing that it was almost impossible But scientists had been to reliably detect Following the Geneva meeting, formed a working group and their idea was to outside the countries where to detect the faint ground The problem was how do you from an earthquake? Every day around the world, there are close to 300 earthquakes with a magnitude of three or greater. In addition, part of your adversaries tests is to spy on them, to know how big of an But the seismometer signal of the device but also on For a given yield, deeper So scientists wanted a whether a given signal was and if it was a bomb, how big it was and how deep it was buried. They knew that all this in the seismometer signal but by looking at the squiggles. They needed to know how much were present which meant a Fourier transform. A Fourier transform is a into pure sine waves, each and frequency that add to make it up. This seems a bit like magic since the sum of a set of sine waves can and nothing like its component parts. There are some elegant ways to understand how Fourier transforms work, shout out to the awesome But I wanna take more of If you wanna know how much is in a signal, just multiply at each point and then add As a simple example, say our with a certain frequency but and we're trying to figure out which sine waves add to make it up. Well, if you multiply of an arbitrary frequency, the You're just as likely to the same sign, both as where they have opposite when you multiply them together, is equal to the area below the x-axis. So these areas add up to zero which means that frequency sine wave is and this will be true for you could try assuming you're looking over a long enough timeframe. The only exception is if the exactly matches that of the signal, now these waves are correlated so their product is always under the curve that indicates that this sine wave is part of our signal. And this trick works even of a bunch of different frequencies. If the sine waves frequency of the signal it will producing a non-zero area. And the size of this area tells of that frequency sine wave in the signal. Repeat this process for all and you get the frequency spectrum. Essentially which frequencies are present and in what proportions. Now so far I've only but if the signal is a cosine wave, then even if you multiply of the exact same frequency, the area under the curve will be zero. So for each frequency, we actually need to and a cosine wave and find The ratio of these amplitudes of the signal that is to the left or to the right. You can calculate these separately or you can use Euler's formula so you only need to multiply your signal by one exponential term. Then the real part of the and the imaginary part In the American delegation there was a physicist, Richard Garwin and a mathematician John Tukey. They got into a debate over which nation's So Garwin simulated the responses on a computer at CERN. The next day, everyone agreed The real obstacle to detecting wasn't the accuracy of the seismometers, it was the vast amounts to Fourier transform Here's an example seismometer signal and its Fourier transform. Thus far I've been thinking about signals as infinite continuous waves and when you take their Fourier transform, you get an infinite But real world signals are not like that. They are finite and made or data points. Even though a seismometer and continuous, it doesn't with infinite precision. There is some fundamental so what you have is discreet finite data. So you can't use the Instead, you have to perform something called a Discreet Fourier Transform. And one of the distinguishing features of a Discreet Fourier Transform is that the frequency spectrum You can think of the frequencies as falling into a finite number of bins. And what determines the is the number of samples in the signal and how closely spaced they are. For example, the more the lower the maximum Because the samples aren't to capture high frequency oscillations, the shorter the duration of the signal, the harder it is to tell So this lowers the frequency resolution. The shorter the signal, the The lowest non-zero frequency is one whose period is equal And the higher frequency bins of this frequency. So they fit two, three, in the duration of the signal. The total number of to the number of samples in the signal. So if the signal is made then the transform has going from zero up to seven So let's do an example. Say we have a signal Well, then the discrete Fourier transform will have eight frequency bins. The first bin corresponds Essentially this measures if the signal is systematically shifted off the x-axis. You can think of it as You multiply each data point by one and add them all together, in The second frequency bin that fits one period in So in this case that You multiply each point by a and a cosine wave of this frequency and separately add them up. For sine, they add to zero. For cosine, they add to four and then repeat the process and so on, up to seven hertz. And you have the discreet of this really simple signal. Now this process works fine in principle and you could use it to calculate all discrete Fourier transforms. But the problem is it requires To complete one discrete Fourier transform requires multiplying N data points by N different frequency waves. So N squared complex multiplications. Now this is doable for eight samples but if you had say a million samples, that would require a million squared or one trillion calculations. At the speed of 1960s computers, that would take over all for a single transform. Now a million samples is for a single seismic event per day from hundreds of seismometers, it would just be far too time consuming and that's what gave to look for a better way. And the breakthrough of the President's Science President John F. Kennedy was there, as were Garwin and Tukey, the physicist and mathematician Although they were discussing like the Apollo program and the meeting was apparently pretty boring. Garwin observed Tukey doodling throughout but what he was actually doing was working on discreet At the end of the meeting, what he had worked out and that Tukey knew a way to compute with many fewer computations. It would mean that the over three years could be This has aptly become known So here is how it works. Consider the example from Each of those data by the eight different frequency waves. Here I'm only showing So you would expect this to or 64 complex multiplication. But due to the periodic these waves of different frequencies overlap in a predictable way. For example, at the middle data point, all of the four odd and all of the four even frequencies have the same value as well. So instead of doing eight multiplication, you only need to do two. And this sort of duplication occurs at the other data points as well. So instead of performing 64 Now that might seem but it's the difference that scales as N, the versus one that scales which means the bigger the data set, the greater the savings. A signal with a thousand 100 times fewer calculations would require 50,000 But how do you know which Well, take your samples and split them into even and odd index points. You still need to multiply each of these by the eight But now let's look only at the first four frequencies to And what you find is that in each case at the location of the samples, the values of the two A similar pattern can be except the values of one of the other. More generally, they're But what this means is all the multiplication for the second half of the frequencies. Once you've calculated for the lower half the frequencies, you can reuse these values So you've effectively cut required in half but that's how do you get down to Nlog base two of N? Well, you repeat the same trick, split the samples again and then again repeatedly until you're down to single data points. At each split, you can of sinusoidal functions to in half. And that is how the Fast N squared calculations down to NlogN. And it's why today whenever anyone takes a Fourier transform, as a Fast Fourier Transform. Garwin approached an IBM to program a computer but he didn't tell him underground Soviet nuclear tests. He said it was to work out the spins in a crystal of helium-3. Cooley and Tukey published the algorithm in a seminal 1965 paper and but it was too late to secure a comprehensive nuclear test ban. By that time, the U.K., France and China had joined the Soviet Union And the partial test ban treaty, far from deescalating just sent it underground. The thinking was if you were only allowed to test underground, then you so as not to fall behind all So from 1963, 1,500 nuclear That's roughly one a week for 30 years. This testing facilitated the construction of an absurd number of nukes. At the peak in the mid 1980s, 70,000 nuclear warheads were in existence. Total expenditure on is estimated at around $10 and the Soviet Union If only scientists had been to remotely detect underground then a comprehensive test stopping the nuclear arms race To check how realistic this is, I asked Richard Garwin himself. - Well, it's a good story. - It is a good story. - It would've helped and it - But that would've required of the Fast Fourier Transform it was discovered earlier All the way back in 1805, was studying the newly of Pallas, Ceres and Juno. To determine the orbit of Juno, Gauss devised a novel and he jotted it down in his notes but later used a different method and he never thought to Today we can see that the discreet Fourier Transform published it in 1807. And he had developed the algorithm as Cooley and Tukey The reason his breakthrough was because it only appeared of his collected works and it notation in a 19th What do you think would've the significance of his in a way that others could understand? With our modern network of seismometers and computing and the today, we have the ability to which correspond to a one basically anywhere on earth. Following Cooley and Tukey's and they are the basis for like the ones that allow you to watch and listen to this video. Here's how the Fast Fourier Transform allows you to compress an image. You take the pixel brightness of an image and perform So essentially, you're are present in the brightness values of the rows of an image. Here, brightness represents the magnitude of each frequency component and the color represents the phase, how to the left or the right. And then you perform another It doesn't matter if you do which you need is a two dimensional FFT of the original image. For almost all real world images, you find that a lot of the are close to zero. I've taken the log of the transform values so you can see them but if most of the values, are very small and these And what this means is a lot of the information say 99% of it. But when you invert that result, representation of the original image. So on your computer, most in this form as a two dimensional and then when you wanna the computer simply inverts the transform. There are so many applications for FFTs from solving differential studying crystal structures, WiFi and 5G. Basically all kinds of and that's why mathematician the most important numerical If only it had become more widely adopted after Gauss discovered it, the FFT may have even more dramatically transformed our world. Now I don't think Gauss how important the FFT would be, just as most people don't think of their life's work. You know in an average career, 50 weeks a year for 40 years and that works out to 80,000 hours. It means that your career might to make a difference in the world. So what do you wanna Now the name of this video referencing the amount the amount of hours you spend at work, and they are not selling anything. 80,000 Hours is a find fulfilling careers The typical advice from career really just focuses on finding a job that fits your personal preferences. But what if you care Well, they won't really besides a few well known professions like being a doctor or a teacher. When I finished college, I knew and science and that I wanted but YouTube didn't exist yet what I was gonna do. Now I feel really fortunate every day that I both enjoy and which makes a positive So believe me, there are that you can do and 80,000 to help you find those things. From research backed guides that tackles pressing issues to a regular newsletter and podcast. They even have a curated job with hundreds of jobs they They have done over 10 years at Oxford University on how fulfilling and which makes So their recommendations and actionable. If you care about what the evidence says about having an impactful that goes beyond empty cliches then check out 80,000 Hours. Everything they provide from their podcast to their job board is free forever. If you join the newsletter right now, you'll also get a free copy sent right to your inbox. So to get started on a career that tackles the world's most pressing problems, sign up now at 80000hours.org/veritasium. I will put that link So I wanna thank 80,000 Hours for sponsoring this part of the video and I wanna thank you for watching.