The President: Thank you The economy is (Applause) Six months ago, we miracle by signing the reforms -- I have to Very important word. But the tax cuts is what what's really doing it. The biggest tax cuts Now it's my great honor to White House to celebrate bigger paychecks, and hard-earned money where it wherever else you (Applause) Before going any further, horrific shooting that Capital Gazette newsroom This attack shocked the and filled our Journalists, like all from the fear of being doing their job. To the families of the words to express our Horrible, horrible event. Horrible thing happened. On your suffering, we The suffering is so great. I've seen some So great. My government will not everything in our power to to protect innocent life. We will not ever So, our warmest, best Horrific, horrible thing. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause) For today's event, we're our great Vice Stand up, Mike. (Applause) Also joining us are who's been keeping Steve. (Applause) Secretary Wilbur Ross. Wilbur. (Applause) Secretary Alex Acosta. Just came up with a (Applause) Thank you, Alex. Great healthcare plan. People are Association. Sonny Perdue, the great (Applause) Small Business Doing an incredible job. (Applause) Director Mick Mulvaney. (Applause) And Treasurer Jovita. Jovita. Thank you. (Applause) Thanks also to a really Mississippi Governor Phil other state, local, done so much to help us cut and job plan. You see how it's working. (Applause) Although, I have to say, regulations maybe had (Applause) I don't want to say this cutting of regulations had I also want to welcome Karen Kerrigan, for helping us. (Applause) Your support has been very difficult legislation Please stand up. Stand up. What a team. Great team. (Applause) Great team. Thank you very much. And there are so many You know, you're never (Laughter) But we're not going to Right? Let's get down (Laughter) Other than these names, Okay? We're also especially members of Congress who fought with us. They -- we didn't We didn't get one vote for So, I want to thank Roger Diane Black, Kevin Brady Kevin. Kevin, come on. Stand up, Kevin. Come on. (Applause) Mike Kelly, my friend. And Jason Smith. Our great Republican night and day to score This really was a landmark constituents, but much for the country. Unfortunately, every House and Senate -- that's -- voted against lower taxes And you see It's turned out to be The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act across the board. We nearly doubled the double the child (applause) -- which Ivanka wanted Stand up, Ivanka. Stand up, honey. (Applause) Whoa. She got a bigger hand (Laughter) You better be careful. That means you're The typical family of four an income tax cut of more and, in some cases, more -- (applause) -- slashing their We cut taxes for make this the best place business, to invest. We have billions and of additional We lowered the corporate worker finally has a We allowed companies to of investment in And it's called expensing. It's the biggest I think it'll go down as maybe It's one-year expensing. Nobody thought So incredible for starting or running a business. We greatly reduced the estate tax, commonly You know, that's And most farms and most pay any estate tax or (Applause) Such a big thing. We created opportunity in low-income communities. We opened ANWR -- We opened up ANWR. (Applause) That was one that they get it for many years. I wasn't going to do it I said I'm not And then when I heard nobody could do it, they years -- I said, oh, let's (Laughter) It's like a (Applause) A challenge. And they've started It's going to be something -- one of the biggest in the world. We also repealed, in our the most, I guess you I've seen in a long legislation: the (Applause) The individual mandate. How about that one? That's not a That's where you have the fortune in order to not pay (Laughter) Think of that. So, in other words, you not to have healthcare. So it's not We got rid of it. That's a big thing. We got no credit, (Applause) That's okay. I've had some people come like that as much That was a big thing. And Obamacare is We have come up And we have a plan coming Secretary Azar -- coming of time, which is going to to perhaps match your plan It's going to be Six months after our tax workers have received and retirement account (Applause) And one of the beautiful love to see happy faces sometimes before or after a lot of people that want reason, they want (Laughter) And I stand with the a policeman, and in York City. And he said, &quot;Sir, You've made me a hero to I've always been a But this year, my 401(k)&quot; like 46 percent,&quot; &quot;My wife thinks She thinks I'm the first time in my life.&quot; (Applause) And, you know, in terms created $7 trillion worth And people don't know size -- almost Because we hear China -- and our relationship We're straightening out most people want But we're the largest And as you know, we've last one and a half years. But we're almost the and far bigger And we're going And it's going to continue (Applause) Biggest in the Think of that. We are the biggest The biggest economy That's the only way Good. It really is. It's pretty good. And they helped Right? Just a little bit. That's okay. Every little bit counts. So, the share of small benefits and pay has just and manufacturing optimism because it's all about is the highest ever recorded. (Applause) This is a statistic that's Highest ever recorded. Hundreds of billions of from overseas. Over $300 billion was country in the first Think of that: (Applause) Money we never Trillions more dollars And as you know, Apple spend $350 billion I would have been (Laughter) But $350 billion is I guess the total amount approximately $230 putting up the rest They're bringing It would never They're going to build an of other things. We just left Wisconsin, building up in Wisconsin it -- the Eighth It's incredible Fifteen-thousand jobs. It's going to It is something that is so to go see it. Nobody would believe More than 100 utility prices as a direct result saving Americans $3 Utility bills Unemployment claims (Applause) That's a good one. Forty-four years. Something I am so Unemployment for African level in the history (Applause) Okay? I'm looking at Kevin -- You were right about (Laughter) That was a -- We were all right. Everybody in this And I have to say, Americans, likewise, is at history of our country. (Applause) Unemployment for women -- to my speech two weeks me say is the Now I'm saying it's the soon will be the (Applause) Big difference -- Hopefully, in a week or We're close to history. Sixty-five years I'm also very proud to say disabled Americans has giving these incredible realize their And that's what it is: (Applause) Many former inmates are chance at life. We are keeping our promise and hire American. And what's happening is our unemployment is so so high -- maybe that's an And people that want to inmates, people coming out was so great, people Businesses weren't hiring. They're hiring them And you know what? These businesses are They're set. And there's one He hired 10 inmates. Never did it before. And he said -- I wouldn't but he said seven of That's not a I think that's a better (Laughter) He said seven of them are and he's going to So there's nothing like that problem, Jared. Right? (Applause) And, Chris -- thank (Applause) But this is all because really, one family. And we salute one great We love that flag. (Applause) And at last, our country that is pro-jobs, and pro-American. (Applause) So, one incredible citizen our Tax Cuts and Job I love that name, LaSonya. (Laughter) If I have another going to name her -- (Laughter) -- is that okay? Can I copy it? I like that name. Of Jacksonville, Florida. Great place. I know it well. LaSonya is the director at Following the Tax Cuts and to pay employees like They took a lot of money, to the employees. That bonus will help her two sons, Cameron (Applause) Pretty good, right? Pretty good. So, we're so happy for your sons are going to They're great young men. And, LaSonya, please, Please. (Applause) Ms. Hill: Thank you, It's an honor to As you said, Crowley benefit from the tax reform And in return, my family, our children's education. (Applause) My son, Cameron, he will senior year at Morehouse (Applause) And my youngest, Christian into his freshman year at both in the fall. (Applause) So, because of this, fantastic company. I've been there 24 years. I'm very honored to work and for the company to tax opportunity in which back to the employees. And so, I want to thank allowing us the story, but also Crowley as with for so long So, thank you again. (Applause) The President: Thank you. Good job. And, by the way, she got (Laughter) -- including you, Ivanka, of my political Great job. It's like you're a Very good. Ms. Hill: Thank you. The President: Have Ms. Hill: I have not. (Laughter) The President: That's called potential. (Laughter) Thank you, It's beautiful -- Another American who has back to others is Guy Guy Chemical in Somerset, state of Pennsylvania. Incredible place. Guy increased bonuses, purchased new equipment. Guy has also hired 30 new customer demand, which is The best he's ever had. And here with Guy are employees: Leigh and Deist We want to ask Guy, maybe, a few words about the tax and how it's And I assume your people really happy. Please. (Applause) Mr. Berkebile: President Congress who have voted tell you how much it means When I founded my company house seven times in order the company over the next company finally got large on its own. The money that we are tax cuts I have reinvested into our employees. We recently just built manufacturing facility in This addition includes compounding room, and a development that is five (Applause) This investment on our percent increase in sales 2018, in addition to created this year so far. (Applause) So, with the tax cut increasing salaries, and bonuses to our employees. I have some of my down and are sitting out And I have two right here. Michelle Trulick -- her -- Michelle is one She is using the increased bonus to fix her so she has a reliable way to (Laughter) And her and her husband vacation, a second their 25th wedding (Applause) And Leigh Deist, (Applause) We're proud of our He is our head He's the guy that He and his wife have two age of four, so he's using his bonus to help offset his And they are also taking in five years. (Applause) President Trump, I'd like fighting for American who keep our (Applause) The President: Pretty good, right? (Laughter) Pretty good. Wow. That's a good combination, A lot of talent. I just want everybody to because common sense Washington again because in charge of their Washington tried to change not going to happen. Instead, we're changing changing it quickly (Applause) That's why our That's why our That's why our And that is why America is ever before. We're setting These are victories, and And now what we're doing out our trade. Our trade has We were being taken by many, many countries -- those in between. And sometimes our friends, treating us worse And I want to just tell care of very well Our steel industry Never have they seen happened over the last They were dumping steel. Dumping. All over our land, they And we were losing United States Steel, the He said, it's the most we've ever seen. We haven't expanded in 30 anything remotely like expanding and renovating haven't been You remember U.S. They had plants that went they were using little He said, &quot;This has not It's back.&quot; We were in South Carolina Georgetown Steel -- company -- They closed They announced -- as I the plane, they announced their steel mill; 600 (Applause) And don't forget: What it But we can't lose Steel we need. Certain industries But it means jobs. But you know what Billions of dollars will Nobody talks about that. Billions and But what's happening with happening with other working to revive them -- machines -- they were and they weren't good And we put a big tariff for doing it. And now we have these that were closed; they're (Applause) Solar panels, 32 plants -- they weren't old. Thirty-two plants all over open, the rest had Now those two -- and those now they're doing great 11, and even 12 plants all over And these are really great And just to finish, many saying, &quot;Let's negotiate.&quot; (Laughter) They were never They're saying, &quot;Let's Please, we want They weren't Of course, I'm not sure if would have known But let me tell you, want to negotiate. And all we want We're going to be the the stupid country that was taken (Laughter and applause) And you made You are all truly making slogan that I'm That was a slogan that I tell you what, it was a so accurate, even more You know, America First And we don't want But &quot;Make America Great Again,&quot; that's what's happening. We're bringing We're bringing We're bringing And for the citizens of bringing back our We have dreams. You guys have dreams, Big ones. Because now you're on Now you're on a level Go out there. (Applause) Going to be fantastic. These are going to So, I want to I want to just say Very, very special people. Thank you for Our country is doing so as it's ever done. I don't think it's ever of the economy. We have -- we're $700 billion we got for the following year. So, we'll have the most-modern military that relatively speaking. And we need it. (Applause) And we hope we never But the stronger it gets, we'll ever have to use it. So, we're going to have I want to thank a couple my great generals These are tough cookies. We have the best We have the best military we're going to have -- And remember what else jobs, because we When we build those Lockheed, and from Boeing, the different places, we The ships -- it's So, it means a lot. Jobs mean nothing compared having the right -- that's probably the only case where We have to get the But jobs are a secondary all over the country. So, I just want to thank This is very special Very special time for you. God bless you all. Thank you very much. (Applause)