Translator: Muna Muhaureq How many of you have suffered Everybody. This is one of the biggest causes in the history of the planet. So we move from that age, And if we think we are, Wrong formula! So the new age actually has already begun, How many of you have heard And who are the children Knowledge workers. And think how? Knowledgeably. Which is wonderful. It all sounds good, doesn't it? And it doesn't! It doesn't because the directors the knowledge management - actually got together and said that it doesn't really work. Why doesn't it work? They discovered that there is something than to manage knowledge. What do you think it is that is more important Yes, many ideas. People say, '' Time,&quot; There's one thing that is most important. You have to manage And what is the manager of knowledge? (Audience) The brain. It's interesting that you The management of the manager And what tools does our human brain, what tools does it use? It uses its multiple intelligences. Multiple! Obviously: verbal, numerical, logical, but also physical, sensual, creative, ethical, spiritual intelligences. That's the new age in which we will be. How will the planet begin That should be an easy In the intelligence age, (Audience) Intelligently. Intelligently! (Laughter) At last, the world will begin And intelligently about what? About agriculture, about industry, about information, about technology, about knowledge, and most importantly, So, what will the child become? What will the child be like? It will become like a flower. It will become like an intelligence bloom. The child will become And think the future in which A wonderful future to look forward to. So let's look at how intelligence I'm going to ask you to imagine You're a supercomputer. I'm going to give you a piece of data, and I want you to check How long does it take to access it? What does the brain give it? And are there any colors Are you ready? The piece of data I want you to access is: &quot;mango.&quot; (Humming) OK. First of all, how long Yes, and all of you are doing: What does that mean? That means instantaneously, Phenomenal! No supercomputer can do that So if you worked out how we do that, And you'll get it (Laughter) So did you get a nice little And all your heads are going &quot;No.&quot; What did you get? A picture. How many of you got a picture Everybody. And I've done field surveys So welcome, ladies and gentlemen, (Laughter) Because this is how image. It could be anything, couldn't it? It could be your mom. It could be a mango. It could be an insect, anything. The way the brain works multiple sensories linking out. So, the two key words are this ... and this. Now what do you think English. What's your personal language? French, English, Pakistani, No! No! This is the human language. The human language is imagination That's the way we all speak primarily. The other languages, - important second routine. And that is the genesis And that's how mind maps Here's an example. This is one study in American Mexico with young children and their creativity. General creativities show that as people It goes down. And everybody knows it And that is &quot;normal.&quot; However, that's the bad news. The good news is: it is not natural, as you are about to see, one of the most moving This is a study done with little children. They were asked to generate as many ideas or uses for a paperclip This is the first example. Here is a little boy. In ten minutes, he generated four ideas. Four ideas! His researcher, lady Emmerick Jenkins, that radiant human language He had one hour lesson. Then he was asked the same question: He was thinking of an elastic band. How many uses for an elastic band? Same time, same paper, same brain, one hour later, (Laughter) Twenty-two ideas. And he got no more marks But you look at those lovely They're his feet. Those are his little trousers. Those are his little hands. And what's that rising sun That's his head. And when he did it, he was saying, &quot;I can't. I'm not creative,&quot; vocally. When he did that, he looked up &quot;I'm a genius!&quot; (Laughter) And he is! I mean, look at it! That's one hour before One hour later And that mind map So all around the planet, And one flower is the real power. That is the power of intelligence, the power of you, the power of every brain on the planet. So, that is really flower power. (Laughter) That's flower power. So, let me just tell you a couple First of all, the baby, You notice, by the way, shows that intelligent thinking, is egalitarian. It's egalitarian. It's the equal opportunity of every brain, every person on the planet So science. What is a scientist? You all know that you're not a scientist? Therefore, you know what it is you're not. So what's a scientist? A scientist is not some weak person in a dangerous stinking laboratory. A scientist is a person who follows hypothesis - an idea - the prediction that this then you get the result, you make your conclusion, and then you continue Babies are often written about of the fundamental aggressive of the human being. May I have a piece of paper? I'm a baby. You've given me You've given me two. (Laughing) Will you get this piece of paper (Laughter) No. So what happens? In every country around the planet, (Laughter) What's the little baby? A pure scientist. (Laughter) What is the engineering, mechanical, Check it as a musical instrument. (Laughter) What is the social economic value of this? Anybody want some? (Laughter) Stick it in the billion faceted (Laughter) Not so good. Try it as a musical instrument (Audience) Throw it. Throw it away ... How many of you were babies? (Laughter) How interesting! (Laughter) So now you're 3-4-5 years old There's a big puddle there, What's the hypothesis What's the hypothesis? Yes. Little stone, Pop! Correct. Next hypothesis? Bigger rock, bigger splash. Let's try that! Wreow, bang! Yes! Third hypothesis is what? (Laughter) I'm bigger than that rock. (Laughter) Look at this. Wham! The big splash! Scientist. How many of you Oh, interesting! Everybody. Ladies and gentlemen, All of you. All of you. All experimenters. And once upon a time, 15 minutes ago, And so does the whole planet. And TED is a real intelligence agent in showing people who they really are. You're scientists. Imagine that the entire You are not poets. How many of you have written little poems to mommy, daddy, grandpa, something painful, something happy? How many of you Everybody. How can you say you're not poets, You're obviously poets. How many of you are poets? All of you. So imagine spending as a poet and a day-dreamer, &quot;Pow-er,&quot; is what it is, isn't it? &quot;Pow-ers!&quot; and that fires poetry. And imagination does. And my final story, When I was younger, I was travelling in the underground The tube was going faster and faster. For the first time in my life, I thought, As I first thought that, &quot;Mommy, it's going so fast, (Laughter) And then we can tell daddy And I thought, &quot;Wow!&quot; And as I thought that, bang! &quot;Don't do that! Don't do that again! That's stupid. Think properly!&quot; And there was a little and the day-dream was crushed out. So around the planet, we have crushed, we have shackled, we have restrained, we have trained inappropriately And you are all poets. You are all therefore artists. You are all scientists. You are all child-like. You are therefore going because that's what You are warriors of the mind And one of the perfect examples of that is the poet laureate Ted Hughes, His whole focus was to take that their imagination, that their day-dreaming And that's how they would grow. That's how they would And they were all by definition poetic. So let me end, waving my wand. This is far more powerful This is the colors for the brain - that will inform Ted Hughes loved He thought of children ... as eggs that needed to be looked after and incubated so that they could then fly. So, I wrote for him and for you a poem about his spirit, his vast spirit of a grown working poet who said - and I confirm, &quot; Every brain is phenomenally powerful, can therefore make can work for the better future &quot;So Ted was like brooding vastly, gigantically, over the fragile eggshells of the minds, the brains of the children. Let them fly!&quot; That is a gift from Ted, through me, for you, the warriors This is a gift for you, from ... TED. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)