Today, I'm going to Microsoft Planner to track the tasks and projects of your team. This way you all know If you want to keep track of your own personal tasks and projects you can also create If you have no idea what Planner is here's a quick overview. Planner is a visual tool. It's customizable and super easy to use. It's very similar to Trello or monday.com in case you're familiar with them. You can assign tasks in Inside these mini cards you can include lots of about this task. You can move these cards track progress, deadlines, filter data, and best of all, it's fully integrated with other Microsoft apps like Teams. I'll show you how you can with Planner towards the end of the video. Don't miss that if you're using Teams. It's going to give you Now for our team projects, We switched to Planner sometime ago because we're using all and we're really happy with it because everything is so well integrated. Let me show you now how Planner works and how you can integrate it. (upbeat music) You can access Planner from Office.com or directly from your Now I'll go to Office.com first and later show you the view from Teams and how you can integrate it there. So just go to Office.com and login with your 365 account. Once you've logged in, in the top left corner. If you don't find it under apps, just click on all apps here and scroll down till you see it. This is going to take which shows you to plans or the plans you've been If it's the first time it's going to be empty. So let's create a new plan. Now, what is the plan? We'll think of a plan as a project or something you need to do that involves multiple smaller tasks. So here you can give your plan a name. Let's say you're responsible which is about making improvements to your current finance system. Let's call it Finance System Update. Now here's something important. If you want to share your or a team in Microsoft Teams then select Add to existing 365 group. This is good practice because then everyone in has access to this project. You can then search for Now you're only going to see Now, let me just go back to Instead of adding an existing 365 group you can create a public plan. This means everyone in and make changes to the plan once you share the link them. After you shared the link they can see the plan Your other option is to Now, this is good if for yourself or for specific people and there is no 365 group In our example, though, I'm going to go to this 365 group and select the finance This way, everyone in the finance team is going to have access to it. And because it's a collaborative tool everyone can create and we have in the plan. So let's create the plan. Once we get to this view inside board you have the ability to What are buckets? Buckets organize groups of similar tasks. The way you organize your buckets depends on you and your project. In our project here which is about making improvements I can add a bucket for ideas. Now underneath this I can collect each idea Let's add the buckets first Another bucket can contain approved ideas. Let's also add a design bucket then a testing one, then implementation. It's really up to you and how you like to organize So notice in this case it's different phases but you can have buckets or different chapters of a When I create a plan for my online courses I have a bucket for each section, it's fully flexible Now, here's a good time to also talk about what Microsoft Planner It's not a tool for large where you need to manage And it's also not suited when into phases and have If that's what you need, But if you're looking for a collaborative and easy to use task management software then Planner will work for you. You can also have multiple because your group might be Now that we set up the different buckets let's take a look at tasks. To add a new task so let's say I want to just click on Add task. This creates a new card. Enter the task name. In this case it's the name of my idea. Let's say, one idea is to copy data from one account to another. Let's add that with the account codes. I can assign a person to this task. If you have a lot of names, So I'm currently logged I'm the owner of this task. I'm going to go ahead to be responsible for this task. You can also assign multiple people or leave this completely In this case, I'll just leave one person. You have the ability to set a due date but you can also always So let's just go with add task now. I can see the title of my task here and I can add a lot more detail to it by clicking on this task. I can add a label, this way I can color code similar tasks. This has both visual benefits which I'll show you in a second. So let's say for copying accounts we want to use pink, and I'll rename this to copy account. This is the current bucket it's in the ideas bucket. Under progress you can specify whether this task is not started, in progress or completed. Let's set this to in progress. You get to assign a priority to this task, the date you need to start working on it and a due date. You can also add some notes to your task and include some links if you need to. When you go out of this view, A really good feature down You can add multiple So for our task here, let's For example, we need to We need to test concept on And finally, let's just press Enter to add another item. We need to present to steering committee. We can cross off tasks we've already done by placing a check mark beside it and get to see our progress here. When this box is checked, it's going to show the list of Let me show you. Let's close this. Everything is automatically saved. Under Board view we We don't see the item only the remaining items. This shows us how many we completed. We can cross them off directly Now you can also show other if you want. Of course, this is going to cost So if you have a lot of cards you might not want to show anything. Another great feature is the You can attach files So anything you upload will be stored in the SharePoint library. This way it's going to working on the plan. You can add links here as And if the file is already you can select it directly from here. And finally, you can also add comments. Click Send once you're Now this is going to do two things. For one, it's going to show to give the team a heads up that there is something new to read. And because it's fully integrated in 365, the comment will go right to So if you open your Outlook you will see this email in So that's how a task is created. You can update the whenever you need. If you want to use you can use the Tab key to move to the next item or When you get to add task, just press Enter and type in your title. Press Enter again, to add the task. Another thing you can do if you'd like to copy the the checklist of an existing task is to copy a task instead of Go to more options, select Copy task, update the name, select the plan name. In this case it's my current plan but I can also copy it Select the bucket name and the properties you'd like to copy. I'll copy dates as well. Then select Copy. This is a standalone card now. You can go in and update I'll assign a new person to this. This time let's go with XelPlus, the user I'm logged in with. By the way every time you you're going to get an email notification about this in your inbox. Oh, and let me show you one more thing. It's about attachments and on these directly on SharePoint. Let's change the name of the first bucket to project info. Here I'd like to add the I'll add a task, go in the card and add an attachments. This document is already on SharePoint. So all I have to do is just select it. I'll show it on the card. Now, check this out. When I click on it it opens up the document Any changes I make will be Let's close this tab and go back. Now I also want to add an Excel file which has the project timeline. This one is on my desktop so let's browse for it and add it in. So the moment I add it here this file is loaded to SharePoint and any changes we make to this file is going to be reflected Let me show it to you by from any card and you can see Okay, that's how tasks But how do you make use of these buckets? Let's say for this task he's completed everything from his side. Let's just go in from his account and add a comment that Not either him or any of us in the team can move the card to the next bucket. So remember, in this phases of the project. All we have to do is drag the card over into the approval bucket. This way the team knows the Now the card can be any new needs we might have So let's say the XelPlus is the project manager. I'm going to go back Go to the card and assign another team member called Admin that needs to work on this. This way they will get a Now, when Admin goes in they can see the checklist was completed. They can add their own and also view the history of comments or any attachments that Once they're done from their side, they can drag this or any of us on the team can Then the next one, and Once the task is done, you And once you close the card you'll see it archived under completed. You can bring it back if you need to by setting it back to in progress. Now let's check out the This is the standard Board view and I have Group by Bucket. You can change the and select another view. For example, show tasks You can also organize by due With the filter dropdown, and only show tasks that are due within a certain timeframe, Progress. You can restrict it to a specific person or show unassigned tasks. If you click it again, Let's go to label and And my results will be Click it again to remove to remove all filters. If you want a more visual you can select the charts view. Here you quickly see how many tasks are running late in the status chart, or in the bucket chart of the tasks by bucket. And with the priority chart you can see how many tasks Down here, you get an overview by member to see if the workload is balanced. When you select Schedule up here you get a calendar type From this view, you can adjust You get back to task view. If you update the duration of a task it's going to automatically You can also create new by clicking on the plus here, type in the name select a bucket and adjust On this side you get to see or tasks that are not So let's go back to Board view, in case you ever need to delete a task you can go to more Another great feature is the ability to export Click on more options, Let's open it. We get the task information including our checklist Remember, you can also How do you keep track of all the tasks that are assigned to you? There is an option for that. To see all tasks assigned to You get to view all your You can see the plan name on the card. Now I kept the best for last. If you use Microsoft Teams you can easily add Just log into Teams, go to the channel where you Select the plus, look for Planner. It's called Tasks by Planner and To Do. We have the option to create a new plan or use an existing plan. In this case, we already have our plan. Let's select it from the dropdown. click on Save and the plan is added to our channel tab in Teams. You can of course rename this if you want, just right mouse click rename, The great thing about this is that from Teams you can access Planner and all the files inside Planner. You don't have to go from You have everything in one place. So that's the essentials As you can see, it's pretty or just your own work. The card-based interface and scheduling activities and keeping everyone informed And you can also use the So you can keep up with That's all for today. Don't forget to subscribe so you can find these types of tutorials directly in your subscription feed. Thank you for watching and I'll see you in the next video. (upbeat music)