In 1986, Nintendo released Metroid on the It was nothing like the company's other full of chirpy music. It was dark, and atmospheric. Bounty hunter Samus Aran felt truly lost and dank, alien corridors. And it was fascinating. But it was flawed. It was way too easy to get lost, the world hidden behind brick walls. It was the start of something cool, but it The sequel, 1991's Metroid II: Return of It was still dark and scary - and it had a impactful ending for such a formative game. But the monochrome screen made it even harder that the game is much more linear than the We'd have to wait a few more years for the And then we got it. In 1994, Nintendo released Super Metroid, Finally, the idea behind Metroid was given The game, once again, dropped Samus into a as Metroid 1 - but this time, you could actually every wall, or buying an issue of Nintendo The structure of the game is much the same: a mental note of obstacles. Then finding items. And then backtracking to those obstacles to But this time, things are different. The world is much bigger. The power-ups are more interesting. The bosses are more varied. And the designers take a much more active with far more subtlety than Metroid 1's How did they do it? Well, really, the only way to properly describe it, step by step. Which is exactly what I'm going to do in Let's touch down on planet Zebes, once again, Season Two. Just like Metroid 1, this game wordlessly In the very first corridor of Zebes, we walk Pink doors that bounce away our bullets, and Eventually, we'll find the entrance to Old starting areas of Metroid 1. And here, we'll grab the Morph Ball and With no where to go, we can only go back to But now, these areas are teeming with space the right way to go. So in the first few screens, Super Metroid point but many of those routes will be inaccessible And oftentimes, the path forward will actually So, we use those missiles to grab the bombs Heh, a good reminder that you can't rely Now, with the Torizo dead, it's time to And if you don't know where to use them, map - oh yeah, Super Metroid finally adds And map terminals. You'll find map terminals in the game's Norfair, Maridia, and the Wrecked Ship - which Handy, when it shows you rooms that are hidden That makes finding map rooms almost as useful of how Super Metroid is way more player friendly quite so aggressively hand-holding as Zero The newly updated map screen shows a room use your bombs and keep going. Here, we'll find the last point of interest At the far end of an ominous tunnel is a great - one of which we faced in the game's prologue. I'm sure we'll be coming back to that, For now though, let's hop onto the elevator So. Let's take a break to map out the structure And to do this, we can use a dependency chart the first season of Boss Keys. On this chart, diamonds represent upgrades the obstacles that she can overcome with those For this chart, I'm also using triangles tanks and the map room. Not every single pick-up, mind you: just the or are found behind obvious locked doors and So these upgrades, locks, and pick-ups cascade all the places we can visit right now. And the locks go below the upgrades. I've also put on some locks we can see, in Crateria, that will need the space jump. And a green door, which requires Super Missiles. I'm going to use dotted lines, until we So here's what the graph looks like at the So far, pretty simple. Let's move on. When we get into Brinstar, we'll find a A room that we're too slow to travel through. Some weird symbols on the ceiling. A yellow door, which won't budge. A green one, much the same. And blocks that don't blow up when bombed that we'll need to attain if we want to There's lots to explore here - but it's A stark message that we're not strong enough back here later. We can do two things, however. We can fight the first mini-boss in the game, And we can get the Charge Beam. That's hidden down here. Well, I say hidden: the game has two very hint of a ceiling. Throughout Super Metroid, hidden areas like of hints. There's hardly any random bombing, like The charge beam is also one of many items in Super Metroid that are completely optional: and plasma beam, handy upgrades like the spring makes it even easier to spot hidden walls Their existence is great though, as they can linear. And they feel like genuine secrets that other Let's update our graph again. So we've got lots of dead ends, and only For now, Super Metroid is staying quite simple. After you open that green door with a well-placed You'll shoot this blue button to open this What you may not have realised, though, is impossible to hit the blue button with your You've just completely cut off access to This is for two very important reasons. One is that the next room requires you to the run. And Nintendo doesn't want you to think you through this room and have you wander back, No, you're stuck here until you figure it Read the manual, maybe. The other important reason? Well, soon after this room, the same thing You'll fall down this shaft and you can't Again, there's no access to the world behind All that stuff in Brinstar, with the yellow You can't get there anymore. And in this way, I think Super Metroid tries Remember that gripe from Metroid 1, where finding the way forward is dizzying? Not so much here. Because the world closes off behind you, you at once. Right. We're in Lower Brinstar now. And, first, you might notice that the map room, just to the right of this elevator. Unfortunately, once you're inside, you'll But look at that spooky face. That's definitely worth checking out, when This is a classic example of using a really in your brain and help you remember to come The same thing happens with Ridley's lair, And definitely with the entrance to Tourian. For now, though, the only other place you can go is down, into Norfair. Here, you'll find more dead ends - like and a room too hot to be in. And you'll also find another power-up: the Oh hey, now you can go back up here, kill Varia Suit. Yes, that's just how I pronounce it now. Oh hey, now you can go back to that superheated Oh hey, now you can get through that first By bouncing you back and forth between Norfair you to know that your goal isn't always in the game. Sometimes you'll have to backtrack a fair next step forward. It's graph time, again! So here's Lower Brinstar and Norfair. You might remember that there are some obstacles with our new items, like the speed booster, high shaft, and behind a one-way door. We just can't get to them, meaning that Once again, Super Metroid is reasonably straightforward world size. But here's the thing: Super Metroid is a it wants to. And let it free, when it wants to. And at the beginning, the game holds a pretty you stuck in a very small location, and uses a handful of rooms at once. And with each power-up you get, there's use it. After you get the Varia Suit, there's only After you get the speed booster, there's After you get the bombs and super missiles, can now overcome. And so on. If Super Metroid kept up like this, I think But that's not the case. Because, now, this is the moment that Super So you've just got the ice beam. And almost every time you get a power-up in use that power-up to get back out, giving But, also, that room will give you hints about Like, after getting the ice beam you'll And where else have you seen these enemies? Oh yeah, right here on that shaft you fell So now, you can get back up, use your hi-jump And it's here that Nintendo lets go of your if you follow the path forward, you'll head that - hey, you're back at the start of You just did a full circle of Zebes. But things are very different now. The spooky, ambient music... has been replaced Samus is now kitted out in her iconic orange And the path forward is... uh, well, I don't Because at this point, you can now explore old areas that were previously locked off And there's a massive number of obstacles By my count, there are about seven places your speed booster, and one place you can And none of them are calling out to you as So after a very straightforward and somewhat says it's now time to explore for yourself. Sometimes you'll find handy upgrade. Like, remember this speed booster room in You can now go in there and get a reserve Sometimes you'll find dead ends, like a without the grapple beam. Sometimes you'll find some weird animals And eventually, you'll find the path forward I really like this. Remember that end game item hunt from Zero It was fun, but kind of awkward: you basically the game and take a huge detour to do a victory but in Super Metroid it's slap bang in the You don't know where to go, so you just The game takes a break from linearity, to And then there's that sensation of simply That's a really potent feeling that some discovering some massive new area filled with It's a feeling we've seen in previous that we'll definitely come back to in a Oh, and during this exploration of Zebes you of the statues has turned grey - reminding bosses - well, three now - and then come back The next step is to kill Crocomire, who has and get the grappling hook. This is a really fun item to use. And the game has a really nice loop in the asking you to just boringly backtrack to the of rooms that bend back on themselves and From here, Super Metroid again asks you to There are about seven spots where you can all over Zebes. Some lead you to new power-ups like the wave Others lead you to upgrades like missiles And one leads you to the wrecked ship, where Here, you'll face the second boss of the And after this, Super Metroid starts getting obtuse brick walls from Metroid 1. Like, to get to the gravity suit, you need To get through maridia, you need to get into And to get into Maridia proper, you need to To be fair, all of these things are telegraphed. Before getting the gravity suit you can see some way of getting in there. You can see enemies coming out of this hole, And the smashed tube here should give you But in all of these cases - as well as some it can be a huge issue if the player thinks elsewhere. This is when players can start getting lost Anyway. The underwater world of Maridia is a bit of After exploring all of zebes with the power stick to this one zone until you've finished Lke Zelda: A Link to the Past and Dark Souls, some bits that have you making quick forward exploring in a more open fashion. And that's what happens now. After getting the space jump. there's a bunch of places where you can and plasma beam in Maridia. Or getting some goodies in Crateria. But the place you actually need to use it The entrance to Ridley's Lair is a bit weird, So for one, it's got three locks in a row. You need a power bomb to get in. Then the gravity suit to withstand the lava. And then the space jump to get up to Ridley. If you come all the way back here after getting Twice. Also, this imposing head would be a very distinct found it while exploring Norfair. But because it's behind an unremarkable to file this in your brain under "very important But back to the adventure. So you explore Lower Norfair, find some more walls now, can we? okay - get the final power-up, the screw attack, With the fourth boss of the game finished to return to that ominous room in Crateria, This is almost identical to Metroid 1, only And the rest of the game is pretty familiar, and missiles. We fight Mother Brain in a jar. We - oh my. That's a bit different. We have an escape sequence. Don't forget to save the animals! And we escape an exploding planet Zebes in The end. Mission complete. Job done. Genre... defined. So let's look at that dependency graph again. If we put in a red line for where the game we can see a pretty sizeable shift. Suddenly, the game gets very wide, as there and we can backtrack to every point in Zebes. And I think splitting Super Metroid into two We get almost a tutorial at the start. And then - once the game is satisfied that and we're asked to fend for ourselves. But I do think the game struggles a little Super Metroid's Zebes is actually quite and a somewhat confusing layout, making it Plus, Norfair only has one entrance - this need to repeatedly return there. That makes getting around more difficult than Oh! And until you find the wave beam, which lets other side, the world has some annoying one-way In its favour, though, is that each elevator zones: effectively a hub and spoke system, And also, almost every single room in this making it easier to remember their layout from Metroid 1. Another way the game struggles is that the You can't see doorways between rooms, so There are no icons for coloured doors. Secrets have the same icon whether you've And, you can't see the map for an area that All of this would thankfully be fixed up in Also, I think it's a shame that Super Metroid the game. I feel like this would be a great time to three bosses in any order you like: but the Draygon, and Draygon before Ridley. This is not the end of the world - despite think linearity is necessarily a bad thing. But maybe a missed opportunity. And it would help players who got lost if the map, and make progress there instead. Then again, you can break this sequence. You can fight bosses in a different order, skip some upgrades entirely. How? Well, when you're exploring the world in guys - a bunch of animals who will teach Samus One lets you bounce off walls. The other lets you build up speed with the into a massive jump. And this is really interesting because they're morph ball. These are just advanced manoeuvres that samus know about them. So next time you play the game you can use the hi jump boots. Or to get over here without the grappling Unfortunately, you can't break the game and speedrunning techniques that aren't jumping. But it's still something to make the game This is something Metroid does well, but many If the goal of a Metroidvania designer is explore on their own, but also not letting Metroid does a pretty stellar job. The game eases you in with a simple structure loose when you're more familiar with how It uses strong visual landmarks to help you plenty of tiny techniques to subtly guide And it also nails one of the most exciting making the path forward obvious, you get the new area. You can really see why this game has been But while it's been copied by a million and held up as one of the best games ever And the Metroid franchise was essentially We'd have to wait eight years for the series Luckily for us, though, something quite similar That's right! Next time on Boss Keys, we're putting the &quot;vania&quot; back and exploring the world design of Castlevania: