The following under a Creative Your support will help MIT to offer high quality To make a donation or to from hundreds of MIT courses, ocw.mit.edu. PROFESSOR: Anything lingering No? Nothing? All right. OK, so the story so far is The first is that the is given by, or described Yeah? So in particular, just to if we were in 3D, for We're currently in tripped out tricycles. In 3D, the wave function of all three If we had two particles, would be a function of the x1, x2, and so on. So we'll go through lots of But for the most to be sticking with dimension for the Now again, I want to emphasize through our definition Once we use the language and we're going to develop a more of rules or definition But this is our first pass. Two, the meaning of is that the norm squared psi of dx is the probability of an n in their. Finding the particle-- in the So psi squared is the probability density. OK? And third, the If there are two the system can be in, means two different could describe the system wave functions two different configurations For example, the particles here It's also possible to find of those two psi is linear combination alpha OK? So some things to note-- before we move on? No questions? Nothing? Really? You're going to make he I know there are questions. This is not trivial stuff. OK. So some things to note. The first is we We will generally that the integral over of the probability density is equal to 1. This is just saying that the the particle somewhere This is like saying if in one of two put a particle in I just don't remember which one. Then the probability that plus probability that must be 100% or one. If it's less, then the particle And basic rule, things So probability And this is our prescription. So a second thing to note is stupid, functions reasonable as wave functions. OK? So this is a very It's nice and smooth. It converges to 0 infinity. It's got all the nice This is also a It's a little annoying, And they're both perfectly This on the other So for two reasons. First off, it's discontinuous. And as you're going to discontinuities are very So we need our wave The second is over some There are two different That's also bad, because It's the norm squared, two values for the probability, What's the probability to fall over in 10 seconds? Well, it's small, but it's not It's one of those. Hopefully is much So all reasonable reasonable as wave functions. And in particular, what corresponding to are equally reasonable There's no primacy in wave However, with that said, are more equal than others. OK? And this is important, with a good going to be an important in the next couple of lectures. So in particular, has a nice simple If I tell you this what can you tell me about the the psi of x? What can you tell me about it? What do you know? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. PROFESSOR: It's here, right? It's not over here. Probability is basically 0. Probability is large. It's pretty much here with What about this guy? Less informative, right? It's less obvious what this So some wave functions are that they have-- i.e. they have simple So for example, continuing on infinitely, this where the particle is, AUDIENCE: Momentum. PROFESSOR: The So this is giving me of the particle because it So this one, I would also say They're both perfectly has a simple interpretation. And that's going to Related to that is that any can be expressed as a equal wave functions, interpretable wave functions. We saw this last time The Fourier theorem said look, any function, but I'm in the language of Take any wave function which function, and it as a superposition 1 over 2pi in our normalization but this is a set e to the ikx. So what are we doing here? We're saying pick a value of k. There's a number which is going to be an And that's the of a plane wave, e to the ikx. Now remember that equal to cos kx plus i sin kx. Which you should all know, This is a periodic function. These are periodic functions. So this is a plane wave 2pi upon k. So this is a more equal that it has a We know what its momentum is. Its momentum is h bar k. Any function, we're saying, can by summing over all all possible Any function can be expressed functions with a That make sense? Fourier didn't think but from quantum the way we want It's just a true statement. It's a mathematical fact. Questions about that? Similarly, I claim that I can psi of x, as a not with definite with definite position. So what's a state with AUDIENCE: Delta. PROFESSOR: A delta So I claim that any can be expanded a with a definite position. So delta of-- well, what's a x0. Delta of x minus x0. OK? This goes bing when But I want a sum over all That means all That means all possible And I need some Well, the coefficient function So is this true? Is it true that I and expand it in a superposition Absolutely. Because look at what Remember, delta It's a map from integrals So this integral, is Here we have a So this basically says is what you get by and replacing x by x0. Set x equals x0, that's So this is equal to the argument That's your psi of x. OK? Any arbitrarily ugly function as a superposition of states or a superposition of states OK? And this is going to be true. We're going to find this that any state can be expressed with a well defined for any observable So let me give you just a In 2D, this is a perfectly Now here's a question Is that a superposition? Yeah. I mean every vector as the sum of other And it can be done in an So there's no such which is not a superposition. Every vector is a It's a sum of other vector. So in particular we often and say look, I know what y hat is a unit vector I know what I mean It's a unit vector And now I can ask, given that the guys I want to attend of x and y? Or is it just x or y? Well, that's a superposition. Whereas x hat itself is not. So this somehow is about finding But any given vector as a superposition of or a different pair There's nothing hallowed There's no God given We look out in the universe and you don't see somewhere an arrow going x, right? So there's no natural but it's sometimes This is the direction of This is the direction So sometimes have particular meanings to us. That's true in vectors. This is along the earth. This is perpendicular to it. This would be slightly strange. Maybe if you're leaning. And similarly, this of a function as a of other functions. And you could have done this We'll talk about that more. These are particularly They're more equal. These are ones with different different definite Everyone cool? Quickly what's the momentum to the ikx? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. PROFESSOR: h bar k. Good. So now I want to some concept questions for you. So whip out your clickers. OK, we'll do this verbally. All right, let's try this again. So how would you interpret AUDIENCE: e. PROFESSOR: Solid. How do you know is big or small by looking AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. PROFESSOR: All right. Two particles described by to the ikx. Particle one is a smaller Which particle has Think about it, but And this sort of defeats the because now I'm supposed to be saying anything. So instead of here's what I'd like you to do. Talk to the person which one has the larger AUDIENCE: [CHATTER]. All right. Cool, so which one has AUDIENCE: A. PROFESSOR: How come? [INTERPOSING VOICES] PROFESSOR: RIght, P equals h bar k. k equals 2pi over lambda. Solid? Smaller wavelength, If it has higher intuitively expect to It's probably higher. Are you positive about that? No, you need to know how the but it's probably higher. So this is an that you probably all from core mechanics. Shorter wavelength Higher momentum for sure. Usually higher energy as well. Very useful rule of Indeed, it's particle one. OK next one. Compared to the wave function transform, psi tilde of x or less, or the Don't say it out loud. OK, so how many people Awesome. And how many people OK, good. So talk to the person next to All right. So let's vote. A, more information. B, less information. C, same. OK, good you got it. So these are not hard ones. This function, which is 0 outside of that region. Which is closer to true? f has a single well defined It's closer to true. This doesn't have to be exact. f has a single well Or f is made up of a wide Think it to yourself. Ponder that one for a minute. OK, now before we Hold on, hold on, hold on. Since we don't have want to pull off and we can do this, I want everyone close your eyes. Just close your eyes, Yeah. Or close the eyes of That's fine. And now and I want you to vote. A is f has a single B is f has a wide So how many people think OK. Lower your hands, good. And how many people think B, Awesome. So this is exactly what happens It's 50/50. So now you guys need to talk and convince each AUDIENCE: [CHATTER]. All right, so the volume sort of come to resolution. Close your eyes again. Once more into the So close your eyes, and f of x has a single, And now f of x is made up OK. There's a dramatic it has a wide range a single wavelength. And that is, in fact, OK, so learning happens. That was an empirical test. So does anyone want that f is made of a wide Sure, bring it. AUDIENCE: So, the sine and it cancels out and positive l over need to add a bunch to actually cancel it out there. PROFESSOR: Awesome, exactly. Exactly. If you only had the thing it would continue with a single In fact, there's a When you have a sine wave, what know that a sine and it's continuous It's also differentiable Its derivative is continuous because it's a cosine, right? So if yo you take a and cosines, do you ever No. Do you ever get something whose No. So how would you ever with a discontinuity Well, you'd need some infinite where there's some technicality singular, because a finite number of That function is continuous, is discontinuous. Yeah? So it's going to take an and cosines to reproduce Yeah? AUDIENCE: So a finite doesn't mean finding-- or and cosines doesn't mean and cosines, right? Because over a finite PROFESSOR: That's true, but let's talk about that. That's an excellent question. That's a very good question. The question here two different things you One is arbitrarily large and so an arbitrary And the other is But an infinite number a continuous variable here k. You got an infinite between one and 1.2, right? It's continuous. So which one do you mean? So let's go back that we got a minute and high momentum. That thing looks like it has But I claim, in that as a superposition of I need arbitrarily And why do I need arbitrarily Why do we need to arbitrarily Well, it's because of this. We have a kink. And this feature, what's the It's infinitesimally means I'm going to have to-- in order to probe a momentum that's So it's really about the But you need arbitrarily To construct or detect an you need arbitrarily Yeah? AUDIENCE: Why do Why don't you just an arbitrary small wavelength? Why wouldn't you just PROFESSOR: I chose because I want an emphasize you to think and short distance and I want the connection between to be something that So when I talk about I'm going to talk about it as And that's because in a something with something that carries That cool? Great. Good question. AUDIENCE: So earlier you function, a possible does that mean to be Fourier transformable? PROFESSOR: That's Yeah, exactly. We don't quite And in fact, there's a that will walk you What should be transform in order for this And among other things-- here is exactly right-- being able to have a Fourier arbitrarily high going to be an That's going to turn to be being continuous. That's a very good question. So that's the optional Other questions? PROFESSOR: Cool, so that's Sorry for the technology fail. So I'm just going to That's really irritating. So today what I want on the discussion of the that we sort of The fact that when we have a well defined position to a particle with reasonably it didn't have a reasonably versa. The certainty of to imply lack of knowledge about So in order to do that, we So I need to define for So first I just want should be totally but it's always useful how these basic things work. So consider a set and I want to plot the number as a function of the So let's say we have 16 and at 15 we have 1, And that's 16. And at 20 we have 2. And at 21 we have 4. And at 22 we have 5. And that's it. OK. So 1, 1, 3, 2, 4, 5. OK, so what's the person in this group of I'll call it a. So how do we compute that they have age a? Well this is easy. It's the number that have So note an important thing, which is that the sum of the probability that you because it's just going to with a particular age over the the sum of the number So here's some questions. So what's the most likely age? If you grabbed one from the room with and pull out a person, and ask them what the most likely they'll have? AUDIENCE: 22. PROFESSOR: 22. On the other hand, Well, just by eyeball roughly So around 19 or 20. It turns out to OK. But if everyone had a little that says I'm 14, 15, 16, 20, the age 19.2? None, right? So a useful thing is be an observable value. This is going to come Oops, 19.4. That's what I got. So in particular how I'm going to define This notation is for the rest of The average age, So we all know this, but let It's the sum over of the number of with that age times by the total number of people. OK? So in this case, I'd go 14,14, 21 21, 22, 22, 22, 22, 22. And so that's all But notice that I can This is equal to the sum of a times the ratio of Na to N That's just the probability has a probability a. a times probability of a. So the expected value is the of the value times the Yeah? This is the same equation, It's a very useful relation. And so, again, does the No, it certainly doesn't. And it usually isn't. So let's ask the same thing What is the average Square the ages. You might say, well, why But let's just be So following the the average of a squared, of the square of the going to do exactly It's just a squared, right? 14 squared, 15 squared, 16 So this is going to give me So over a of a squared And more generally, the expected of some function of is something you is equal to the sum over a of a particular value of a, measure that value of It's exactly the same Right, cool. So here's a quick question. Is a squared equal to the AUDIENCE: No. PROFESSOR: Right, in So for example, suppose we have a Gaussian So here's a. Now a isn't age, but it's You include infants or whatever. It's not age. Its happiness on a given day. So what's the average value? Meh. Right? Sort of vaguely neutral, right? But on the other hand, very few people have Most people have a And most people are Most people are sort of So in this case, of a, or the average The average value of a Yeah? And that's because the squared So how do we characterize-- a useful tool for characterizing So here we have a distribution but its width is non-zero. And then the expectation the expected value of So how do we define the This is going to be How happy are you today? Well, I'm not sure. How unsure are you? Well, that should give So let me define three things. First the deviation. So the deviation is going to be So this is just take and subtract off the So we always get something I'm going to write it like this. Note, by the way, just a The average value of a Well, what's the AUDIENCE: 7. PROFESSOR: OK, good. So that first term is And that second term of this number, which is So this is 0. Yeah? The average value The average value is the average value of So deviation is not a terribly because on average the That's what it means to So the derivation is any particular And if you average they always give you 0. So this is not a of the actual width But we can get a nice measure by And let's take the mean So the mean of the derivation the average value of a squared. This is what I'm going to Which is a little odd, want to call it the But whatever. We use funny words. So now what does it mean if It means it's centered mean if the standard So if the standard one then the distribution Because if there was from the average would give a non-zero to this average expectation, So standard deviation as there's no width, which is a good useful measure And just as a note, taking the square, so standard this is equal to the minus twice a times the average of a quantity squared. But if you do this to be equal to a squared of a average value of a. That's just minus of a quantity squared. And then plus average So this is an alternate way of OK? So we can either write it in And the notation for OK? So when I talk about I mean is, given I compute the And the uncertainty the square root of the OK? So delta a, the words is the uncertainty in a given Different probability me different delta a's. So one thing that's is that when you nothing in the notation distribution you When you have multiple or multiple possible probability useful to just put given p of a. This is not very often used, when you're doing calculations Everyone cool with that? Yeah, questions? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: Yeah, exactly. Of delta a squared. Yeah. Other questions? Yeah? AUDIENCE: So really it should PROFESSOR: Yeah, it's just used typically, so I didn't precisely to alert you to the So any other questions? Good. OK, so let's just do the same Now for continuous variables. I'm just going to and just get them So the average value of distribution on x where x is going to be equal Let's just say x is to infinity, which is pretty dx probability I shouldn't use curvy. I should just use x. And similarly for generally, for f of x, of x, or the expected value of distribution, is going to minus infinity to infinity. The probability distribution In direct analogy to So this is all just mathematics. And we define the is equal to the expectation minus the expected value And this is delta x squared. If you see me dropping an please, please, please tell me. So thank you for that. All of that is just straight up And I just want to write this mechanics. Given that the described by the wave function the expected value of x, the observe the particle is equal to the integral over The probability distribution, And similarly, for the expected value is going to The probability distribution, squared of the wave function to infinity. And same definition And again, this notation because the expected value of distribution. In a physical system, depends on what the is, what the wave function doesn't indicate that. So there are a couple of ways One of which is-- so this is, One way to improve is to write the expected so you write psi as a subscript. Another notation that see why this is a in the semester-- is And we will give meaning but I just want to used throughout books, and as what we're talking about given a particular state psi. OK? Yeah? AUDIENCE: To calculate the do you need to transform the-- PROFESSOR: Excellent question. Excellent, excellent question. OK, so the question do the same thing for momentum? If you want to compute the what do you have to do? Do you have to do some Fourier So this is a going to answer and that we made a But quickly, let's it's going to be Formally, if we want to know the the likely value the momentum, Just like any other we can write as the integral of momentum from, be minus infinity to infinity. The probability of having that Everyone cool with that? This is a tautology, right? This is what you But we need to know if we have described by state we can get the probability Do I want to do this now? Yeah, OK I do. And we need a guess. Question mark. We made a guess at the that, in quantum be dp minus infinity to infinity Psi tilde of p up Psi tilde of p, the Fourier OK, so we're guessing that the is equal to the probability momentum. So that's a guess. That's a guess. And so on your problem set OK? So exactly the same It's a very good Other questions? Yeah? AUDIENCE: Is that p Or is that the probability? PROFESSOR: So this of measuring momentum p. And that's the value p. We're summing over all p's. This is the probability, So the Fourier of the momentum in the same is a function of So this is a function It's norm squared And then the p on because we're computing or the average value of p. That make sense? Cool. Yeah? AUDIENCE: Are we then if we're doing all p's? Because we have the dp times PROFESSOR: No. So that's a very good question. So let's go back. Very good question. Let me phrase it in because the same Thank you for asking that. Look at this. This is weird. I'm going to phrase this as a Tell me if this is the same This is a thing with Length, right? But over on the have a length and a probability, another length. That looks like So why are we getting something not something with And the answer is this It is a probability density. So it's got units of So this has dimensions So this quantity, the probability, which is a The probability to find the plus dx. Cool? So that was our Psi of x dx squared of finding it in this domain. And so what we're doing is we're the probability times the value. Cool? So this is the difference where we didn't have these we just had numbers, pure Now we have probability Yeah? AUDIENCE: How do you that you wrote? PROFESSOR: How do you pronounce? Good, that's a good question. The question is, how do So this is called of x, or the average value of mechanics, the So you can call it This is the same thing. The psi is just to denote And it can be You can either say of x, or the expectation And this would be The expectation value of x in Yeah. That's a very good question. But they mean the same thing. Now, I should emphasize that you something that mean but they carry different Like have a friend He's a mensch. He's a good guy. And so I could see I could say he's mean different things It's the same idea, but they So whatever your you've got some analog of this. This means something in language for talking And this has a different flavor. It carries different and we'll see what We haven't got there yet. Yeah? AUDIENCE: Why is there a PROFESSOR: Why is there Yeah, we'll see later. Roughly speaking, it's because value, there's a psi squared. And so this is to Other questions? Terminology is one of the of quantum mechanics. Yeah? AUDIENCE: So it seems like is a really convenient How is it the works exactly as it does for PROFESSOR: That's a In order to answer we need to actually work out relation. So the question is, look, this You could have chosen some We could have considered value of x to the fourth and taken the So why this one? And one answer is, indeed, works out quite nicely. But then I think here is that there are many ways This is a convenient discover that it has nice There is no God given reason why I can say more, but I don't so ask in office hours. OK, good. The second part of why does the Heisenberg nicely in terms of will study that in We'll see that. So we're going to derive it The later version is better. So let me work Or actually, I'm going in the interest of time. They're in the be posted on the web page. By the way, the first 18 I had a busy night last night. So let's come back to values for momentum. So I want to go a silly-- I want to make some this relation. So I want to start over on value of momentum. And I'd like to do it directly So how would we do this? So one way of saying this is Well, I can phrase this function the following way. I'm going to sum over Expectation value of x to infinity. And then the momentum So it's tempting to write to think maybe This is a tempting Can we? Are we ever in a position that a particle-- is both hard and white? AUDIENCE: No. PROFESSOR: No, is a superposition of being Are we ever in a position a definite position a definite momentum p. It's not that we don't get too. It's that it doesn't In general, being in means being in a different values for momentum. And if you want a sharp look at these relations. They claim that any as a superposition of states Well, among other things a x0, can be written over 2pi integral dk. I'll call this delta tilde of k. e to the ikx. If you haven't played with and you haven't seen this, set, because we works through a But in particular, it's this quantity can't be because, if it were, this And that's definitely Meanwhile, what can you say of a delta function. Is it continuous? No. Its derivative isn't continuous. Its second derivative. None of its derivatives They're all absolutely So how many momentum to need to superimpose in order has this sort of structure? An infinite number. And it turns out an infinite number with the different phase, OK? So you can never say with definite position Being in a state with means being in a superposition In fact, I'm just going e to the ikx0. Being in a state with means being in a with arbitrary momentum You cannot be in a state definite momentum. So this doesn't work. So what we want is we So this does not work. We want some good given that we're working is a function of x. What is that good We have a couple of hints. So hint the first. So this is what we're after. Hint the first is know that given a wave with wave over lambda, is associated, and according to to a particle-- so a wave, with wave number k or particle with momentum Yeah? But in particular, what is a or wave number k look like? That's e to the iks. And if I have a e to the iks, how do I Note the following, the Actually let me Note that the derivative with is equal to ik e to the ikx. There's nothing up my sleeves. So in particular, if I can multiply by h Multiply by h bar, divide by to x e to the ikx. And this is equal to That's suggestive. And I can write this So let's quickly So first off, what are Here's the super the units of-- or Delta x delta p is h bar. OK? If you're ever in doubt, h bar has units of It's just the easiest You'll never forget it that way. So if h bar has units of what are the units of k? 1 over length. So does this Yeah. Momentum times length divided Good. So dimensionally we So this makes it tempting hell h bar upon i to x is equal in some-- question Right? So at this point it's just me, p is h bar upon idx. But I don't know find that deeply, So let me ask the question We've followed the and we've been led using wave functions some relationship the observable quantity that and meters, and stuff, and this operator, h bar upon on i By the way, my notation for with respect to x. Just notation. So if this is supposed what is momentum have Momentum is about is like derivatives with Times mass. Mass times derivative with So what does it have to do with to position? And this ties into the in classical mechanics, which after the mathematician who And just out of have seen Noether's Oh that's so sad. That's a sin. OK, so here's a statement and it underlies an enormous but also of quantum mechanics. Noether, incidentally, There's a whole wonderful Ville went to her I'm trying to understand And this guy down the has a theory called general times and how that has But it doesn't to me, because I don't even So how do you define in this guy's crazy theory? And so Noether, who did all sorts of beautiful looked at the problem know what it means in So what is a mean in So she went back to and, from first with a good definition of to underlie the modern idea and symmetries. And it's had enormous and say her name would praise. So Noether tells us the to every symmetry-- and I to every symmetry is associated OK? So in particular, what Well, for example, translations. x goes to x plus some length l. This could be done for So for example, translation by that much. These are translations. To every symmetry is associated What symmetry is Conservation of momentum, p dot. Time translations, t T. What's a conserved with time Energy, which is And rotations. Rotational symmetries. x, as a vector, goes to What's conserved by virtue AUDIENCE: Angular momentum. PROFESSOR: Angular momentum. Rock on. OK So quickly, I'm not going to It's one of the most beautiful in physics, and you But let me just that it's true in And this was observed long why it was true in general. What does it mean to have It means that, if I and I do it here, I get I translate the system Cool? That's what I mean by You do this thing, OK, so imagine I have a and it's moving This is u of x, right? And we know what the are in classical equals ma p dot is equal to the gradient of u. Minus the gradient of u. Right? That's f equals ma in Now is the gradient of u 0? No. In this case, there's a force. So if I do an experiment as doing my experiment here? AUDIENCE: No. PROFESSOR: Certainly not. The [? system ?] is not The potential breaks that What potential has AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. PROFESSOR: Yeah, constant. The only potential that has full dimension is translation constant. OK? What's the force? AUDIENCE: 0. PROFESSOR: 0. 0 gradient. So what's p dot? Yep. Noether's theorem. Solid. OK. Less trivial is I claim and she claims-- that if the system has moment and a few moments any amount of time later, don't change in be a conserved There must be a And that's Noether's theorem. So this is the first doesn't tell us what has to do with a derivative We see that there's between translations and but what's the relationship? So let's do this. I'm going to define an And what translate takes f of x and it maps So this is a thing that And why do I say that's than minus L. Well, some function like this, then after the translation, the OK? So just to get the So define this operation, and translates it by L, but So let's consider behave on functions. And this is really cute. f of x minus L can be around the point x-- around So let's do Taylor So this is equal to f of x to x of f of x plus L squared two derivatives of x, f Right? I'm just Taylor expanding. Nothing sneaky. Let's add the next Let me do this on All right, so we on f of x is equal to f of x Now Taylor expanding with respect to x of f I'm not giving I'm sorry. f of x minus L is equal to to x of f of x plus L of x f of x minus we're just Taylor expanding-- to x of f of x and so on. Yeah? But I'm going to write this in This is equal to 1 times with respect to x f over 2 derivative with of x minus L cubed over 6 to x plus dot, dot, dot. Everybody good with that? But this is a series that a particular Taylor series It's a Taylor expansion for the AUDIENCE: Exponential. PROFESSOR: Exponential. e to the minus L derivative Which is kind of awesome. So let's just check to make from dimensional grounds. So that's a derivative with over length. That's a length, so so we can exponentiate it. Now you might look at me and You've taken an and exponentiated it. What does that mean? And that is what it means? [LAUGHTER] OK? So we're going to do this all We're going to do things We'll talk about but we're always in this fashion as a Questions? AUDIENCE: Can you from one space to another? PROFESSOR: Oh, you totally can. But we'll come back to that. We're going to talk about OK, so here's where we are. So from this what with respect to x mean? What does a derivative Well a derivative is something that generates to x through a Taylor expansion. If we have L be L is arbitrarily small. What is the translation by of f of x? Well, if L is can drop all the and the change is just Ldx. So the derivative is telling us about Cool? The derivative with is something that or generates infinitesimal And if you exponentiate many, many times in you get a macroscopic Cool? So this gives us three things. Translations in x are generated to x. But through Noether's in x are associated to So you shouldn't be so totally shocking-- that in very interested in the action not just in positions, but it shouldn't be totally shocking the derivative with to the momentum in Similarly, translations to be generated Derivative with respect to time. So derivative with respect to is associated with That seems plausible. Derivative with respect an angle, a rotation. That's going to be Angular momentum? But angular momentum for whom this is call that z for the moment. And we're going to see these But here's the thing. We started out with these and we've let ourselves to between the momentum and OK? And I've given you that this isn't totally insane. Translations are with conservation of momentum. Transitional symmetry with conservation momentum. And an infinitesimal nothing but a derivative Those are deeply But I didn't derive anything. I gave you no of the relationship between Instead, I'm simply I'm going to declare that, you cannot stop me-- p is represented by an by the specific operator h bar to x. And this is a declaration. OK? It is simply a fact. And when they say it's a fact, The first is it is a fact momentum is represented to x times h bar upon i. Secondly, it is a fact that, and you work with the rest mechanics, including next lecture about operators you reproduce the physics You reproduce it beautifully. You reproduce it so well that ever vaguely come close to the mechanics. OK? It is a fact. It is not true in You can't sit back starting with the integers we it's a model. But that's what physics does. Physics doesn't tell Physics doesn't tell did the world have to look like. Physics tells you and it works really well, And to the degree that it's wrong. OK? This isn't something we derive. This is something we declare. We call it our model, and then and we see if it Out, please, please leave. Thank you. [LAUGHTER] I love MIT. I really do. So let me close with the following observation. [LAUGHTER] We live in a world There's a finite probability that two pirates might [LAUGHTER] You just never know. [APPLAUSE] But those probabilities can be And they're computed They're computed as we'll study in great detail. If I take a state, psi of x, this is a state that has Right? We claimed this. This was de Broglie Note the following, and act on this wave What do you get? Well, we already constructed it to P hat on psi of to call this psi sub has a definite k-- is equal A state with a definite that, when you hit it with with momentum, you get back the and that constant is ascribe to that plane wave. Is that cool? Yeah? AUDIENCE: Question. Just with notation, above the p [INAUDIBLE]? PROFESSOR: Good. Excellent. So the hat above the that P is on a number. It's an operation. It's a rule for We'll talk about that in But here's what I This is a state which is equal that it's a perfectly but it's more equal because it Right? The probability that I measure is one, and the measure it to be anything But I can always consider a Psi is equal to alpha, let's k1 x plus 1 over root Is this state a state If I act on this sub s-- if I act on this state do I get back this No. That's interesting. And so it seems to a state with definite momentum operator, we get If we have a state of different momentum and we act this gives us h bar k 1, So it changes we're talking about. We don't get back So the action of this is going to tell us something definite value of the momentum. And these coefficients to contain all the information of the system. This is the squared that will measure the And this coefficient is going to tell us have momentum k2. So I think the is something like a pirates plus 1 minus To normalize it And I'll leave you with See you guys next time. [APPLAUSE] CHRISTOPHER SMITH: Allan Adams. PROFESSOR: It is I. CHRISTOPHER SMITH: When in I see descriptions and I see lovely And descriptions of ladies Then in the bosom of Of eyes, of foot, I see the antique pens that you master now. So are all their praises but All you prefiguring. But though they had PROFESSOR: I was wrong [LAUGHTER] CHRISTOPHER SMITH: had but diving eyes, enough you're worth to sing. For we which now behold have eyes to behold. [LAUGHTER] But not tongues to praise. [APPLAUSE] It's not over. You wait. ARSHIA SURTI: Not marbled with shall outlive this But you shall shine more that unswept stone When wasteful war shall root out the work of masonry. Nor Mars his sword. Nor war's quick fire shall of your memory. Gainst death and all oblivious Your praise shall even in the eyes So no judgment arise till You live in this and [APPLAUSE] CHRISTOPHER SMITH: Verily May your day be filled Whatever state you're in, [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] Signed, Jack Florian, [LAUGHTER] PROFESSOR: Thank you, sir. Thank you. CHRISTOPHER SMITH: Now we go. [APPLAUSE]