Do you dream, and if you do dream, Either I don't dream at all, Nothing in between. Sometimes I have the ability and in a dream I think, Like, this dream is fake. But then I can also reverse the dream -This is like a superpower. -I can't do that. No, it's so weird. Can you do it as you slate? Do it and slate. So what would be your superpower? To be invisible. Why? It's a one-sentence answer. If you didn't climb, -Gymnastics. Olympic gold medal. I guess. I don't know how much it's worth, In my heart it's the most precious. I'm not selling it. I know how much effort I put in, I think it's my proudest moment. It resembles all the hard work, years of training, I think I've never felt So, I'm really proud that I achieved that But honestly, because I think every time I won, And it just took me to where I am today, shaped me into the person I am today, I appreciate some wins because every single win and especially it's not easy Every time I need to be completely focused So, it's not easy. So, you're current Olympic champion. Can you talk a bit about, I guess, Games being on How does that feel? Honestly, So excited. I think the Tokyo Olympics were Really, I've never felt if I was ever under pressure But Olympics were something Like, this is a different world. I just felt so stressed every single time What would be all right? Every time someone wanted to talk to me, Especially five days before I just didn't want anyone every single time someone Honestly, I don't remember I don't remember where was the venue. I don't even remember the feelings People most of the time say They say I'm, that I'm just weird. But I'm just in my own world I'm just doing-- I'm just so focused People say that I'm not here. That I look at you, but at the same time because in my head I'm somewhere else. So, this happened at Tokyo Olympics. I was somewhere else. Not because I would be mean or something, that I even met you So, yeah, at the Olympics I had a very hard time, especially in qualis. I missed two of my speed runs I said to Roman, &quot;Why did I even and then I had perfect bouldering round. I messed up a little bit, And then the thing I will one journalist asked me That I didn't climb that well. And I said I was still first. Come on. I learned a lot about I learned that I can handle so much I learned about the the insecurities that I never knew I had, So, the time leading up to Paris, one Olympic experience is golden. I know how the Olympic village works. I know how certain rules I know that it's chaos there and now I know kind of how to compete but that doesn't mean that in Paris I would still need to have good luck, I would need to be completely focused, and just be the best version Honestly, Firstly, and nobody can take that away from me. So I basically achieved and I achieved everything more than And I think this will allow me hopefully win another Olympic gold medal. Why were you so stressed? I was so stressed because I felt I was the favorite to win. Of course, my own expectations are anyway the biggest, So, I was also putting I really wanted to win. When I first heard climbing will be part I think it was 2016, and since then, I want to win. Not just I want to have a medal, I want to be there on the top. After Tokyo, I like to say that After Tokyo, of course I achieved what I wanted to achieve. I was the happiest ever, Maybe sad is not the right word, but it's just like I had no motivation. I couldn't imagine myself I asked myself, Even the easiest boulder I just had a blackout period I just didn't know I didn't know what I'm living for. I was just like, I just didn't know how But then I had to think back to This is your playground. So, slowly then my motivation I could try hard on the wall, But I could do that in training So, firstly, just for fun, Just go at the wall, This joy I feel when I climb a few months later and then I got So, I was back to the same old Janja. But, yeah, people were saying When you're working you kind of feel empty. It's just like you feel you achieved what you wanted How long did it take you Was it the next day you were like, &quot;Okay, I can chill because the No, I relax right after. Right after I saw the scoring board and I saw my name in the first spot, I was like, &quot;Oh.&quot; That's it. I just felt like I felt light like everything disappeared. All the stress, pressure, everything. So, it was on the spot, But, yeah, Going into Paris, I feel like I'm going into Maybe not as a different person, Actually, I think the injury I mean, at that moment, Well, this sucks. This was the time when Of course, I mean, of course you win, Of course, I'm always finding But mostly you learn from failure. You learn from downs mostly more than ups. I definitely feel like I am more mature. I feel very comfortable in my own skin. I feel like this is who I am, and I just want to-- I just want to climb And I think this is really important. Maybe it comes from or maybe it comes from that I achieved So, I think this allows me to enjoy more, and I feel relaxed. I mean, of course, I will feel pressure. I will feel stressed. the other girls trying to beat me. Of course, all this will come So, like a few days before I cannot control what my I cannot control the weather, But I can control myself, And whatever happens, happens. Is the goal leading up to Paris like Or are you trying to find how to be comfortable with that are going to be throw you off your game or something, or is there a goal to just make Physically, it's its own story. But mentally is the thing that separates the winners from Everybody knows I'm a perfectionist. But also at the same time, I can adjust to every and I'm prepared for I'm preparing my mind I always had this ability to really focus on the spot, forget about the results, and just do your thing. And I don't know from where it comes from But I had this ability to focus. Going into the Olympics what does that success definition Usually for people, I like the feeling of climbing not the win itself. Usually, different world, and you enjoy the moments But then you win in a split second. But you actually don't get Usually you are pushed you do all the interviews, you do all the things, And I think in 50 years from now I won't remember the winning part. But what makes winning with people you work with, When I will think back about, what I will remember in the crowd, Just being happy. I won't remember the win itself, the happy faces of people the work we put in, This is what I will remember. Not really the win itself. Can you give us a definition You are not afraid to do things with full force doing whatever It doesn't have to be sport, You're not afraid what people will think. You just do what you want to do. So, how many more Olympics I don't know. That's-- Paris for sure. And then I still have Los Angeles in my mind. So, definitely and then That's a pretty long period of time. I don't know how much I guess. 32? Anything can happen in that four years, It sounds like inspiring the next I want to be known as and had passion for climbing, and that I showed this Well, and for allowing us Nice.