(upbeat music) (both grunt) (hands clapping) - Hi, everybody. It's Natasha of NatashasKitchen.com, and today, I'm gonna teach you how to make a cheesecake to remember. This is an impressively tall The texture is incredible, and it doesn't get any easier than this. If you've never made you are in for a treat, and you're gonna love our And I want cheesecake, (hands tapping) (bell chimes) I'm gonna show you how we make our easy go-to cheesecake crust. Start by preheating your oven You'll need about 12 whole graham crackers to make one and a half cups There's a few ways to do this. You can either pulse it in or put them in a large Ziploc bag, then roll them with a rolling pin, or you can process them until you have crumbs. Transfer those crumbs to a mixing bowl and add one tablespoon of sugar and six tablespoons of Use a spoon to stir that together until the crumbs are evenly moistened. Transfer those moist crumbs to a nine-inch springform pan. And I love using a nonstick springform pan for easier release of the crust once the cheesecake is all I'll leave a link to the pan that I use in the recipe notes. Bake that in the center at 350 Fahrenheit for just eight minutes. Then, take it out of the oven and let it cool completely While that's cooling, you should also start Once the crust is nearly cooled, we can start on the filling. Go ahead and set your oven In the bowl of a stand mixer combine four and a half of softened cream cheese. Make sure that cream cheese Add one and a fourth then beat on medium-high speed using the paddle attachment It should be light and fluffy. Scrape down the bowl so you don't get chunks of When you're scraping down the bowl, make sure you're reaching all and scrape around the paddle attachment. This will ensure that you don't have any After about five minutes, the mixture should be completely smooth. Reduce to medium speed. Next, add six large room-temperature eggs, adding them one at a time, and waiting until the eggs between each addition. Scrape down the bowl as needed to make sure your mixture Once all of the eggs scrape down the bowl once more, then reduce the speed to low, Also add one and a half teaspoons And I'm using a homemade vanilla extract. I will link to the tutorial It has just two ingredients, and it makes everything taste better. Mix that together on low speed, just until it's well incorporated. Then turn the mixer off. The cheesecake mixture Now our best trick for making a cheesecake that's level without any cracks is to use a water bath method. Take two heavy-duty large sheets of foil, layer them on top of each other, then wrap them around the Using a heavy-duty foil ensures that you don't Make sure the foil is not touching the rim to give the cheesecake a Place the cheesecake pan into and I'll link to this one in the notes. Now pour all of that cheesecake filling over your cooled crust. Next, we're gonna add the water that you boiled in the pot You'll need it to go about up the sides of the springform pan. And here's a quick tip. Depending on the size you may need quite a bit of water, so definitely boil more The hot water around at a consistent temperature. It also keeps the sides and prevents cracks. Using hot mitts for safety, carefully transfer that to the center rack of your preheated oven. Bake that at 450 degrees Without opening the door, reduce the heat to 225 degrees Fahrenheit and continue baking for one or until the cheesecake is nearly set. You'll know it's done if and you see a slight wobble in the center of your cheesecake. Remove the roasting pan from the oven and let the cheesecake for 45 minutes. Then transfer it to a wire rack and let it cool completely Now, a cheesecake needs to before serving, so cover with plastic wrap If you cut into a cheesecake it can be soupy in the center. And totally normal. I just happened to have another cheesecake that's been setting overnight What I love about using a nonstick pan is the sides typically once it's cooled overnight. The springform mold should release easily, and the sides will look perfect. The professional look of this cheesecake can only be achieved by Ho ho ho ho, look at this. It is perfection. Ah, and we're gonna get and just do this taste has been asking for and I just can't make her wait any longer. Okay. And, if you're gonna serve which I do a lot, you can just put a little and that way, it won't slide Tricks of the trade. Okay. Wow, wow. Okay, more tricks of the trade. The easiest way I found to to keep it looking really is to use a hot knife. So I've got a knife to warm it up nicely, And if you see that your cake is sticking to the sides of the pan, if you have, say, a a non-nonstick pan, just use a warm knife, take it around the edges and that'll do that. Anyways, our knife is warm and dry, and we're just gonna cut right into this. And you wipe the knife between each slice, you'll have a cleaner cut and Okay, so that's what we're gonna do. We're gonna serve this, (laughs) Here we go. Oh, and look at that texture. It is so fluffy and whipped. Velvety smooth. Yum. Get in my belly. Yeah, look at that. Woo-hoo. Remember that topping I That's right, homemade cherry sauce. And this is great year round, because you can use frozen cherries, which is what I did, 'cause But it's okay. It doesn't even matter. Look at how saucy this is. Yum. It just tastes like the best It is fantastic. Super easy to make. I'll link to the recipe in the notes because you have to It's also really good and cheesecake, of course. Okay, lots of cherry sauce. Okay. Yum. I love when there's a little Look at that, look at that. That's what I'm talking about. (laughs) Okay, okay. I'm so excited. Here we go. Diving in. Gonna get my little bit of Mm. Mm. Yeah. That is definitely a New The texture is phenomenal. It literally just melts in your mouth. Oh, and I love the crust too. It's so simple. This is gonna become a And can you even believe how easy it is to make a cheesecake? It's just a little bit of waiting, okay, a lot a bit of but it really is so easy It's a keeper of a recipe. And make sure, make sure, It'll make your day. All right, now I'm gonna get because they have been Oh, kids! (laughs) Okay, all right. Someone's hungry for cheesecake. Okay, I'll give you a big bite. Haumph. Oh, it's a big bite. Was it too big? Is it awesome? - Mm-hmm. - Oh yeah. Look at those two cherries on here. Whoa. Here, I'm gonna let you (laughs) - I want this. - You want more? Okay. What do you think? Do I get the thumbs up? (laughs) Yes. Okay, guys, let's have some cake. I hope you guys enjoyed this video, and we'll see you in our next one. (girl vocalizing)