Vanessa: Are you ready to think and speak in If you watch a lot of American movies or TV shows, &quot;Hey hun, how is your day?&quot; Or, &quot;What did you these questions to yourself? If not, that changes 23 common daily expressions to talk about your daily routine, helping you learn some common routine. And to help you never forget what you PDF worksheet for today's lesson, with all of and all of the ideas so that you never forget can click on the link in description to All right, let's get started with the beginning your daily life too. If I'm lucky, first maybe push snooze and get up slowly. But if I'm &quot;Mommy.&quot; And I have to get out of bed first thing. first time was at the beginning of a phrase. First first of the things, or first of the... It's I hear my alarm, or we could use it at the end of wake up and make coffee first thing. I make coffee I don't even know if I know how to make coffee. say newbie or maybe clueless when it comes to say I wake up and make tea first thing, beautiful After I'm awake, I head to the kitchen and kids and I read a book or play a little game is a morning person. Sometimes at least one of So having a little bit of fun lightens the Do you know what a morning person is? A ready to start at the day. Are you a morning of the bed. This is a little bit metaphorical. bad side of the bed, but it means that you wake up You could say, &quot;Ugh, I woke up on the wrong side if you're me. Then after breakfast, I drop my to drop off can be used for people or for I drop my son Theo off at school, or we could but we could also drop something off. I dropped that you don't forget the word off, because if you it means your computer fell on the ground, but it means something really different say I dropped off my computer at the repair shop Then I come home to start my work day. any lessons that I'm going to have for my to catch up. This phrasal verb to catch up or to can probably use it in our life too. Let's take had a super busy week and it's the weekend and Right now, my couch is covered in blankets. This Oh boy, I need to catch up on chores. I need to the week. Can you guess what this means? There's don't want to, or you don't have time, and now catch up on some emails or I need to catch up on my friend. I call my friend to catch up. Well, to my friend for a while and now we're talking talked. So if you see someone, maybe you're in the haven't seen for a while, you might say, &quot;Hey, That means I haven't you for a while. I want catch up. I also said in my little story that really common way to say review. You can use this help you out. You could say, &quot;Hey, could you go writing a really important email and you want to a coworker, &quot;Hey, when you have a second, could really appreciate it.&quot; That's so polite. And also feel kind of good about themselves. Like, oh, and worthwhile? Sure. I'll go over that email When I finish my work, I pick up my son from somewhere is used all the time. Let me give you a I'm heading home. That means you're going in You're not stopped, but that's where you're going. says, &quot;What are you doing?&quot; You could say, &quot;I'm In American English, the store usually means going to go buy some food. I'm headed to the else is just taking their good old time, you This phrase to head out means out of the house. A great way to use to head out. When we get home, together and chat about his day. Usually as we're day. And if he doesn't open up what we're eating, how many holes did you dig today? Did you nature school. So they play outside all day, all have lots of good warm clothes, but asking these review his day in an easier way. You might hear tell me about your day or what did you do today These types of broad questions, especially at the end of the day, you feel And it's tough to summarize your day in just a if your mom asked you, &quot;What do you learn in because it's just too hard to a significant other, if you have kids, if I recommend, first of all, doing something don't have to have a tea party. Although, I highly maybe a little snack, cut up an apple, have And just spending quality time This is a phrase we're going to use in but I recommend if someone doesn't open up, asking the information that happened to them during because they're just living their life. They're day. So when you ask a specific question, Oh, did you eat anyone else's food at lunch child to open up. And this phrasal verb to open talking with someone, usually at the beginning, share your deepest thoughts. If someone says, No matter how I'm really feeling, I'll always say, not ready to open up. In those types of passing our inner thoughts. So when you spend quality time more and someone might be more willing to be that means that you are willing something difficult in your life. Something really shallow things. But when you really open up So just remember these Vanessa tips, the next All right, let's go to the next part usually our neighbors come over and hang out. Sometimes we just chat. But because my backyard And this word, to hangout can be used in two We love to hang out in the backyard. This means we hangout together. Or it can be used as a noun. we can use this in three ways, a hangout spot. location is it? It's a hangout spot. It's not Instead, it's a hangout spot. It's where we just out with friends, as the sun starts to go down, While we're eating dinner, we try to sit down at a little bit of quality time together. So the most common questions. In fact, my four He asks us one by one. &quot;What was the best part he asks, &quot;What was the most challenging part that kids will say to these questions. if your kids aren't familiar with English, but asking these questions helps to kind of prompt about the best thing or the most challenging other people at the table to open up to. Oh, what There are two phrases that I want to share as a family. Now this just means the group, the the same structure in other ways. We could say as a department, as an office. So it's talking for example, you could say it's important to spend So if you have kids, spending time without them, just you and your significant other. It's occasionally. Another expression that I used is was talking about the tea party. I think I might good quality time too, but it means that you are It's not rushed. You don't have to go anywhere. So I really encourage you to try to spend some you don't need to go anywhere. You don't have any take a walk with a friend or to chat on kids. Something that's quality time. There's After dinner, we clean up. We put the kids to So one of these expressions that I used, you have to bed.&quot; This means that we help them sleep. So We sing some songs and we help them to relax. what it means. But you have to be very careful if you put someone to sleep, it's very different. my dog to sleep last week, it means you had your dog. Maybe that means he was really old. He but it's often necessary. So make sure that Instead, I had to put my kids to bed. Much people are probably going to understand but just to make certain that you can say I put my kids to bed every night The final thing that I say to my kids What? Tight? This is a fun expression that's It is goodnight, sleep tight. Don't let the bed bugs in your bed. This is a very old expression. sleep tight. Sometimes we say, goodnight, But oftentimes we just shorten that to goodnight, means I hope you sleep well. So if you hear or if you want to say this yourself, it's great. A After the kids are in bed, Dan, my Sometimes we get caught up on chores. Maybe Sometimes just chat about our day and decompress. This is a great expression, downtime. It decompress and relax. It's essential to have If you are looking at Instagram while you're in It's very bad for your sleep. You need to have before you go to bed to try to slow your mind just by yourself. Relaxing is essential. When the I've had a really busy day, I might just sleep there's a lot going on in my mind, I might toss And fingers crossed that my children sleep middle of the night to help them. And that's my I just used to hit. To hit the hay does last minute chore at the end of No, instead it just means sleep. I need pillow. Ugh. I need to hit the hay. And I Does a log move? Does a log make any sounds? it is. Nice and silent and still. It means you but to toss and turn on the other hand, toss and or at least you didn't go to bed peacefully. tossed and turned. And what about the last one I say I hope that my kids sleep all night. Fingers So I want to know is your day similar to mine. your daily life? I'd like to know in the comments. daily life. And don't forget to download the life expressions so that you can think and speak we're here. So make sure you download the free click and download the PDF today and never thank you so much for learning English with new lesson here on my YouTube channel. Bye. worksheet for this lesson. With this free never forget what you have learned. You can to subscribe to my YouTube channel for