Five, four, three, Ignition, liftoff of the Falcon Go NASA! Go SpaceX! In May, millions tuned in to history. And so rises a flight, and with it the continuing the dream. The Dragon capsule to the marked the first time that from U.S. soil since 2011. The event also represented commercially designed and astronauts, an achievement that vied for for years Program. The program was competition. The goal was companies to produce innovative and safe way to International Space Station, set forth by NASA. In the out Sierra Nevada Corporation The traditional aerospace questioned startup companies A very senior executive of me that SpaceX Their rockets are put together chewing gum. We really had For nearly a decade, SpaceX and neck building and transportation systems. But SpaceX's successful launch in milestone for the company, catch-up. The launch on May last test flight before NASA for consistent, operational missions station. The test is scheduled with the return of On the other hand, Boeing successful uncrewed test flight some issues last year. I'm really quite overcome with So it's kind of It's been 18 years working just hard to believe The Commercial Crew Program was initiative called the Transportation Services Program, affectionately within NASA COTS began in about the mid-2000s, push to see if spacecraft and deliver cargo Space Station. Two commercial the job: SpaceX and Orbital by Northrop Grumman. COTS was the confidence that it needed partnerships beyond ferrying astronauts. This became a after NASA ended the The program was initiated in of spaceflight and to And it was not doing that years, only reaching four or five huge overhead of three The shuttle program also the first in 1986, when over a minute into its members. From mission Then the bland, chilling report, from the flight dynamics officer exploded. Flight director confirms at checking with the recovery be done at this point.' The shuttle Columbia broke apart atmosphere, once again killing board. After the shuttle essentially had a gap in its own astronauts. And the only other entity in operating spacecraft capable of Their Soyuz spacecraft became ability to launch astronauts Space Station. And it expensive service. Originally, those seats were seat and now we're paying So over the last nine years, expensive. And we're in a we want to continue International Space But what we don't want And so what Commercial Crew to end the dependency and the International Under NASA's Commercial Crew a fixed-price contract to build astronauts to and from Boeing and SpaceX won and and $2.6 This type of contract requires any additional costs they But it also means that to all of their therefore free to use it NASA contract ends. Think of it like a space The idea being, we're going expect those launch providers to are not NASA, which And we expect those against each other on cost We did not want to have just reasons. We know the innovation and one could And you don't want to source like we have So this is a way to Though SpaceX and Boeing both got on to see who could station first. SpaceX used the Crew Dragon capsule and Boeing Starliner capsule. Both capsules are designed to even recycling its rocket, the to launch Crew Dragon. A report issued last year General found that NASA expects average of about $55 million $90 million per seat for to the ISS. But Boeing and NASA both In a statement, Boeing said the equivalent of a fifth So the per seat pricing five seats, rather than calculation. Cristina Chaplain is the Government Accountability Office of auditing the Commercial Boeing had the advantage of working with NASA, a long program and knowing how to spacecraft. SpaceX was new to their advantage was their their culture, that they fixed-price, more SpaceX also had the advantage of lot of what it learned for NASA's COTS program By the time it received NASA in 2014, SpaceX had space station for The Commercial Crew Program launch astronauts to the in 2017, but early funding cuts tests made that impossible. One such setback for SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule blew up in-flight abort system. SpaceX had also previously lost one during a space station Stunning explosion over the today. An unmanned rocket International Space Station blew into its flight. It's another SpaceX, the company that will into orbit. And another in launch Facebook's $200 million Boeing also struggled. In 2018, a propellent leak was the Starliner capsule during Then in 2019, the company hit its orbital flight test, safely carry astronauts. It didn't have any people on supposed to do was launch, spend a few days there Well, shortly after launching, anomaly with part of the spacecraft itself and the engines time, putting it in So they weren't able to Station, falling short of the flight test. The incident Boeing. The agency even history with Boeing may have company more leeway in I would say in the perspective, we may have been SpaceX because they use a approach to their We had maybe more familiarity from those that had worked Station. Many of the team the International Space Station working on the Starliner. And so we maybe we just that we needed to. NASA Boeing make 80 changes to re-tested later this year. Just in general, the government across the space sector It's very tricky. And the government's not software for space SpaceX is in a really NASA. They have a much they stick to reiterating Elon Musk came from So Elon Musk, he was one He's had Tesla. He's had experience working where he's not used to you know, the federal about milestones that could be of politics. Though Commercial yet started, NASA, SpaceX seeing the benefits NASA estimates that this somewhere between $20 billion taxpayer money because the the efficiency of the companies that they were setting out to efficient than While NASA benefits from lower benefit from having a government for the building and development can use for other projects. There was a day in the the space shuttles retired, where percent of the global satellites. And of course, investments into SpaceX and the all of a sudden we've got global commercial If you look at SpaceX's makes up a significant portion development contracts they have over the years. While the business is their satellites for companies, for others, this is a very large hundreds of millions of dollars NASA. But SpaceX is The company has already signed tourists to the International crew Dragon Capsule and Space currently makes up only Boeing's revenue, but with due to the grounding of its stock price plunging due demand among coronavirus, There's going to be a lot really deliver for NASA. In the past, i f you revenue generator for Boeing, I provides a huge, huge contribution But now, as they ground more have to rethink their approach industry, space is definitely them. And the opportunities to certainly continue. Right now, in space, w We've got commercial crew going to have commercial We want to be one customer want our providers competing and safety. NASA's already sector for another venture, getting by 2024. In April, the SpaceX, Blue Origin and of lunar landers. Boeing also bid, but was We're going to blaze the to eventually commercialize as Once that's done at the moon,