If, in an instant, you could magically 4.5 billion years ago, and then in the yourself to now. you may say that only transformed the earth to its present day of earth today can be explained largely process that occurred over billions of seed of some kind, point must have had a beginning, a start have started from nonliving matter. But unremarkable processes of geology, combined in precisely the correct matter, from nonliving matter. This There must have been a blueprint. There could such vastness of diversity, physical processes of the cosmos and its own? that's coming up right now... The origin of living organisms from called abiogenesis. evolution. Abiogenesis is not evolution. or diversification of living things from does not say anything about how life life originate? Despite the incredible fundamental level all living things nucleic acids, which make up the DNA or contain the blueprints of life and are are proteins, which are the workhorses your body. And third, are lipids which Before any living things existed, before these three things had to have been for life to start. Some argue that the are the lipids, which make up the cell important?...because without the wall, or a within the soup, there would just be a disorderly and floating around in a sea inside something that could potentially membranes could potentially form around disparate parts of various chemicals combine, react and work together to self replication. So these fatty critical components for abiogenesis. perhaps start with a closer examination structure. There is a round part and a round part loves water. hates water. is, when a bunch of lipids are floating together and self assemble in tail part of the molecule, since it automatically faces other tails that which likes water, exposes itself to the is what these types of molecules do self-assemble into natural spheres. But thought that they could only be produced shown that when carbon monoxide and commonly found in Earth's crust, lipids in the early Earth and could have vents. You might at this point say aha have formed! Not so fast. this quality of self-assembly, when there or magnesium, it destroys the lipid problem is that RNA and other functions the early Earth was believed to have can't form in these salty oceans, this However, just this year, in 2019 Washington showed that lipid spheres do presence of amino acids, which are addition, the enclosing of amino acids concentrate within the walls and proteins, which is part of the Trinity What is remarkable about this research lipid cell walls and non living ion rich or salty water. So now we see form in the presence of each other. What self-replicating molecules, the Today, genetic information is stored in that information into action. RNA can perform other essential functions of of RNA compared to its cousin think RNA came first. This is part of the that RNA, the molecule that today plays essential precursor which led to the more complex cousin, DNA, take over the information. This hypothesis has gained look at RNA. How did the first RNA Well, the answer to this is not as stumbling block to any theory of latest research points to regarding RNA. components - the sugar ribose the bases unit links together with other ribose-base-phosphate units to form RNA polymer. Figuring out how a bond between the difficult to replicate in the lab. form with the bases of RNA have been cells in your body require complex together before they combine to form researchers at Rensselaer Polytechnic current-day RNA could have formed on the to bring RNA bases together, as shown in scientists from McMaster University in Germany, showed that the building blocks early Earth using organic molecules from shallow ponds. The wet/dry cycle of these polymerization. They also theorized on earth shortly after its formation as years ago. So now we have ways that two lipids. But what about protein? experiments by Stanley Miller and Harold of amino acids, components of proteins, organic materials, was possible under the earth. So the precursors of proteins were It turns out that it's pretty easy to a wide range of environments. But so far, result in potential precursors needed and dandy,&quot; but having all the precursors does not necessarily mean they will all living cell. How do the complex molecules become a living organisms? And if I'm understood, and there's no experiment or points to a precise mechanism of how There are creationist arguments such as of a watch in a big vat, and keep functioning, ticking watch is not going some cite an estimate by scientists Fred that the probability of all the on their own by chance is something on power, which is more than the Planck a virtual impossibility. But this number are oversimplifications. They ignore the current-day bacteria, almost certainly much simpler incremental steps, that had are stats such as the one that says the chance is 1 in 10 to the 45 power. Odds such as these and others not only ignore the idea of simpler precursors, but also was not just one set of amino acids, at trillions upon trillions of amino acids millions of years, that resulted in 4x10^47 Even if there was one amino acid among 1 10 to the power 41 molecules of amino acids that each other, and to form proteins in and in numerous trials, over millions of probability is not how the hundreds of form a modern-day bacterium, but the or 20, forming and coming together to chemically evolve over time to form the looked nothing like any evolved life even this chemical evolution could have evolution is not the same as biological organisms that have the best chance of trouble figuring out what could have complexity needed for biological Jeremy England, physics professor at MIT, force for chemical evolution may be of thermodynamics. that's our old friend one thing that distinguishes living ability to capture energy and convert it to an external source of energy, such as restructure themselves to dissipate more driving force for chemical evolution. And organisms, such as those we see today - dissipating energy. This theory is 2011 paper by Karo Michaelian, that efficient of all known molecules for of the Sun. While there is no single of life, all credible proposals show that process of chemical and molecular in simple life forms over a long period chemistry was probably the biggest hill earth. But once this happened, biological quickly, resulted in exceptional the fossil record of early Earth, and of have proof that this is how life came plausible?...absolutely. Just like chemical too is evolving in a slow process over by the pursuit of science, and hopefully, Hey guys, video is sponsored by the newly released New eden is a mind-boggling story of life. Follow physicist Joshua Andrews and discover that entangled particles were creating a universe-wide communication some real science, I highly recommend New link is in the description below. more videos like this, then please a like. Or support us on patreon. I'll see