Are you here or what? Yes, the water is hot. Yes, it's really stylish. Put your glasses on Really ! This is top class! I swear to you! There's a wave there! It was pretty! We loved it right away, I think. Not too many tourists. The monkeys that are starting to arrive, It was funny, really. You see the banana. Yes. I don't want to go home. I don't want to be in Paris. Veronique and Farid have been on vacation Dream beaches and coconut trees, On December 24, one of the most touristic islands in the country. The day before, she said Seriously, isn't life beautiful? Go get a foot massage. Tomorrow, tomorrow. I told him it wasn't over. Then I said to him, I told him you never know It goes up high. Coconut, banana... I can't take it anymore. This is not what... Everything is fine at the minute. Something else will happen later. The couple are enjoying their vacation. Not for a single moment, Veronique and Farid do not suspect a cataclysm is brewing. At the same time, Joel Diochet films the happy moments of his wife and daughters, Joanna and Juliana. It really was The swimming pool, magnificent, then an aspect of newness, There was nothing to complain about. We were happy Mrs. Diochet asked but they are all taken. The Diochets are sent This is what will save them. Patricia, disappointed, still ignores it, of course. I was sulking in their room. Then I said I'm not going to bother my husband again. We came here Then I am ashamed to say it, but I'm really glad Because down there it was awful. Tonight is Christmas, gourmet meal and living nativity scene. The Diochets continue None of the 438 tourists at the Sofitel suspect what the next day has in store for them. For me, it was the most beautiful Christmas The hotel was full and Santa Claus had arrived We were proud. It was the first Christmas at the Sofitel and the customers were really amazed That night, On the beach, Joel and Patricia Diochet are waiting In the depths of the ocean, In less than 36 hours, one of the greatest natural disasters in history is going to happen. The drama begins off the coast of Indonesia, near the city of Banda Aceh. It's Sunday Suddenly, The earthquake is so strong Cud Pouteri is a doctor in Banda Aceh. That day, she was at home, Around 8 o'clock, and they became Then there, wow. Tremors from the bottom of the ocean. Off the coast of Indonesia, the Indian plate on the left and that of Asia on the right. A battle of titans that has lasted The thrust is enormous. On December 26, at 7:59 a.m., the Asian plate takes over. The energy released is gigantic, 12,000 times the power The shock wave releases a wave 800 km/h. In 38 minutes, When the earthquake stops, The damage is impressive. Everyone thinks We were all praying. We hoped that everything was over. So we got up, and no one was worried. There was no panic at all. Those who were not affected a normal life, like these families In less than half an hour, Cud Pouteri films his family to celebrate a cousin's wedding. When suddenly, a disturbing rumbling Suddenly, Like this: Ouh. So my father started quick, Suddenly I saw the wave. She came like that, A 20 meter high wave. She sweeps everything away in her path. Nothing and no one Even on the second floor, Cud Pouteri's family does not feel safe. Yet, Two kilometers, the torrent is In this neighborhood, there are almost no survivors. I thought it was my last hour, Those who had time to react took refuge on the roofs. Others walk as best they can on the debris carried by the current. The first wave brought houses, They were shouting at us, please help us. Only, We told them but that nothing can be done. We must rely on God. God does not answer their prayers. The ocean's anger continues. A second wave is coming. Cud Pouteri films it. Although not as high, it continues to rise in the streets. This time the torrent sinks up to five kilometers At this point, it seems She moves forward slowly. She is barely and yet it grows very quickly. His strength is phenomenal. Barely a meter high, the wave nonetheless tears away everything in its path. The drivers did not have time to leave their cars. Cud Pouteri's family Below, a man was pushed Trapped in the rubble, He is one of the few survivors. In a few minutes, The city of Banda Aceh is destroyed. The toll is heavy, very heavy. Nearly 100,000 dead. Satellite photos taken before and after the tsunami bear witness to this. Half the city is wiped off the map. He is on the other side of the planet, in Hawaii, where they are recorded all earthquakes. Specifically at the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center. He is American. His name is Barry Hirshorn. As the earth shakes, His first estimate, He knows that there is a risk of tsunami but Barry's area of expertise, It's the Pacific Ocean. When I realized that this earthquake I breathed a sigh of relief. For me, it's as if He immediately sent a reassuring message to all the countries in the Pacific zone. This earthquake was located There is no threat of a tsunami. An ambiguous message Indian Ocean specialists only remember the last sentence, No tsunami threat. They then think that the populations of the Indian Ocean have nothing to fear. Maybe I made a mistake. In this message I should have put for the inhabitants of the Indian Ocean, to warn them that there could be Even if I had done it, Too late for Indonesia. The city of Banda Aceh is already For other countries like Thailand and Sri Lanka, The wave is still In Hawaii, Barry continues his calculations. He sees that the earthquake is six times This time, to the countries of the Indian Ocean. It's too late. In five minutes, In Koh Phi Phi, the day begins who had a bad night, I felt something at night, Mini-shakes. It's tiny, you really have to feel it. It was moving, but lightly. I didn't know I fell asleep again. I slept, I didn't feel anything I said, whatever, There was nothing at all. Farid is not the only one to have felt At six o'clock in the morning, elephants sense Very early in the morning, They were crying, but we didn't know Calm down! Gently ! Calm down! Gently. The elephants began and climb up the hill. Come back! Come back! Slowly come back! I think the elephants knew. Like other animals, I think they know how to interpret If I hadn't tried to catch up with them, If I'm alive, it's because of them. The Thai mahout owes his life to these elephants, as well as thanks to the pachyderms' sixth sense. A little further down, at the Sofitel, the Diochet family is getting ready to have Joel films his daughters less than an hour In the morning it sparkled. She was very blue. We could not have thought of a big, ferocious beast that stands up, because it was standing before us. Never. It first strikes one of the most famous beach resorts in Thailand. On the seafront, The season is in full swing, At 10 a.m., The sea is retreating. This is a warning signal. He should have raised the alarm, At 10:05 the water comes back on. It floods the coast. There's a big one coming. They'll feel this one coming. Five minutes later, at 10:10 a.m., the wave breaks on Phuket. Seized, fascinated, tourists film. They are not aware The force of the wave is unimaginable. One thousand tons per cubic meter. No human being can resist it. At the Kamala Beach Hotel in Phuket, The holidaymakers are shocked, Some are looking for their loved ones, others go out to take pictures. Still others try This is the case of Frederic At the time of the tragedy, he has been on vacation for a week After the first wave, A less spectacular wave, Frederick then tries to rescue I told them, Quickly. I turned around and I saw a huge mass of water coming towards me. So I climbed the wall A man filmed the whole scene. Frederic, at the bottom of the screen, as the water surges. He tries to lend a hand who clings desperately However, Frederick is too far away. The couple manages to resist Unfortunately, The current was moving too fast. He had too much strength. Such a force that the couple is taken away before the eyes of the helpless Swedish policeman. This time, the ground floor of the hotel is submerged by water. In the debacle, everyone tries to get by as best they can. This man is trying to hang on Frederic, himself, tries However, the water continues to rise. He's going to be taken away. When the torrent calms down, the water devastated The old man, swept away to survive by miracle. His wife was found dead a few days later. Frederic, who tried to help them, manages to hang on to a tree several I feel like a survivor. For me, it could have ended much worse. I always remained calm survive. Not for a second did I think about giving up. The wave continues its murderous course. After devastating Phuket, Sara is Swedish. [English spoken audio] With her fiance Kale, they spend their romantic holidays [Swedish spoken audio] I think it was two days He told me, close your eyes, I thought he was going to take me The surprise was that he was taking me It was so cute. We had worked really hard We could finally spend drinking beers, enjoying the sun. It was the best moment of our lives. It was a day like any other. I don't know why because she wasn't doing anything She was just getting into a boat. When she got into the boat, It was really weird and I noticed that the Thais, [Swedish spoken audio] Sara doesn't worry. A few minutes later, Sara had water up to her knees. She said to me, look I laughed a little. At the same time, and I felt that she had It felt like the water was squeezing my legs. I understood that something abnormal was happening. I said to Sara, Let's get out of here, quickly! In the bay, the boat arriving in Koh Phi Phi. Sandra, a French woman, is on board. It's 10:15. In ten minutes, The boat docks. There, we are still on the bridge. We wait because we don't know if we have to go down to this place. I was filming, I was watching. We can see that the fish are They all left, without exception. They were heading out to sea. There were plenty of them. The proof is that it caught our attention. People are coming down, We see all the people happy They were happy to arrive, In Koh Phi Phi, The sea is a few meters away. Nobody sees it, The village is a real labyrinth. Hundreds Luckily, She hangs around on the boat, Suddenly, I say, it's impossible. We were supposed to get off here, Afterwards, we say to ourselves on another part of the island. In fact, What's going on? The water has gone down by two or three meters. I called the crew We have a problem, We must leave. The captain of the boat casts off He goes out to sea, 300 meters from the shore. On board, Sandra continued to film. The sea begins to boil. Stop panicking. Look at the water, Look at the color of the water, She is brown. You see, There you go, I saw it. Yes Can you imagine We're going back to Phuket, that's it. Look Look Look at ! Further on, Farid and Veronique to visit Koh Lanta, the neighboring island. However, We had breakfast. We took the pictures, we were going to go for a walk Then he sees two Thai people We look a big white mark like the foam of a ship. Except there was no boat and... I thought it was the boat. I say to myself, She tells me, I say, yes, Then we see that it could not be The water is not yet very high, A first pontoon collapses. The sea begins to invade the beach. Sara and Kale, their last seconds We were there, peacefully. No one around us but within seconds, Then all hell broke loose. [Thai spoken audio] Phi Phi is so flat Where the city is located, Go, go, go! When we arrived in front of the hotel, There was nothing we could do So, Sara said to me, We were really lucky so we knew where to go. Yes, and luckily, In addition, there were three floors. If we hadn't had this hotel, and those who went to the city went At the hotel, Everyone is trying to take refuge on the upper floors. Kale continues to film. Outside, the water continues to rise. She is starting to make I was at the barrier I looked, I saw the boats colliding There I thought there was People remained seated. Everyone even came forward to see what was happening, As everywhere in Thailand, In a few seconds, I told him, At one point, It was a wall. She wanted to climb the wall. I look at her, I say, He tells me I say, we have no choice, we have to climb. She was already starting to climb the wall then we see two Thais. Go through the passage It was barbed wire, yes. I led the way through the barbed wire. Then I got stuck Instead of tearing up and then we started to hear the water coming, the people screaming. People were screaming too. We could feel the panic behind it. We felt that we had to hurry. As the water level rises Farid remains stuck under the barbed wire. I tell him to hurry up He says... I just bought it I tell him. He finally managed to Then I told him to come up. Run, run, run. It felt good It motivated me, because... It was horrible. Panic until you get to the top of this hill. At the top of the hill, the first wave takes away [Thai spoken audio] Men, women, children, houses, everything is taken away, torn away, broken. The man filming Carried to the bottom of the water, he will be lucky to get out alive. In Koh Phi Phi, A second wave is coming, this time on the right of the island. Eric should have died that morning, It must be female instinct. At nine o'clock in the morning, I've been in the water for an hour or two already. I go scuba diving, without a tank, free diving, every day. Every day that they do... That morning, Marie said to me, You go up Thank you Marie. That day, Marie absolutely insists the highest place on the island. Up there, they don't know it, but they will be Down below, by the sea, Eric takes his camera. He films everything. There's a tidal wave there. [Thai spoken audio] Wow! Marie, it devastates everything. There, we are safe, we fear nothing. Look at Koh Phi Phi. The tidal wave sweeps everything away. Gerard Toubelle I was barefoot with blood, I didn't even feel pain. We run, we save our skin. With the noise behind, and it was happening faster and faster. A noise of chaos, the trees that fall, The roar of the wave especially. Everything that goes with it after that. The people who were screaming. Yes, it's a mix. It is an indescribable noise, Yes. It is the sound of horror, the sound of death. There was who was just leaving his bungalow and who asked us, In my head, big wave, big wave, but I didn't say anything. I had it there, but it wouldn't come out. You didn't tell him to run? We'll think about it later. We regret it, but would it have changed anything? I hope she's alive, Before I told him about the wave and she comes down from her bungalow, she was in danger of being carried away. The entire Toubelle family has been in Koh Phi Phi [Foreign league]. At the time of the drama, for a sea trip. However, Philippe, Katie's brother, will not return. When the wave comes, Why did we stop before? I will never know. Philippe stopped at this bungalow there were some steps. We were a little high. The water was already boiling around and there I said to myself because we would have been carried away [Thai spoken audio] There, I believe that he immediately took the measure of the disaster and he told me It happened very quickly. I think it must have lasted 20s, but to protect the camera I didn't see the wave coming. I got hit in the head by something. He grabbed my arm Except that we were separated very quickly There, I did something a washing machine game for, I don't know how long. This memory of terror, of total darkness. I'm very claustrophobic, but a very black man. I must have been stuck Everything has turned pitch black. It was terrible. We are struggling. I came out of the water I swallowed a gulp of air. I don't think I was very Still in Koh Phi Phi, Kale and Sara, on the second floor of their hotel. Kale films the second wave, the one that pierces [English spoken audio] It all happened very quickly. Since the moment we were on the beach and the one where we ran to the hotel, Then another minute That is to say the island was covered [English spoken audio] This is very strange. This is not war. There is no bomb. It's just water, and it kills thousands of people. Crushed by the current and by the debris, Katie Toubelle still doesn't understand It's not a question of being a good swimmer. We can't face this. You're caught There, we have time and that, that amazed me, all we can say to each other Well, that's it, It's here, it's now. How will it be? Afterwards, I say to myself, no. I didn't come here for that, so no. I thought of the children, I thought about my brother The chaos stops. There is no more noise, nothing. We take a deep breath. On his hill, Eric is upset. I can't film anymore because I'm shaking. Me too. Shit ! Everything was razed to the ground. After about ten minutes, The few survivors, like Gerard Toubelle, are beginning to realize what just happened. That's where we started to see the chaos. It was no longer water that was There were screams everywhere. People screaming, or other people screaming For what ? Gerard is a doctor. He is used to rubbing shoulders with death, but he cannot forget the victims of Koh Phi Phi. I think it was the screams. The screams a little terrifying, Especially when you become aware. We see people who are half drowned, who cough up We are beginning to see Then we start seeing dead people. People floating with a wheelbarrow The most shocking thing was the dead people We are not used to that. This is something quite shocking. Because it doesn't go with death and it shocked me a little anyway. We're used to seeing dead people. Except that here, swimsuits, young people, a lot of them, it's shocking. Immediately, the rescue services were organized as best they could. The most able-bodied survivors help the wounded. Doors are used The water killed thousands of people. The sheets were The sheet metal, with the force of the wave, Severed arms, severed legs, severed heads. When he understands Eric comes down from his hill He then discovers the horror. See a hand come out, pull it, I can tell you However, I was diving into houses In Koh Phi Phi, 2,500 people will be pulled from the rubble or found dead Katie, dazed, miraculously survives. She is barely recognizable in these images. She is in shock, The toe was open there. Finally, what was full of mud was full of blood. I had sores all over my face. The jersey was blown up on the side. No, no. I had scratches all over me. It was superficial. The legs weren't pretty, On my thigh, It was a bit like a buttonhole. You must have come across a stick. I came across a piece of wood there. I was lucky not to come across which would have cut me in two. That was something I was incredibly lucky about. Unheard of. Katie's daughter will never forget I saw her I didn't recognize her, I thought Because it was really hideous, I didn't dare look at her. By some miracle, Katie will find all her family again, except his brother Philippe, She was evacuated the next day The Toubelles had gone on holiday at 15. They will return to France at 14. Further north, in Khao Lak, it is unknown At the Sofitel for the Diochets, In two hours, However, Joel, the father, is late at breakfast. He takes some fruit from the buffet. His wife and daughters are getting impatient. They want to go back to their room. Dad loves fruit. He wanted to enjoy his last breakfast and his umpteenth plate more of fruit before leaving. It's true that with Juliana, You stop, Mom agreed. She said, I think five, seven minutes before, Of the customers who were at breakfast, there are few survivors. Because as at sea level, the wave fell on them. Another plate of fruit That day, Providence chose As they go back up to their room, the wave is approaching the hotel. A little further, on the beach next to the Sofitel, the Cune family is having fun. Berta, Stephane and They are on vacation The children woke up early. They are the first My wife and I were there on the towels. The children were playing there and the water was about Except there weren't The sea was completely flat. The sky was blue. It felt like paradise. [German spoken audio] At one point, The sea is gone. The whole bay was empty. The water had gone and we could see As these images show, over 700 meters, Holidaymakers and even Thai people came to see what was happening. They came to look for shells, fish too. Then I saw on the horizon [German spoken audio] In this restaurant a man is aware He is the boss of the place. He also films the wave and tries to alert the tourists. I shouted, go away! Run fast! But no one believed me. So I didn't know what to do anymore. I waved my shirt save yourself! Run, save yourself! Nobody hears him. Everyone is fascinated Stephane Cune is still on the beach Like other tourists, he continues to film. The Thais have understood that a catastrophe is brewing and they start running. I backed up a little like that, but the people in front of me They didn't realize at all The Thais were the first They were on the rocks, and they started running. That was the turning point for me. I said to myself, if they run, Yet the owner of the restaurant continued to shout. When they got up, It was too late. I did everything I could, [Thai spoken audio] On the beach, [German spoken audio] When she realizes the danger, Death on the heels, she managed to take refuge on a hill. The wave is now approaching the Sofitel. The Diochet family arrives On the ground floor, Joel Diochet films these images. Survivors cling to the debris. In a few seconds, and the first floor of the hotel. The rooms and that's where we'll find When we saw the water rising I said to the girls, you just have to pray, because otherwise, I don't know what we're going to do. Then the water stopped The water rises up to 10 meters high. At the neighboring hotel, some were They stay there for several hours. The temperature is scorching, To protect themselves from the sun, hotel towels. A little further down, the current knocks women and children onto the Diochet balcony who manage to save around ten people. Juliana saved The railing was so high that she had to bend over completely and that with the strength of her body, because the balustrade had to be and it wasn't easy for her. I wonder if I can save them We don't know if we're really going to succeed. We are afraid that the water will rise. We are afraid that the water will pull them. I was the one who had them... It was up to me to save them and no one else Two little boys arrived and he, on the other hand, was shouting. He was one of the only ones who was screaming, calling and looking for his mother. He stayed with us. He found his mother again, then his father. It was really beautiful. From the top of his Thai restaurant, the director continued to film the raging sea. [Thai spoken audio] When the waves calm down, [Thai spoken audio] So what happened in Khao Lak? Why was the wave than anywhere else in Thailand? To understand, we must return to the origin of the earthquake, The break causes the water to rise to a height of five meters. In the open sea, The boats that are sailing offshore do not feel it. However, underwater, A wall of water four kilometers high and a thousand kilometers long and which rushes The front of the wave and who is in shallow water, while the back in deeper water, So we have the situation on a highway while This gives you You're kind of creating a bigger wave just by doing that. When there is little depth, This is why so many victims. When it was all over, all blue, sparkling. There you have it, a real traitor. How she let loose like that, When the water recedes after an hour, the Sofitel is destroyed. 184 dead were found under the rubble, 41 are French. There is desolation everywhere. There was such a contrast there was a huge noise When the water receded There are birds that passed they left Not a sound, not a thing at all. We don't talk about the deaths, The wounded were there, lying down. Lying on the ground, they did not move. They didn't want any help. You wanted to put a pillow behind his head, but he didn't want to. You wanted to help them, Most of the victims died those located at the edge of the swimming pool. The ones that Patricia liked so much a week earlier. I thought to myself, it's crazy I never thought believe in fatality, in destiny. I tell myself I wanted a downstairs room We found ourselves at the same time It was the miracle. After the disaster, Makeshift camps are being set up. Everyone is in shock because a rumor is circulating. A new wave could come back even stronger, even more deadly. It's me, I'm shattered. Farid and Veronique managed to join one of the three refugee camps Farid continues filming. He comments on these images. This is the camp where we take refuge. We're waiting for things to calm down. We hear noises of helicopters, There are people who died. There are people who are hurt. [English spoken audio] Gradually, people arrived. The later they arrived, Yes. I was very panicked. I think that was the most stressful moment People were saying there was going to be I really felt like That I was very small what she wanted from us. Vulgarly, I felt like shit. I said to myself, I am nothing, I always think so, [English spoken audio] A little later, to collect blankets, pillows, some chairs, especially water and food. The minimum to ensure survival. He also brings back a machete. What are you doing, Yes, we try to clear the space Yes. We prepare for the night. I felt good It sucks, but that's how it is. It's an instinct. In a chaotic situation, They may start to be violent. This is a situation we are not familiar with. When night falls, the 4,000 survivors of Koh Phi Phi feel alone in the world. The phones are no longer answering. No information reaches them. There is no question The survivors then decide to spend the night on the hill under the stars. We are all together to save our skin, How are you? Not too much, no. Not too much. We're still a little scared. We manage as best we can. It's three stars. All groups made a fire. We tried to keep it to avoid mosquitoes, The snakes. To warm up. After the tsunami, a danger of another nature threatens The forest being infested with cobras a psychosis sets in. Kale and Sara, in a nearby camp. They are afraid too. It was 17 hours after the disaster. It was the middle of the night An American came to see us if we knew what to do because It really worried us. We were sitting on the floor It seemed like we could hear So I took my camera and I used the flash In the middle of the night, who was killed We were very scared. However, I wanted to bring back a positive memory So I took Sara's hand and I whispered in his ear, Sara Marie Torrens, It was a strange night it was the only thing She answered yes. So then we got married. Two people will die during the night, Early morning, towards the sea. This is not the Koh-Lanta Clam. A real Koh-Lanta. Alone on the island. The day before, I was in paradise. I come down from the hill Really in hell. As we got down, it was a corpse. There I am in another world. Sweetie, calm down. Calm down, baby. Calm down. In addition to the visual, there is a smell. Baby, calm down. Sweetie, come over here. I am really shocked The more I go forward, the worse I feel [English spoken audio] Even when I think back to the images I was there, It's really Always? It's over. So ! The day after the disaster, Farid and Veronique leave Koh Phi Phi. They board a boat. The 4,000 survivors of the island were evacuated during the day. It is a deliverance for them, They leave behind The most serious cases are evacuated to hospitals in the region. The others are treated on site, in an open-air dispensary. However, the wave does not stop there. After hitting Thailand, it continues its devastating course. In Hawaii, but the Indian Ocean is not within its area of competence. He has no phone number. Desperate, in the middle of the night, he calls Washington. I was relieved I asked for the telephone numbers In Sri Lanka, the wave has already caused nearly 40,000 deaths. In India, it will kill 16,000 people. The wave ends its deadly course 6,000 kilometers from the epicenter and she kills another hundred people. In the days following the disaster, We never stop counting the victims and treating the wounded. In total, the tsunami will cause As for the survivors, even today, they wonder by what miracle At first, I felt guilty for being there Yes, I was not well. Why The problem is, Like, why are we alive? For me, We were right on time. There is no such thing as coincidence. It's just that it wasn't our time I can't understand why was it time I never liked the word luck, that luck was something That we don't have There, I know we were that we were extremely lucky. Families separated after several days of research. There are days when we think about it rather some nights. In probability, I can't forget it. Even if things don't seem too bad, Even today, hundreds of victims have not been identified. For the families of the missing, the grief is even more cruel. I didn't imagine before experiencing it I was thinking, what difference does it make to have a dead person's body? Yes, it changes a lot of things. A lot of things. It is true that when we were told when we returned to Thailand, A shock and a relief at the same time. I think that life is starting again, I have to take advantage of it and I have to to do beautiful things,