Om, lead us from the unreal to the real, lead us from death to immortality. Om, peace, peace, peace. Good morning and namaste everybody We are reopening now for our fall session. The subject Now of course we are right now we have whose whole job is to attain world peace. I had not, didn't have that It's just a fortunate coincidence. But it's a different kind It is peace There is one kind of task which of world peace and good luck to them. New Yorkers are not They're more worried about gridlock because of The two are not unrelated. I remember if you go on a tour here the one of the first things I think it's named after of the early General Secretaries I think He was a philosopher too, In one of his diaries I remember, than taking care of the affairs to love even one person sincerely'. Who is saying this? The General Secretary So, I remember reading Thich Nhat Hanh the mindfulness revolution The Vietnamese monk who wrote I remember when we were novice monks, in our main monastery, our president told us to read that book. So he writes in one place, for the first time in the 70s at that time these protests against nuclear weapons. Funny how these things come around he noticed was, it's a good cause. You're protesting for peace, But he said, I noted how angry and it did not strike them as strange But you're mad and you want peace. There is something, there's So internal peace, to attain world peace and how do we attain that peace? One thing I remember that Swami Swami Anubhavananda Saraswati, he said, I liked very much he said was you know my mind is restless, is not peaceful, my mind is restless, that's a sign of progress actually. Why is that a sign of progress? One way of trying to attain peace is how can I make the world peaceful? How can I stop these people How can my health situation be better, be better, my environment be better? Trying to rearrange the world to my idea That's one way of doing it. The problem is it's not possible. It's just not possible. It's like the king who, whose foot the minister cover the kingdom in leather look put these on, these are shoes will be safe from the thorns of fate. How do we make ourselves safe? How do we get a deep inner peace the ever-changing outside? That's the subject. That's what I mean by attaining peace. who can who can genuinely work for Jesus says blessed are the peacemakers the children of God. Sri Ramakrishna in the gospel of he says how do you get peace? Now remember this is in So he says the closer you come to you feel the cooling breezes from the Ganga snan, you take a dip in the Ganga and then you get he says shanti, peace. You have to imagine not like this. It's a very hot and humid climate. One of the first Europeans who came to a heavenly land with a hellish climate. So the closer you come to the Ganga and finally you take Ah it's cool. Closer you come to How do we come close to the divine the cooling influence of the divine and we attain peace in this life. That's what we're going to talk about. One way of course immediately we come to So if it's a question of putting on shoes Yes. Yes. So we must make a change within ourselves. It's a change in the subjective Not to change in the external world before you start making a change and in the organization. Meditation is one of those ways. The way of yoga. Yoga of course is any spiritual path of the central paths. Imagine the peace of you are not You are not yeah and you have a peaceful mind One of the preliminary practices Before we sit down and have a calm mind the preliminary practices called Yama. This is What is it that we are trying to do? How do we get peace in meditation? What's the underlying principle? One monk put it beautifully. I've shared it on occasion. He said that in Hindi I'll tell you Hindi words (You feel that the mind (In reality So we think because of samsara, the way people talk to us or behave with and blows I have suffered, financial situation, society around me. Because of these reasons I am unhappy. My mind is disturbed and the insight, no no no it's the other way around. It's counterintuitive but it's the other way around. It's because my mind That I see so much trouble in the world. That does not seem to be true at first. No I have so much trouble Swami. But notice, consider for a while two different kinds, two different people Two different people There are so many doctors here The same disease, the same problem, react very differently. For a minor malady one behaves And for something really serious, reacts with dignity So who is suffering more? Is it the person with the serious illness very disturbed for a minor illness? Who is suffering more? The one who is internally disturbed because suffering comes to It's not really what is out there. What is out there when it comes in and there is So the clever person instead of trying to in the world outside will try to change And one of the powerful ways in the mind The yoga of meditation. Now as a preliminary to the yoga there is for example in the well-known Yama, Niyama, the moral practices, then how you sit and how we withdraw our senses how we focus inside and steady our minds And that culminates in Samadhi. The Ashtanga, the eight limbs of yoga. The first limb however, The first limb is certain disciplines, So for example non-violence, Ahimsa, control of the passions and then Asteya, non-stealing. These are the five great moral practices the practice of meditation. But let's just consider Let's take non-violence for example. So I was reading someplace an analysis and how many kinds of violence there is. This is It came to some what, 81 types How? First of all violence done through You go ahead and shove somebody so violence done through body. But violence done through speech also, deliberately designed to hurt. Or violence even violence in the mind, for others, wishing others ill. So what is called Kaay Mana Vakya. Kaay means in body, Mana means in mind, Violence in these ways. These are But also violence, The terms used were Mridu, Manda, Ati. Mridu means gentle, ill or something like that. Or a little more, medium, you know something more cruel, So degrees of violence, And now if you combine them, done by done physically Now you have three into three, nine types. Nine types of violence now. Now that is multiplied by which is done by oneself, done through or encouraging others to do it. So Krita, Karita, Anumodita. So where Krita means Karita means you make somebody else do it Anumodita means All of them are types of violence. And so you multiply those nine types with these three and you get what 27? And then you can add causes of violence. There is Kama, Krodha, Moha, Loha. Three types of causes. One is most obvious, through anger. A flash of anger comes But also more delusion. May not be particularly angry that violence is necessary. For example, fanaticism of all types, religious fanaticism, these are all kinds is right and should be done. Or greed. I am not deluded, I am not even angry at you but I just want what you have the way of what I want. And then greed is also cause of, So now you have three causes of violence. If you multiply 27 by 3 you get 81. You can analyze it this way, But the point here is violence can be of many causes, many ways of being violent. But the point I want to make Violence is many, many fold. But being non-violent is one. There is only one way of being non-violent all those 81 types, The opposite of violence is peace. Look at truth, satyam, the other yama, Now I read this saying somewhere, innumerable ways of falling down. There's There's only one way of being And there will be hundreds Dishonesty, lying can be of The cessation of all those forms of lies, of dishonesty, So truth is also peace. Truth is one and it is peace. Lying is many fold Exactly in the same way literally it means celibacy We may indulge ourselves In hundreds of ways. If you look around the whole, there are hundreds But controlling the senses It's only one way Accumulation is many fold. Again we are in Manhattan. So accumulation is many fold. There's right there if you walk in So accumulation is many fold. In many many ways we may get you, fancy cars and buildings and or one may be with a big bag on the back It's the same tendency to collect stuff. One might do it, In one sense it isn't. You are rich and powerful and accomplished in much bigger fashion on a greater scale It's still doing the same thing that who's maybe mentally ill is doing. He is gathering Accumulation is of hundreds of types, but non-accumulation aparigraha Vivekananda said when he came to the West, a person may accumulate in this pursuit India is striving to show on how little So that non-accumulation is peace. One teacher put it this way, the moment we accumulate because we like it. It might even be a momentary liking. What is it called? Impulse buying. Nowadays it's much faster. Amazon, it just takes one click. It says buy with one click. So buy with one click and if it ever, I bought by mistake. I didn't even know I'd bought it. Some three or four ebooks were bought has been deducted from your account. I said no I don't want it. It's so much trouble. You have to explain why you don't want it or may not return your money. They're very good at taking the money I remember a long way back I had seen There was this comedian Eddie Murphy. I'm not very sure. So I just remember this scene. It really struck in my mind donations, maybe the Salvation Army this comedian, he feels and takes out a big bill maybe $20 or and he goes 'here my man, take this'. That man says Now this man He's trying but his hand will not open The other man is pulling it The hand won't let go. Accumulation. So this Swami was teaching like something and want it, we have thrown The more stuff you have in your room, in your possession, these are mine. Remember we have thrown our mind into it. See it's like this. If I grab hold of this desk and say I might think I'm doing something great. I've got this but I'm also trapped here. Look I'm trapped here. I can't go anywhere else. This has also caught hold of me. Sri Ramakrishna He sees an expensive rug being swept away and he says why should he be wasted. He jumps into the water and swims mightily What he thought was a rug The moment he caught hold of the bear, and on the shore the people you will be drowned but the rug doesn't let go of me. Hindi (Let the blanket or the rug go) I have let it go but he doesn't let me go. That's the nature of possession. We don't know that. We think I possess it. Yes you do but they also possess you. They also possess you. Our mind is scattered. It's only when one tries to meditate. Try to meditate in Difficult. Try to meditate in Much easier. Then of course non-stealing. Again the same thing. Stealing can be of many types is of one type and it is peace. The point I want to make here What are we trying to do? We understand that the peace So we must change through meditation that these five disciplines are necessary. Now notice our goal is peace of mind they're all peace of mind. The non-violence. 81 types of violence but only one type Dishonesty. Hundreds and thousands of types but truth is only one and that is peace. Control of the passions. Indulgence in our senses are of hundreds is of one type only and that is peace. Accumulation. Hundreds and thousands Just look at your own shopping cart Empty means don't buy it. Empty it. Non-stealing. Stealing dishonesty and stealing can be of but non-stealing is So all the five yamas are actually and they lead finally Imagine a condition, a state where we have let go of I do not see anything, hear anything, The body is stilled. Carefully, fully awake, carefully stilled. The breath is deep and even. The mind is focused on one thing, Ultimately that's also dropped. In that deep stillness it's a kind that passeth understanding. We generally don't encounter in Often on this journey people fall asleep. The reason being people are so tired. They don't know how tired So when you calm down the body is mind wants to go to sleep. That's also alright. But if you can keep awake absolutely calm This is called chitta vritti nirodhah, The mind is incessantly moving. Cessation of the movements of the mind. That does not seem like It's surprising. I have a hand. If a hand goes on grabbing stuff, is made to do, that goes on grabbing stuff it's weird, that's restless. Keep your hands quiet. Settle down. But if I have feet, here and there, that's restlessness. That would be crazy. Settle down. For a while sit. I remember seeing He gets a job in a factory and his job which is passing on an assembly line that's all he has to do all day long. The thing comes and he tightens the bolt. Then comes, On lunch break he can't stop himself. He's doing this all the time and they call it's a silent movie, to stop doing that He's obviously helpless. He can't stop himself. It's all day long. That's what has happened to us. That's what has happened to us. Our minds are like that. We are continuously going around Settle down. We tell the mind to become still incessant thinking is incessant chatter and it's damaging chatter. It's like continuous self-talk It's not a deliberately done self-talk. It's an idiotic kind of self-talk which is of mechanical accumulation So we quieten down that. That is It's an instrument. Why should you let and overwhelm you? I often think that people they shoot themselves in the head. It's like make it stop. It's going on and on. Make it stop. Meditation really makes it stop. That's why people try to drink themselves Those are ways which But the other way of doing it of the mind, making the mind a friend. In Gita, Sri Krishna says to Arjuna, you are your own worst enemy who has gained control of their own mind, The one who has not controlled Chitta vritti nirodhah, and then there are This deepens into samadhi. How is this connected with what to the Ganga you feel peace. The more deeper and quieter our meditation the cooling breeze of the Ganga. It becomes quieter, it becomes Shantin nirvana paramam mat-sangstham Sri Krishna says in the Bhagavad Gita chapter on meditation, says in this way, The yogi with mind controlled, with the mind controlled, becomes identified with me, centered in Shantim nirvana paramam. The eternal, the ultimate peace they become centered in that. One thing has to be pointed out here, what might be called a Nirvikalpaka state or realization. Nirvikalpaka means without any movement, the mind just remains still. That's a state and it's a very valuable state, and whatever is attained with You will attain that state One goes into Samadhi, whatever it's automatic, But what is permanent is what is called that I am the one Consciousness which need not be made peaceful. This awareness, it's like that is always there. The whole purpose of meditation is to realize what I truly am. It's not really to make the mind calm, deeply meditative, it's just a method What lies beyond the mind? You, you, the real you. What's this distinction between real? Is there a real me and an unreal me? There is an apparent you and a real you. The apparent you is the mind. Vivekananda called it The apparent mind is the mind, subject to restlessness, unhappiness The real person, I would say is beyond this restlessness. It is always peaceful, it is always and that is realized in Tadadrashtu swaroope avasthanam. Patanjali says in the third sutra, of this kind of deep meditation? The ultimate goal Ultimate goal of meditation is Beyond the stilled mind it becomes clear You're not the restless mind, You are the witness of the still mind. You are Consciousness itself which is never restless, which the Consciousness is still, It illumines the peaceful mind, it illumines the restless mind also. Once this distinction That knowledge will stay even When we come out of meditation the senses starts functioning But we have the clear knowledge this sensory system, It's there, it is there I am not body with awareness, and that makes all the difference. Otherwise what happens is, vritti saarupyam itaratra. If you do not know who you are becomes identified, Consciousness, you become identified with the mind. This ability to separate ourselves you are separate from the mind. This ability to see that I am separate clearly this gives great, great peace. This is attainment of peace. You will get tremendous peace but once we come out of that meditation When you know that you are not the mind, the car you know you are not the car. While wearing Similarly while using the mind, and feeling and sensing That's very clear. That is deep meditation and that is of deep meditation, attaining peace. Along comes the devotee, What is this chitta vritti nirodha, No I will not sit with What is this sitting quietly They say vang nirodha yogasya of yoga is the cessation of the, control of the tongue is the first door, the first door of yoga is that. The devotee says no, I will speak, sit quietly in asana, don't move. No I refuse. I will dance, I will sing and dance and look at the beauty of my beloved Lord, or whatever is your object of the divinity or her love, I will focus on that, I will chant and sing and dance. Who are you to stop me? What is this nonsense What's the point of that? I will enjoy, but not in the foolish way into the worldly and getting kicks but I will enjoy the divine where there is where there is only more and more peace. The more you enjoy the divine, Does the devotee have no peace? He has great peace. While talking, walking, acting, of the world are going on with great peace are all now centered around my Krishna, centered around that. In the Narada Bhakti Sutras, Sarvada Sarva Bhave Na Nishchintite and in all ways with a mind Nishchintite, what do you do? Bhagavan eva bhajaniya, In all our lives, let the mantra go on upon the face of the divine you think that my beloved Lord is in and I am worshipping my Lord alone. The devotee, Many people think the monks, Don't be fooled. They love only one Is that then are they deceiving us? They don't love me. No, they love you more genuinely your reality more than you know. They know our reality more than we know. So they look through the, They don't even see us as a person. They see us as divinity. The divinity within us, the divinity they find in us They are loving that Lord. They are loving only one. One devotee wrote to a great monk. The letters were in Hindi. So this monk's reply to the devotee. He said, you have written, in Hindi I hope you are thinking about us What kind of Guru do you want? The Guru who thinks about God The spiritual practitioner That spiritual practitioner, for us who is God, absorbed in God. Not absorbed in me. I don't want that. That's all too human. Absorbed in God, not obsessed with me. Yes, if you say that, Sri Ramakrishna Yes, that's different. That's God thinking about the devotees. God's duty is to think about the devotees. The devotees' duty is to think about God. Only God will think about us. The avatar will think about us. Will consider But we will focus on the avatar. We will focus on God. How do you get peace? Through love one gets peace. The lover of God is busy making garlands I have seen in the temple, very busy in their lot of work, if they can get something they can do in in Bellur Math, make a garland They consider Because you directly are How do you get peace? Another important thing Nishchinti te hi, with no concern, How will you have no anxiety? Put the entire burden on the Lord. One man was going in a train and he saw, was sitting in front This man said, The train which is carrying you It is exactly like that. The divine train which is carrying all Put the bundle You take care of it my Lord. I will do whatever has to be done It is your samsara. Once one gentleman came to Now it is called Chennai. In Madras in those days and the founder Mylapore, Swami Ramakrishnananda, And this gentleman would come and he had projects for social development, He didn't do anything And he wanted to talk about it Who listened to him patiently what God did before you were born. Putting the whole burden you will become passive. In fact you can be I was reading, do I was reading Martin Luther, the founder So in one of his diaries he writes on his knees He says the day I have no time, that day I spend two hours. Force more time, give So nishchinti te, But I don't know what will happen. I want it this way Then what my Lord I have told this story earlier also. I heard it in the Himalayas. Generally we used to go There are some monks I heard, I didn't see this myself, a cave long before I went there, And the villagers would bring him food It's a little bit Leave it outside the cave. And he would come and eat Mera yaar mujhe khilata. He would call God my friend, my buddy. Yaar means buddy. My buddy feeds me, my friend feeds me. So one day They didn't bring any food that day. But they watched from a distance, At the appointed hour the monk No food. He shrugged and went back inside. After some time, one hour later, Went back inside. In the evening, I hope the villagers to the monk and they said, well, They wanted to teach him a lesson. It's not your friend He danced and he sang, Well, wonderful, My beloved friend, his will was done. What do you mean? Every day he explained, And my beloved But today I want to eat, I am hungry. But my beloved I am so happy today. My will was not done, his will was done. I am very happy today. Chalo aaj meri yaar ki chali. See this is Everything that happens here, good, We will try to do what is good. We will fight against what is bad or ugly. But we know We do not know why. The devotee The devotee just wants to surrender That is the way to peace. In the imitation of Christ there is it is imagined, the author imagines Lord how can I get peace? He says, my son If you see then we will see how difficult We just get pieces of our life. Four things. One, always seek to have less Opposite of New York philosophy. Always seek to have less Second, Even worse. In matters of credit, I will be behind. You go ahead. You enjoy. Third, even more difficult, even worse, of another rather than your own will. In all matters of opinion. We always want It is opinion. The other person's opinion But yours may be a little better. The other person's opinion Let that person's opinion be upheld. Let the will of the other. Try to do the will Very difficult. We always want to win the argument. We always want others to do what we want. And we say because we are right after all. I am right. That's why they should do it. Or I know better. The problem But the point In all things see That's the important thing. And then you find peace. Four things. Always seek to have less rather than more. Always seek to be last rather than first. Always seek to do the will And finally in all things see Vedanta says, Ishvara, the Lord Whatever happens is by the will of God. To be able to flow accordingly, The devotee does it. It is easier for the devotee We find it more difficult but I also love the world. I want the world to be like this. The Lord wants it the other way around. I get annoyed with the Lord. No. I love the Lord and it's the Lord's world. If the Lord wants it this way or that way, whatever he or she wants with the world. And I will do my best. Whatever I have been put, I will do my best So this is how the devotee finds peace. Now we come to In the gospel of Sri Ramakrishna, there is this Brahmin Krishnadhan. Sri Ramakrishna liked him He was intelligent, capable. Sri Ramakrishna encouraged him, spirituality, on God realization. Don't spend your days like this. And so this Krishnadhan The path of spirituality is endless. Sri Ramakrishna contradicts him Where you find peace, there is the end. In Bengali he says, Stay there. Another place he says, When you do not When you do not this, not this, know that you have found the truth. You stay there. Be centered there. It's not an endless path. There is a clear end to it. Which we find and you become Then you manifest it. Then you live it. Sri Ramakrishna, before I go into that, I am just reminded, how do you get peace So, revered Swami Dayanandaji He used to say, what Vedanta can do for from what to so what. In his characteristic humor he said, It moves you from what, Whatever you get upset with. Wherever we are, in whatever position there are things which we get upset with. We will not anymore. You will move from what to so what. It's alright. We do the Ram Naam, And in the initial verses, a beautiful, very beautiful verse. Mukham bhuja Sri Raghunandanasya. The peace, the serenity The verse says, which was not increased the crown prince of Ayodhya. And that same night he was banished to He said, no you are not going to be king. You are just going to be exiled to Which was not decreased, The glow, the serenity, the peace, did not darken a little bit to go into the forest for 14 years. An uncertain future. That one, that glow, that peace, made shower auspiciousness on us. That is the chant How can we have that? I remember What it means is when you meet you may feel a kind of jealousy. It is a holy jealousy. It is a good thing. You feel I remember feeling that one. I did not even know I was a newcomer to offer our pranams to the president of the whole Ramakrishna order, He was 98, 97 years around that time. And we used to go and bow down to him He would speak with us. Mostly with the senior monks. We were very junior, we were newcomers. We were not even allowed inside I understand there are some and a lot of people online also. So I remember we used to stand outside kind enough to put little speakers on his shirt so that we could hear. I still remember. We were just trying to get a glimpse pushing each other to just see. We could see There were And I would feel what this old man has, if I could get a fraction of that. It's an unnameable quality It's not a physical thing, it's not or intellectual thing, not emotional. Something which comes from Something transcendent and elevates the whole room, the entire house as it were. It vibrates with It's so lofty. I mean 30 years have passed than what happened this morning, what happened in those days 30 years ago. Even the feeling of it, the sound And he's not alone. There are others like that also. So the holy envy, I want some of that. That which takes you Sri Ramakrishna says, the problem here Brahman but their eyes Then that's the problem. There is attachment in the mind to position, to popularity, whatever. The things which used to attract us Although now we know all this Vedanta. So he is saying,[sanskrit verse] He says, they are not really enlightened. They are clever about speaking about They give nice talks on YouTube. But they are full of old desires. So what will happen to them? Even if they know a lot of Vedanta, [sanskrit verse] they will be whirled around Until they become really established in which they are speaking about. It's not that if you know a lot a lot of books, you become enlightened. Not necessarily. One may still be pretty worldly. I remember this great scholar whom I had He was the head of the Society Very great scholar. So in his old age, He was very well known for, and he was he was very well known for astrology. He can see your hand and tell you what, Somebody asked him, Sir, So why are you spending You would have to shout it out He said, what? Why are you interested in astrology? You have mastered Sankhya Vedanta, all the ancient disciplines. Why astrology? I will tell you in Bengali what he said. Ote paisa nahi. Aise paisa ache the. He said, there is no money in philosophy. There is money here in astrology. People are willing to pay. If you predict That was nice of him. He had a childlike honesty. But money is important. Then Sri Ramakrishna says, He says, asakti, the stickiness to those old things. Even after knowing all this, The thing to be developed is asangatvam. If you want peace of mind, You can call it detachment. Literally it means non-stickiness. Nothing in the world really sticks to us. We stick to it. We try to hold on to it. And also we fail miserably trying to hold We cannot hold on to anything. But we try to hold on to things. And nothing in the world holds on to us. Not money, not people, not power, It is continuously flowing. We are attached to the world. You are also not attached to the world. One monk put it so beautifully. Think of the strongest possible attachment It is a young mother for her baby. Mother for a young baby. Strongest possible. There is a very strong biological But it is the strongest attachment. And yet when she goes to sleep, I think So they are And they forget everything. The world, their own bodies, You are not attached. You think you are attached. Nothing in the world is attached to us. We are not attached to anything. Our real nature, our self. Asangatvam. Let me dwell just a little bit. I am going to indulge myself a little bit. It is a subject which I enjoy. Why are we not attached to anything? What is the mechanism? Why do you think we are anything? As awareness, we are like light. We are aware of things. So I am aware and I am aware of objects. People, places. I say, Swami, are people objects to you? People means the body, Those are definitely objective. The Conscious being, remember, which you are, anybody else. We can all see your body, But we cannot see you as Consciousness. That never becomes an object to anybody. What is an object is That which appears to Think of yourself as a light Whatever we see, hear, smell, taste, whatever we remember, whatever we hate, whatever we plan, all of that, You are light. Now the light This is the principle. Shankaracharya says, [sanskrit verse] Like the sun, but it illumines everything, people and water and trees, clouds, is not affected by any of it. When it illumines the water in the lake, When it illumines the dust on the road, Not at all. Like the sun, I illumine everything, So that's one reason Whatever we illumine, if you are If you are aware of it, It just seems to be If that which I am aware Because you are that That object cannot affect you. Like sunlight, we illumine objects distinct from what we illumine. That's one reason. The second reason I have had occasion Upadhi is, imagine if you have a crystal. This is a classic example. And you put a red flower behind it. This is Put a red flower behind the crystal. Crystal is transparent. But if you put a red flower behind it, If I put this orange cloth the crystal will look orange to you. Now this orange cloth Upadhi is translated quite unhelpfully What adjunct? What does it mean? Anything that which comes near that's an operative word, important word, its properties to something else. So this one comes near the crystal its orange color to the crystal. The red flower comes near the crystal the red color to the crystal. But the crystal even when it looks red, Even when it looks orange, And we know that. Exactly like that, we, the awareness, comes near it, like the red flower it appears to transfer its qualities So an upset mind, you feel I am upset. A mind full of desire, you feel 'I want'. You don't. You are neither upset You are illumining And the upset is in the mind. And the wanting is in the mind. And the unhappiness is in the mind. And the excitement is in the mind. The boredom is in the mind. Waking, dreaming, Not in awareness. This is called Upadi. Therefore what is in the mind You are actually, it is not transferred, The crystal is Asanga. It is not connected to the orange cloth It is not connected to orange color, by the presence of the red color. It is Asanga. Similarly as witness Consciousness Already, it is already a fact. We have to just recognize the fact. The more we recognize it and notice it, as awareness it is alright. Even in the most difficult circumstance, that is appearing in me, looks a big struggle, but just temporary. It is appearing, it will go away very soon it is not really in me. So Upadhi. The conditions of the body, healthy or wrinkled skin, Yes, there is wrinkles Consciousness is not wrinkled. Swami, that is alright, But the face is not you. The face is not you. It is an object. It is a thing. It never was you. That is difficult Swami. It isn't. It is pretty simple. We are so engaged in taking care of this, the body, feeding it It will cheat us very badly and very soon. It will get old and creaky and troublesome and harder taking care of it. Finally it will die Gone. What happened? Finished. But then I wasted my life. You did. The body will tell you, You are supposed to do something in life not to take care of the body. So Upadhi. The body appears to transfer The mind appears to transfer It appears. Even when it seems that I am old and I am so unhappy and I am so lonely. Old. Body is old. We are not denying that fact. Sick. That is a condition of the prana, not you. Unhappy or lonely. That is a condition of the mind, not you. When you do that, and it is a fact, When you fall asleep for example, when you are not aware of the mind, No. Do you feel in No. In deep sleep You don't feel lonely at all. It is the mind. Because the mind has fallen asleep, in deep sleep. You don't feel anything at all. Because it is the mind which generates and then transfers it to you. Upadhi. This is another point. This is the second reason Already. And remember, asanga leads to peace. Asangatvam, the shanti, The third reason is It is a fancy Sanskrit word. But what it means is in Vedanta, Brahman is the ground of this entire universe. The entire universe So, it is like clay being made into a pot. It is a classic example being given. The material of the pot is clay and the activity is what you call pot. Let me repeat that. The material is wood and it is shaped into and this is called a lectern or a podium. And it has a name, Swami gives long talks from this. So, these are the name, form and use. But the material is wood. You say touch wood, It is the material here. Now, the point here is the material cause with respect to the effect. Let me repeat that. The clay, when you make it into a pot, It is still clay. It is still wood here. If you say, no, no, you are What is a podium? In fact, it sounds peculiar. Somebody asks, point out the podium here. Swami, you are just using it, look at it. But this is wood. Apart from the wood, can you point out There is no such thing. The podium is a name Nama, rupa, vivahara. But the material, here, touch wood. So, the material cause is by names, forms and functions. There is a nice story about this. The sage Shukadeva. This is an old story The sage Shukadeva, he comes to He is childlike. He doesn't know the formalities. You have to go You have to bow down He just says, hi, or something like that. And Shiva also talks with him Parvati is very unhappy. She looks in askance at this sage. And when he leaves, I am translating from Hindi. He has become very egotistic Did you notice? He didn't even bow down to you, And Shiva said, he is innocent. He doesn't think about these things. Ok, story within story. I remember, this is about 30 years ago, We were walking with a senior monk And we were walking in And one of the school students, He took out the shoe Swami, can you take it out? And Swami took the nail I was aghast. I said to the Swami, look at that boy. He is giving his shoe to you. He doesn't even know the rudiments of I was a monk for three days or a week. And this Swami had been He smiled and said, the fault He is innocent. He doesn't know these differences. It's a hierarchy And it's alright. So, the saint, Shiva said, he is innocent. He doesn't think in that way. But Parvati said, no, this is not good. He needs to be taught a lesson. This is from Hindi. Oont jaisa naak upar karke chalta hai. He walks with So, I am going to punish him. Shiva, It's impossible to argue So, And she says to the sage, the sage and says, become a camel. And of course, she is the divine mother. She is in charge of the entire universe. Whatever she wants, So, the sage is transformed into a camel. Then she comes back, quite happy. I have done what was necessary. Shiva keeps quiet. He knows Few days later, And the sage is also her child. She is worried. She is saying to Shiva, I wonder And Shiva says, I am sure he is okay. No, but he was a sage and now he is a camel. So, I feel sort of bad for him. And Shiva says, That's what she wanted to do And then she goes By the way, So, it's like that. In all her glory she appears before dry shrubs in the desert. Well, well, well, O Shukadeva! O sage Shuka! And Shukadeva, the camel chaste Sanskrit and all that. So, he says, Ah, mother, you have come. Yes, wonderful. Things are really good. They are good? Yes, they are very good. You know, I had to collect money for the ashram these stupid brahmacharis, novices. I had to teach them Vedanta and I had But now I am a camel. I go wherever I like and I eat what I like and just I spend my time. I am so happy. I am not translating. The Hindi itself is much more crude. It's like I can eat So, I am a camel. Divine mother was, oh, She said, alright, be a sage again. And he says, alright, I will be a sage. Now, the point of this is, form and function doesn't matter. This is a colorful story to show that. Name, form and function doesn't touch you. The Brahman Not even Karana, the Adhishtana I will just give it It will take Brahman is the ground of the cause What does that mean? Brahman as existence consciousness bliss becomes the cause of the universe the five elements is the effect. So, Brahman becomes But both cause and effect, Brahman and effect, the ground of both is Brahman. And the ground So, you are Asanga, untouched. You are Karya Karana Adhishtana Brahman. I am just trying to explain that clause. Third reason Don't worry, I will sum up all three. I am sure you forgot. What were the first two? And then the fourth reason Vivart Adhishtana. Brahman is The reality So, the rope appears as a snake. But nothing Or as Shankaracharya says, all the water one grain of sand in the desert. Why? Because the mirage water And the desert Vyavaharika... pratibhaska... These two differences in Sanskrit. So, whatever happens on the movie There might be a tremendous explosion but the screen doesn't become scorched. There might be a great flood in the movie, There might be a great earthquake Because what happens at the level Brahman is the reality And therefore asanga, the reality unaffected by the appearance. And the fifth reason why we are asanga, It's a much more simple way truth is not affected by falsity. Truth is not affected by falsity. What is real is not affected by Just making it more simple. So, five reasons, Why you, the Atman, the world appearance, why you are asanga. What are the five reasons? One, because of, Light is not affected by what it illumines. Two, upadi. Remember the upadhi? The upadi actually does not transfer, onto you but does not transfer. You only appear like that Third, karya karana dishtana. Remember the wood The ground of this universe and effect of this universe. Third and then The ground the appearance. All the water in a mirage is not one grain of sand of the desert. All the happenings of this world leaves the ground of this universe. Or to put it the whole thing falsity does not affect reality. I am translating again from Hindi. Tattva. Tattva means reality. The principle an appearance because of these reasons. I will try to conclude now. We will give Ma Sarada the last word. She says at the end of her life a lady who was attending to her. She says, my child if you want Rather look to your own faults. The world is your own. Learn to make the world your own. Nobody is an other for you. In Bengali [Bengali words]. Now just think about it. So simple, so practical but so deep. All that we were discussing, the stillness of yogic meditation the non-dual pure consciousness. All of these are packed into It might sound very common sensical. Do not find fault with others. One might even say, There are no others involved. I am just suffering myself. Maybe poor health Even then what she says applies. If we are suffering, if I do not have peace, is look to your own faults. Suppose there is nobody else involved. I am not criticizing anybody. I am not finding fault with anybody. But I am suffering myself. I don't have peace. In that case Could I do something differently? Could I speak differently? Could I think differently? Then maybe I will have peace. According to It is not anybody else's fault. It is not the fault of samsara. It is certainly not the fault of God. It is not an irredeemable situation. We can make a difference And she gives a clue to that. She says one way, a very important way. Nothing in this world is other than you. This is the core truth of non-duality. Everything, everybody, every situation We are it. This world, We alone are shining forth So none of it, even the people in our lives, whether it is health it is a radiance of ourselves. And the way to redeem this include everybody. It's alright. They are all one with me. You don't have to go around They think you are nuts. Mentally however, Not one being here is other than me. Certainly not the one They are all one with me. Then from that position react. First of all to make Then in our speech We find peace. And immediately so. And lastingly so. I pray to Sri Ramakrishna, May they bless all of us. May we find this peace. It is right here and it is May this shine forth in our lives. May our lives be blessed and may we be Om Shanti Shanti Shanti Hari Om Tat Sat