There are plenty of reality shows that document as it focuses on the lives of real people. Unfortunately, that means viewers get an intimate along with the successes. Here are the My 600-lb Life stories that didn't Dr. Now may seem like an unlikely reality However, he's the only person who appears skills in the operating room are the reason The veteran surgeon isn't known for his small what they're facing, without diminishing their Oftentimes, Dr. Now offers his patients a obesity. According to a journal published by the National can include high blood pressure, type II diabetes, cancer, arthritis, and gout. &quot;Now that you have the surgery, the physical So you have to deal with what is driving you Many patients on the show successfully lose increased exercise, and weight loss surgery. But, sadly, some of the show's stars can't to the stress on their bodies. Robert's situation was dire from the outset. It didn't take long for Dr. Now to discover but that he also had an addiction to painkillers. &quot;I hate that this is our life. And that this is Rob's life.&quot; &quot;Good call on the wings. Love the wings.&quot; &quot;But nothing stops him from eating.&quot; After a rocky start, Robert was able to finally The New Jersey resident had a lot of love and his fiance, Kathryn. With that support and a whole lot of work, of weight under Dr. Now's care, almost 350 a lymphedema mass. Unfortunately, the surgery left Robert depressed He even tore his own stitches hoping to get Tragically, Robert passed away from a heart show was still filming. Dr. Now was not shy about expressing his frustration Robert's addiction, which ultimately did him in. He also hailed him for being a fighter. &quot;He knew that he was running against the clock. And his body gave up. But he never did gave up.&quot; Few of the stars of My 600-lb Life are more in particular. &quot;Steven Assanti suffers from severe psychological The pair may be bound by blood, but Steven's brotherly to one another. For one, he pretended to be following Dr. secretly binge-eating. Additionally, he would manipulate and bully he wanted. He also continued abusing painkillers, including his gastric bypass. &quot;He's a big bully that just me all Because of Steven's continued and repeated harsh behavior toward his brother, which started in childhood, according to Justin's program, in spite of both his father's and He also accused the show of blackmailing him As of mid 2019, he lives in Rhode Island. It appears that Steven is out of the program wife, according to Starcasm. Sean Milliken seemed like he was moving in his weight loss journey. After initially weighing in at nearly 900 around and get weight loss surgery. That, in turn, helped him drop hundreds of to his follow-up on My 600-lb Life: Where &quot;I know I can hit all these goals in the next And that's what I'm determined to do.&quot; But in 2018, tragedy struck when Sean's mother Understandably he was devastated, as he and Subsequently, he had to move out of his Houston In yet another sorrowful turn of events, Sean from an infection in February 2019. TMZ reported that his father wrote on Facebook, &quot;He was having problems with his breathing. They were able to resuscitate him and a short Sean was just 29 years old. Having the courage to work with Dr. Now and And unfortunately for some patients, they're to food and completely overhaul their lifestyle. Such is the case with Penny, who appeared &quot;I let food be the way that I found solace.&quot; She was initially able to lose 40 pounds on for weight loss surgery. But after Penny's gastric bypass, she gained weight. It appeared she was secretly having food brought Penny eventually left Houston and moved back against Dr. Now's professional advice. In her follow-up episode, he stated plainly &quot;Either people around her stop enabling her...or Penny's Facebook account has been mostly dormant, is not going well, and seems to confirm what Dr. Now is known for giving patients the hope the tools to help them on their journey. That's what Kelly Mason was looking for when the famous surgeon. &quot;Every day is a bad day. And every step is awful.&quot; When she arrived, viewers learned that she blood pressure, a blood clot in her leg, type and heart problems. It was clear that she needed help. &quot;Some days it just feels like it would just People could just move on.&quot; Things started looking up for Kelly when Dr. was able to lose over 200 pounds. She then had weight loss surgery, and dropped Upon discharge, she was hopeful, and committed But Kelly's heart had already suffered too She passed away in her sleep of a heart attack Dr. Now pointed out, however, that she hadn't She went out fighting. Like many of the stars who appear on My 600-lb his bed due to being almost 800 pounds and &quot;But even though I still open my eyes each trapped in this bed all day.&quot; Additionally, James' family had made some dropping out of school to care for him, and to Houston, via ambulance, to see Dr. Now. But when James arrived in Houston, he hadn't He dropped a bit while supervised, but soon instead gained enough to weigh in at 840 pounds. Eventually, Dr. Now told him to leave if he &quot;My dad's gotten worse. And I'm worried. He's close to losing it all. He basically already has.&quot; When TLC caught up with James a little later, In fact, Dr. Now called Adult Protective Services was suffering organ failure, and she was still Dr. Now dismissed him once again, citing his As viewers learned on her episode, Schenee In order to cope with the pain, she turned be 780 pounds. &quot;Food made me feel better. It made me feel happy.&quot; Hopeful that she could turn her life around, But she was never approved for weight loss diet and exercise plan Dr. Now gave her. She and her husband were even caught ordering &quot;You both need to stop lying. You came here to have weight loss surgery, Why?&quot; Since the show, Schenee has posted a handful them from hospitals, as she struggles with And while she claims to have lost weight on to discern. As one of the first stars of Season 1, Henry kind disposition and sincere desire to attend &quot;My total fear is the end. I'm gonna go. I know I will go if I don't have the surgery.&quot; Thanks to his hard work, Henry went from 750 was poised to put his past behind him. But in a heartbreaking twist, Henry passed a medical episode while driving a bus, according The cause of his passing remains unknown. Many of the stories on My 600-lb Life have overeating to cope with difficult feelings. Season 7's Mercedes was no different. Mercedes weighed in at 773 pounds, was dependent with severe lymphedema. She clearly wanted to be able to live a normal &quot;I know it's hard for her because she wanna But Mercedes wasn't able to qualify for weight She had only lost 80 pounds, and was full According to her Facebook profile, she's now from Houston, so she's likely off Dr. Now's One of the most shocking things ever on My discovered maggots in the folds of her mom's It seemed like that would be the wake-up call that Dr. Now had prescribed her, especially That was also on top of needing a team of Although Lisa did lose some weight under supervision, Viewers watched as Lisa's manipulative tactics in the show's history. By the end of her episode, Dr. Now was clearly and dismissed her from his program. &quot;When all you do is give in to what's easy, challenges that make you stronger.&quot; Not even a year after Lisa appeared on My at age 50, according to Page Six. Jeanne's life has not been an easy one, and during her episode of My 600-lb Life. &quot;My life can't get any worse. But my body and my health are getting worse She first appeared in a messy home along with severe mental illness. And by the time Jeanne and her mother, Barbara, the worse when Barbara had to be hospitalized Then, Jeanne's father back home was discovered passed away in his bed. Unfortunately, circumstances proved to be ready to follow Dr. Now's program. Instead of staying in Houston, she returned We certainly hope she'll get the help she James &quot;LB&quot; Bonner quickly became a Season &quot;There's days where I feel so worthless, I After struggling with food and alcohol addiction, weight ballooned to 650 pounds. Unable to care for himself, he decided to a change. It was clear that James was a success story. He went from 650 pounds to less than half exercise regimen. Additionally, he had become a burgeoning social followers, according to Starcasm. He was doing so well and losing so much weight hoping to avoid any spoilers. But sadly, no follow-up episode would ever Tragically, James took his own life in 2018, &quot;I thought my brother was great. I had no worries. So I want to reach out to people out there If you or someone you know is having self-harming the NSPL at