- It's 10:00 AM. Try to butcher a lot of the product in house before a lot of the staff gets in. Once they get here it starts to be a little bit more chaotic. So I like to have a little bit of quiet time before, before they arrive. We use hiramasa 'cause We're gonna separate This dish has been on It's one of those dishes that it's hard to take off 'cause people are excited to see it. We break it down. We freeze it, and right before service we shave it very thinly on a meat slicer, and to create these very fine curls that we then freeze into liquid nitrogen. And the liquid nitrogen is meant to just hold those curls. It would be too easy just to slice this and put it on the plate. We have to be a little bit I don't owe anybody anything. I owe it to myself to be that way. Like I always say, &quot;You owe to yourself to No one's gonna push you to That's the way I, I approach food. If I could sit and, like I said just serve sashimi-style that's, that's easy, but that's not really So at this point, we where it's manageable for us, and we would freeze this. And once it's frozen, we So we ensure that it's, it's nice and frozen. Day-of, we'll take it When we slice this, we let it really take an organic shape. We're not trying to force anything. So you would see pieces We try to do this as close We're not slicing this We're doing this closer to like 5:00 PM when we open the doors. Minu's been doing this, what, 15, 20 minutes now to get, to get all this. By the time it's presented to the guests, it comes out of the And there's an experience When the guest first gets it, it's frozen. So the base of this dish is built, and then the final touch is putting the frozen hamachi curls straight from the liquid nitrogen. - Through the time they start eating it to the time that they're It thaws out. It becomes a normal piece For me, it's gotta be We can't be so far out of the box that they're not understanding but it's also our responsibility to give them something that's different and unique within that dish as well. And that could be from a textural moment. (intense musical buildup) The first step is leading the guests down this hallway. It's very cave-like. It's very cold. It's echoey. And it's This room was meant to have that first pause moment when the guests would kind of get here, enjoy a bite that would be or on the shelf here. The idea is to really just capture your two-and-a-half hour experience here, and just let us do what we do. You don't have to worry about anything. Just let us pamper you And this is, this is what - So we got some of sweet corn coming in - So now we've got the team starting to arrive for the evening. - We kind of get everyone together, just to get it all shucked and out of the, out of the cobs, so we can So just more efficient. Everyone kind of knocks it We utilize corn for our canape dish. Since you get three different bites, obviously the Midwest is known for corn, so why not start with one of the best products - Any time we put a dish on the menu, we try to explore as many utilizing that single ingredient, especially when it comes to vegetables, where there's multiple pieces of the vegetable that can be used, we try to utilize that So the corn, you'll see in three or four different varieties, and it's always changing. It could be something different - We took all that corn we take all the kernels off, we run 'em through just a juicer. We take all that juice, and then cook it in a pot until it becomes nice and thick. So that's what this, this mixture is here. Just like a corn soup essentially. We pour it into the molds here. So this is one of three corn bites you get in the first canape. And then this just simply goes on here and then these will go into the freezer. Typically try to be a day ahead on these, just so that you have So here we have some, that have already frozen here. And then from here, is where we'll pin 'em. And just go for a quick dip in the white chocolate and cocoa This just has a little bit just for the color. Just make it a little This dish still being fairly new, it's important for me to get my hands on this We have to kind of figure out all these things beforehand before I to give this to someone under me so that I can show them all these nuances. If I were just to give and said &quot;Make corn balls and cocoa butter, they might come back from the perfected item that Chef Richie's working on We wanted to be able to keep and kind of use the husk as a handle. Again, something that seems very simple as say, with our grilled baby corn, there's so many steps that go into it. We like to go through and the best way to do everything. And then once we figure that out, then we'll then pick the person that the course is going to, and then slowly show them. - Something that's always important to me, is giving the guests something And obviously corn is very familiar, but it's our challenge, and our responsibilities is to give them something new and unique. - So just below the hay we put a little bit of a dry ice, and then we have a hot tea here made from all the corn cob scraps. When the, all the bites are on there and the canape is ready to walk, we'll pull the hot corn and that dry ice will release So you'll get aromas from to kind of welcome you - We don't wanna be taken So fun little bites in the beginning should be fun. It's as corny as it can get. - The first dish that it sets the tone for the night. It's engaging. It's interactive. That's what we are. - Produce - [Staff] Produce. So we just got all the produce in. A big rule of the house here, is any, any fruit or anything that comes in with stickers, all those get removed and and peeled off. So you see all the, get all the stickers off the fruit, and then it, and then it's It's like most restaurants have walk-in coolers and stuff like that, but here we just have It's a reach in. So we have to very precisely get all of our produce to fit into these two little areas right here. So this is Chef's Garden located in Ohio. They grow a lot of petite for our garnishes. We get this delivery two times a week. Very expensive. We bought farmer Lee a couple - It's like almost $50 for each. - Yeah, each one of these - Each of these clam shells. - Everything's handpicked and... little perfect plooshes of everything. Every dish on the menu probably has something that's in this box. - A lot of people just kind They're like, &quot;Oh, it's just green.&quot; And we don't just put things on there just to put them on there. - This is sous chef Richie Farina here. He's helping Jack out with the breaking down the rabbits. All the rabbits you see here. This will be about a week's worth. - I also kinda like to try to see how fast they can get each one done but still have the same, obviously end goal of not destroying it. Oh my god, you actually All right. - Sure. - All right. Knife in hand. Sorry. Getting stuck on the bone there. That's always good. (upbeat music plays) Everyone's watching, lots of pressure. Don't mess it up. All those good things. (upbeat music plays) All right, go. (indistinct) (laughing) - Kind of just following the philosophy of the restaurant, we'll take every bit of the rabbit here and utilize it. Take the legs. They're pounded out and rolled into little torchons essentially. Goes into a bead and then roasted hole. This all comes together into - We have a lot of people who will come in and I don't like beets. I don't like asparagus.&quot; And the beauty of it is, is we're able to change the Yeah, you probably don't like beets because you had beets as a kid. They were forced upon you. They were coming from a can. They were pickled. But when it's done, roasted and done beautifully it's enjoyable. And same thing with rabbit. (upbeat music plays) - Sorry. Sous Chef, Tyler. We got some beautiful lamb here coming from the Elyesian He's just gonna start and get it to where we need it to be. - So here, I'm removing the tenderloins. These will get cleaned up. We'll then both grill as Next up, I'm removing the bellies. We'll trim these up really fine, and then we'll cure these, and then cook them into - Every dish that we conceive that starts with ideas written down, and then a sourced product create the dish that we see on paper, that we envision in the beginning. And it could be right on, it could be not. And most of the time it's not. - So then here's the main We're gonna trace along Once these have been removed, we like to let him rest for a day so that the muscle relaxes. And then we'll clean him up, taking off all of the silver skin and fat. - The way we handle things... Maybe the lamb loin was But then as we started to break it down, we said, &quot;Okay, well the fat cap on it is thin enough and we let's roll it in its own fat and roast it that way. - So this will then be and then roasted in its own fat gently. - Then it's just about eating the dish over and over until you're happy with it. Because, not from an ego standpoint, but I cook for myself only. First and foremost. If I'm happy with a dish, I don't really, I'm not really concerned what And that's just the confidence that I have in my style of cooking for so many years, that if I'm not happy with it, I certainly wouldn't serve it. So it has to get to a point - All right, so this is Rodrick and Brian. They work at Rare Tea Cellar here. We do order some very but they're always kind for us to kind of check out and keep, keep our ear to the ground of what's going on in the world. A lot of times we're just kind of executing the menu here and just kind of keeping And it really helps out for these guys to bring by new stuff to kind of get the wheels turning and get us thinking about what's, what's gonna be next. The last of the Australians. - Last of the Australians. - Wow. Yeah, these are, these are great. - Beautiful. - For me, every time truffles come around, I, that's what I wanna reach for. And these truffles are coming They're the winter truffles. - We got a black truffle risotto right now with maitakes and the Parmesan tuille kind of goes over top. - But we decided this time, let's, again, let's do something different other than just the truffled risotto. - It's about 2:30 right now. Prep's in full swing. A lot of projects starting We, we act as a silent kitchen, even, even through prep. So any loud machinery, juicers, blenders or anything, to kind of keep that noise and vibration out of the kitchen so everyone can continue to focus on what they're doing. It's pretty much chef's mentality. He prefers silence. Any noise that would typically be in a kitchen is not here. It's not the place. Anytime we close a door, anytime you put a pan on the stove, everything is done with a finesseful and purposeful way. Chef Beto here, will, will take the Parmesan that's frozen in liquid nitrogen here. He'll take that and put it into the vitamin mix blender here. Blend it to a powder. And you can kind of see in here it comes with just a super fine powder. It's like almost what you - Sure. gonna tap it out over this, this mold here. And that'll give us a nice shape of the Parmesan when we go to bake it. So that it fits the bowl properly. - We try to create something that's very classic in terms a flavor profile, but in a unique way. So the Parmesan is turned that is something that but it's covered in truffles so you don't really see it. You're forced to kind of dig and explore. With most of our dishes, I try to, try to pinpoint and leave it at that. A rule of thumb for me is kind of let them explore on their If they want more information, they're gonna ask. Just say black truffle 'Cause you see all kinds of stuff. You see 'em try to lift What are they doing? There's no right or wrong It's just, as long as you're having fun and enjoying it, it's all that matters. - Yep. - So at 3:15 we'll call five minutes. The whole kitchen will put everything away, and then scrub the, scrub the kitchen top to bottom. - Five minutes. Five! - These are silicon mats that we put down on top of the Taj Mahal Courts. Just to eliminate a lot of the the noise and stuff from the China going on to the the pass as well as insulating the plates. There's no heat lamps or anything here. So when we put a hot plate up we're gonna put that right The quarts would just suck - It's about 4:30 right now. Doing a lot of final steps First reservation's at 5:00. So we're about a half hour away. Everybody's honed in, just running. This is kind of like their It's a good feeling. Gives a good energy going into service. - Yours? - The way I run my kitchen is very quiet. We have an expediter that really runs the entire Meaning he gets the information The ticket is turned in, say table 21, two people, he'll call out order for two. The entire team will - Pickup three lamb. - Very minimal communication. Talking in the kitchen - Order in. Two. - Pickup two canape. - [Staff] Two canape. - Pickup two tomato. (violin music plays) Pickup two caviar. - I never thought in a million years that I would receive Michelin Stars and all these other awards But again, I never set That's just somebody saying, &quot;Hey, you're doing - Take out two tinies. - So Chef Lucas, right now is making, we're actually making a the &quot;tiny&quot; of the evening. So essentially we take, beeswax, melt it down, and then really just pour over ice. You see he kind of gets his fingers nice and cold and then let's it - I could easily just not do this and open a very less demanding restaurant, a very casual restaurant and be successful and not have to probably work as hard. Would that be satisfying for me? Absolutely not.