Welcome to another Mathologer video. So you've not alone. I'd say 99.99% of professional number wall is. And this is really, really amazing accessible number walls are. So, today's state of affairs, and to let the world know about course on how number walls are built, their use as then follow up in the second part of the video at the very end, I've got some pretty spectacular who make it all the way through. Finally, there is video. Another opportunity to win one of Marty Here is an example of a number wall Well, not the the dots. But what's so special about this wall the top of any number wall there is a row of 1s. but since we'll only need those 0s later, But what makes this wall of numbers an officially way in which neighbouring numbers are connected. on top times the red number at the bottom.... 1 times green... so -1 plus 2 ... that's 1. is equal And that's true for every cross like this in green equals blue squared. Nice! Here is another green times green, 5 times 7 that's 35. 35-10 is Now, using this fundamental number wall rule continues beyond what's displayed. For example, Easy! Red times red plus green times green times question mark is - question mark. (-1) There, our question mark is a 1. And, actually, with the row of 1s at the top. Then choose any And now you grow the whole wall, row by row using the question mark. Again,... and again over and fourth... And so on. And so this number wall is numbers in the second row, and so it makes sense All very pretty, but what's the point? Well, be a very powerful tool to analyse that initial are the ultimate What-comes-next oracle. What do taunts you with part of a mystery sequence. Like dreaded What comes next challenge. What's the next be able to find THE, in some sense, SIMPLEST sequence forever. If you're a Mathologer regular touched upon in a video a couple months ago, about difference tables can also serve as What comes quite different in nature and in many ways for playing these games Anyway let's have a look First, here is the sequence of squares. Very interesting. The wall becomes all zeros Unleash the crosses and we get this. Aha, the cube out to be the case for the fourth powers, the for any polynomial sequence will eventually turn What else? What other simple number sequences are sequence? There, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, two consecutive sequence: 1+1 is 2, 1+2 is 3, 2+3 is 5, you know zeros, real quick. And that's very different from sequence of numbers that has a ZEROING out number And here is how we can find that formula. Look comes before 2? Well, 1, right? Now, replace about the Why for the moment. Just run with it. 3 is 2 and so we write 3-2x instead of 3. Then 5 Now, just go on autopilot, unleash the crosses and Bit weird since we are no longer not a big deal either since we are just doing Here is what you get. This new wall becomes number wall. Just for fun check that the cross red times red plus green times green really equals formula we are after is just one step away from Before taking that final step in let's set up the squares sequence as a What's the square number that comes before 1. 1 with 1-0 times x. Next 4. The square number that 9-4x 16-9x, and so on. Next come the crosses. Okay so we have these two polynomials. The one for Now I will show you how formulas for our two To extract the formulas, set Now solve for the largest powers of x. There Okay, if F_n is the nth Fibonacci number, then we like this. The nth Fibonacci number is the sum Now what's the formula for the squares? Strange n^2, right? Yes, but that's NOT at least not directly. Have a look. Let's call the According to this formula the nth square is 3 square before that PLUS the square before Three times 9 is 27, 3 times 4 is 12, Let's check a couple more examples. Yep, it's prove that the formula really works in general. squares are also a type of Fibonacci And, the same is true for the cubes. Here Since animating the formulas so far turned out so formula in action. Very pretty. In fact, there n^4, n^5 and so on. Another challenge for wall formulas for the different powers? Here is and the cubes formula. Don't the numbers All really pretty. But, it's time to get back mystery sequence? Well, put a row of 1s on top. to extend it as much as possible. Okay, recast the second row by inserting in the x's that's a polynomial that gives the formula we There that's a nice and simple formula that you were confronted with. Now, if this mind then What's next? Easy peasy. Just plug -124 + 3 times 86 that's 319. Wonderful! Here are three more fantastic number wall the sequences whose number wall become all 0s Fibonacci like formula , what mathematicians call the case in the last chapter of this video. etc. and in general all polynomial sequences are and many more. Pretty amazing, right? Number walls tables that I discussed in that other video when fact three: all these special number sequences They also have one of those function formulas Right, if you ask anybody what THE formula for this recurrence formula as an answer. Obviously n squared :) So of course the what I'm saying is that ALL the sequences given by Fibonacci like recurrence formulas, also that you can also extract these function formulas number wall. Those ones up there, remember? These of our sequences and the function formulas are these equations. The translation process is a bit distraction from what I really want to talk about formula for the Fibonacci numbers is Binet's brackets in this formula are the two solutions of the squares produced by this translation process Same for the cubes, fourth powers and so account of the full translation process in the Any sequence expands into a number wall. And, wonderful things happen. Oh and just for fun, of integer sequences can tell us about your mortal challenge sequence given to us. Push search and difference table approach that I talked about in out our mystery numbers. But, the formula Sub in 1 spits out 1, sub in 2 spits out 2, sub But what a scary formula! And so, at least in What's next contest hands down :) Long live Now, before I dive into the why here are some more weird and wonderful facts number walls have windows :) Wait what? Yep, they Take any number wall. As we've seen, a number wall any other 0 in a number wall is either surrounded Here is a pretty extreme number wall There, a couple of isolated 0s surrounded by zeros, all other zeros form squares. Actually, as is just a mini 1x1 square and if in a number those zeros make up an infinitely large square. 0s in number walls come in squares. Period. there is more, much more. Take any prime number, that are divisible by that prime number also come built into their base sequences can give rise these squares. In fact, our very first example in that wall there features some pretty amazing highlight the numbers divisible by 2, the first even numbers. As you can see, all the even or occur as part of a 3x3 square Things leading to the image featured in the isn't it? But there's more. Scaling from the highlights a spectacular self-similarity of this Very, very nice. Now let's start again, Very, very different. In fact, it is possible 3 are isolated. Now start again, with 5. The exhibits the same sort of stunning self-similarity Wonderful. And one more. The next prime number conjectured that in general for all prime and 19 we only get isolated zeros, but no one not even the Mathologer is that mean to issue demons among you, it's something to ponder. Prove :)Anyway, all this was intended just to whet your number wall square magic, check out the articles the animations at the end. Confession time, I no But I genuinely confess, building those as I described it at the beginning of this video. Let me also quickly tell you what those Okay, let's go back to the point where we the wall using the cross rule Red times red As advertised there is no problem doing Okay continuing with the next row all is Two steps below the 0, we cannot use the cross Why? Well, let's transfer the numbers There, red Question mark times 0 that's 0. Our can't solve for it anymore. Bummer! And you get at our patch of number wall there are a bunch of we obviously can't solve for it anymore. Bummer! any zero. Looking at our patch of number wall all the numbers two steps down from those Those numbers were calculated using a second draw a new type of long cross centered at one of there are two blue, two red, two yellow and two Outer Yellow times inner yellow squared + outer thing with the other two colours. How do we use That one there. Well, easy, since we know problematic number! Okay, that seems to work. But problematic number will never be 0 which would the reason is that this number is right next to told you, for ISOLATED 0s all neighbouring numbers when we solve and all is well. Don't stress if you that the problems with isolated zeros can be the still-awake among you will have noticed help when you are dealing with a large square zeros, the problematic entries, the entries entries in the two layers below the square. Nope. Instead, there's a horseshoe. The rule takes this two layer horseshoe of numbers around green numbers easily and then the red ones can wanted to skip the details of this calculation and But then I tried an animation of this calculation, let's do the whole thing. Won't take long Here's a sample neighbourhood of a 4x4 There. If you stare at these numbers for a little In particular, notice that the window is sequences that grow by some constant factor. There, multiplying in the direction of the arrow: is 16. Here on the left ... the constant factor is this time. But you can check that we have a factor -1/21.It also turns out that the four factors pretty :) And this will actually be true 2x2, 4x4, 6x6 and so on. For windows of odd on the right side of this factor equation turns we know all the green numbers, and therefore we all the factors except for the red factor at the equation up there, we can solve this equation to now that we know the red factor, we can get Here we simply start from this green number Very nice :) Proving that there are these and proving the factor equation is actually really fact that windows are square for that. Maybe give Four more problematic numbers remain to be puzzled right. This number can be calculated using a our four factors and 8 of the numbers in front Nice and symmetrical. And now, as usual, we can that one there. And all the other problematic there and there. And that's it, that's exotic number wall :) A lot to take in, and all you to have understood everything. Still, very satisfying to see how everything around One quick remark before I move on. Remember at that number walls have an Well, that extra row is needed whenever there a cross or horseshoe used to take care of There when the input sequence contains 0s like Okay, it's all great stuff, but where the cross rules, the ability to detect square windows, etc. To finish off this video, let walls :) This explanation will work best for those in particular determinants. Now, my friend and me that there are actually people out there really :) Just kidding :) Anyway I better give you wise so that we are all mostly on the same over there pop up in many parts of mathematics. its entries into a single number. For example, 0.In many different scenarios that single into the nature of the whole block. Yes, there's a but no need to worry about that here. Just accept The important fact for us is that the determinant the block are linearly dependent, meaning that one of the others. For example, the rows of the block is equal to row 2 plus row 3 plus row 4. And the block is 0. Eyes glazing over? Don't worry recurrent sequence from earlier , the one thrown turned out to consist of four consecutive terms. the sequence with four colours like this. Green, and so on. Now create a total of four copies of Now any four consecutive terms of the sequence So in any vertical box like this we have that the the second row minus the number in the third row And since this is true for every vertical box, is equal to the second row minus the third The top row is a linear combination linearly dependent. Rings a bell right? Among this 4x4 block are also linearly dependent and As does this one. And so on. 0s all the way immediately suggests an algorithm for has a Fibonacci like recurrence formula: The copies of the sequence staggered like we just did. And note the resulting number underneath calculate the determinant of this 3x3 block of numbers and there, a zero, which means that one row of the 4x4 Now, if you keep getting 0s as you process all connected in the same way and that therefore the recurrence formula. In fact, given the very with those staggered repeating rows on top, it's guarantees that there is indeed a Fibonacci And this is the origin of our number walls! IS the number wall of our sequence. The only The rows of 0s and 1s AND the row The only really serious drawback of this calculating determinants of large blocks on closer inspection mathematicians discovered copies of the input sequence implies the cross have been known for more than 100 years while only discovered around 1975, simultaneously but Lunnon and French physicist Marcel Froissart. number walls is much, much, much faster number walls can also be calculated and when it comes to PROVING general properties of with determinants. For example, it turns out its number wall will also consist of integers obvious to anybody who knows determinants, since are always integers. On the other hand, this fact as being generated using the cross and horseshoe solving for the red question mark involves first glance we would expect to see some fractions with an integer sequence which never happens. ending in rows of zeros corresponds to a Fibonacci formula is, is pretty straightforward if you think so when you restrict yourself to thinking only in Anyway, that's plenty enough from me for for inspiring me to make this video, as well as I leave you with a few more mini-animations from one of Fred's papers. Enjoy! Actually, I am