Hey guys. Today, Sunday, we're going to talk about a spicy, hot topic: female libido. OK? Libido is the desire to have sex. About 30% of women after menopause, this libido, this sexual desire drops. And, in fact, in many people it starts to decline after 40 years of age. I remember when in China, Taiwan, there was a deputy who did a campaign, without a bra, topless... Walking down the street. And the slogan was, &quot;We want orgasms, we don't want harassment&quot; &quot;No harassment, but we want orgasms&quot; Kind of like that. And it didn't work out, China is very closed. But here in Brazil, maybe it would work. Well... When sexual libido is lacking, there are many symptoms. The person thinks, &quot;Is something missing? What is missing?&quot; It has many signs. First, you have to understand that libido depends on the male hormone, not the female one. There are people who say &quot;But I'm a woman&quot;. It's testosterone. Testosterone is the same for both men and women. Only, women have 30, 20 times less of that concentration. So, you have to know where you produce testosterone. 50% of testosterone is produced by the glands. Adrenal gland, and in the ovaries. Each has 25%. So when you go through menopause, you don't lose everything. You get, at most, 25%. So, the other 50% is a conversion from another androgen, by the peripheral circulation. So, it depends a lot on the exercises. Then, when the person notices, the person says: &quot;Is it decreasing the male hormone?&quot; Testosterone, is it decreasing? So, you may notice that libido decreases, fatigue increases. You can get fatigued, decrease muscle strength too... Bone density can also decrease. So, in these symptoms, you may notice that you are falling down. And there are other emotional factors too. Female people, women, are usually much more visual. Man is more by touch. A woman depends a lot on vision. So, man has to be your hero. You have to admire it. When the man starts to look bad visually, then he needs to get better in that sense, he needs to help the husband get better. And smells, cleanliness... A woman has many factors where she can lose her lust. When a woman smells bad, she sees that the person is sloppy... Is n't it? Something about the word that doesn't fit very well. There are many factors in this regard. Another: you have to understand what makes the hormone, what the raw material is. The raw material is cholesterol. The person says &quot;Isn't cholesterol bad?&quot; Cholesterol is good for producing hormones. People start to lose a lot of weight. There are those people who are so thin, so thin... And they are probably starting to decrease that male hormone. And when it decreases, the libido decreases too. Usually, when you start to have peripheral circulation, to decrease, your feet and hands get cold. You may be fine, but with cold feet and hands, poor peripheral circulation. There is a lot of acidity in the legs, in the blood... The person has already reduced 50% of the male hormone, so the libido drops a lot. When a woman is more fiery, her feet and hands are usually warm. Then your hands and feet start to get cold, it's already a sign that you're starting to decrease your sex drive. So, in addition to having to exercise, you have to have a certain amount of fat in your body, in your body. It seems that there is a statistic... That, in Brazil, the fattest woman is the one with more sexual activity than the skinny ones. This is normal because you don't have that much desire. It depends a lot on the male hormone. Testosterone, not female. The person says: &quot;But if I take the hormone? I take contraceptives&quot; So, the excess of the female hormone impairs, reduces the production of the male hormone. So, too, the contraceptive decreases libido. OK? This is already proven. And what can we do besides exercise? Sit-ups help a lot. Squat. Running... Gym, legs, buttocks... That, and a certain amount of fat, can help a lot. Also, you can have supplements. The person says &quot;Oh, I know it works for men, will it work for me?&quot; Yes, it works. You can take it. Do you know that wine that has catuaba? It can work yes. The one I recommend most is Tribulus Terrestris. Tribulus Terrestris is an herb that promotes this part. There are researches that show that it increases 30% of the testosterone. There are other surveys that show that it does not increase anything. But, it increases libido. I think it's better that it doesn't increase the hormone. So, it doesn't chemically change your organism. The man normally takes 500mg, up to 1000mg of Tribulus Terrestris. The woman can take half. Instead of taking 500mg, you take 250mg. You can take one capsule before bed. There are others, ginseng, catuaba, marapuama... They also help. So, Tribulus Terrestris, catuaba, marapuama, ginseng, Brazilian ginseng, pfafia... Everything can go on taking these... As a result of 200mg, 250mg a day. OK? &quot;This will make you fat&quot; No, this will not make you fat, this will increase muscle strength. By the way, this will decrease weight. Because it will accelerate, decrease the accumulation of fat. I remember, when we went to the gym, there was a woman who took Tribulus Terrestris for a while, and she said it was the best time she spent with her husband. Because everything is fast. One, two, three, let's go. Anything says: it was bad. Looks more like a bro. Come on, it took. Just like the husband talking. And then there's more sex. So, physical activity improves, all of this will help a lot. To remember this, you have to take supplements to promote sexual activity, for men it works for women as well. OK? There are a lot of myths. I saw someone put that apple cider vinegar boosts libido... It still has over 1700000 hits. I say: wow, what nonsense. People, be honest with yourself, follow the scientific, follow the reality, look for more scientific answers, more justifications. Reasonable stuff. So, it is testosterone that increases female sexual libido. Sexual desire, female libido. So... Don't waste time, you can exercise... Do abominal organs, legs, and you can take supplements... People with diabetes can also reduce it, because it worsens peripheral circulation. There are people who: &quot;Oh, but I'm in menopause... is it?&quot; Menopause decreases 25% of libido, so it's not the main cause. OK? I remember seeing a patient, she is 70 years old, and she got dementia. The dementia made her feel like she was 17 years old. So, she went up and down the trees, ran, and felt a lot of sexual desire. As she has dementia... And she acts naturally, says &quot;No, I'm 17&quot;. He runs after the caretaker to try to have sex... So, for you to see that this has nothing to do with age. 70 years old and has improved a lot... In that sense, just to think that she is young. Is virtual age important for people? Is important. So for libido too. You may think you are a younger age. Virtual age. And do physical exercises. In order to improve peripheral circulation. Mainly the circulation of the legs. And you can take supplements. And there are other things, for example, food. Ginger, pepper... Curry... All these foods, spicy seasonings, help, because they help circulation. So, if it helps with circulation, it also helps with libido. I had once posted on my face, that the vine brings longevity. Basically there are two types of herbs. One type of herb increases circulation, another type increases venous return. It is used to refine blood. So two types. The first category has ginseng, catuaba, marapuama, tribulus terrestris... These are the ones. The second type is more anti-inflammatory, for venous return, blood refinement. For example: Cinnamon, India nut, sucupira seeds, devil's claw... So, these are these categories of herbs, and you put them in the wine. You can have a glass before bed, or after lunch... This wine can also increase libido, for both men and women. It also increases the mood. And wine improves circulation too. Improves health. So, this part you can also use. OK? Wines, cachaca... This alcohol also speeds up circulation. So, it can promote, it can improve. Mainly in a small dosage. Not a lot. When it's too much, it makes the situation worse. So, here's the tip that you need to exercise, ok? And you need to take supplements when you're lowering the hormone. So you feel it. As you improve your sexual desire, your libido, you can also improve your self-esteem. You feel. Like the woman who feels younger... When you improve it, you improve many situations. It improves your skin, muscles, bones, memory... So you practically look younger. Feels more useful. When people lose their libido, they are embarrassed. So 60%, 70% of women will not speak. And then it gets bad. It seems that it is taboo, that a woman cannot... Yes, she can. You can increase your sexual libido, and you can work and live a better quality of life. Thanks for watching.