I recently published a video about Earth Wind Along with it, I did what I always do: post and Tik Tok. In this particular clip, I'm explaining a mistake during the intro but ultimately It's a fun clip in a fun video. Easy. But then, something unexpected happened, I This led me to ask other musicians to listen for the next few days, and ultimately leading about this song. Let's show the clip so you know the context. Now, you need to understand, I've heard player and DJ, I have played this song... That's not an exaggeration. I did a ballpark estimate, and it's at about I have always heard this little bass part I realized that by posting the isolated bass If you listen to it in context of the song, doing. Check it out. So, there, it's settled. I dusted off my hands, knowing I was right. But then it kept eating away at me. What if I'M wrong? Have I been mishearing it this WHOLE TIME? Is it actually syncopated? And is it actually... good? So I sent off some texts to my musician friends, I got back things like, "I think that's he f***ed up the syncopation" No, no, I'm right. This is a mistake. It's settled. Then my brother texted me. "I think it's syncopated" with the THIS You have to understand how devastating this My brother is a GREAT musician. He's a jazz drummer who's played on really I respect his opinion a lot. But all of a sudden, I felt like a character by a zombie and you know what you have to As hard as it is to do, THEY GOT BIT To be clear, he's alive and well. So then I did a poll on my instagram stories. I posted both the isolated bass, as well as to vote on whether they thought this was a The results? ALMOST EXACTLY 50/50 This feels like it's the new "the dress" can look at the same thing and see it completely So, there was only one thing left to do: dive Okay, here's why this bugs me and it feels as a syncopated thing, it still doesn't note a little early, and the bass doesn't It could be a funky variation, but in the doesn't line up. Ergo... mistake. So I wanted to see what it would sound like That, to me, sounds more correct. He's hitting the beat with the horns as they hit. Of course, this is all relative. This song is from 1978 and was recorded WITHOUT I've done my best to find the tempo that but it's not perfect. Just take a look at the first downbeat when Look how wide that downbeat is. Everyone is hitting it slightly differently. Now, THIS doesn't bother me at all. If it feels good, it IS good, and this feels The whole song. This song doesn't line up with the grid If it DID, it would sound like this. This is from the soundtrack for the 2016 movie By lining up each part to the grid perfectly, This version definitely sounds more modern, The original September was recorded in 1978, There was no click, which meant the band had Earth Wind and Fire ABSOLUTELY IS. Here's my analogy for this: Imagine a bundt You fill this pan with Jello, let it harden, Then you take the SAME pan, but fill it with next to the jello one. You've got two bundt cake things that look very differently. The concrete one is NOT BUDGING. If I try to shake it, the whole thing is rigid. . The Jello one can move back and forth, wiggle In the case of September, the Trolls version Wind and Fire recording is made of Jello. So, I told myself, here's the conclusion: The 4th time on the intro, he goes, "I'm quite land it. He forgot about the horn push. He goes back in the booth and listens to the fun of him for it. But... they don't say anything. And nobody wants to be the guy that's like but can we spend more money on tape so I can I thought that was the end of it. I dusted my hands again, confident in how This was a mistake, but it wasn't bad enough And it's close enough that you could hear It's just a big 'ol thing of Jello, and But no one would argue that this "mistake" No one is recreating this part, cuz even if OR SO I THOUGHT. SInce I had listened to the Trolls version, other versions of this song to see if that Earth Wind and Fire's 1999 Live in Japan and Verdine hits it with the horns, and doesn't Their live album from 1994, same thing. Aha, chalk one up for me! Verdine doesn't play it live himself. But then I took it to the people, specifically after video, I kept seeing the same thing: and even going so far as writing out sheet Alright, chalk one up for team "intentional" So then I circled back to the Trolls version. Surely, with their precise, metronomically like this little bass mistake slide, right? Well sh** Okay, uh, Al McKay, former EWF member and 1981, and has since performed as "The Al Earth Wind and Fire Experience" Please Al, you co-wrote the song. Please don't tell me... AL! YA GOT BIT AL! Okay, so I was wrong. I was wrong. I'm not afraid to admit that! Even if I think this was a mistake (which solidified as part of the song and is being bass players. But then, I thought, how wrong am I? I've always heard this as a mistake, but me realize that maybe it wasn't. So I decided to dive back into the isolated He doesn't, but in the process, I discovered A LOT OF LEGITIMATE MISTAKES These are unquestionably mistakes. The timing is off, he's fumbling on notes, this wouldn't fly. But the rest of the song feels amazing, and Plus it's 1978 and this is a big ol' thing And actually, these mistakes prove my original Wind and Fire touches is GOLD - and for that