(slow somber music) - Mama, can I look out the window? - Yes. - Me too. - Will your husband join - Haven't they told you anything? We are joining him in Greece. Somehow in spite of everything I could do he's managed to become ambassador - Well, I've heard Greece is lovely. Full of tradition and the - Oh, the Greeks have only history to recommend them, my dear. The future belongs to England. (slow orchestral music) - Look, there it is. - There she is, ladies, the Britannic, sister ship to the late Titanic. Your home away from home. - Let us hope she's a - It was the bulkheads that These here on the Britannic Watertight, safe as can be. We've got a second skin of steel runs the full length of the ship. Unsinkable is what she is. - Well marvelous. (slow suspenseful music) - Is this dock three? - [Man] Through the archway - Thank you. Are you sure? (punching) (groaning) (speaking foreign language) (whistle blowing) - Gangway. Excuse me, ladies, gangway. - If we'd started this war 10 years ago, number one, I would now be - Yes, sir. - Instead I find myself decked out like a floating nursery. - Well, she is the largest - Hm. - Well I do hope our - [Man] Not at all, madam. In fact, we have pleasure - Miss Campbell. Good heavens. - Not yet underway and one - Everything's fine. Probably the excitement of leaving home, being onboard ship. Have you ever sailed before? - Yes. - [Doctor] A pleasure cruise, perhaps? - No. - I love being at sea. What was it Byron said? Roll on thou deep and 10,000 fleets, something. - 10,000 fleets sweep over thee in vain. Man marks the earth with ruin. His control stops at the shore. - That's it exactly. Extraordinary. Is there anything else I can - I'm fine now. Thank you. - Lady Lewis' governess, sir, to see you. Miss Campbell. - Her governess? Oh, very well. - Captain. - I trust that Lady Lewis - Quite comfortable, sir. May I speak to you alone? It is a matter of some delicacy. - Very well, very well. Townsend. Now what is it, Miss Campbell? I have a ship to run. - My instructions are to - Mr. Townsend is my first officer. Anything you have to say to me - You may count on my discretion. - Very well. - Secret? Good God, you're with - Yes. - You? (Townsend laughing) - Are you upset because I'm an or because I am a woman? - This is a hospital ship. What are you doing here? - We have reason to believe - A spy here? That's absurd. - Perhaps he wants to report - The Germans believe you - Let me assure you, Miss Campbell, and any Germans who may be listening, this is a hospital ship. We are carrying medical supplies. Yes indeed, we do have some small arms on board to secure the ship. And yes indeed, there is But that is all within In fact, Miss Campbell, it that compromises our noncombatant status. - Nevertheless, if - If there is a spy on that you are the person to find him. - I can assure you, Captain, (grunting) - We pull into Naples for more coal. If you have not found your spy by then I will contact the Admiralty and ask permission to put you ashore. - Captain-- - That will be all, Miss Campbell. You may return to your - Cloak and dagger nonsense. No wonder the war drags on. - Contact the War Office. I want these orders confirmed. - You mustn't, William, you mustn't. - How am I to be a fireman if I don't know how to put out a fire? - Hello there. - Hello, Miss Campbell. We've gotten lost and now - Oh dear. Well then who is going to help me fight off the terrible pirates? - Pirates, what pirates? (laughing) - Where? - If you help William put the hose back then we'll go and find them. - Everyone's aboard, sir. - Very well, Mr. Townsend, take her out. - Aye aye, sir. - Try not to scratch the paintwork. - Oh dear. Hold on now. - I'm being chased by pirates. - William. Well, stand fast then. We'll make a fight of it. - William. Oh, I beg your pardon. - Not at all. We were expecting pirates now, weren't we? - Oh I see. - You can imagine my relief. - Well, I hope that he hasn't-- - No, of course not, Mrs.? - Miss Campbell. - Chaplain Reynolds at your - Would you like to look - I'd like that very much indeed. Later perhaps, when I'm settled in. - Well if they've not (ship horn blowing) - We're underway. - Yes. Come on, Sarah, William. - Good luck. - I shall need it. - Oh God. - Discomfort in your especially after so serious an injury. - Oh don't be ridiculous. I fell off a horse. How serious can it be? Are you sending someone - They are searching the ship now, madam. All available personnel. - They would not allow Some sort of an immigration problem. - I beg your pardon? - Margaret, my governess. They would not allow her to leave England. And in her stead they have - And yet though gravely wounded you press on undaunted and unafraid. - Do you always satirize (door knocking) Divine intervention. Would you mind? Just. - Ma. - Children. - William was ever so bad. He got us lost and then - Sarah darling, being an Now you'll find chocolates - Oh yes. - I found them in the corridor. - Well done. Are you feeling better now? - And where have you been? - [William] Choccies. - I was just having a look at the ship. - Well I hope you enjoyed yourself. We have somehow managed without you. Doctor, thank you so much. I know how busy you are. - At your service, ma'am. - Charming fellow. - Shall I unpack for you, ma'am. - Well, if you're not otherwise engaged. (furnace rumbling) (soaring music) - Attention. - At ease. Ladies and gentlemen, hospital ship Britannic. I am Captain Barrett. We are engaged upon a noble to men who have offered up their lives in the defense of their country. In seven days time, God at the Greek island of Moudros where we shall embark some You young ladies have on the road to recovery and final victory. For this the officers and Our chief medical officer is Major Baker. He will supervise your preparations. Now though we are a hospital ship and therefore noncombatants, nonetheless we shall observe - Isn't it a bit dangerous having the bulkhead doors open like that? What happens if we hit a mine? - We only do it for the shift Takes no more than 15 minutes or so. We'll lock it down good and - Right. - [Man] Ah, beg your pardon, sir. - Yes? - Stoker Evans, sir. - What is it, Evans? - If I could talk to you - Oh yes, of course. Walk with me. - I don't mean to take - No, that's quite all right. - It's about my boy Tom. - Well yes. - He's not well, sir. And the doctors don't - Ah. - [Evans] He just gets - Well I'm sorry to hear that, Evans. - So, I was ah, I was wondering, you know. The wife and I we've been ah, we've been praying every night. And he just ah, he just - I see. Well, I'm sure your - You know, maybe it's You know, maybe God won't listen 'cause of the kind of man I used to be. I'd be ashamed to tell I've done in my life, sir. But I don't think it's fair that my wee boy has to - What kind of a God would make a child pay for his father's past? God loves your son. If he should die he'll pass from your hands into God's hands. And can you love your son - No. - No. Whatever happens, your Just do the best for him - Thank you, sir. I never thought of it like that. Thank you. (slow music) - Sir, would you like - A guided tour? Very good. - Ah, this way, sir. I've found the munitions. There's rifles, pistols, machine guns, some light artillery, All of it bound for Cairo. - Where are they stored? - In the bow section of D Deck. There's tons of it. - Then that makes what we're doing legal and proper, doesn't it? - Any problems with your men? - Well we could use a few more, you know, but the ones we have to stick a knife in John Bull. They've all lost friends and - I'll get the weapons. Make sure everyone's ready. - What happens after the ship is ours? - We'll be escorted by the U-boat until we're outside Then we'll take her into a neutral port and show the world what - Rub their fat limey noses in it. - Exactly. Good luck. (slow music) (dramatic music) (slow suspenseful music) (Morse code beeping) - Sir, I've picked up a radio message from somewhere close by. I can't make much sense of it, I'm afraid. A code of some sort. - Could be a U-boat. Helmsman, take evasive action. - Aye aye, sir. (slow music) (ship clanging) (screaming) (slow music) (people screaming) (speaking foreign language) (Morse code beeping) (sailors laughing) (dramatic music) - Miss Campbell, what are you doing? - I saw something. A man climbing over a railing. - Really? And you decided to come out Miss Campbell, the next to come out on deck alone after dark, I suggest you dress yourself properly. Now you will allow me to - If you don't mind, I'd like to have a look around first, sir. - I do mind. And I must insist that you - You wanted to see me, sir. - Yes, sit down, Helm. You placed Vera Campbell - I had no choice, sir. - We decided Botica was - He became unavailable, sir. - Unavailable? - He's dead, sir. I had one hour to find a replacement. You were at Downing Street - But Vera Campbell, she's only What's her cover? - The wife of our ambassador We've managed to get Miss Campbell assigned as her governess. I'm sure she'll do the job. Besides, isn't all this - I beg your pardon. - Well none of us is really convinced that there actually is a Our source for the information And we thought, well, why send someone we may well need elsewhere? - I see. - There is really nothing to worry about. Cairo will get its munitions and Miss Campbell will have - [Vera] You wanted to see me, captain? - Miss Campbell, did you enjoy - Yes, it was quite refreshing. - Do you generally walk - No, sir, I do not. There was a man-- - I know, I know, climbed I heard all about it, yes. Miss Campbell, there are several hundreds of men on this ship. One or two of whom from time to time may climb over railings. Now I will have each and every one of those men shot as spies. - Sir. - Anything in fact, to prevent you from wandering around this - I fear Mr. Townsend has - From now on you will the ship after dark - Captain Barrett, my orders give me complete freedom of movement on this ship. - No miss, they do not. On this ship no one has any - May I reply to-- - That will be all, Miss Campbell. - Sir. (slow music) - Simply dreadful having an exercise in the middle of the day when - Stop it. - William, stop pestering your sister. - I'm not pestering. - Hm. - You are so pestering. I've seldom been so pestered. - Let's all behave, shall we? Now pay attention. - You're as white as a ghost, Vera. What is the matter? - There is nothing the matter, ma'am. - A boat filled with beautiful women. Has any man ever been so fortunate? - Oh, Chaplain Reynolds. - At your service, ma'am. Miss Campbell. Are you feeling all right? - There, you see. I told her she does not look well. - I am quite all right, really. - She hasn't been all right - Well there's nothing like a A few more days at sea and Miss Campbell will be as ruddy as a sailor. - Oh really, sir. I do not think Miss Campbell would benefit in the - Quite right. She's perfect the way she is. - You flatter me. I'm sure Lady Lewis would agree I could stand some improvement. - Oh nonsense, dear. It is only that I worry about you. Poor thing. - Step forward, please. You will be assisted onto Pay attention to his instructions for they may save your life. This way, miss. (slow dramatic music) What's the trouble here then, miss? - No trouble. She's not feeling well. Up you go. A hand, please. - Sorry. - You're afraid. - Yes. - Tell me. - I was on the Titanic when she went down. - Were you alone? - No. My husband was with me. He didn't survive. - I admire your courage, Miss Campbell. - Oh, I've been told And yet here we are being shouted at and told what to do in case it does sink. I find it confusing and contradictory. I beg your pardon, have - No, of course not. - Are we going to look for pirates today? Shiver me timbers. - William, not so fast. - Oh let them go. They'll be waiting for us, I promise. - Do you enjoy children? - Yes, very much. - So many people believe children should be seen and not heard. - And you are clearly not one of the them. - No, I find them inspiring. I love their energy. What led you to the clergy? - It was thrust upon me. - Your father was a clergyman? - No, he's a retired naval officer. I'm afraid I'm a little bit - Because of your calling? - Yes. Yes, because of that. And what do your mother and father think of you being a governess? - Well they're pleased that I am happy. But like your father they wish Are you married? - No. No, I'm not. But I envy those who are. - Come and find us. - You go that way. We'll surround them. - All right. (slow suspenseful music) Boo. (laughs) - There are pirates over there. - Pirates? - Yes. - Blackbeard and his mob, I'd wager. Now you stay here. I'm going to take a closer look. (men talking) (metal rattling) - Who's there? Come on, out of this. - I'm telling you, this is my last voyage. I can't afford to be away from - Aye, I've heard that before. - Ah well this time I mean it. Chaplain Reynolds. (slow suspenseful music) (stair squeaking) (fast dramatic music) - Evans. (head clanging) - Right here, Miss Campbell. The men who wipe the lower will sometimes seek out a Now this may be dereliction of duty but it hardly amounts to - Doesn't it strike you looking for a place to in the same spot on such a large ship? Is it likely that they would congregate for something best done alone? If you had seen them, sir, you would know they're up to something. - Very well, Miss Campbell, if that will set your mind at ease. - Thank you, sir. - Oh Miss Campbell. Whilst you are roaming my ship, do try to remember your condition. - My condition? - You're a woman. Do try to behave like one. - She does have spirit, - Find her attractive? - Hardly. She's not unattractive. - No. - Will that be all, sir? Right. (slow suspenseful music) (door knocking) - There you are. - I looked everywhere for you. Where did you disappear to? - We hardly disappeared. That was your job it seems. - Actually, I got lost. I came to look for you in your - No. - Would you like to come in? - No, thank you. - Is there anything wrong? - No. I just-- - Well something's troubling you. Please, come in. Take a seat. There, all very proper. You know oftentimes when I do nothing more than listen. Letting people talk about often leads to a solution, It's actually quite a nice arrangement. - It is becoming clear to me that I am not the most appropriate person for this job. - Nonsense. The children adore you. Now if it's Lady Lewis - No, no, it's not that. You see I was given this assignment only because there was - I'm not sure I quite understand. Surely there are governess' - Yes, yes of course. What I mean is, I seem to have - Perhaps it's because you're back at sea. The memories of what happened before have very naturally upset you. - Maybe that's it. I'm sorry to bore you - I can't help but feel you have something else - No, no nothing else. - Well if you need to - Thank you. - You're too attractive Husbands and fathers will - You're just flattering me now. - No, no. - To make me feel better. - Not at all. I myself am quite distracted. - I better go. Thank you. It was the best of times, It was the age of wisdom, it It was the epoch of belief, it - Surely you're not saying - What do you think, chaplain? Does God pick sides? - Well of course he'd be - With so many men dying on both sides I wonder if he favors either of us. - There is a terrible paradox. War is the perfect which is of course God's gift to us. - And like most of his gifts, it is unappreciated and often misused. - As I recall, the Bible is giving his blessing to men - Come now, Townsend. You do not believe all warrants God's approval? - Are you saying he does not approve of courage and sacrifice? - I assure you, I would I realize that as a female I shall have to content myself with being the woman behind the man. - Without the support of our women at home I doubt we could win the - Men start wars, chaplain. Women clean up afterwards. If things were the other way around there would be no more wars. I promise you that. (speaking foreign language) (Morse code beeping) - Excuse me, sir? - Yes? - Another coded message, sir. Coming from very close by, sir. - Mr. Townsend. - Double the watch. - Aye, sir. - [Lady Lewis] You enjoy Chaplain Reynolds' company, don't you? - I do, yes. - Hm. He's unusual, don't you - Really? In what way? - I've seen men like him before. They burn rather brightly. Women are drawn to them. Hm, take care my dear you do - I assure you, Lady Lewis, I regard Chaplain Reynolds - Of course you do. (dramatic music) - Is the captain where we want him? - He's always there until 10. - Good morning, sir. - Oh, good morning, Spencer. - All right. (sighing) Damn you, you said he'd be here. - He's always up here between I don't know what happened. - All right, you go check the dispensary. I'll look for him in his cabin. If you find him, bring him to the bridge. Shoot anyone who tries to stop you. (dramatic music) (men yelling) - Are you a modern woman, Miss Campbell? - I don't quite know what you mean, ma'am. - Do you wish to be the equal of men so that you can vote or smoke cigars? - If I were allowed the prohibiting the smoking of cigars. (suspenseful music) - Ah yes, that would be wonderful. Though I doubt it will ever happen. - No, I suppose not. - Women have no need to seek equality. They are already superior. (dramatic music) - My God. - What on earth are you-- Miss, children, children, - Good morning, gentlemen. You will please put your hands in the air. - What is the meaning of this? - You're a prisoner of the German Navy. - And the Irish Republican Brotherhood. Helmsmen, hold your course. If you want to live do - Drop your weapons, or I'll shoot. (gun firing) (gun firing) (groaning) - Give it here! (gun firing) (grunting) (gun firing) - That's enough. (alarm buzzing) - You, come with me. - This is a hanging offense, lad. - Move. - What's going on, Sweeney? - A bit of trouble, chaplain. Better get below. - Deranged lad, you couldn't - Oh, would you ever shut up. - Think of your mother, son. - Get back or I bloody blow his head off. - Easy, son, easy. - [Man] Get back or I will. - Put the gun down, son. - Take good aim, gentlemen. - I'll kill him, I will. - Put that gun down. - They mean to steal your ship, lads. Take him. (gun firing) Well done, chaplain. You'll get a medal for this. Come on, lads. There may be others. - You're needed on the bridge. A man is dying. (guns firing) (groaning) - Stop firing. Put your hands where we can see them. (gun firing) - Stop firing! (slow music) - [Captain] Miss Campbell. - You wanted to see me, captain. - Yes. It has become painfully obvious that I have completely underestimated you. I want to apologize for my behavior. There's not a man or a woman on this ship who does not owe you an for your courage and your perseverance. - Hear, hear. - Thank you. I accept your apology, captain. I know it comes from your heart. (soaring orchestral music) - And how was your day? - I've killed a man. - Yes. You must feel awful. - Yes, I do. (glass clanging) - Ladies and gentlemen, and to two heroes who today risked their lives to preserve her. I give you Miss Vera Campbell Your health. (people applauding) - Miss Campbell. - Ah, Mr. Townsend. Brady and cigars over with? - Yes. I just wanted to say, ah, well-- - Yes. - I admire you very much. - Even though I am a woman? - (laughs) I think it is because you are a woman that I admire you. I begin to understand how - Perhaps then I can rely on your understanding in the future. - You may rely on me at I assure you. Will you be making the - Yes, I suppose I shall. - Then I shall look forward - [Vera] Hello. - Hello. Just on my way to visit the prisoner. Townsend here gave him By the by, the captain is looking for you. - Right, well, you will excuse me. - Of course. Do you mind if I come with you? - Not at all. - There are some questions that I'd like to ask our prisoner. - Evening. - Good evening, sir. (slow suspenseful music) - How's the prisoner? - Asleep, no trouble. - I wonder if I might - Sir? - Captain's orders. Have you got the keys? - Yes, sir. (dramatic music) - Grab it. Cover him with a blanket. (thudding) Stop you fool. - Once less of the blighters - We do this my way. Right. - [Man] Right, let's look down there. - [Man] Righto. (laughing) - Captain, the prisoner has escaped. - Armed search parties, (alarm buzzing) - We're not going to make it, I'm afraid. - Well let's kill as many of (guns firing) (groaning) (grunting) - Chaplain Reynolds. (gun firing) - Stop. (gun firing) Oh, get after him, lads. Go on, after him. (thunder rumbling) - What's happened? - They've all been shot. Someone ran down there. (speaking foreign language) (slow suspenseful music) (Morse code beeping) - I think we know who it - Oh? - One of the stokers is A man named Evans. - Evans? - I doubt he's still on board. One of the life rafts - Nevertheless, I want this ship to remain on full alert until we reach Naples. - Aye aye, sir. (speaking foreign language) - There she is, sir, HMS Victoria. - Oh, that is a most Now we can breathe more easily. - Let's hope so, sir. (ship horn blowing) - I still can't believe it, miss. I've known Evans for a long time. - Did he have any close friends? Onboard ship I mean. Anyone he spent a lot of time with. - Not really. He kept to himself, like. He had something on his mind, I know that. - Really? - He was concerned about He said this was going - I see. - That won't make him (door knocking) - Miss Campbell. - He'd know this ship - I suppose. - If you couldn't take over How would you keep it from reaching port? - Any other ship I'd say sink her. But not this ship. - Yes, I've heard it's unsinkable. Is that true? - Generally speaking, yeah. Once we close these bulkheads it is. - Bulkheads? - Blow a hole in her the lower compartments - Do you open them at this time everyday? - That's right, miss, for about 15 minutes every morning and evening. - Oh my God. Close the bulkheads. - What? I can't do that. Not without the captain's order. - Then get in touch with the captain and tell him I said to close them. Do it. (dramatic music) Lady Lewis. - [Lady Lewis] Hm? - I want you to get up and get dressed. We're going up on deck. - What is it? What's wrong? - I haven't got time to explain. Just do as I say. Children, you can finish that later. - Do what Miss Campbell says. Go. - Should I help you? - No, take the children. (suspenseful music) (door knocking) - Miss Campbell. - Yes, by all means Sound the alarm. Everyone to duty stations. (slow suspenseful music) (alarm buzzing) - Go on, up. (people excitedly talking) - Hey, up. (suspenseful music) - Sir, the Victoria reports a periscope off our starboard bow, sir. (Captain mumbling) (dramatic music) - [Sailor] Quickly, quickly. (speaking foreign language) - Fire! (speaking foreign language) Fire! (speaking foreign language) (bomb exploding) (bombs exploding) - Stay by the lifeboats. It's the safest place to be. Remain calm. This is the biggest ship in the world. It is unsinkable. - Stand clear, make room. (gun firing) (missile exploding) (people cheering and applauding) (slow orchestral music) - Sarah, William. - Mother. Oh, are you all right? Oh, thank you, Vera. - Mother, there was a torpedo. Mr. Townsend came out with a big gun and there was a big explosion. (laughing) - Heavens, well is it all over? - Yes, ma'am, I think so. - [Lady Lewis] Oh. (singing in foreign language) - It's beautiful. - The whole thing hand-painted - The chaplain would want to see this, but we seem to have lost him. - There he is. I'll go and get him. (speaking foreign language) - In English, please. - Follow me. All this is of no consequence. You have failed. - They were expecting us. They have an agent on board. - Then you must destroy the ship. Look at me. We cannot have those You know that as well as I do. - What is this? - Contact detonators. I'm sure you will find a use for them. (speaking foreign language) - There you are. I've been looking for you. - Have you? I ran into someone I know. - Really? - Yes. He's rather an unpleasant sort of chap. Otherwise I'd have brought him over. - I'm glad you didn't. Is that today's paper? - Yes. Yes, I believe it is. - Can you read Italian? (speaking foreign language) - Please. - I wonder if I'm reading this correctly. It says here that this is the thigh bones of John the Baptist. Perhaps the doctor will authenticate it. - Where's the rest of him? - Under your bed all rotten and smelly. - Oh William, really. - Ah, you've found him. - [Lady Lewis] Does in this sort of this? - What sort of thing are we talking about? - Well, the power of religious relics. I wonder if it's for sale. - What would you do with it? - Oh well, I'd wave it And then if I'm cured this wretched voyage would have been worthwhile. Oh. - Which reminds me. It's time we got back to the ship. - Right, come on, children. Oh. - So you were wondering - Well, there you were, talking with a suspicious looking stranger What was I supposed to think, - Indeed. And was I your only suspect? - Oh, not at all. Initially I suspected the captain because he's so authoritarian. I picture all Germans as authoritarian. (laughing) Oh then of course there was But after several days of observing them I decided that Lady Lewis is Oh, the children are - You've done it again, Holmes. - (laughs) Thank you, Watson. (ship horn blowing) - Out of the way, lads, out of the way. Out of the way, lads. Come on, get out. - Can I see him? - [Doctor] Yes. His neck was broken. - It's not over then. - Whoever put him under all - What do you mean? - I found this near the body. - It's from an officer's tunic. - It rather narrows it down, doesn't it? - And are all officers - As far as I know, yes. - Have you informed the captain? - No, not yet. - Let's keep this between us for now. - From what I hear it's before the Americans enter the war. And then the stalemate will be ended. - I just hope I get to strike a blow before this whole thing is over. - Perhaps you underestimate your contribution on board the Britannic. - It's one thing to die for a noble cause. But it has to be said, what Arabia's oil? Mining rights to Africa? - You mean this war is solely about the division of property? - Now that sounds And that's a dish we (laughing) - You would think that the Germans would at least respect I mean, I find it unsettling that someone who I have never met should try to take my life and the - War must be impersonal, Lady Lewis, or we would not be so enamored with it. - Do you mean to say that we if we were all properly introduced? (laughing) - It makes sense, doesn't it? Do you suppose for instance that anyone who knew Lady Lewis and her children would willingly do them harm? - I should hope not. Although it's hard to - I'm sure you haven't - Only except for the German Navy. For some reason they I can't imagine why. Unless it's the company I keep. (laughing) (slow orchestral music) - Is there something wrong, - No. I suppose everyone just - I can imagine. - Good night. (thunder rumbling) (door knocking) (slow suspenseful music) - What is it? - I was cold. - Oh, come to bed. - No, no, I have to get I have to go. - Well, I'll get dressed and look at the storm before breakfast. - All right. But let me get back to my I'll see you on deck. - Miss Campbell. - Chaplain Reynolds. He has a button missing on his jacket. Well, it doesn't mean he's I mean, anyone can lose a button. It doesn't have to be him. - Why don't we ask him? (slow dramatic music) - I'm sorry. I didn't want this to happen. - Is this what you meant - Can you tell me where you - Ether? - Yes, I see. Mix it with something highly flammable like coat dust for instance. Then detonate the mixture. - But why? This is a hospital ship. - This hospital ship is I've seen them. This pistol came from a (gun firing) (grunting) (groaning) (dramatic music) (whistling) - [Man] Yes, sir? - This is the bridge. What's going on down there? Why are the bulkhead doors being opened? - Ow. (buzzing) - What's wrong? - Someone's opened the We can't get them closed. - Chief engineer to - Yes, sir. (slow suspenseful music) - Stop. Don't move. Who are you, really? - I'm Major Ernst Tilbach of And I'm going to sink this - Put the bottle down. - A ship this size will Everybody will have time You can save the children. No one else needs to die. - Don't do this. - You have your duty. I have mine. - Please. (gun firing) (bottle exploding) (bell ringing) - Inform the Admiralty or have hit a mine. And I want a full damage - Aye aye, sir. - Go. Get the children. Go. Please. Please. (alarm buzzing) (people talking) - Proceed to your and form up in an orderly manner. Put on your lifejackets and remain calm. - Sir, damage is in the port bow near one of the coal bunkers. We're taking on water fast. - Hm, our nearest landfall is Kea. We'll make a run for it and - That's more than seven miles. Can we make it, sir? - There are over 1,100 souls on board. The nearer they are to land, the greater their chance of survival. - Aye aye, sir. (slow dramatic music) - Lady Lewis. - Miss Campbell. William has gone to find you. He ran off when I was tending to Sarah. Are you all right? - I'll get him. You take Sarah out onto deck. - Do find him. Find him. - Miss Campbell. Miss Campbell. Ooh. (dramatic music) - William. - What are you doing here? - William is missing and I can't find him. - I'll help you find him. Come on, we haven't got much time. - Steady on, ladies. No cause for panic. This is merely a precaution. We shall board the lifeboats gives the order to abandon ship. - What's he waiting for? - We're making for the island - If we can beach her we But I must warn you. When we land those Greek boys are going to be terribly dazzled by the sight of so many beautiful women. Some of them will require - Are you asking for volunteers? - William. William. William. Mr. Townsend, my son is - Miss Campbell is out - I have no doubt that madam, and bring him topside. - Right. - William. - Where are you? William. William, William. William, are you hurt? - Miss Campbell, I've come to save you. - (laughs) Yes, of course you have. - Come on. Let's go. (exploding) - We're not going to make it. Signal our position, and - The boy? - I'm all right. - Then get out of here. - Can you get up? - I can't. I'm stuck under something. Go on. Take William and go. You're wasting time. Go. - Onto the boats, quickly now. Everyone onto the boats. - No, my son is still aboard this ship. - My apologies, madam, but We will find your son - My son is still below. Get your hands off me. - Mama. - Your little girl needs you now. Your son will be along. - No reason to panic, ma'am. Steady on now. - You, sir, so much for - To your lifeboat now (slow music) - What about you, sir? - I'll be along in a minute. You've done your duty, sir. Go to your boat now. - Aye aye, sir. - Have you seen the - Dr. Baker is dead. - Right. Into the lifeboat then. - Mama, Mama. - William, come. - But what about Chaplain Reynolds? - Come on, miss, step lively, now. - Hurry, Miss Campbell, please. - Where are you going? - Come back. - Miss Campbell! - Lower the boat. - No! (dramatic music) - What are you doing? Have you lost your mind? Leave me. - I can't. I can't leave you like this. Not like this. (grunting) - I would have killed you - No, that's the difference between us. I hate you for what you've (grunting) We need a lever. - They keep the tools through there. - Right. (gasping) - What are you doing? - Shut up and help me. Together now. (grunting) - It's not going to work. For the love of God, get going. - Try again. - This way. (exploding) (grunting) - Anyone help! Help! (gasping) - What a waste. All of it for nothing. - We'll have to force the other door. - Where does it lead to? - To the hull. There may be an air pocket on the way. I don't know, but if we (slow music) (gasping) - There must be a porthole. Or a stairwell at the Ready? (slow music) (gasping) - Look! (people screaming) - Throw us a line! - Throw us a line! - Onto starboard, Mr. Sweeney. - Full speed, lads. - Throw us a line! - [Mr. Sweeney] And pull. - [Vera] A line, please. - Throw us a line. - [Vera] Throw us a line. - [Ernst] Throw us a line. - Throw us a line. - Here. - What are you doing? - They're never going to be - No, no, we'll both hang onto it. - No, you're going. - No, we'll both-- (slow orchestral music) - Goodbye. - (sobs) No. - [Mr. Sweeney] Pull away there, lads. Pull. - Swim. Come on, swim for it. - Come on. Swim, Miss Campbell, please. - We've got you. Here, hop on. (sobbing) That was the bravest thing (ship creaking) - [Vera] Roll on thou deep 10,000 fleets sweep over thee in vain. Man marks the earth with ruin. His control stops at the shore. (upbeat music)