TARA (VOICEOVER): Previously -My dad thought I was the Now, he knows I'm the worst. He was never gonna come, was he? -He was absolutely gonna try. -I think I like you. It's not true. I know I like you. -You're not ditching me -OK. -I have to go. There's someone at the door. MYLES: Come with me. KAT: I can't. MYLES: Why not? -You'll be understudying Clara. You should be very You argued for Tara and I saw enough potential But she's struggling. Abigail, you take over Tara's please. Good, Abigail. THEME SONG: Whoa-oh, Take a breath. Close your eyes. Take a leap of faith tonight, tonight, tonight. This is my chance, my chance to fell alive. Whoa-oh, whoa, whoa-oh. TARA (VOICEOVER): At home, so many I've always SEBASTIAN: It's no secret have been a bit hit-and-miss. I'm hoping that changes now TARA (VOICEOVER): Not My magic is the kind of signs. -Oh, wait. Come on, T. This is you. TARA (VOICEOVER): And that -This is not all for me. -You and-- -That's my mirror. TARA (VOICEOVER): It used to These days, I'm just struggling -Tara, I'm not going But the understudy's have been more consistent. I will not be making a rehearsal, but I want you to that I may be [phone beeping] --[sigh] Someone's told my dad tomorrow, and he wants to like-- -I was thinking this to get to know other -Why? CHRISTIAN: I don't know I if you're-- -I know. -He's fit. SAMMY: Mate. -Too soon. -Just a little bit. -Sorry. -This is big theater, Tara. I need you to tell the No, I didn't mean smile more. This is not an Eisteddfod. Better. When are you getting -Um, this afternoon. SEBASTIAN: Sustain. I don't understand why and then you get to the solo. All right. That's it. We'll have to come back to this. Moving ahead to snowflakes. -She takes a while to process, -If you're directing this, Excellent. Abigail is the safer option-- a little cold, to be weaving her way not crashing into them. -Tara may be a risk, but when Promise. KAT: Yup. No, the parents are fine. But then ever since I they haven't known what to -Is that Myles? -I'll call you back. -Looking forward to -Um, hi, Dad. Sorry, are we talking? -Sweetheart, we're -Well, me-- walking you-- instant coronary. Dad, if there's nobody's shown me -I'm just giving you space It's what you've Let me take that. KAT: Uh, T, uh can you and take it down to -OK. -I took the newest. Dust doesn't work Imagine if your parents and you're not even Ouch! I'm just saying. They'd have to make you a KAT: Wow. That is weirdly perfect. I-- I don't think it needs MISS RAINE: Girls, Tara? TARA: Yeah? -Oh, sorry. I haven't seen that -Oh, it's an ancient. My mom wore it, and Dame Josie Dorrin. MISS RAINE: Yes, it came out Superstition says it's never Take good care of it. -It's gorgeous. -[sigh] SEBASTIAN (VOICEOVER): to tell the story [applause] [nutcracker music playing] [applause] -[sigh] -Hey. You going home at all tonight? -I just thought I should on, see if it made a difference. -It did. -So how long were Um, did you see any strange? -Strange how? -Nevermind. [sigh] I can't believe -Yeah. I'm hoping Sammy's or else holidays will be a little tense. -Well, if he doesn't, you I'm serious. They always need the extra help. And Christmas lunch, we So you wouldn't be in the way. -How do you have 50 people? -Cousins, second cousins. We all go swimming in the dam. I think you'd really love it. -Yeah. But then other stuff -Is that-- I don't know, -Tara, you and I don't really I'm sorry, I just -No, you're right. Bad idea. Just forget I said anything. -Take that Anatomy, and stuff Hm. -You know we do Anatomy in -Scholarship? -Part. Shared with-- ABIGAIL: Mom? I got it. Yeah. And I topped everything. Yes, Hip Hop. I said everything. -Check out audition week. -Excuse me. Hi. Can you tell me where -Um, back the way you came -Is it amazing, -You have no idea. -Thank you. -Bye. [laughs] -Sh, sh. -High distinction, You're in top percentile -I know how I But what about my, -These are your You should be really proud of Which is why I was this email from your father. -Sorry? -It says he's withdrawing MAN (ON PA): Full Act Two beginners to the stage. Act Two beginners. All technicians CHRISTIAN: He doesn't Why is next year any different? -Because I'm in The subjects you go to, they all effect your Mom. Yeah, could you OK. OK, will you tell him If he wants to call me, he can. But he can't make sees me dance tomorrow night. -So you and Myles got for the holidays? -Um, why are we -Because I'm trying [nutcracker music playing] -Break a leg, Tara. -If after rehearsal I want you to be the TARA: [gasp] I'm -I never doubted -It's-- it's this dress. It's like magic. When I'm wearing it, ETHAN: Listen, I've decided to Dad's offered me a and there's some TARA: Sounds smart. -You should stay with We can take [inaudible]. You and Kat can hang out. You and I can hang out. Just think about it. -Uh, I don't-- I don't have to. I'm in. -Really? -Will I be able to change -All right. We'll talk details later. -I have a favor to ask. Tickets are sold out, and some I'm not sure if won't come if they're I was just wondering whether one -Oh, um-- -Forget it. -No, no, I can ask them. -It's fine. I'll sort something out. KAT: It's not much, just But it would be play Santa at the right moment. -Why, are you're not KAT: No, actually. Myles and I are doing a road trip -Oh, I hadn't heard. -It's not exactly for but I was planning on calling and then he could let -You're running away. -Going away. -[sigh] -Wow. You were actually the one person Look, there's one SAMMY: So I'm stuck in Do you still like Ethan? -I don't know. Maybe. Kat, would it totally if I went out with your brother. -OK, stop. -Why, did you see a shark? -No, Sammy. Well, it's the end of the year. You guys are my Can we just be here -Contemporary-- distinction. Pas de deux, high distinction. General comment-- Christian I, um-- I just wanted for making me audition. So anyway, there's, -May I help you? -Uh, I don't know. I'm doing work experience. I have to take costumes. OK. Those are for side And those are fine -And that one? -Storage. -Thanks. SEBASTIAN (ON PA): Cast and -Hey, I'll see you guys later. -OK. -Hey, Kat, you're sitting -Uh, no. I'm-- I'm going to stay -Sure, OK. -You're seriously leaving now? I finally worked out what This is it for us. These guys are our family. So quit dancing. Blow off your parents. But at least say goodbye. -I can't. They'll try to stop me. [phone ringing] Hey, Myles. Yeah, I'm on my way now. Yeah. Bye. -Open. -Oh, Abigail, I fixed up the sitting with mine. -Close. -Miss Raine, when what costume did you wear? -I never danced Clara. -Oh. -Is your dad a no-show? Yeah, well mine since he found out I -Really? -Hey. Hey, let's do this. -Is that it? -Yup, that's it. -Sorry, Sebastian? SEBASTIAN: Yes? -I was just hanging my Obviously, nothing's Anyway, I noticed her nightgown I'm sure it's fine. I just thought I'd -What's happening, Abigail? SEBASTIAN: Thank you, Abigail. -Ethan will check that out. ETHAN: Sure. [applause] -Well, that was was fun. What? -What did you do with it? -Hey, back off, OK? It's just been mispaced. -All right. Wardrobe gave me these. -No, Tara's had a blue sash. Yeah. No, everything's under control. Look, Tara, you're just gonna or Abigail's. TARA: I can't. ETHAN: It's just a costume. -No, it's not. It'll be like in rehearsal. I never got through this Abigail will have to go on. -Well, I can't have a different CHRISTIAN: All right, Tara. What do you need. TARA: Kat. I need to talk to Kat. ETHAN: OK. Will someone find-- Can KAT: Wait, whoa, whoa. Slow down. -It's gone, and I I'll make a fool of myself. ETHAN: All right. Abigail, start getting dressed. KAT (ON PHONE): OK, no. Listen, you're an expert at TARA: Where are you? KAT (ON PHONE): That What does is that you Look, I get that But you need to what it is that you've been ABIGAIL: Kat's right. You're gonna have to You're better-- you're with or without a costume. And the audience will see it. -[cries] -Babe, do they even Listen, I don't care if miss the next one, or All right? All I care about is you. -Why are they -Wardrobe issue. -But I think I'm ready now. -I know you are. -OK, wait. Wait, wait. Can you read that -You didn't make it -OK. -So Christmas day-- are or turkey? -What? -You know, I'd love to come if that's still cool. -You have the worst -Sh. I think you're about [applause] [nutcracker music playing] -If I have to get six jobs, -Sh. I'm watching the dancing. TARA (VOICEOVER): So I'm in this before, where gravity can't If I think about it, I can But rather than stopping A reminder, one of the over the last 12 months to this moment. And finally, I'm flying. [theme music]