- Today I want to share with you how to make a bread that's so easy anyone can make this. It only requires four simple ingredients. You let it rise on your schedule, And once you are ready to bake it, you just pop it into the oven. If you have a Dutch oven, great. If not, don't worry about it. It can be baked on a baking sheet and before you know it, you're going to have some you've ever had. Hi, sweet friends. If we're meeting for the first time, I'm Mary from marysnest.com, an author of &quot;The Modern and I'd like to welcome you to my kitchen. This is a full length baking tutorial, so if at any time you want to jump ahead, be sure to check the timestamps Now, as I mentioned earlier, you're just going to need four The first is going to be flour. You can use all-purpose flour Either one will work just fine and you're going to need three cups. Next, you're going to need some yeast, just plain old packaged yeast And the type of yeast you need, again, very flexible. If you've got active yeast, If you've got instant They're really not that different. The only difference that to notice when you're that active yeast generally likes water that's around 110 degrees Fahrenheit. And instant yeast is a and can tolerate up to But you know what, in this recipe, it doesn't matter because if you want to use cold water If you want to use lukewarm And if you want to use water that is up to 130 degrees Fahrenheit and you're using instant And what exactly does 130 It's kind of like bath water. And the chances of you using and that's something you do want to avoid because boiling water does have the potential to kill your yeast. However, the likelihood out of your kitchen sink But know that if you're worried about this in one way or the other, Now, how much yeast you're on how long you want to That's what I meant earlier by not the dough or the bread's schedule. Now for this bread recipe, we're going to be using somewhere between a quarter teaspoon of yeast or a half a teaspoon yeast. And how much we use is going to be based on how quickly we want to If you want to mix this and bake it for dinner that same day, you're probably going to want to use a half a teaspoon of yeast. The same would be true if you and bake your bread in the morning. You'll want to use a If on the other hand, you want to let your dough just sit longer than a day's worth of time, you then only need to use a And now, why would you want And why would you just want to use a quarter teaspoon of yeast? Let's talk about that. The less yeast you use and the longer you allow and in essence ferment like a sourdough, the tastier your dough is going to be and the more holes it's going to have. The other wonderful thing about just using a quarter teaspoon of yeast of time leeway as to when So if you say to yourself, I don't think I can bake this a quarter teaspoon of yeast is Now, what we've talked about so far is just focusing on leaving our dough, as you see, I've got some over there, leaving our dough on our and in essence, ferment. What if you would just like to have some dough in your fridge and you're really not going for maybe 24 hours or even 48 hours? What should you do? If you want to bake your dough use a half a teaspoon of yeast and then cover your bowl and stick it into your refrigerator. This will create a nice slow rise and you'll be ready to bake What if you want to stretch and bake your bread in 48 hours? You can do that too. All you're going to want to of yeast you use, use a mix up your dough, and then and you can bake your Now, I loosely use the word ferment when I'm talking about this. What we're talking about But because we're using and we're letting the dough I often think of this as a little bit of a mock sourdough or a little cheat. But I'm okay with that because if you have getting your sourdough starter going, making sourdough bread, which I definitely can help you with that, but if you struggle with these things and if sometimes you just want to use packaged yeast from the grocery store, then this is a good option for you because this is going to to those sourdough boules those rounds that you see at the bakeries. We're going to create a by extending the rise time and Now, is it sourdough, official sourdough? No, it's more like a mock It's going to be delicious. All righty. Well, we've talked a lot about yeast. What are the other two ingredients? Very easy, and I'm confident you've One is salt and you can use And this is just a fine ground sea salt. Use whatever type of salt you have, but just use a fine ground option. Now what if you say, Oh I really don't want to Can I leave the salt out? Good news, yes. You can In Tuscany, they leave the salt out of Now there's a historical as to why they left but you can leave salt out of your bread. It will have a a slightly different, almost a little more blander flavor because salt always improves flavor for most of us in our palates. But if you want to leave it So since you can leave salt out, you can also manage how much salt you want to add to this bread. You can use a half a teaspoon, you can use a teaspoon and a half. You can even use up to two teaspoons. I have found, just my personal preference, is that about a teaspoon and specifically a fine ground Our final ingredient is just some water. Now, how much water are you going to need? A lot is going to depend on as well as the conditions of Most of the time you're with about a cup and a half of water and then work up from there. I live in a hot dry climate and I usually need two cups of water. So that'll give you a good gauge as to how much water you may need. But we're going to start so I can show what the texture looks like. And then I'm going to probably and then you will see exactly how you want your dough to look, either using a cup in three quarters It's all about the and not the exact amount of water. Now I'm going to use bread flour. And the reason is bread works very well for making bread. And the reason is it has a little more protein and protein helps give a But if you've got all-purpose So don't worry about it. Now the good news is you Just take your basic dry measuring cup and scoop some flour out of your bag and then just level it off with I'm going to do it right into this bag. I normally have this flour just in here, but I had the package what type of flour I was using. And yes, I live in Texas. I shop at H-E-B. Then you're going to I'm using a glass bowl so But if you have a ceramic bowl, if you have a stainless steel bowl, whatever you have is fine. This recipe is very forgiving, so it's really not a big deal when you're measuring this flour. Don't feel that you It's going to be fine because everything's and finding the right texture, which I'm going to show you, Another thing that's wonderful say you add a little too much water and then you have a little you just add more flour. So it's great, it's just That's why I say anyone can So I've got my second Now I'm going to go ahead Now there is one thing I want to mention 'cause I do get a lot I'm showing you here that And for those of you who you know that they're on of organic products at a reasonable price for their consumers, for their shoppers. And this is not sponsored by H-E-B, I just shop at this grocery but that is kind of their mission. So they make these things but if you don't have the don't worry, as I said, It really doesn't matter. Use whatever bread flour or whatever all-purpose flour you have. Now, that kind of begs the question, can you use an all-purpose spelt flour or an all-purpose einkorn flour? And those are your ancient grains. And when I use the term all-purpose, it means they're not of those flours. They've had the bran and I've made videos where I've sift out the bran and the germ, and then have an And yes, you can make this bread with all-purpose einkorn flour, or you can make this with Now I've showed you how in a homemade way. If you buy them in an all-purpose form, you can certainly use those too. And what is so great about and using those ancient grain flours in their all-purpose form is that they absorb water These flours have had the bran and the germ sifted out of them, but they were ground originally from modern day whole wheat flours, but einkorn flour and spelt flour and emmer, that's sort of the some people know it as farrow, if you're using any of they absorb water differently. But that's the beauty of this recipe, because you're going to be until you get the desired texture. And if you are using one of you're going to wind up using less water. Now I'm just going to use and I'm just going to go ahead and sprinkle that right And now I'm going to go ahead and add my teaspoon and a half of salt. Now let's dispel this, I don't know what the right word is, about salt and yeast. You do not have to just put the yeast in with the flour and the water, and then later at some That is not necessary at all and it seems awfully cumbersome to me. In order to kill your yeast, you would need a lot of salt. This little bit of salt that's mixed in with the flour won't kill your yeast, but you don't have to take my word for it. All the big baking sites like King Arthur Flour and Breadtopia, they'll all tell you the same thing. So if you wanted to go kingarthurflour.com and just And they will explain to you how a little bit of salt mixed in with your flour is not But the good news is that with our yeast in our flour the fermentation process And that's a good thing. It's not going to completely No, not at all. It might And that's a good thing when you're making these artisan breads that you're allowing to anywhere from 8 hours to to 24 hours, to 48 hours, And what you will find with the rises that you do on your counter as opposed to in your refrigerator, is that a lot will depend... I use the timeframes relatively loosely because is your kitchen or is it 80 degrees Fahrenheit? So if you're rising the and you make it in the morning and it's really hot in your kitchen, and then you're going to be heating it up even more when you preheat the oven, which we'll talk about in a minute, then you want to figure on If your kitchen is really, really cold, it may take a little longer with even a half teaspoon But you know what the bottom line is? It's not going to be significant. So if you make your dough at seven or eight o'clock in the morning and you want to bake it even if your kitchen is cool, you're going to find that with a half teaspoon of yeast. I just want you to keep in There's a lot of wiggle room So even if you say, Oh no, I'm in a rush, I didn't allow enough time, chances are it's going to come out okay. Will it have risen as high as maybe one that's been allowed to go eight hours or one with a quarter teaspoon Maybe not. But the bottom line is no All they're going to know and your house is going to smell amazing. All righty. So now what I'm going to do and I'm just going to and the salt into the Just as a side note, in case you're interested in the type of yeast that I like to use, it's simply the Saf-Instant Premium yeast. You can probably find this If not, I'll be sure to put a But again, as I said earlier, Well, we'll start with about I've just made a little well And then I'm just going to go ahead and start pouring my water in. Well, I've poured in one into my dough or into my flour, and now I'm just going They call this like a spoonla spatula, but a wooden spoon will And I'm just going to start And the point of this in terms of getting the right consistency is we want to make sure is completely moistened with what's often referred to as almost a little past a shaggy consistency. We want a relatively well Now you'll see with one and a half cups in the climate I'm in and in This is not what you're looking for. So you're going to want to continue. If yours now has mixed up and looks like what my final which I'll show you in a But if yours is looking dry like mine, we're going to go ahead Now you could go a and keep mixing, but I know just kind of based I'm going to need the final half cup 'cause I generally need I'm making this really, I'm filming this in August, and August, September, even it's pretty warm here. So I generally need the full two cups. So I'm going to go ahead and just add in my remaining half cup of water and I'm just going to start mixing this until I get all of that water incorporated and all of my dough nicely saturated. And then I'll show you be looking for in terms of consistency. So just a few spins or your wooden spoon will And then the texture that very shaggy, very well hydrated dough. It's like almost like gloopy, but that is exactly 'cause all of this hydration to help this dough do a nice job and turn into a beautiful artisan bread. So that's what you're looking for. So just add enough water until you get to this consistency. Now, as I said earlier, if you find that you've gone just sprinkle in some Now all you have to do is cover your bowl. You can use plastic wrap, a I'm lucky that this particular And that's it. And now I'm I'm just going to leave it there. And this can sit there for, since we used a quarter this can sit on my counter for 16 hours. Or if I want to tuck this into the fridge and bake this 48 hours especially since I've got two that might actually work well. But again, depending on the just to eyeball it. You know, everybody says, you know, when it looks about double You know, just to eyeball it. Don't worry that, oh, is it If it's bubbly on top and there are some little lumps and bumps and little holes that have it's ready to bake. And I'm going to show you that in the ones that I have over on my back counter. Now this bowl was made with and I made this one before. I made this one, which I made with a half This has probably gone and this has probably gone And so I want to show you this so that you will know what Now when I check this at eight hours, it looked pretty good back then too, but with the magic of television, and having to wait until and show it to you, I did But that's okay because again, So if you make this in the morning and you want to bake it for dinner, great. If you bake this at night and you want to bake it at breakfast time and there has been a 12-hour span and you've used a half you're going to be fine. Now here is what the dough looks like after about 12 or so hours. You know, somewhere between eight and 12 hours it's going to look like this. And you're going to see it looks And I don't know exactly in pictures or on video, but it may almost look to you like there are a lot of little black dots. That's what my husband was thinking. And I can see how if it might look like that to you as well. But all that is is just bubbles, it's just air trapped in the dough. And what you're going to want and bumps like this, a And when you shake it, like this, it's going to kind of shake like jello. That's perfect. Now this is the one that has And you'll see they A lot of little bubbles, a When you shake it, it And this is exactly what and it's what you're going to see. And again, it's very forgiving, on your counter with the 8 to 12 hours, somewhere in there. With the quarter teaspoon of yeast somewhere in the 16-hour range. You even have a little wiggle room there. If you go past 16 hours, And both of these, this one can do very well And this one can do very well And you have to forgive me I know sometimes some folks will hop around a lot in a video. So I do like to repeat so that is answering a question Now, I think a lot of folks in the morning and baking it for dinner and you're probably going to be using that half a teaspoon of yeast. So I'll go ahead and bake up this one and I can show you how that comes. It's going to have a crisp and it's going to be very tasty. Now, this isn't required, but if you have one of very inexpensive bench scrapes, this works great for getting and then also just using it to help you get it into a round bowl. But if you don't have this, don't worry, you can also do it with your hands. All we're going to do at this onto our cutting board or onto our baking board, in essence. This is actually an Italian but whatever you have, I've got tiles, it doesn't work as well, but if you've got a smooth countertop, you can do it right on your countertop. Now I'm just going to angle this. In essence, it's going but I want you to see. See, as the bubbles become elongated, you can actually see and look at all this wonderful How beautiful this dough has achieved a wonderful consistency. So now we'll just empty this out of our bowl onto our floured board. I sprinkled some flour and then I rubbed it around with my hand, and now I'm just going to dump the dough right onto this floured board. Now I've just got my hands floured. I'm just sprinkling from the We don't want to add too much more flour. That's the whole kind of point of this is that it should be very shaggy and moist. And that's where these bench We're just going to pull pull the other side And we're just going to kind of work it to where we get it into a ball. So once you just kind of of each other, then you're And then all we're going to do is just kind of circle it around a little, make a little tension on top and form it into a ball best we can. So you're just going to move just best you can, and don't worry if it sticks a little. You can sprinkle it with a little flour. Another trick you can also A lot of folks like to do I like that method too when that don't involve any kneading. At this point, all we're going to do is take this bowl or a dish towel, whatever you want to use. I like to just use the bowl or the dough out of We're going to leave it for 30 minutes. Now while this is resting for 30 minutes, we're going to go ahead and Now if you're using a dutch oven, you can go ahead and put so it will preheat as well with the oven. Generally what you want between a four-quart to And what I have here is If you're just using a baking sheet, you don't have to do anything. All you need to do is just get put a piece of parchment and set it aside and be ready to put your dough on that to bake it. Now I'll teach you a little trick if you're not using a dutch oven and you are using a baking sheet and you still want to create the steam that is naturally created by having the bread in a You can do a couple of different things. If you want, you can put your dough on your give it a little squirt of water, and then quickly close your oven door. But a better thing to do is on the very lowest rack of your oven, put some sort of heat-proof container. It could be a heat-proof frying pan, it could be a heat-proof pie pan, anything like that that you or cook something in your oven. Put some ice in there and then go ahead and put that into the oven along with your dough but you're just going to put the oven-proof vessel holding the ice on the lowest rack of your oven, and that's going to create It's not exactly like professional bakers, we're just home bakers, but it will create steam as the ice melts and help create a lovely bread. Now to start this process, I like to preheat my oven Now we're not going to bake the bread at 500 degrees Fahrenheit, but I like to preheat the oven that hot. That way when we open the door, get the dough into the dutch get the dutch oven back into the oven, we're lowering the temperature so I at least like to give it a good starting point, so to speak. Now, what temperature I have a very small oven. I have the smallest wall oven that's made, and so I bake my bread on the middle rack and I recommend that no matter you bake your bread on the middle rack. And I generally bake my bread somewhere between 425 degrees Fahrenheit and 450 degrees Fahrenheit. If you have a very large wall oven or you have the type of oven an actual stove that's you may need to heat your oven or bake your bread at There are some variations and you will get to after you bake this one time. If you bake your bread and you find that the as you had hoped after 30 minutes, next time, bake it at But don't worry, I'm going to tell you how to fix it if it's not the exact color If you find you bake it at 450 and the bottom gets too dark, then next time around, just And so it's just a learning process. The same thing with 475. If you find that that was a pull it back to 450. There's just a little the first time around. But if for any reason don't worry because after 30 minutes we're going to remove the lid and allow the bread to bake And at that point you can check your bread and if the bottom looks you can just pop the temperature from 425, for example, to 450, or from 450 to 475 and allow it to bake for those last few minutes and everything will come out perfect. What if at 30 minutes you check it and it's a little too brown on the bottom? Well, what I generally recommend Chances are it's not over baked. Chances are it's not that brown and chances are it's not burnt. If it is, you can always let it cool. And then you can take a butter knife and just scrape off some which will just flake right But chances are the bottom regardless of the if you've got it on the middle rack. But if you're exceptionally you can always do little when you're first making bread and learning how to make bread. Check it at 20 minutes, Just be careful. Use your And if it looks like the just lower the temperature of There is a little bit of a learning curve. Now, since I have a very small oven, I'm going to bake this particular bread at 425 degrees Fahrenheit for 30 minutes, and I'll have all of these that'll correspond with this video. That'll be over on my And I'll be sure to put a link to that recipe in the description below. The most important thing that I want to reassure you about is that bread baking is just a learning process, It's very forgiving, and after you make this a few times, you're going to get a good feel as to exactly how much water you need and you're also going to get a good feel as to what temperature For those new to home baking and specifically making I wanted to share a little history with you about these type of breads. They're very easy to make as we've seen because you mix the flour and the water, the salt and the yeast, and then you just let it sit for a while depending on how much yeast you use and how long you want it to sit. And then you basically dump and one, two, three, just kind of fold it over itself and then just use your hands to cup it into a bowl and then cover it. And that's it. There's This is basically one of the easiest artisan and it's pretty foolproof. So how did this technique come about? It was popularized about 20 years ago, maybe a little less than 20 years ago. However, it's been around I want to read something to you &quot;The Modern Pioneer Cookbook,&quot; and if you've got the cookbook, what I'm going to read is on page 113. And this is just a little side note, but I wanted to let you know, I'm working on my second cookbook and I'm just about to finish it. And in October, my editor will be here and the food stylist and they'll be here for about two weeks taking pictures for the second cookbook. And I'll be sure to take you along with some pictures from behind the scenes. So stay tuned for that. And my cookbook will So on page 113 of my cookbook, I write, &quot;No-knead bread through the centuries. You may recall that back in 2006, no-knead bread made a thanks to a newspaper article for making artisan quality bread. Although not a true sourdough,&quot; that's what I love about it, makes it nice and easy for folks who may have struggled with sourdough, &quot;although not a true sourdough, this modern no-knead bread of packaged yeast and a long slow rise. All of a sudden, this and forgive the pun,&quot; and &quot;all of a sudden, this and forgive the pun, 'the best And you may recall it was Jim Lahey from the Sullivan Street Bakery, and he even wrote a cookbook called &quot;My Bread,&quot; very cute, &quot;My Bread.&quot; &quot;But did you know that no-knead bread is actually nothing new? Even in the 1940s, Pillsbury Mills was titled &quot;Bake the No-Knead Way Ann Pillsbury's Amazing Discovery.&quot; Now, keep in mind Ann Pillsbury just like Betty Crocker, but both were beloved by home cooks who were ready to embrace &quot;So how did Ann make I'm not exactly sure, but I will share that back in when Eliza Smith was sharing titled &quot;The Compleat Housewife,&quot; and compleat is C-O-M-P-L-E-A-T, It's the old fashioned to find a vintage copy of this online. &quot;In her recipe for what when describing how to handle the dough, Eliza tells us, 'a peck of fine flour, a little salt, a pint of ale yeast,'&quot; which I'll explain in a minute, &quot;a pint of ale yeast stirred but be sure you don't knead them.'&quot; Apparently Eliza had made but Eliza didn't have modern day commercially packaged yeast like Jim Lahey did, and or at least the Pillsbury company did. &quot;So what did she do? Well, maybe her recipe discovery went back to the Middle Ages when French bakers were And in (indistinct) I write, &quot;French bread recipe,&quot; &quot;her French bread, perhaps,&quot; that was perhaps her French maybe not the French bread of when we think of maybe a baguette. But she was calling something French bread because maybe she had gotten the recipe from these earlier French bakers who were making sourdough and letting it work its magic So I go back... Sorry, I got a little distracted there. &quot;Well, maybe her recipe to the Middle Ages and when French bakers were Eliza's French bread, perhaps, that most likely was never kneaded because they were just letting the wild yeast from the They had to make a lot of bread. They didn't have time all So instead of kneading the dough, the sourdough starter did all in the same way Eliza's You might remember that, that I mentioned from her earlier recipe. &quot;And this is otherwise known It's sort of the foam that would occur on top of the beer-making process. &quot;And so Eliza's pint of ale yeast, otherwise known as the wild yeast barm, rose her bread with a So like Eliza and the we too are going to be You know, I always talk about having a traditional foods kitchen. &quot;We are going to be traditional in this case, I'm specifically talking &quot;and the no-knead way of baking.&quot; But what's so beautiful whether you have a sourdough starter, whether you have a whether you've got some barm, maybe you're making homemade beer and you've got some of that and you're using that, there's all different types to rise your bread without kneading it. You just need a little bit whether it's packaged yeast, and you let that do the work. And that's what makes these breads so easy and basically foolproof. Now it's been about 30 minutes and my oven has come up Now all I'm going to do is take some flour and just sprinkle it on And I'm just going to score it once. If you want, you can just dump it into your dutch oven or put it onto your baking sheet as is, and let it crack wherever it would like. But I'm going to score what to do if you're Now, if you're an experienced baker, you might have something known as a lame. If you're new to home baking, alum is, or known as a that has a very sharp and you use the razor blade patterns on your dough before baking it. And you might see some and they make beautiful decorations, but don't worry, you don't need a lame. As I said, you can just put this in as is. Or if you do want to score it, you can just take a little pairing knife. And with the tip, just make You can do three straight lines across. You can do a little bit of That's the type that when you sometimes it'll split what people will call a little ear that's nice and crusty on top. Hopefully that works. I've baked these for many years now, and sometimes my scoring comes great. Sometimes it just looks even though I had scored it. So whatever you want to do, again, this is all very forgiving. Decide whatever way you want to Now, if you're doing all you're going to want to or if you have a spatula, those pancake spatulas that are kind of round work really well. You're just going to put this I like to put a piece but it's definitely not required. And speaking of parchment paper, if you are a little nervous, if you're new to this and about transferring this into a really hot dutch oven, you can again use your bench scrape or a spatula to pick this up, put it onto your parchment paper and then lower your parchment paper down into your dutch oven. If you do use parchment paper, just make sure it's completely tucked in into your dutch oven Now I took my dutch oven out of my oven. I lowered the temperature to 425, and now I'm going to take this lid off. There may be a little steam, so I'm going to open it away from me. All righty. Now what I'm going to on a pot holder over there, You can really feel it. So I picked up the dough. I actually used my pancake spatula. These were great for that process, and I dumped it down into my dutch oven. Now we're all ready to and once we put that lid back on, we're going to go ahead Well, my timer just So I took this out of my oven and now we'll have the reveal for how it looks after 30 minutes. And again, if you're doing always open away from you because there's always the possibility that steam will come out. Ooh, and it did. Oh, that looks fantastic. Now what we're going to do and let it brown up without the lid on, and we're going to let it still at 425 Fahrenheit. And I'm going to keep an eye on it. Again, you know, it's You just kind of got to watch it. Sometimes it reaches the color sometimes 10 minutes, So I'm just going to keep an eye on it and then I'll show you how it looks once it browns up on the top. There's just one other thing that you might have a question about, when you're baking in a dutch that when you put it down that has not been lined with you can sprinkle a bit of flour. The same is true in a dutch oven. If you're not using parchment paper, you can sprinkle a little flour, sometimes cornmeal, sometimes different things to give in essence, on the bottom. I had a lot of flour on my board when I was shaping the boule, so I had a lot of flour so I didn't feel it was But you can really just sort It helps with preventing it So you always want to make sure that if you're not using parchment paper, you've got some flour or you throw in a little Look at this glorious bread. Now in my oven, this was in there for about 15 minutes at 425 degrees Fahrenheit to And I think it's perfect. Now If you used parchment paper to drop your bread when you remove the lid and get ready to put it back you want to shimmy out, so to speak, the parchment paper and just be very careful, everything's hot, including the parchment paper and shimmy that parchment paper The reason is, if you leave the parchment when you go to put it back into the oven to brown up the top, it tends to keep the sides from browning. So you just want to make sure Now, if you're doing you don't have to worry about these steps. You're going to be baking your bread on your baking sheet in your oven, and at 30 minutes it's probably and you don't need to bake it that little bit of extra because it's been exposed to the heat for the total time, the total baking time. And if at 30 minutes it doesn't look where you want it to be, let it go another 5 or 10 until it does have that Now this should move around very easily. So you'd see, if you can hear that, this should move around very and it's just a matter of using a spatula or something to kind of wedge it out. And then we're going to go ahead and put it on its cooling rack. Now all I've done is taken my spatula and wedged it underneath, and now I'm going to transfer it right over to the cooling rack. Now that I've lifted it you can see the flour that remained behind in the dutch oven. And so that was basically my base that was underneath my So if you feel that you maybe under your dough, maybe it's sticking a little when you go to pick it up and drop it in, you can always make sure as I said, cornmeal or wheat bran. Those are kind of the common things that people will put down at or for that matter on the baking sheet when they're baking bread. You may have even noticed that either from the bakery section at your grocery store or a regular bakery, sometimes it looks like there's a little cornmeal on the bottom. Now I just want to tap how wonderful this crust is. (fingers scratching) Can you hear that? I'm (fingers tapping) It's beautiful. Now this, as you can see, This is where I had scored it. But as I mentioned, sometimes these breads and it might split in other places, but that doesn't affect the And if you didn't want to make you can go ahead and It'll crack wherever Now this is warm. It's very difficult to resist warm bread, but I'm just going to give this What happens if you cut into it can get a little appearance Its as they call, the So it's best to let it cool a little. If you can let it cool completely and you have wonderful But if not, at least let it cool to where And something I want to mention to you, especially if you're new to baking, experienced bakers will know this, but you can tap the bottom. (knuckles tapping) I dunno if you can hear that on the mic. (knuckles tapping) And it sounds kind of hollow. That tells you your bread is So we'll start to slice this and we'll put some butter Gee, where should we cut into this? Everything looks so good. I always love the end. Listen to that. A serrated knife is great Ooh, it looks wonderful. I'll take a closeup and we'll definitely Look at these glorious slices. Oh, and the aroma, it's so wonderful. Look at this beautiful bread. You're going to love and crusty on the outside, yet it's definitely tender inside. You could make some wonderful Anyway, I mean, it's just a magnificent And I want to mention, we already talked about making of ancient grains in You can also use this You can do half all-purpose You can throw in nuts, you you can use different sweeteners if you want to add a bit There's just so much and I will definitely share Oh, look at this butter. It's so yellow. Got to put a little butter on it. If you like this video, let me know in the comments below and I'll definitely make more breads using this same technique, but maybe like a cranberry walnut bread as we go into the holidays. Alrighty, now the taste test. Hmm-hmm. This is so good. (chuckles) You are going to really enjoy this bread. Now, (chuckles) if you would like more bread recipes, whether they're quick E, well, this isn't a quick bread, per se, but a yeasted bread and rolls, sourdough, whatever be sure to click on because I have all types of bread and more and I'll see over there in Love and God bless. (upbeat instrumental music)