Hello, Health Champions. Today, we're going to talk for 30 days. Now, everyone has been told that you I believe the reason for that is that you don't things we know we should and shouldn't do, but have enough context of how important it is that you should exercise, then why don't you? and you get a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes and now they say you should lose weight. If you they give you insulin and medication that makes it So today, I'm going to give you a very, lots and lots of reasons, but first, we have it's about what you eat and what hormones can eat is sugar because sugar will trigger, and sugar will also drive cravings because about filling you up or how many calories it has; give you cravings because when you're insulin Insulin turns off fat burning, so you can't and if you can't retrieve it, your body is And if insulin is fat-storing and if it prevents lead to obesity and overweight. And of course, if if you eat the wrong things, now that will also that diagnosis, that disease, it's not related which causes inflammation. The the inflammation causes disease, and the you see that it's all about sugar. Sugar is of critical importance because it drives And if you notice, there is nothing about calories It's not the number of calories; it is the quality resistance and cravings and inflammation and so cut out sugar is you get healthier teeth. You you get less plaque, which is that film that things that feed the bacteria that cause the is if you eat starch, that's the flour and the and then in your mouth, you have something called starch into glucose starting in your mouth. So And then when you eat sugar, you make it even glucose and 50% fructose, and you don't produce bacteria that live there have the enzymes to break it's more acidic, and it's the acid when these that eats holes in your teeth. The other part that sense, but the glucose is more sticky, so it to stick to your teeth, to hang around. So if times a day to have them feeling clean, you'll be out the processed starches, and you reduce carbs, brush them all the time. Now, it doesn't mean that but it's great to have that fresh feeling And if you eat something, you know what that and they have that nasty film on them, then that. When you cut out the sugar, you have again 50% of sugar--of added sugar--is fructose, But fructose is also the strongest component which also increases the production of this uric acid forms crystals that can deposit glass that give you excruciating pain. in the big joint of the big toe, but you When you cut out sugar, you tend to stabilize talking about are cortisol and insulin. And what to stabilize all the other hormones as well to are emergency hormones. Cortisol is that's an emergency. Also, very high blood sugar can damage the brain; you can go into a coma with of an emergency, and that's why these two hormones and all other hormones become secondary. And when you balance your hormones, you will tend is that you stabilize your blood sugar. Then your cortisol when you stabilize your blood sugar. anytime your blood sugar is low, that tends to blood sugar, you'll stabilize both cortisol and your sleep hormone called melatonin. So stabilize Another reason you sleep better is that you the bathroom during the night. In extreme cases, as clearing glucose; it will start filtering and that glucose will take water with it, and what diabetes means--that things just flow in mind though is that if you cut out the sugar to start burning through your glycogen, and burn through the glycogen, now you release all very beginning of cutting out the sugar, chances lot more. But it's very, very temporary; When you cut out the sugar, you will also improve drives insulin resistance, meaning that the and that includes the brain. So the brain doesn't insulin resistance, and you eat a bunch of sugar a lot of blood sugar swings, a blood sugar roller supply to the brain, so that makes it even worse. get improved and stable energy, and what that and stable mood. You will have much less of these and your energy and your mood, and that even When you stop the sugar, you will also get levels is the number one cause of retinopathy, at the back of your eye because that area has a and high blood glucose causes something number of different mechanisms for this, and but I really want you to know how well documented of damage. So sugar causes advanced glycation end have sugar causing oxidative stress, and sugar and All of these can do damage in themselves to all But then high blood glucose, that sugar, the tissue surrounding. So that sugar is going swelling of that basement membrane that lines sugar does damage to the pericytes, meaning So with all these three factors, now we get a membrane. So that is the very health of that blood it's not doing what it's supposed to anymore. And we have this microvessel disease, and we have of blindness. So by cutting out the sugar, it You will also reduce your risk for kidney failure the small microscopic functional unit, is and that is full of microvessels. So everything the kidney, and that mechanism also applies less damage to the fine nerves, especially is that the blood vessels that supply so the same damage now that happens to not supplying the nerves with the proper oxygen you'll also see a much lower risk of amputations, something called Charcot's joints, which is you need a replacement or an amputation. And here's how these amputations come about: when signal properly, then you have less sensation. and that means that you're much more likely you break a bone, you break the skin, and you just are you more likely to injure it in the first it because you don't feel it, and you have poor of Charcot's joints, that's not about sensation, something called proprioception, which means your in space. So it's kind of like a sensation, but where the joints are, you're much more likely to the wrong positions, so you damage the joints. but you're also very likely to reinjure them now, because you have less circulation as well, fewer nutrients being brought to those areas, and further reduce the healing. And in the end, this So know for sure that sugar is the primary cause And when you cut out the sugar, you'll also get a happens. One is that sugar reduces the function of phagocytosis; it's where your white blood toxins, and foreign substances--it kind of wraps and that's interfered with by sugar. Now, cell called the neutrophil, which accounts you have. And then sugar also increases ROS, which of course damages all cells, including inflammation, and with chronic inflammation, we it has to work a little harder all the time. it competes with nutrient carriers. So when we C and amino acids and electrolytes, they don't go molecules that grab on and transport them across digestive tract into your bloodstream, and from going to do their work, they need carriers. competes and displaces the important nutrients, build tissue, but also for your immune system. can tell almost every time that you get a cold Cutting out sugar can also give you better sugar and acne, so stop the sugar, reduce and inflammatory processes in the skin. that even though sugar is a big part of this, there are so many people that have other autoimmune diseases, and gut health--they also make all of these things worse. a lot of people have long-standing problems with including skin inflammation. So just because the only cause, but cutting out the sugar is When you stop sugar, you will become more insulin become less insulin resistant. And why is that thing as type 2 diabetes; it's just a progressed risk of type 2 diabetes. You reduce your risk of things that cause a fatty liver: it is high fructose on the liver, because only the liver drive up the blood sugar, we produce insulin you dramatically reduce your risk of a fatty but it's a sign of insulin resistance, and it When you cut out the sugar, you see a including arterial inflammation, so you're going and heart attacks, and you will also see an when we say an improvement in cholesterol, that goes down because that's different for different genetically determined, and there's a huge see a reduction in advanced glycation end that are caused when sugar swims around in the sugar we have, the more we get complexes, these things and cause damage. And you'll also see of the small LDL particles. And these are the true AGEs, oxidative stress that cause damage to the of these damaging factors we have, the more cutting out the sugar, you may not see a lower these damaging factors, which you can measure if an NMR. You can measure the number of small LDL Cutting out sugar can also lead to less joint see less pain and stiffness. And some of you may some real lasting weight loss. And when I say yo-yo dieting that if you start truly affecting that's how you make lasting changes. When you water. And most people, when they do a diet, they of time, they can suffer for a bit, they lose and they stop the diet because they are So by cutting out sugar and starting to eat So I hope I've gotten your attention in this reasons still. But I would suggest that you you stop all added sugar, and then you stop all then I would suggest you stop or reduce starch, And why would I say stop or reduce? person. It's not absolutely necessary even though I think it's a good idea to try if it's absolutely necessary is if you have a and you're okay, then you can probably tolerate gives you unbearable cravings for processed foods you. So you've got to start to know yourself and those things. Can I have a little bit of that and So if you take on this challenge, I want you to finished your 30 days--because now the pressure report back, and you tell us how did it how many of the things that we talked about but you also want to do it for other people. so you can affect millions of lives with and strengthen them by telling them what And I want to mention a couple more things but they're really some of the biggest things that you will get new taste buds. You will start before. Your taste perception will go through like never before because sugar is not only a refine it, when we take it out of its natural now it overpowers everything else, and it of all the different flavors in food. So it's sunset or beautiful natural scenery, but then gray, gray, right? There's nothing there to you get your taste buds back, now and these are some of the truly big And when you cut out the sugar, you will and this is one of the biggest secrets to do things and then fall back? Why do you path? It's because you get cravings, and if you lead to failure at some point. You can suffer then at some point, you will succumb, and those bad habits that caused all the problems in you notice that instead of cravings and with real hunger for real food. And when you you'll have no problem until the next meal. up eating fewer meals; you'll not be in the mood to end up eating twice a day. And when you do, If you enjoyed this video, you're going to health by understanding how the body really and turn on all the notifications so