Tunic's origins go all the way back to working as a programmer at Silverback Games, after six years in that role, he felt a strong participated and done well in several game jams, &quot;going to go indie.&quot; It made him wonder what he but several months of intense work to a turning point. "I remember thinking to I would rather make the bad decision now you know? Which is very cheesy, I understand. But me over the edge. I really want to do this. On the first day of his unemployment, new project. He didn't have a concrete game idea a game that captured the feeling of the vast world full of secrets. The protagonist ready to uncover its mysteries. After about three a single-player action-adventure game titled Andrew wanted to shorten the distance allowing people to feel as though In an interview with VentureBeat, Andrew to create a connection between the player and the early in development, he wasn't very After all, this was his first attempt at a he struggled to create a convincing art style. That's when the idea of an and he hasn't looked back since. It made sense Just by looking at early builds of the game, it's influence. However, according to Andrew, the Zelda than anything, he wanted to capture the sense playing the original Zelda on his NES--exploring trying to make sense of a cryptic world. Andrew direction aside from "go find the treasure, it's wanted his own game to take place in a beautiful, experience, one that encourages players to be ready for. Filling the world with countless When it came to the graphics, Andrew wasn't look like a top-down pixel art game. Instead, he's just in video games, but in general. There's things look from that angle. Choosing this camera for secrets to be hidden in plain sight, items and areas. However, it also presented geometry that needs to be placed just right or Before we move on, I'd like to talk about is the ultimate 2D game engine that makes game skill level. I've covered a bunch of indie games like Undertale, Risk of Rain and Hyper Light offers everything you need and more to make even if you've never made a game before. Thanks learning how to create games has you can also switch to purely using its robust creative tools lets you create your fly. By using the sequence editor, you can even so there's no need to look for additional tool saves you precious time by identifying bugs Once the game of your dreams is finished, you to all non-console platforms. If you're ready to your game, all you have to do is purchase a Additionally, The GameMaker community is very out on the official forums or platforms questions or need help with a specific problem. ton of video tutorials to get you started on using the link in the description and start As mentioned earlier, Andrew's 3D modeling skills simple, abstract polygon designs to create the improved over time, it became more challenging abstract and visually interesting--distinct from convincingly real. If there was too much detail, On the other hand, if it looked too simple, the right look. During that time, Monument Valley early stages. Andrew admired its well-considered made the world appear as if it were gently Reflecting on his love for wonder and mystery in not just from the games themselves, but also from he would watch the neighborhood kids play games instruction booklets. Even though he was still words, the images left a lasting impression on maps, and tips was part of the magic of secrets. He believes that some manuals were even in the original Zelda, there are things you page of the instruction booklet, adding a Andrew wanted to capture the experience of not manual, yet they still encourage the player the first few months of development, he created and view them as if they were flipping through valuable information, such as level maps, and various hints that can lead to discovering manual written in a language you don't fully English and strange symbols from a language an entirely new language was partly inspired Unlike Fez, however, Andrew wanted to make it more as that wasn't intended to be part of the the secret language was designed to enhance the and don't fully understand. Therefore, a simple Andrew created a phoneme-based language. phonemes are the smallest units represented by the International Phonetic another in a particular language. While letters phonemes are the oral elements that give For example, phonemes explain why similar-looking Andrew also wanted the language to appear as an resemble any existing language. Additionally, he incorporated hexagonal shapes and structures In terms of the combat, Andrew envisioned the original Zelda. One of the most is encountering something scary and feeling the with this." This is why he remembers his first Andrew aimed to create his own version of a is deliberate, requires careful thought, while also giving players the opportunity to dodge this approach didn't make it feel like you were Andrew played Bloodborne later in development, it was possible to have &quot;technical, challenging, Andrew's favorite way to tell a story is to let been told, and you are simply looking at the and piecing together, not necessarily &quot;The happened or could have happened in this place, is this concept to the storytelling in Secret Legend. Andrew began to realize he would need additional He first reached out to composer Terence Lee, also most aspects of the game, he couldn't write he made were pretty bad. At the time, Terence due to other commitments. However, they met at Terence agreed to take on the project. Around him to Kevin Regamey, the creative director of excited Andrew was about Secret Legend, Kevin a five-minute combat prototype to give him a convinced Kevin to collaborate on Secret Legend "And then two weeks passed, and he sent of the overworld. He said something like, 'I'm but I just wanted to get an idea of what to do the whole Metroidvania thing'." After what he was seeing on the screen. "Our whole says he's deleting the whole thing? There's like Kevin, a cryptography enthusiast who once about discovering hidden passwords within sound glyphs in the prototype. Impressively, after the secret language into English. Following video presentation to convince him they were ended with glyphs on the screen, which took Andrew secret language written by anyone else. He grabbed decoded to "Sound treatment by Power Up Audio" and sealed the deal for Andrew. Around this time, business and marketing support to help get the With the audio and business aspects of the project creating a new build. To complete it, Terence Lee tracks, while Power Up Audio crafted catchy sound showcase Secret Legend at events like PAX West remembers from these events was that people them mumbling variations on &quot;the fox game&quot; and the project needed a more unique and memorable The following year was all about answering game? What is the beginning, middle, or should players be free to explore? What is Andrew went to Stugan, the Swedish game an answer to all those questions. He knew clear vision of the emotional impact the game was that into a cohesive video game. Everything from and refining moment-to-moment gameplay required played more like a point-and-click adventure. before he got the idea for Tunic, he had created One technique Andrew used was building you need to obtain a key before you can you receive the next item to use elsewhere. In &quot;hard gates,&quot; as Andrew calls them--that stack completing the game. Andrew attempted to but it never really worked. As a result, one of hard gates,&quot; meaning players have more freedom "The idea that a tool--in a Metroidvania-style But more enticing, IMO, is knowing that even or maybe just bumble your way through, you can be. Feeling that you are transgressing, so to speak. Being able to get in over people to circumvent what we think of as Although development officially began in 2015, in one of his notebooks five years earlier. Notes off the beaten path" became some of the building however, was "this was here all along?" This which is designed around the idea of there. The design principle of softening as does the in-game manual that continually offers in your path, but suddenly the entire path that As Andrew fleshed out these question marks, he of a secret." This lifecycle consists of where the player is completely unaware of the player's motivation is driven by curiosity the player discovers something new but isn't yet the player's motivation shifts from eventually leads to the inevitable "aha a question mark turns into an exclamation as he finds more excitement in figuring out how He and the team would assign percentages to they definitely wanted players to discover that were harder to find on a first playthrough the room where you discover the stick is rated at essential. A secret path behind a waterfall 15%. During a GDC talk, Andrew discussed aren't meant for everyone to solve, referring no one". One particular secret in the game discover and solve, even involving the There's also a way to unlock a secret prototype secrets are so well hidden that they exist purely knew that some dedicated fans would inevitably That's why they made some of them arbitrarily encourage players to work together to crack the Andrew wanted to implement 0% secrets was to get glimpses of them during their playthrough or Those types of secrets will subtly radiate the Tunic's combat and upgrade system went through closer to how Bloodborne and other Souls games attacking enemies would drain your stamina bar, In the final release, however, only defensive attack, even if the stamina bar is empty. Dying with players losing precious resources that could was too similar to a Souls game and wanted to and mysterious. By 2017, the team expanded again. already been mentoring Andrew and the rest of the integrated into Finji's portfolio. With Finji's QA testers, a significantly bigger marketing need. To celebrate the partnership, a new trailer Andrew initially estimated that it would but one year became two, then three, and so but Andrew couldn't help but feel personally He had a lot on his plate, from puzzle and level good animations. The main reason for the extended area, mechanic, and piece of code in the game rebuilt from scratch. As his game design of what the game needed to be, leading to For instance, there was once an meant to connect the overworld to the Andrew was never able to make it both beautiful until it was completely transformed into a dark faith in it and ultimately decided to scrap the area, and he doesn't regret leaving it out of the much time on it, only for it never to see the much time he was wasting and learned to &quot;keep it began creating assets quickly and sloppily until By 2020, much of the game was in a finished state, like gray boxes. To speed up the process and the team hired Eric Billingsley. Eric is Cuphead and done extensive shader work for other Eric was working on his own solo project been a significant visual inspiration. Needless work on the fox game. Together, Eric and Andrew its visual quality. Eric also handled As mentioned earlier, Kevin from Power Up carefully crafted the game's sound effects and manual aim to evoke the feeling of playing an the music to be guided by their memories of rather than by what those soundtracks actually between having the music remain in the background others. For instance, when the player wakes neither the fox character nor so the music needed to support that mysterious, melody would have felt out of place. On the the music needed to be just as impactful as As the player progresses, the game gets darker, "Going from organic to more synthetic and this big narrative arc. It was more that the and so it just naturally fit together that and colorful world - but there's always and going with the more textural sounds that we in stranger and darker sounds." Some of performed by Janice's father, who is part Terence once recorded a sample of the choir's Meanwhile, Kevin took it upon himself to language into the audio. He experimented with approaches and rhythm or time-based but more musical. More importantly, the compositional style, which often uses arpeggios. are played individually in a progressive rising converting the phoneme-based language, where into sequences of notes played in ascending sound effects with corresponding words. a sound that contains the arpeggio for &quot;key.&quot; to the music tracks. It's another example A few months before Tunic's release, Andrew Complete Before Andrew Turns 36.&quot; Most tasks fixing bugs, optimizing performance, and daunting task by far was finishing the in-game the pages only existed as rough sketches and physicality and visual sensibilities of flipping he hired artists to create beautiful illustrations Andrew himself. The team also put extra effort processes, even including visible staples. To Andrew built a real-world version of the manual taping, and staining it. He then scanned After seven years of dedicated hard Tunic launched on March 16, 2022. Both gamers its sense of exploration and discovery, and its of Tunic's combat and difficulty, the game overall it. It was nominated for numerous awards that an Independent Game at the D.I.C.E. Awards, as awards at the BAFTA Awards. Andrew never expected "I need to remind myself of how I was feeling moment was so dramatic. The most surprising thing niche game, but something that has a particular what to do and all that sort of thing -- it made and some people wouldn't. But the broadness of the As of this video's release, the future of in interviews that the game was intended to be would feel strange. Moreover, he poured all of his him unsure of where to start if he were to create wedding, Andrew jokingly whispered in Kevin's ear, sure if he was being serious, it suggests that out just yet. Andrew has also mentioned that his scale--something he can create entirely on his own. to life. Whatever the future holds, as long as he When GAMINGbible asked Andrew how he gave the following answer: &quot;For someone this was the game they played when they were a was actually one of a gamer's first experiences, design games. That would be cool. I think that