Do you need help with the OET speaking? Stick around and we'll show you how to Hi it's Jo here from SLC, here to help you pass look at the speaking criteria and specifically what this criterion actually means and how to our website we've got the perfect oet preparation So what does appropriateness of language mean? vocabulary and using lay terms. So how can register first. So register means the formality take a look at this example, how Nurse: Good afternoon, I am registered nurse Sam reviewed your notes which inform me that you I will explain the next steps in your care today, Patient: Oh, ok if you are currently in any pain? of a headache this morning. Let's listen to another example. Nurse: Hello I'm Sam, one of the nurses on duty today. I see from my notes that you accident. That must have been very frightening. but I suppose it could have been much worse. Patient: Much better than yesterday, although In the first example the language is a bit much better, it's still professional but The tone of the conversation should have a look at these examples which ones you Nurse: Hello Jenny. Nice to see want to talk to me about your mum. about her. I know that the symptoms are to be getting worse more quickly than I'd expected. What concerns you the most about Nurse: Hello Jenny. Nice to see want to talk to me about your mum. about her. I know that the symptoms are to be be getting worse more quickly than I'd expected. keep your chin up! We'll take good care of her. That's right, the first one. You should always Now let's look at an example of a nurse giving notice the tone. Patient: I have read that high cholesterol can contribute to heart attacks and I have I thought I better get it checked out. about your cholesterol levels, but we have the This can be lowered with some lifestyle changes, It's also important not to use any Take a look at these examples: You must give up smoking. So, would you say that you don't How could they be improved? Well the first example is too direct and would you should use empathy and involve the patient in I know it can be hard to stop smoking, but would you be willing to try to reduce The second example you looked at is a leading question which shows judgment Can you tell me how much exercise you do? patient to give the information It's important to communicate to the situation, take a look at Nurse: That's right. Do you have any other Patient: No, I feel much better about it now. your inhaler on you and to get into before you leave the house. Ok? on the door or something. if you have any problems, The nurse uses phrases which fit the such as &quot;get into the habit&quot;, It's important to remember that your patients they probably aren't going to understand medical and if you can use lay terms it means you can Take a look at these examples, can you think Instead of sutures say stitches, in place of contusion say bruise, instead of analgesics Sometimes there may be a medical word in that case you might have to explain it to Nurse: Can I ask what you know about jaundice? skin goes a bit yellow. Jaundice in newborns is caused when there Bilirubin is a substance which but when the liver can't do this, it It's also important to use the for example giving advice. Build up a bank of I recommend, it's a good idea to, you might Patient information leaflets are a great resource the NHS website, look up common conditions and Look at this extract from the NHS website about now think of some phrases you could use to Here are some examples. Let's take a look at some things you can do to Ask for feedback from a teacher or colleague, this will help you become aware of your Become familiar with common lay terms, patient-friendly language. Remember patient Matthew Smith's YouTube channel is also great or check out 24 hours in A&amp;E or GPs behind closed it's important that your tone is appropriate will help. There are a wide variety of tasks such as giving explanations, persuading, for these so that you are prepared with to the situation and the tasks and build Top tips for appropriateness of language. Use when there is an alternative patient-friendly for your speaking exam by reviewing language giving explanations as compared to stressing the you practice using appropriate language, the more So thanks for watching, don't forget to subscribe hit the bell so you're notified when we post website for how we can help you with your