- What's up guys, it's Collins Key and for today's video, I am going to be completely destroying my taste buds. And to do this, I need a friend to join me so everyone please welcome Brent Rivera What's up everyone I hope you guys are having an amazing day today! Thank you so much for having me I'm sorry that just comes with it. - That was impressive, yeah Brent! HOW DOES HE TALK SO FAST We are gonna be creating the most sour drink in the entire world. We have a whole bunch of We have Toxic Waste, lemon we have malic acid, this This is what they put in sour candy this is like the main ingredient and it's like concentrated So basically we're gonna be trying each one of these individually first and then dumping them all inside of here and then we both have to drink the most sour drink in the entire world. Hopefully we don't die, for the fact that we to taste anything for I would Now we also did a video we did Social Media in Real Life and it was absolutely you guys go check that the link is right over there, And make sure you guys go because this guy is the man, - And if you guys are from subscribe to Collin's-- - I'm gonna give you five seconds. - Five seconds? Ah, ah one! If you guys could do RIP taste buds. Just comment down below, to the channel in five seconds and right now without any further ado. Yeah, let's do it. First thing we're trying (electronic music) - Aww that's sour, that's sour. - That's pretty sour, first ingredient so I'm gonna (ominous music) Alright, so ya know what, Brent I think we give the people what they want and we'll kick it off right off the bat with some Toxic Waste I've done this in one other video. Literally this thing killed me. (flashback) Toxic Waste three, two, one go! (all screaming) - The trick is if you and one lime, it's not gonna be as sour. - Really? - Oh, I was like I did Alright here we go, oh let me get that off, ee-yuck. Alright here we go, you ready three-- - Like all at once, what do we do with it? - Two, one, go! I'm good. (heavy breathing) - Ah! (screaming) I can already feel my taste buds 50% gone. - Ah! - My taste buds are I had a little bit on my lips brought it all back, okay. To all the Toxic Waste to it now so I'm gonna drop some few in. - How many should I drop in, two? - Two works, yeah. My tongue is numb, I think because then our tongue (ominous music) Next, this looks good what is this? - Yeah, that actually looks delicious. It's more Toxic Waste, wait-- - Wait, wait, wait hold up then. We ain't doin' more Toxic Waste, nuh-uh. Alright the Dot Sours look good. - Alright, let's give it a shot. - Hopefully this is better I expected it because but that was more than I expected. - Here are the dots so I as well 'cause like, this is - Okay but there's like a whole bunch that is the Malic Acid stuff, take that straight at the end of this. So here we go ready three, two, one go. Mmm! My mouth's so full of - Okay, well I mean. - We can add a lot of Next, these are War (groans) Oh, this does not look good. - I don't think they're gum. - Ready three, two, one, go. Oh my god! - Ahhh! My tongue! (shrieking) - I can't even walk right! - I have so much saliva it's not even funny. My tongue, my tongue-- it's like I would say 80% just a few of these. - Oh, no. - Well that's all of 'em. - PEZ SourZ. - I didn't even know this was a thing. The worst part about that in a little bit, we're Think about our individual to each just one of these will we survive it? - I'm gonna take quite a few at once. - Okay me too. these might not be that - Alright, I'm ready. - Yeah. - These are actually really good! - I expected that, that's why I picked it. - Mmm. After what we just had, thank you PEZ. Alright let's dispense these in. (ominous music) This is just straight lemon juice. - Oh no! - I've experienced very I actually dared a friend and 10 seconds later he threw it all up. - I'd say we'll go with alright here we go! Three, two, one go for it. Oh my gahhhhh. (panting) (desperate shouting) Ohhhhh my. - Ah, ah! (growling) My tongue, my tongue! - It still hurts, it still hurts! - Ahhh, ahh! (crying) - [Narrator] 20 minutes later. - Dude! - What! - My voice dropped like a whole octave. When I was buying these, be very careful not to do more than one. Because her boyfriend did one of 'em and lost his taste, like and we just did four of 'em. - Wow we are friggin' daredevils-- - Is my tongue messed up? Oh my gosh it's all red! - What's wrong with my tongue? - Ohh it looks like a, like a bird! - Does it look like a peacock? - Yeah! - Alright here we go, we're goin for it because we love you guys, there's one that's all that's left right there. - Sour farts candy, wait what? - What did you, it farts?? - It better not freakin' You have to go first on eating a piece of fart. What is that smell, is that fart smell? - It oh my, okay it Let's give it a shot. (groaning in agony) - What, what! - I can't tell if it's or if this is not that it was like ugh and now it's like mm. Alright so you get the fart candy to the mix. (ominous music) - I just wanna get it out of the way, I wanna go with the Smog Balls. - Okay. - Anything by Toxic Waste is not good. - The difference with this one though is the outside looks smooth know how sour this is This is good! (clapping) Shout out to you Toxic - Now it says, &quot;Sour, chewy center&quot;. - We're gonna add these - I vote these. what Toxic Waste just didn't The green one looks pretty - Okay. three, two, one break it in half - Oh it's kinda, oh there it is. - Okay here we go, ya ready? - Oh my! It really is shockingly sour! My mouth is literally on fire right now. - My tongue needs a massage. Oh gosh, I am not looking - I am not. - There's one more crybaby! - I literally died! So you guys I thought that Toxic Waste was the most sour candy I'd ever experienced, these Cry Babies are on another level. These are actual teardrops ---, I might cry. Three, two, one go. - Oh. I'm fine. - Oh yeah. - I think my tongue is bleeding now. I can taste the blood over the candy now. (grunting in disapproval) - Ahhhh. - Uh-Huh. I am sweatin' bullets right now, man this is just extremely painful alright. - Here we go, Extreme sour - There's two packets of 'em - Contains soy, okay. Cheers. Wow, wow, wow, wow, wow! - Ahhh! - Uh uh. - Ah. - [Narrator] A few moments later. - I need a second. - That was horrible! The worst part now is I can and like every time a sour candy goes in, it just like seeps into - I know. Gotta man up, gotta add 'em in here we go. We're saving the malic but right now, I say let's - Okay. I have a feeling-- - Oh I know, it's gonna really. - So I'll take a squirt first, here we go. It actually tastes delicious I'm not even kidding that was amazing! I need a little bit more, mmm. I'm not even joking this I will add this literally bro. This was, oh my gosh. Supercharged, chewy candy and then we have the the hardcore stuff, we're but right now three, two, one. I'm good. - It's just actual pain. That's all this is. The worst thing about this is my teeth, I know I'm gonna have a cavity after this like there is just no avoiding There we go! - Oh, there's more! Now the moment you've all been waiting for time for us to eat the Malic Acid and please give this video a our mouths are already dead and this is gonna be like the finishing Officially, I've heard for health reasons, and what they will do is they'll take like half a tablespoon, put it in a whole thing of We're about to do a full - Oh no. - Rest in peace, us. It smells like sugar, like it looks like mmm, this'll be delicious. Alright here we go are you ready for this three, two, one go. (screaming) - Oh my god, oh my god! - Ow my mouth cannot stop firing. (yelling in pain) - Hands down, the most My mouth is numb, ah is numb! My mouth is literally numb! Oh my god. That was hands down the worst experience I have ever had making a YouTube video. And now we have to add this stuff - Oh no. I'm not hyped. - Just a little bit. Okay that's good. Alright guys, these are and they did not believe will destroy your life and so they wanted to give it a try right Three, two, one go. - No, no, no don't spit - Don't spit it out, don't spit it out! - And now they know! - Dude look it he's lose-- - Oh my god, bro. - I swallowed it. - What, he swallowed it! - Are you okay bro? (laughing) - Now we have officially constructed the most sour drink in the entire world, about to blend this thing let's do this. Oh my gosh, alright well been waiting for, time to in the entire world, but give this video a thumbs up and the moment we finish drinking this, go on Brent's channel, go subscribe to him. Make sure that you guys have subscribed to this channel though, and especially after So right now, it's time to in the entire world, three, I drank it, and in my stomach I can get another drink, (agonizing groans) - Ahhh. - Ah! Ha ha! - Igotta drink more. - Here we go. I can't do anymore! Ah, ah! Alright guys, thank you and we'll see you guys again I don't know, bye!