Star Media and Babich Design present October, 1941. The Vyazma vicinity Search them! Commander? Paul Wilhelm Zibert. Lieutenant. Comrade Senior Major, here is Leave it here. May I be free? Aye-aye! Nicolay Ivanovitch Kuznetsov, aka Rudolf Schmidt, aka Paul Zibert was a Soviet intelligence of the central apparatus of Internal Affairs since 1936. His nicknames included Pooh In 1942 he joined the special purpose Under the name of the German he used to carry out intelligence services His main mission was Fierce terror against the almost on all the territories That terror became an everyday of the Soviet officers. That terror was carried out consisting of professionally THE SABOTEURS. Episode One. On September 1, 1941 the so called "Reichskommissariat Ukraine" It included almost the entire excluding Galicia and the territory seized by Romania. The post of the Reichskommissar Ukraine was defined as a merely or national establishment. To underline this fact Koch chose a provincial town Rovno On July 5, 1941 a by the People's Commissar of in Moscow to arrange intelligence It was headed by Senior The town of Rovno. of the occupation administration They include the rear units, judicial establishments Your main goal is to liquidate Koch. In January of 1942 into the Fourth Department of the NKVD. It was forming the special purpose units consisting of former sportsmen, explosives In June of 1942 the "Winners" unit headed by Dmitry Nicolayevitch Medvedev landed in Zhitomir region. it started working in the Sarnensk Nicolay Kuznetsov was Your main goal is Koch's elimination. I want a Polish to kill and a Ukrainian to kill a Polish on sight. If they kill a Jew in the process I'll only welcome it. Erich Koch was an He was the gauleiter and later became He proved himself especially cruel He was arranging the deportation for forced labor to Germany. We're the nation of masters and therefore we shall rule I'll press everything out of this country -- By July of 1943 over 3.5 mln tons of grain, 155 thousand tons of sugar, 100 thousand tons of beans were sent from Ukraine to Germany. It's almost a 1/10 of the yearly production of these products Over two mln people were sent Just compare: before the war the largest city of Ukraine, You'll be sent to the Sarny The people in the unit will Your call sign will remain Main establishments that is over 240 including Erich Koch's residence This town was also the center This is where the German court Alfred Funk, the headquarters the headquarters of the head of the rear and other establishments were situated. On arrival to the unit where he would live and work. He had to iron his uniform of the German Ober-Lieutenant In Moscow Kuznetsov was given But the Wehrmacht's passes were Therefore he had to fashion taking Rovno's It was printed by the unit's The necessary signatures were on issues of intelligence service Lukin Nicolay Strutinskiy cut a stamp a school caliper and a shoe knife. It's a paradox but the papers counterfeited The Germans will think that you're You'll be responsible for Attention! All the people shall register in the The Colonist was accompanied Vladimir Strutinskiy... Nicolay Prikhodko... and Polikarp Voznyuk. In 50 m from the central there was a gendarmerie; then the Gebitskommissariat and the Reichskommissariat used to see visitors on At the same square there was the favorite place of the senior officers. In Rovno Kuznetsov got to know For the Germans only While Koch was out of the city He started to carry elimination of the senior He arranged quite a few The agent called them Pahska, kill the gunner. The rest - fire at the car! Fire! Mitya, he is yours! The Reichskommissar must Up to September of 1942 he Now he was avoiding being in this town. He was moving between Konigsberg, The first real chance on Hitler's birthday on April 20, 1943. He'll be in town on April The military parade was Koch was to deliver a speech at it. At dawn a group of intelligence of the Wehrmacht's troops close to the central tribune The guerrillas planned to and then flee in the confusion. But Koch didn't come to At the same day in the evening near the railway The second chance appeared at when Kuznetsov got to know that Koch The Center to Timofey. Koch is I order you to work out the The fighters sat in ambush But the liaison officer Later Kuznetsov got to know He needed a different plan to kill Koch He worked such a plan out. Frau Lysovskaya? Yes. Hello from Popov... Lidia Lysovskaya was the According to some data she used to work under the nickname of the Porcelain Doll. In war times she started She used to work as a of the Ostgruppen troops German officers and bureaucrats visited Lidia Lysovskaya presented Kuznetsov planned to at Koch's life with a help of Dovger. Please meet Valentina Dovger. Nicolay. Nicolay... Valentina Dovger was a from Medvedev's unit who She volunteered to join the unit and was sent to Rovno to help Kuznetsov. Here are the papers that prove You're my fiancee but you Only Erich Koch may issue a permission I see. And now let me invite you to dance. May 31, 1943. Rovno Kuznetsov and Dovger asked with the Reichskommissar to ask him The girl was to distract the guards and the agent was to take his pistol Here you go. No, just Frau. But the operation didn't Here you go, Ober-Lieutenant. Good afternoon. I have an appointment. Yes, yes. Please wait. Kuznetsov was in five Three guards were by him Besides, there was a dog in the room. The Colonist realized to take out a gun he Do you want to marry a She is a German by birth You may marry, Ober-Lieutenant, but don't stay in the rear for too long. Please come in. My congratulations, Thank you. The radiogram. The Centre -- to Timofey. Because the Colonist failed to carry out I order an urgent internal investigation. You may arrest the and transfer him to I wasn't scared. what is dangerous and what is If I have to die I want will be eliminated. And You may be executed for the Do as you think fit. You're temporarily withdrawn Until the Centre's decision under special surveillance. Aye-aye. May I be free? You may. Is that Shubert? Yes. The German. No. The French. Sudoplatov knew that may influence the agent's work. The Colonist was a very important agent. Thanks to his efforts the of lines of the German on the territories of and well as the position under Vinnitsa -- the Wehrwolf. Let him go on working. Put it down! My order to the Let him continue his work. His missions will be the following... In summer of 1943 Koch Moscow took the decision of the occupational administration. The first in their list the head of the German Paul Dargel was the Nazi and the Reichstag deputy, he used to be of the city of Chiehenow in Poland and the head of the of the Reichskommissariat "Ukraine" Dargel lived in Shlossstrasse 18, in 300 m from the Reichskommissariat. Every day in 13:30 sharp he and always came back in a hour. In a few days it became shot not Dargel and his adjutant but the head of the main by the Reichskommissariat, Hans Gehl who came from Berlin Dargel got delayed at work that day, and that delay saved his life. According to the Soviet that murder was to be of the Western Ukrainians Nationalists. The Colonist threw a wallet of an expensive Inside that wallet were a membership card of the Organization of and the letter to all The letter said: of the German war you shall start acting against the Germans to win The agents also put a few plus 20 American dollars, 140 reichsmarks and some golden tsar's coins. The operation was well-arranged. After the attempt the Germans over 30 prominent members of the It's all right! One brat less! We'll still kill Dargel with a grenade. On September 30, 1943 an To Reichskommissar On September 30, 1943 of the governmental president When the head of the administration the passenger dressed in the threw a grenade at him. Herr Dargel was seriously wounded He had both legs The explosion also killed There are data to suggest that the Russian but managed to escape The head of the Gestapo Right. I have to take the splinter out. I have one ampule of Novocain left. Don't use it. I'll be patient. Be patient, then. Be patient. Here you go. Additional forces were allocated The head of the Fourth Department the Gestapo Heinrich Muller himself to find that Russian alive and Here is the personal case Together with the Gestapo the investigation the military intelligence and Major of the Abwehr Martin with foreign special services Gettel believed that He planned to negotiate May I, Ober-Lieutenant? Of course you may. How is your shoulder, Herr Zibert? I want to talk to you in private. Such conversations are carried Kuznetsov invited Gettel to an apartment Further fate of the Major is unknown. The order is to arrange a kidnapping and later transfer to of the 740th Ostgruppen Max Ilgen was a General Major. He was born in Konigsberg in He served in the police from In 1935 he returned to the Wehrmacht In August of 1943 he of 740th unit of Ostgruppen. General's task was to fashion out Ilgen's house was encircled It was guarded by a guard from the soldiers and from 6 p.m. to six a.m. -- Reference. Ostgruppen were volunteer units consisting mobilized population and volunteers that were fighting on Germany's side It was in Ilgen's house that He'll come in half an hour. Call the guard. Yevsey, come here! Do you want to live? Go back to your post and pretend Meet the general. Do you get it? He is here. Get him into the car. Leave! Radiogram. The Centre -- to Timofey. In connection with relocation of your unit The transfer of General Ilgen Interrogate and shoot Let's go. We have a meeting Alfred Funk was an Before getting an appointment in Ukraine in the German-occupied Czechoslovakia. He used to kill the On arrival in Ukraine Funk On his orders hundreds in prisons and concentration Every morning before the Alfred Funk was shaving in a salon He always came to just one Anchak, the former was one of the Soviet agents. Ober-Lieutenant! Thank you. Major Gettel disappeared in the end On November 10 there was an attempt Five days afterwards General Ilgen The next day Judge Funk was murdered. Let me ask you, what is The SS Reichsfuehrer the operation on taking radical A sonderkommando of Einzatzgrouppe C of the Forth Department of (Gestapo) arrived at the town. Its mission was to find 82 professional agents Among the suspects was Ober-Lieutenant According to some data he had relations with Rovno's inhabitants Valentina Frau Lysovskaya? Yes. What's happened? Come on. You'll have to go with us. What's the matter? You'll be explained later. Meanwhile Kuznetsov got another Erich Koch was to deliver dedicated to the Catholic Christmas One of the variants stipulated mining But first Koch changed the and then decided to arrange Saboteurs had to cancel the explosion. In one month on January 27, 1944 the Rovno-Lutsk offensive operation The special detachment "The Winners" got an order to move into following the retreating Together with Ivan Kuznetsov had to move to Lvov (or Lambert pretending to be German military men. They had to establish connections and continue their intelligence work. At night of January 29 the Soviet troops They turned to southeast and came right On February 2 Rovno was liberated Drozd said that the Gestapo people The third secret address for an Ober-Lieutenant of the To the Valovaya Street, You must be crazy. All employees To the Valovaya Street, An excerpt from a report to the head of the Forth Department of (Gestapo) Gruppenfuehrer to the Reichskommissar On January 31 at 5 p.m. an entered the building of the Luftwaffe The visitor was stopped at the entrance of the air forces Hans Peters. While the guards were the unknown shot the Lieutenant Colonel Then the criminal managed Three cartridge cases from 7.65 mm gun According to witnesses' Ober-Lieutenant Paul Zibert from Rovno. The head of the city department SS Hauptshturmfuehrer Peter Krauze. Gestapo brought Lysovskay His distinctive marks to all the departments and Gestapo as well as to all the posts Roundups and total checks of papers and the German officers The prize for Zibert's Doctor Bauer? Yes. What's the matter? I have a parcel for you. The German newspaper Vice-Governor Doctor Otto of the Galicia district was His close companion, of the governor's office Doctor Heinrich They died for the sake Kuznetsov had an order On fulfilling his mission to a guerilla detachment or and wait for the arrival However it was almost impossible The post is ahead of us. Turn left. Stop. We'll spend the night here. We have to get out of the city tomorrow Medvedev's unit failed to get Fighting the Germans his They lacked supplies and ammunition. The commander of the unit was ill Medvedev's guerillas were ordered to stop the raid into the to join the Red Army's units. Kuznetsov also got an order February 28, 1944. A detachment was sent Give me a grenade. The meeting with the Colonist closer to Peremyshl in seven days. The papers, please. Two weeks later... Our troops! Guys, these are our people! It was the first secret agent's mistake. Those people were not the Red Army men but the fighters of the dressed in Soviet uniforms. Look! The Germans! Don't shoot! We're the Communists! In a battle with them by the Yan Kaminskiy and The remains of Nicolay Kuznetsov were found on September The forensic identification of Kuznetsov's face on was carried out by the employees of the Academy of Sciences of Paul Dargel. Despite losing both legs In 1944 the Party for eastern issues and for He also was the head of the Folksshturm According to some data, Erich Koch. After the war he was hiding He was getting He was arrested in 1949 The court sentenced him to execution for reason of weak health. and died in the Barchevo prison aged 90. Koch's cell was a spacious a library and fresh Western newspapers. Lidia Lysovskaya was killed on October 26, 1944 on the territory that It happened in Ukraine, in the village Valentina Dovger was tortured and sent to a She lived in Voronezh since 1950. She was awarded with the medals of Lenin, of the 1st rank and other medals. On November 5, 1944 the of the Higher Council of the USSR honored exceptional bravery and courage of Nicolay Ivanovitch Kuznetsov demonstrated while with a title of a Hero of