Translator: Helena Brunnerova Thirteen years ago, today, I came out as gay, And at the time, I remember thinking, &quot;Thank God I will never have Turns out I was wrong because two years ago, I came out again, only this time, instead of announcing that I wasn't I announced that I was The day I was born, a doctor slapped me on the ass But the problem was But in our society, it's about how we look. It's assigned to us the moment based solely upon what's between our legs. But I think that needs to change. One of the first things was that it wasn't only about me. It was about everybody around me, too. When I was a little kid, because I was a girl like run around in the yard I wanted to join the Cub Scouts so I could go camping, I wanted to play football, But this was the 70s, and back then, So I settled. Instead of the Cub Scouts, instead of baseball - softball, and instead of playing hockey, I did But I had a plan. Because there was a rink near our house, and they rented boys' &quot;Well, if I can't be a hockey star, So one night, I bounced up and I asked for those hockey skates. And the attendant grabbed a pair of white figure skates, dropped them on the counter in front of me It did not matter to him because I looked How many of you here today are male? Raise your hand. First of all, totally jealous. (Laughter) OK, now, all of you who had your hands up, I want you to image a moment this morning when you first walked into only this time, imagine how you would feel and the face starring back at you because it was perfectly smooth; no facial hair, no stubble whatsoever. Now imagine what you would think and your chest, instead of being flat, you realized you had breasts - (Laughter) And when you look a little further, And when you scream out in horror, the voice you hear sounds Now imagine going to your closet and picking out the exact same thing You get dressed, you jump in your car, and when you walk in they look you directly in the eye &quot;Thank you ma'am. Enjoy the event.&quot; How would you feel? Once I hit puberty, And when I looked in the mirror, I'm 44 years old, and I didn't start my transition And sometimes, when I tell people that, they say, &quot;Well, if you've felt why didn't you transition sooner?&quot; Well, it's kind of complicated. First of all, coming out to my parents The thought of telling them not on my bucket list. (Laughter) But seriously, it was I was terrified. I was terrified of Because let's face it, it's pretty much impossible to transition (Laughter) And just like at the ice rink, I knew my family, my friends, were all going to be affected by this. I knew that many of them and whether I liked it or not, they were all invested And ironically, I was invested in it, too, but not because I identified as a girl My sister, Jenny and I, are fraternal, but our entire lives, we've looked And I loved it. I loved walking into a room with her and watching heads snap around It was a huge part of my identity, my identity with my twin sister. And I knew that taking My face would change, my voice would drop, and we would never again, ever, And the thought of that because I knew that making that decision wouldn't only have an irreversible impact But one day, she was at my house, and we were standing in the kitchen, to talk to a therapist And she said, &quot;I knew that one day, that you had to deal with this, Because, well, on the outside, the rest of I know that deep down, My gender journey hasn't been so much three, to be exact, starting with the one I knew would have and probably the smallest one and that was my decision to have my breasts surgically removed But that's easier said than done because in our society, And when you're born female, and you voluntarily choose people think there is something Wrong enough my surgeon required diagnosing me with a mental condition and wrong enough that when I went to make for my pre-surgical clearance, and he suspected and not because I told him, he refused to see me. And he had been my doctor And wrong enough that when I ended up a week after my surgery, I lied to the doctors, and the nurses, and told them that I had Because I was afraid they would refuse to see me, too. But not wrong enough that my health insurance company as medically necessary treatments and would cover the cost. So I paid for those out of pocket. But despite all of that, the emotional impact of surgery For the first time since puberty, at least from here to here, But then something happened. It was like as soon as I had it became harder and harder for me by a female name, my female birth name, So I made my second decision. I decided to legally change and asked that everybody in my life But unlike with my chest surgery, when I changed my name, I had everyone; not just my family, but my lawn guy, my pool guy, my veterinarian, my electrician, And when you change your name to the name I felt like I needed come out to them But does my pool guy (Laughter) The whole thing was gut wrenching. It took months and months of phone calls and emails and it felt endless, and I was scared out But in the end, I survived. And pretty much everybody either embraced me or was able to adjust. A handful of people didn't. And I learned who my real friends are. But I also learned something else. I learned that life the family, and friends, and coworkers. That it's a big world out there, and the bartenders, and the waiters, didn't get the memo. They didn't know I'd changed they didn't pick up on the male pronouns, They noticed this. To them, I looked like a she. I sounded like a her, or a ma'am. So in the end, I made I chose to walk away from the part of my identity the part that I shared with I chose to take testosterone because by then, I learned was the only way that the rest as anything other than female. And in the end, I really, to see me the way And today, they do. Whenever I meet somebody new, And they see me like this, but the cool thing is But there are still hurdles because changing your gender is not the same thing and that one letter from our birth certificate and everything in between. Even the ticket application But legally changing as choosing and M or an F There are laws, rules, regulations, fees. And it's up to every individual state. My birth certificate says 'female.' I was born in the State of Missouri, to change a gender marker requires a court order But I live in Arizona. So for me to get that would mean making a court date, buying a plane standing in front of a judge with a letter thanks - (Laughter) taking that court order only to have them issue me So, essentially anyone who saw would know that I was born female anyway. If I had been born here, in the State Because this is one where gender marker changes aren't allowed for any reason ever. My driver's license and my health because it's a really good idea But changing them both to 'male' could give my health insurance company the right to deny my coverage for anything Because the way they see it, My Social Security card - 'female, ' my college transcripts -'female, ' and on and on and on. So, despite everything that I've done on paper I'm still female. Our world is set up But why? Is all of this gendering really necessary? Just for a minute, I want you about what is male And imagine a world, where gender one where we are all able to claim our own rather than have it assigned to us Here, we're all able to self-identify as male, as female, And here, we never assume because of how they look, how they sound, In this world, when you walk up and hand instead of them they say, &quot;Enjoy And when you sit down and start chatting before they ask you they ask you which pronouns In this world, I wonder, And joined the team? Or became an Eagle Scout? Would I have had to change my birth name Or take testosterone to be seen as male? And sacrifice a part Would my chest surgery Something that I chose to do Like fixing a birth defect. In this world, one free I wonder, would I have had to come out Today, just happens to be And if we had been born, that I've just described, perhaps I would have walked and come out to you as a dog lover, or an ESPN junkie, or a lifelong Dolly Parton fan. (Laughter) Or maybe I simply and come out to you as who I am. [Human] Thank you. (Applause)