Automakers are having a hard time selling EVs. Incentives have risen dramatically, and some of the leasing it. It's basically a long term rental that you Almost no concerns about maintenance. Monthly payments are low, and a loophole allows you to eligible if you bought it. And while that might seem great for cash starved prices have tanked. Boosting volume through leases risks pushing prices There's just so much happening there that I don't think the high level of accuracy, nor can the guidebooks That could hurt the segment and the companies that make So why are EV lease prices so low, and what does it Barclays analyst Dan Levy estimates that in May 2024, basically discounts were 15 to 30% of the sticker overall industry at 5 to 6%. That puts immense pressure on already tight and often Tesla, which controls about 50% of the US EV market, its model three, model X and model S, but a 13% on its though that promotion ended June 1st. Incentives on EVs from legacy automakers were much not luxury cars, were discounted 25% off the original a luxury EV. The Cadillac Lyriq from General Motors hit what Levy $18,000, nearly a third off the sticker price. Automakers are trying to push discounts because the EV You saw early on a lot of outright price cuts. A lot of this spurred by Tesla. But I think one of the observations is that the some were hoping for. And so they're resorting to other ways to discount. And leases are a key way. While leases made up only about 23% of overall retail 2024, they were about 35% of total EV purchases and 70% of EVs sold by dealerships. I think it's kind of kick the can down the road what are you going to do with it later? Hopefully, certifying those vehicles, making them seem Maybe bump up residuals a little bit or buy consumer easy to move. A lease lasts for a period of a few years, often three, Once you finished your term, you turn the car back in. There are options to buy out the lease if you want to. Monthly payments are usually lower than for a There are, of course stipulations to this, like limits 10,000 or 15,000 per year. That's usually negotiable at a cost at signing. But once you settle on a limit, going above your additional mile. You might also have to pay extra if you ding the car that, you'll be driving a brand new vehicle in mint Any needed repairs are probably covered by warranty. For the typical consumer out there. No, leasing is probably not a good product. It's a very specific type of buyer that would be there that it works perfect for. I don't know the exact numbers, but it's a large Are sales people, you know, people making business their vehicle as part of their business expenses. You also don't have to worry about selling the vehicle of the term, turn it back in. Simple. Crucially for EVs, swapping out a car every somebody who likes to have the latest and greatest in The lower payments can also get you into a car that For example, leasing is far more popular in the luxury average, EVs are still selling for about $9,000 more average. This may not be a perfect representation of consumers considering an EV in France, the UK and likely to prefer a lease. There are fewer concerns around battery longevity or improves. They're going to use that leasing because it is the product that are just not going to be willing to slap They just have no idea whether this is going to work In addition, the Inflation Reduction Act restricts the purchases to cars made in the US, along with some Leasing the vehicle offers a workaround that allows credit. Two prices for EV leases have been extremely 2024. Hyundai advertised a lease deal for its Ioniq $40,000 for $242 a month for 36 months, with about signing and a 10,000 mile annual limit. That monthly payment is less than half the average The Chevrolet Blazer EV, with a starting sticker price $369 a month for 24 months, again with a $1,679 upfront payment and a total 20,000 mile limit. Polestar, a luxury performance vehicle brand, offers a $299. In general, leases are a mixed bag for You're better off having a customer buy and hold the going to have more, you know, they run past the Right. So you're gonna have repairs, reconditioning, On the other hand, leasing is a great way to move Especially useful when inventories are high. While it is taking dealers longer to sell any kind of with internal combustion vehicles and hybrids. They are also a great way to get customers hooked on Loyalty rates for leasing are far higher than they are The reason is simple when you return your car to the immediate opportunity to put you in another car. Then the dealer sells the car you turn in and the used This is where the trouble is used. Ev prices fell 16% year over year in May 2024, internal combustion vehicles that same month. Least EVs were expected to hold about 55% of their were expected to hold closer to 62%. Levy said in his report that current residual rates, the lease term, might even be optimistic. Next gen EVs could be either available in just a few horizon. Flood the market with a bunch of leases. What happens? You end up with poor residual values. Kind of creates this like vicious cycle. You're going to kill your residuals. It's very hard to dig yourself out of that hole. It's hard to convince a consumer that to even buy one it to the wheels, fall off and build loyalty and build worthless in a couple of years. Automakers using aggressively attractive leasing terms deferring losses into the future. When those EVs come back to dealerships and have to be dropping. They're going to only get worse because you have so I think that that where it's like that's one out of like a little over two thirds of current EVs being Those things, they're gonna find their way back into Um, and that is not going to do nothing but hurt. You know, it's great for adoption purposes. It's great for consumers on the used end. I mean, I love that, right? A bunch of cheap used TVs running around. It's possible it will hurt. Pure play EV companies like Tesla more than legacy For companies like GM or Ford, even if they are the key thing to remember is that they are still, at manufacturers. And so that yes, even if the EV demand ice profit stream to support the numbers for the specifically in North America, EVs are still, you for Ford and GM. For instance, Ford is going to lose on their EV unit Just for context, the total business as a whole is is year. What that means is that ex EVs, this is $16 of profit and EVs are $5 billion plus drag. Gm similarly, they don't actually break it out. But on our math, last year they lost $4.5 billion on EV business, and that was on a business that X strike So what it tells you is x x the EV losses. It would have been closer to, you know, 18 plus The popularity of EV leasing is partly striking because decision. On the one hand, payments and interest rates vehicle, but you don't actually own the car you are depreciating fastest. Cars lose about 40 to 50% of their value in the first So Alessi is really paying for all that depreciation, chances are it's near the bottom of its depreciation Some advisors advisers say the most financially sound around until it is no longer worth repairing. Two back to back three year leases will cost you more Usually that's because cars can last a long time. The average age of the American fleet is nearly 13 customers and the sheer need automakers have to move We've gone from an environment that was EV euphoria to Like I said, EV euphoria was unlimited demand, capital etc. we're in an EV winter today. Demand is is, you know, facing a reset. And clearly there is some challenge in pivoting from early adopters to the early majority. The real question is how long can it last? You know, maybe in a year you'll still get a decent EV now? Debatable.