KURT NIEBUHR: You know, around this all new Corvette. It's supposed to be mid-engine. It's faster. It's supposed to have a really It's supposed to It's supposed to be a lot. I'll believe it when I see it. [MUSIC PLAYING] If we can ignore the fact that new and is also a try really hard to ignore the Corvette-- the interior on this car is It's amazing. It's really well crafted. It's nice. It looks like no other and that's a good thing. So the first thing you when you sit down is which is a two-spoke steering expect in a sports car. But it's also a little square. And when you're on the matter that much. You're not putting a lot And once you start to make it does get a little grabbing a corner. It's not the end of the world. It's just unique. So the second thing you're maybe it's the first thing-- is this climate And they've put all of the in a row, which is unique. When I first saw it in pictures, But to be honest, now that I've it does work. And the climate control So you just set it, and then And it frees up this and keeps it relatively But like the square Another big change with is the digital instrument panel. And it changes with the And some manufacturers can with explosions and weird swipes The Corvette is very simple. And when you change the the heads up display also I think it's kind of cool. It's one of the better So the passenger seat is what I like to call the because as you can don't have anything to control. You have seat ventilation, seat buttons. Everything else-- kind of as it should be. Another nice touch and one that was are these nifty I'll admit-- at first glance, But they have good airflow, and they're well-made I think they're pretty cool. [ROCK MUSIC] Yeah, yeah, so who cares What's it like to drive? Well, it's got a 6.2-liter V8, exhaust, 470 foot I mean, it's a small It's great. Ah, listen to that. There's only one and it's an Now, before you get all sad and I can tell you that the I have never wanted This transmission is very and the shifts are seamless. Listen to that. And as an added bonus, these They're metallic. They feel really good. It's just-- it's and it just makes the whole car than it's ever felt before. The way this thing shifts-- downshifts really Everything is and the car is never For all the power that's something to I wouldn't even buy a manual if they offered it. Yeah, you can take away card if you want. I don't care. That's a Lotus Elise. How fast is it? Well, we were able to and put the car so let's go see how that went. [MUSIC PLAYING] First off, yes, these as we were expecting. But since we didn't have we only get 91 and we used a fairly we were limited on The Vet spun its wheels even with launch control, so But hey, 3.2 seconds and 118.7 miles an hour is nothing to sneeze at. 105 feet from 60 miles There is good consistency Of course, wider grip shave off another 10 feet. We suspect they're saving Pulling 1.09 on the skid in some pretty rare with Pilot Sport 4Ss and a tire. Sure, we could talk about but this number speaks volumes and differential tunings. FYI-- that number was pulled in [MUSIC PLAYING] That small block V8 provides of a small block V8-- a broad, meaty power just amazing at full [ENGINE REVVING] See? Amazing. Probably the biggest is how fast you can go with it. I'm not saying the other The C7 was no slouch. The C6 was no slouch. Any Z06-- ferocious. But you had to be really And unless you spent a lot it took a while to And they could catch you out. They could catch out simply because the tell you what was going on, You know? In this car, it's talking I know right where the Also unlike those the back end on this 495 horsepower in this helps power you out of corners. I am not afraid of And I wouldn't be driving anywhere near this quickly. In order to drive as hard as you want to drive on With the Z51 package, I think they're 13.6 inch in I hope I got that right. [DINGING] If I didn't, I'm forums will let me know. But there's a lot of feel and the pedal is Much like the ability to change this Corvette allows you to So if you like a harder, you can punch it up. Punch it up on the screen, That changes with the My feet aren't to really tell the but I spend no time adjusting The brakes are intuitive And when you're going fast, All of this phenomenal by rather ordinary Michelin These are tires you can find In other words, they're They have tread. They're not noisy, offer near supercar That just goes to show you So this car has three And I'm going to live in LA, so I don't need a You've got the is what we're in right now. And it just slackens off It's really good compliance. This is a pretty bumpy road, It also tones down the exhaust. You get a lighter steering jumpy throttle. Moving into sport gets a little bit more intense. The throttle becomes The ride becomes a as you can probably see. And sport mode is a really good You could drive in You can even drive it on this and you wouldn't really But there is track mode. The track mode is not silly. I've driven cars with track the fillings out of your teeth. This car, with the gets tracked mode right. So I've got two They're not really because you don't have to get This tan causes reflections It's really annoying. But you can get it in black, So the other complaint Now, these are the And I know that I'm not a small I'm 6'1&quot;, like 210 pounds. But these seats pinch where it's uncomfortable. But just like the tan don't have to get these seats. You have two other options-- the regular seat, and I'd get the GT2 seat. So the Corvettes Will the Corvette do a burnout? Of course the Corvette Turn traction control off. Pull the paddles to Ride the rev limiter. [ENGINE REVVING] Oh! Proper burnout. [MUSIC PLAYING] So maybe it's a didn't have as much as we wanted to, because driving that, I'd get arrested. It's really fast. It's so composed and so easy to even on the open highway. It's a total piece of cake. This mid-engine car has for Corvette, and I So what does this It is basically a but it doesn't cost as much It's about half So a base Corvette is $60,000. The one that you see behind but that's still about In that car's price range is It's the Shelby GT350, It is the Porsche 718 Cayman have the rad V8 engine in it. And there are probably a that I have missed simply because they don't make as as this thing does. This is-- it's really that good. I'm genuinely surprised So yeah, this is a shorter and we really need to get into but we didn't have But fear not. Edmunds has bought a That's right. We bought one, and we're So subscribe so any of those upcoming January or early February. [MUSIC PLAYING]