Hello and welcome back. I'm Joseph Hoffman. Today we are learning a holiday song, &quot;Jingle So let's come over to the heartbeat mat to Here's the rhythm to the first phrase of &quot;Jingle Let's review the names of all these rhythms. These are two eighth notes which make a sound Here's a quarter note which will go TA. Down here we have something that looks like note with a sixteenth note. This extra little beam sticking out turns like this, TIM-KI. So all together, these rhythms will sound TI-Ti TA, TI-TI TA, TI-TI TIM-KI TA rest. Now can you try to say that with me? Point to each heartbeat and speak the rhythm. Go. TI-TI TA, TI-TI TA, TI-TI TIM-KI TA, rest. Now let's look at the next phrase. Now in this next phrase can you find a rhythm Point to it. You're probably pointing right here, because This is an eighth note with two sixteenth It makes a sound like this. TI-TIKI. TI-TIKI. Now here is what this phrase will sound like. TI-TI TIM-KI TI-TI TI-TIKI TI-TI TI-TI TA Can you speak the rhythm with me and point Ready, go. TI-TI TIM-KI TI-TI TI-TIKI TI-TI TI-TI TA Good, let's check out the next phrase. The third phrase is the same as the first, Ready, go. TI-TI TA, TI-TI TA, TI-TI TIM-KI TA rest. Now on to phrase four. Any new rhythms you can see in phrase four? That's right, down here we have a half note. The half note takes up two beats, TWO is what Let's try to speak the rhythm of the fourth Ready, go. TI-TI TIM-KI TI-TI TI-TIKI TI-TI TI-TI TWO. Good, now let's come and take a look at the Here's the sheet music to &quot;Jingle Bells.&quot; Let's start by taking a look at line one. Line one begins right here in treble clef Can you tell me the letter name for this note? If you said E, you are correct. Now are these notes stepping, skipping, or That's right, they're repeating. So we have, E, E, E, E, E, E, E, then what Do we step or skip? That's right, we skip up. So if this is E, then this note will be G. We skip up, and then can you tell me the letter If you said C, you're correct. E, G, C, and then what happens with these If you said, stepping up, you're correct. So we have C, D, E. If you'd like your own it for free from our website. Now let's go to the piano and see how to play For &quot;Jingle Bells&quot; we're going to use the hand finger one will come to middle C, and Now we start with repeats on E. So we'll have Great. Now next we have another E and then we skip E, G. Your turn. Good, and after we do E, G, then it comes notes stepping up. All the way. Your turn, just try those three notes, all Your turn. Good, now let's put that all together. We have jingle all the way. Your turn. Great, so the whole first phrase will sound Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the Press pause and try all of line one by yourself. Press play when you're ready to go on. Now we're looking at the second phrase of Can you tell me the letter name for this first If you said F, you're correct. Remember, this line is the G line because but we're a step below the G line, which makes That's right, they're repeating. We have F, F, F, F, F, lots of F's in a row, in a one, what are all of these notes doing? You can see they're all on the same line so E, E, E, E, E, and then we step down, what's If you said D, you're correct. For one horse o- it repeats then steps back D, E, D and what note is this? Since it's on line two of the treble clef, We have D, G, for open sleigh! Hey! Now let's come to the piano and try to play On line two we're still in the same position, We have oh, what fun it is, and all of those ready, try it with me, go. Oh what fun it is, and on the word to, it those are E's. So now let's try from the beginning of that Together on F it repeats until we get to the Ride, then it steps down to E. Let's try it Oh, what fun it is to ride in a one, that's it steps down again to D, horse open, and one horse open, and the letters are E, D, Good, and then after that we have, sleigh! Hey! D, G. Your turn. Good, now let's practice that from one horse Remember we have E, D, D, E, and then D, G. One horse open sleigh! Hey! Your turn. Good, now the whole second phrase sounds like Start on F, lots of repeated F's. It steps down to E and then we have one horse Hey! Let's hear what the whole thing sounds like Oh what fun it is to ride in a one horse open Hey! All right, now press pause and practice all Press play when you're ready to go on to line All right, what can you tell me about line That's right, like we already mentioned, its So lets go on and check out line four. Here's the fourth phrase of &quot;Jingle Bells.&quot; What letter do we start on this time? That's right, just like line two, we start That's right, we step down to E, then what What happens here? If you said skip up, you're correct, and what If you said G, you're correct. We have G, repeat, step down to F, and then Notice how we skip over this line, we go from on middle C. Now this part's tricky because Let's practice moving our fingers for that So let's practice this phrase. It's at the very end of &quot;Jingle Bells,&quot; we Notice that we step down, then skip down, One horse open sleigh! Now your turn. Good, now let's try line four on the piano. Let's try the end of line four first. That's the part we just practiced moving our We're going to start with finger five, and horse, then step down, skip down, step down. G, G, F, D, C. Your turn. Good, now let's try it with the lyrics of One horse open sleigh. Your turn. Good, now listen to what the whole line will We'll start on F again. Oh what fun it is to ride in a, and then after Now listen to what that sounds like without Oh what fun it is to ride in a one horse open Good, now press pause and practice all of Press play when you're ready to go on. Good, now we're ready to try all of &quot;Jingle song, all the way to the end. You can listen to me once, or you can try From the very beginning, here we go with &quot;Jingle One, two, ready, go. Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the Oh what fun it is to ride in a one horse open Hey! Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the Oh what fun it is to ride in a one horse open Now press pause and practice that on your you can try playing with me doing an accompaniment. Now you're ready to try playing &quot;Jingle Bells&quot; So you'll play the melody that we've been Jingle bells, jingle bells, while you play like this, Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle We'll put it together to make some cool sounding You're in charge of the melody, I'll do the Get your hand in position, from the beginning, One, two, ready, go. Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the Oh what fun it is to ride in a one horse open Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the Oh what fun it is to ride in a one horse open Great job today learning &quot;Jingle Bells.&quot; Remember, from our website you can download I hope you have a very merry Christmas, thanks Merry Christmas! And Happy New Year from all of us at Hoffman