Hello, everyone! Today we play through Super Mario Odyssey, but every Moon makes Mario faster. So here we are...We are starting off and we can`t...I don't think we can move at all. But once we collect a few moons, we're going to be moving incredibly fast. Ah...But how do we actually start the game and get to Cappy? Ooh...ah it looks like I can move just incredibly slowly. Rrrr.. Oh, this is painful. Oh, wait, okay. I can roll. I can roll and that's a little bit faster. I can't make it up this hill. Oh... I might be able to still jump. Yeah, I might be able to ledge grab like this yeah, and then make my way up to Cappy. I'm rolling so slowly. Hopefully unlocking Cappy will make this a lot easier. Hello, Cappy! I actually just kind of see him with that color. Oh, wait. I've got a no-sign on Cappy. Oh, that's properly cool. Nice one! All right. Can a Cappy dive? Oh, I can just dive actually and that gives me quite a bit of speed. Okay, this is gonna make the challenge way easier, just makes it way less annoying Oh, we've actually got a boss fight with a topper coming up and a boss fight like this. It's just gonna be terrible, I don't even know if it's gonna be possible. So, I believe the way this mod works is every Moon doubles my speed, but every Multi-moon unlocks me a new modded ability. That took me way longer than I'd like to admit to get up. But here we are. We're gonna fight topper. Wait! Why is he blue? He's the same color as Rangu now. Oh, no! Oh no! He's coming towards me. Oh, I'm just gonna make my way over. Oh, no! Oh, there we go. Okay, I somehow managed to dive on his head. Oh, no! I'm just gonna be abusing Cappy. Cappy's gonna be doing all the work for me. Come at me then! I can't come to you. Go on, Cappy! Go on, Cappy! Come on! It's so difficult to angle these knives to land on him whilst he's moving. I think we just need one more hit though and we've unlocked the moon. Let's go! There we go. I've got a heart we can now make our way onwards. Oh, I can't wait to get a moon. That was so painful. Here we are at the Cascade Kingdom and the first moon I can see. It's gonna be so easy to get. There's been no burning side. I really like that smooth detail that's super cool. It kind of suits him. It's where they normally are. Our first Power moon in that rock, it should be hard. I was about to say it should be super quick to get up, but maybe not, maybe not, when we're running at this speed. At least we've got our dive. So all we have to do is capture this chain chomp. Oh, nice! And then throw the chain jump at the Rock and it will break the Rock and unlock the moon! Oh! The moon actually says "speedable" there. Nice! Super cool detail! Super cool detail! There we go! We've got our first speed Moon and that's gonna double our speed. Nice! Oh...and we can also unlock our first multi-moon here by defeating the boss and that will give us a brand new modded ability. It looks like when we collected that Moon, our costume change. Look how slow I am still, though. It's almost like there's like glue on the floor, like, I can move quite fast through the air by diving and stuff. But the floor's just covered in glue. But anyway I think I've got a pretty decent route for this challenge run today. I've got a pretty good idea of where I want to go. I want to make my way over to this next chain chomp first and break open that wall. You can't really see it because of this texture hack I have on but there's like a breakable brick. And we should be able to collect this and it should double our speed again. Nice! All right. Let's see how much faster...Oh...Uh... Seems a little bit more manageable. And it also looks like my shoes have changed color. It looks like it's my clothes that are making me slow. Maybe I just have like... I don't know... heavy clothes. Will this affect the 2D area actually? Because there's a 2D area behind this wall, which I can break with the chain chomp. All right. Let's see if it changes to the 2D area. My costume. Oh, oh, no! But I also like how it changes my costume to like that not being able to move very fast costume. Take out! How did I not take damage there? Oh! I wonder what that new ability could be because it could besomething really helpful or it could be something pretty useless. Let's find out. All right. let's take out this big chungus rabbit. I need your multi-moon around your pearl necklace. You think you're so scary, but.. Oh, yeah... she is pretty scary. I tried to move out the way, but I forgot how slow I was. I'm not used to this. Oh, okay. It looks like her speed isn't affected inside the chain chomp, so we can just hit it like that. Oh, what's the quickest way to Dodge? Oh...Dodge's gonna be difficult. At least it's as hard as this rock. Oh-oh-oh-oh...How did I not die? How did I...? Okay, she hit herself, I need to get that heart...Oh, my goodness how did I not die there? That was so close. Okay, we've got the chain jump, so we're immune right now. There we go. Nice. You needed one more hit, just went right around because of how angry she is. Ha-ha.You're so bad! You're a big chungus rabbit. But this should make me unlock a brand new modded ability which I'm looking forward to a lot. Huh, okay we have changed colors. We've still got the no-running thing on my hat, so we still might be slower, which is kind of cringe. But let's see if we've unlocked a new ability. Hey! New ability unlocked. Time travel! Oh! I've seen this mod before. It's super cool. You see how we've got a trail following us. Actually, actually, I'll show it up in the next Kingdom. Let's deposit all my speed moons, and then we can move on to the sand Kingdom and I'll show off the ability there. It is so, so cool. Oh, the Odyssey is blue for some reason in this texture hack. Okay, that's pretty funny. It's now called the Bloody City. Let's get over here in the Bloody Sea. So we're here in the sand Kingdom now. There's a lot of moons here, so we're gonna start ramping up our speed very quickly. But first I want to show you what this time travel mod does. It's a very cool mod by Amethyst and, basically, when you press the R button you literally go back in time. It's so cool. So it's like reverses all the movements you do. So it's like very helpful if you say I need to clutch something but our first moon should be up here we should be able to yeah they're very quick. But first look at this! Subscribe! Yes, subscribe. Huge shout out to anyone who subscribed from the last video Subscribe, if you want to shout out in the next video. It's totally free, and you can always change your mind. And we just got another Moon which is going to do a lot of speed again. Actually, we can probably get back-to-back moons because there's also a pipe here, which has a moon, which I can literally get in a second. Watch this! Speed Run! Oh, I missed it. I think I say...yes it is. There we go! We got another speed boom. Oh, it's gonna start ramping up a lot now. So, it looks like we're now back to being normal speed, normal Mario, which means that everything's gonna start ramping up a lot soon. Wait. We might actually be able to catch the bird. This mod also changes the amount of moons you need in the Kingdom. So we only need six to leave. It looks like, we're already on two, come on. Oh, I missed the bird. Wait, I can use the first-time thing to get back to it. Oh, come on! No, how am I missing this bird?! Oh, my gosh! At least I've got regular speed now. Because if I had bad speed I wouldn't be able to get it at all. How am I missing this? Go on! Okay, I managed to get it. Oh my gosh!That was such a hassle. Ah, how do I get up to it though? it's pretty high up. Can I reach it? Yes, I can. Let's go! That was probably the most difficult moon in the world. Ah, it looks like my gloves have changed colors. And it looks like we're a lot faster now. Oh, my gosh! Look how fast my run is! That's... that's pretty epic! Let's go get some more moons, so we can then leave this Kingdom. I quite like, that there are fewer moons than normal, because it means that you don't get stuck on one Kingdom for ages. We get to see more of the game. There's another Moon up here, which you can probably just triple jump. Oh, my gosh. Too easy! Too easy! This game is just too easy. Oh, okay. So that's upgraded my speed again. We might be able to do a jump straight from here over to there. I'm not sure if this is even possible. I'm not gonna lie. Yeah, that's not possible. What am I thinking? I can probably get a quick and easy mood up on this Temple area, and do a little backflip like that. Ah, Red Bullet Bill. Get out of here. Oh, my gosh. Oh, it's like the ones from Mario Maker where they're a bit faster. That's pretty cool, that's pretty cool. Oh, wait. I might be able to use the time travel ability to get back up, so I can collect the Moon down in this crevice area and then time travel back up and get out of the quicksand. Let's see. Alcove in the ruins. Yeah, okay, okay. By doing the time travel will I be able to make it all the way back up. Let's go. Okay, that's pretty cool. I like this time travel ability a lot. Wait, I think my boots only just changed that. Okay, that's a little bit late. We are very very fast though. At least we only need one more moon to leave. I see another one on the way back actually. Just on top of this Temple. I don't think we can jump all the way from here. Maybe we can do a little bit of Park roll up though on top of this icicle to the other icicle. Oh, oh, oh! Oh, I am still, waiting! I can use the time travel.That's exactly what the time travel ability is for, so I can do epic stuff like...Oh, my gosh... it's fine... I've got the time travel. I can just make my way back up here. Gosh! What have you.. Thank you, Cappy! And there we go. This is the only Moon we need to leave the kingdom. This is gonna give us such a high speed now. it's gonna become crazy later on. I can't wait. It's gonna be just.. just insanity. It's gonna be speed insanity. We can deposit all the speed moons, and I think I want to go to the wooden Kingdom next because the wooden Kingdom in this texture mod has a very very cool texture. Look at this! The cherry blossom wooden Kingdom. This is so big! I love cherry blossom. It looks so, so pretty and it's also...There's actually cherry blossom in my garden. I'm just gonna take a picture of my garden. Wait, I might put a picture on the screen now. All right.Let's ramp up my speed a bit. We don't need many moons in this Kingdom. It looks like it's only six again, so we might be able to actually beat pretty much the whole game of this speed mod before it becomes insanity. It fully turned us blue. Oh, okay, okay. That looks pretty cool. I like how it's like glowing. It's sort of like the speed potion for Minecraft because that's blue. Blue is the color of speed. I think there's also a moon in this rock, but we just have to throw at a bunch. But there's actually a trick that you can do if you pick it up you don't have to throw it as much. But I am actually throwing it quite a lot. Let me just pick it up. I'm too fast. So why don't you pick it up and go over to another rock? It breaks instantly instead of having to throw it around a turn. So watch this! Easy! Nice one! Get another moon, and this is gonna ramp up my speed once again. Unless...run in a straight line. Oh, we're getting pretty fast, pretty fast. There might be something up this waterfall. There should be one like in a nut around this corner. This whole Kingdom looks so pretty with the cherry blossom. Just the pink. I think it suits it really nicely. It doesn't matter Mario Odyssey too. I hope there's a kingdom that looks as pretty as this. I really hope Nintendo announced Mario Odyssey 2. Or just at least like a new Mario game. Cause the Mario movies just came out, and they must like to announce something soon. Because they haven't done anything new with Mario for like six years. The most recent game at the moment is Super Mario Odyssey. There we go. We got another Moon. That's gonna make me so much faster. Oh, I actually quite like this bulb of barrier with the blue. Just do it all blue. That honestly looks super cool. All right. Let's pull this lever and then we can open up this door which takes us to the main bid of the Kingdom. We don't have to get too much in the main bit of the Kingdom because we've already got quite a few moves. Oh... it's the poison now blue. When I jump in it. No, it still turns me ... it still turns to be pink. When it's on the floor with blue. Oh, my gosh! I'm pretty bad at this game. Leave that poison to me. Yeah, Cappy. I know, I know. I shouldn't be jumping in Poison. It seems like a bad idea. Actually, I think that's another Moon just around this corner, which I can get. That will ramp up my speed a little bit more. It's getting so crazy it's becoming a little bit more uncontrollable now. Bro, speaking of uncontrollable...Oh, that guy. He needs to get out of here. I can't believe he hit me. There we go. Another Moon. Fire in the cave. No, he set me on fire in the cave. That was embarrassing Bro, bro... Okay. I'm not used to this blue poison. I'm used to it being pink. It's throwing me off, that's why I'm not playing as well. This blue hat sort of suits this guy. The little bridge. I believe there's another one I can get with the upgrade. Here is that, in a nut. Oh, I just tricked myself into thinking there was something, but I think, there is one around the corner, past all these blue boys. And surely, I'm not trolling myself like the under me, but I thought there was one. There is one in this nut. That better be, that better be. See, I'm smart sometimes.I know where sometimes this stuff is. Wait. Okay, my gloves just changed, so like a yellow color. What? What? What? What? Anyway, we only need one more now to leave this Kingdom and move on to the next one. And the next few kingdoms look so cool as well. Why should I go though? Oh, I want to try something. I might be able to jump all the way to that platform. Let's see if I can. I cannot. I'll find a better Moon somewhere I don't need to go for that silly risky jump. Let's go into a sub-area.I haven't been in the Subaru yet. There might be something cool in here. Actually, this is probably one of the worst subareas in the game with all the fuzzies. It's so annoying because it's like one of those ones that you can't really rush through.And I like rushing through stuff really fast. We might be able to get two moons actually, because there's one up here, and then there's another one at the end. You can see it down there right where they popped. I'm so fast now.I don't wanna... Broo! I'm... I'm actually terrible at this game. Oh, I swear. I'm not dying here, I'm not dying here. Come on, just slow and steady for now, and then I can go fast everywhere. Let's go. All right. We can just walk back to the other seat. And move on to the next Kingdom. Ah, his blue costume sort of matches the blue Odyssey. That's cool, that's cool. Hey! We made it to Lake Kingdom. Oh, this Kingdom's super cool. This is one of my favorites. Oh, wait! All the Goombas are blue. I've just realized that now. And hello, Rango! Well, we'll be fighting Rang getting another multi-moon, and unlocking your brand new ability. And straight away we can actually just get moon here by ground pounding on the floor to get a pink speed, Moon. Nice! It looks like my shoes are now glowing. I guess, I have the opposite where my clothes are too heavy and it's making me slow down. We can also do a skip here, to skip the wall just by doing some Parkour up, I think. And we'll be able to skip the underground cave section through the Water Area because water levels are kind of cringe. We don't want to deal with them. We wanna zip along and collect some more moons. Literally zip along because I turned into a zip. Ha-ha, comedy. Please, laugh. That was super funny. Actually, nah...it wasn't that funny, I'm sorry. Oh, wait! I actually see another one, just a dough is back.Am I faster in the water as well? Oh, it looks like I'm the same speed in the water. That's kind of cringe. Well, from what I've seen soon we're gonna be literally clipping through walls. That's how fast we're gonna be going. Oh, wait.There's actually one you see in this Fish Dome area. There's one behind a wall secret somewhere. Behind one of the walls here, I think. There's like someone hiding that gives you a moon as well. I'm not sure which one.There's a little alcove here, so it might be this one. Hello! Hey! She thinks I'm clever because I found it. Nice! That secret little room. Oh! Oh! Oh, it's turned me yellow and I'm so so fast now. Oh, my goodness. Okay, let's go to the boss fight. I want to unlock a new ability. I think I might be able to do a jump, just from here. Up, up... Let's see, let's see. Oh, okay, that was pretty cool. Hey, Goombas! Get out of here! You! Yeah, you just ruined my epic jumps! This does a checkpoint, so I can heal up and now fight the boss. Oh, this is gonna be so difficult, this boss fight. Van Gogh, you're a bit easy, I reckon, I could beat you just in like a second, especially with how fast I am. I can move circles around here. Oh, that is making me a little dizzy, a bit dizzy looking at this. Throw your hat at me then. I meant, like, throw out my hat, and then I can jump in here. Like that, yeah. He's just going in circles. You're getting nowhere near me, Mr Wangu Man. Oh... I just jumped on it. I'm ground pounded and then I jumped on everybody it was like nothing. I need to learn the speed run strikes of this fight, honestly. But here we are - the Multi-moon! I wonder what new ability, this is gonna give us. The blue and yellow do look super cool on Mario, though. I'm not gonna lie. I wish they made that like an official Mario powerup or something. Wait, wait, wait wait, wait, wait, no. Oh, oh, okay, okay, that was too cool. It doesn't really make sense with the speed mode, but that's still super cool. I can literally, I think I can like...explode anything near me. Creepers! Ha-ha-ha. Okay, okay, okay, this is epic. Let's move on to the next Kingdom, which I think is a Bowser fight. We might be able to use this creeper ability in a Bowser fight, which would be insane if we could. Oh, it looks like we're going to the Metro Kingdom, but we're actually going to fight Bowser. Bowser's gonna prank us. This cutscene will look hilarious with the creeper, though. He's clipping inside of Cappy. It sounds too big, but why are they flying right next to the cannon? So, I reckon I said that every time, but so stupid to go right by the Cannons. Hello, Bowser! Who would win in a fight: Minecraft Creeper or Bowser? I don't know if the creeper power-up can damage Bowser. Well, we'll find out right now. I might just be able to skip all of this with my speed. I'm here, Bowser! Face my wrath! This pit goes hard feel free to screenshot: the Minecraft Creeper vs Bowser. Who's gonna win? Bowser, you may look scary, but I can just explode on you, I think. Can I explode? Okay, I've activated my explode. Oh, did that damage him? I can't tell. That's kind of a pain because you should be open, it sets me on fire. Ha-ha-ha-ha. He's so easy to defeat with this super speed. Aha, Bowser! I can't believe I am On One HP. I can't be losing this. You can call me cringe in the comments if I lose this. Oh, oh, oh, no! You only need one more hit now, Bowser, and then you'll be defeated. Oh, I'm quite close to him. I don't want to get damaged. All right. There you go, Bowser! Apparently, a Minecraft creeper would win in a fight between him and Bowser. Fire! Oh, no! The Minecraft creeper is gonna explode by cannonballs. Oof, at least the Lost Kingdom has a ton of moons that we can collect. Because we're gonna be full down to the lost kingdom next, which is where our speeds really, really gonna start ramping up. But I do have a really, really good idea of one I can get with the Minecraft creeper power. Okay. So, the oldest is busted up and we need some power means to fix it. The idea that I have at the moment, I might be able to defeat Klapto with it. But I want to get on top. So you see that cage because if I can get to that cage, I might be able to explode on top of it and destroy the cage. No! How did I activate that? Oh, my gosh! Cappy's got stolen. This is so sad. This is so sad That bird, oh, my gosh... I'm so mad, actually, there's actually some explodable blocks that you normally explore. You might be able to explode them with the Minecraft creeper. Yes! There we go! This...there we go! And this should meet me faster once again I got rid of the creeper power but it's also given me Cappy back. Which is kind of good. And there's...oh... There are so many moons around. We'll be able to get so many so quickly, which is just gonna ramp up our speed so much, we'll probably get start clipping through walls soon. Because look at that! Look, how fast I can just get around. It is way more fun to play when you are going like a thousand miles per hour. Here we go. There is another one inside, like a staircase thing. I can probably get another one on top of that tree there. Oh...Wow... Okay, that's insane. This is getting too insane. It's giving me red gloves now. I guess I am moving up. I am going so fast now. Let's see if I can do the crevice jump into Captain Toad. So I'm known for failing this. Let's see. I guess I'm known for failing this for a reason. Just...Hey! Oh, the blue coins look so cool like the blue Captain Toad. Hello, Mr Captain Toad! Thank you for the Moon, Captain Toad. Oh, okay now my boots have turned red. I guess I'm burning up from... Oh, my gosh!How fast I'm going. I can barely control it. Oh, I need that heart now. Thank you. I like the way this white hat looks as well. That looks cool. I need to get out of here without taking damage. Let's see if I can do it. Okay, I just pressed buttons and prayed. But oh...I was about to say a word but then I just failed... But we only need one more to leave and there's literally one on this tree which is like too easy not to get. Wait a second. Let's see how fast I am running back to the Odyssey by going. Oh...Oh.. Oh, that was insane. All right, let's get out of here. I think we're on to the Metro Kingdom next. The Metro Kingdom is one of my favorite Kingdoms in the game. It's one of the most creative ones anyway. Oh, wait! Actually I've got such a good idea for something I can do in the Metro Kingdom. Okay, okay. I don't want to beat him yet. I've got an idea, though. So.. There's a jump called "The Impossible Jump" which isn't that hard really. I should be able to just run from here to down there. You see where that scooter is. I can just go weep. Oh, oh, I guess I can go like double this far pretty much. Oh, my goodness... Okay.I'm pretty good at the game if I can do that trick still. I remember struggling to do that when I first started playing Mario Odyssey and I think there's a moon also here. Oh, this is gonna make me so fast. Wait, where is it? It's normally here. Oh, there it is. Hello, Mr Moon! Nice! In a Girder Sandwich. Wait, wait, wait. I think I look like Fire Flower Mario now, that's pretty funny. Oh, that game looks cool. Oh, this car's broken down. I broke down my car the other day. It's a funny story, actually. I was out with my friend. I've literally only just learned how to drive, but I have a really bad car. I'll put a picture of it on screen now. But it broke down, maybe a mile away from home, and we had to push it for literally 30 minutes all the way back to my house. I didn't crash it or nothing. It just stopped starting and now the car won't start again. It was very cringe. Speed Moon! Nice!Oh, I just fell down. Hello, Mr Boogman! I am here to fight you Oh, he's looking up all the electricity from the building. I just realized that. I played this game for ages and I didn't even notice that. Okay, tank. Oh, the Tanks ain't faster. No, they're not. Aha..! One more hit, one more hit. Got it, got it! You dimble. He literally is a dimble turning off his lights. Come on! I think he's only got one more hit left. There we go. Get out of here, you dimble. Oh, a multi-moon. Let's see the ability. Nice! What's the ability then? At least the New Dong City's now daytime which means there's going to be so many moons around Wait! Did it just not get high? It didn't give me an ability. That's cringe. Anyway, let's just try to ramp up my speed as much as possible. Like! There's one here, which I can ramp me up even more. Wait, wait, wait, wait. It's turned me pink. It's turned the top of me pink. I'm becoming redder and redder and hotter and hotter. Let's see if I can do a big jump down from the city. If I just go in a straight line up here how far will I get? I can run through the city so fast of this. Oh, my goodness! Oh, this is too cool. Oh, okay, we can go through this door. Because there's like a race sort of thing where I could have to race to the end of the room. I love everyone's new costumes. They actually have different colors because normally they're all black they look a lot cooler. There's so much left on that timer. Oh, my goodness... Oh, I've forgotten where all the moons are. Where are the moons? Oh, wait, wait. I actually know where one is. There's one inside this girder through here. Nice! And then I can jump run and just collect it like that. Noticed one! Inside the iron girder. Oh, it's turned me into the Flash. Whoa, okay, okay. That's cool. I love this flash skin and...Oh, just...Oh, okay. This is absolutely mentally uncontrolled. I just died, I just died. This is so crazy. Let's see how fast we can go into the city. Or how far we'll get from here. I looked like it could sort of cut me off. Oh, I just clipped through there. Did you see that? I clipped through this area. Oh, this is...This is epic... Oh, oh, yeah. Playing against some flashings, it is pretty much unplayable. I clipped through everything home. Wait. Actually, I might be able to do this. This might help out a lot. Will it work in the 2D area? Oh, my gosh! I can't even get into the pipe. I will get this Moon. There we go. Okay, okay. I did it a bit better with getting the Note with my cap. Okay, this should be easy. Oh, I don't know...It might be a lot harder, because of like how fast I just nip around I just...I walked out of the room. I accidentally walked out of the room. Okay, this is pretty much unplayable. If you enjoyed this, you might also enjoy Mario Odyssey, but there are natural disasters. It's a really cool video. A "Natural disasters" destroys all the kingdoms in Mario Odyssey, like here in the "Metro Kingdom" gets hit by a tsunami. Just click on the screen to watch it now. Thanks so much for watching to the end of this video. I really hope you enjoyed it and I'll see you later. Bye! Bye! Bye! Bye!