(upbeat music) (background speaking by Sophia Loren) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (Sophia yells) - Today we're gonna be covering in our series we call Now, this might be a controversial take. This brewer is the Neapolitan, and it may be wildly unfamiliar but today I'm gonna make the case that this is an iconic coffee brewer, that it's worth celebrating. And I'm also gonna make the case that before they fell in love with espresso, Italy was a nation obsessed Okay, so let me give you This is the brewer that was up until the Moka pot came along. And we've covered the Moka pot in a previous &quot;Classics of This thing, this one here This isn't like a vintage This is a modern one, But it looks pretty much identical to the ones that were made If we trace the roots well, we don't start in Italy, This brewer was invented by He was a tinsmith and He iterated on an existing brewer, and that brewer was commonly known as the De Belloy pot. That was a big deal, that pot, because, you know, it was It was kind of one of It looked a bit like this in which you poured your boiling water. It had a middle section and then a lower chamber in which the brewed coffee collected, and you could then pour it out. And that was invented at Coffee up until this point had that was pretty terrible We do have, you know, records of the time. There's a guy called Count Rumford, an American who lived in London, and he himself iterated but he describes coffee in London like this. &quot;Formally, the ground coffee with a sufficient quantity of water, the coffee pot was put over the fire, and after the water had been the coffee pot was removed from the fire, and the grounds having had time to settle, or having been fined down with isinglass, the clear liquor was poured off, and immediately served up in cups.&quot; For those of you unfamiliar, You would add it to It helps yeast come out of Helps you create a nice clear drink. It's made from the swim bladders of fish. Coffee back then was a little bit weird. There are a lot of coffee brewers derived from that original De Belloy idea. You can still get some like the Carlsbad, which that works pretty much identically. You could even argue that things or the Tricolate are kind of evolved from the De Belloy brewer too. Morize, with this, well on the whole thing, which was... a flip. I'll explain. In this brewer you can heat and then when the water is boiling, you can turn the brewer around, invert it, and the hot water goes to the top and then starts to into the base piece. That was a pretty simple but it turned out to be But now you've probably This French-made brewer, how did it come to bear the How did it come to be known as That is a good question. Now, we can look at and there's things that we can see. Now, coffee came to Naples a but by the early 1800s, coffee culture had definitely And in researching their book, Mauro Carli and Enrico Maltoni did find references to the by the middle of the 1800s. And then we know that by the it's definitely taken root in Naples. There's loads of references to it there, and that transition period Edward Bramah, who wrote extensively about tea and coffee things, he makes the case that Italy began its kind and that created a much more, kind of coherent domestic market for goods and that helped with trade. And ultimately people to little pockets of Italy, but they could sell their That may well have played a role here. But there's another weird that happens. So, not only does this as the Napoletana or but it has another name which is a confusing that Cuccumella is a which means copper pot. So this thing was known but it's not made of copper, And that's actually a of this whole thing. This change to aluminum These today cost less than PS20. They would've been cheap to sell back then. There are, you know, similar versions of this but they're kind of much fancier. You can look at things or the Russian Egg. They're beautiful, they're ornate, but they were nowhere near as successful as this particular brewer. Now I want to talk today about how this brewer gets its and Italian film, specifically. But before we get into that, before we get into the weird little hat, this thing sometimes wears because apparently with the volatiles. Before we talk about how I with this thing here, through the basics of using this thing and we should brew some coffee. Now for this brew, I'm not It wasn't very easy to work with. Actually, we brought, as you can see, a few different pots for this video and we've had some issues along the way, including things that shouldn't So I'm gonna use this pot, which has been my favorite pot so far, and I'll break it into This chamber, the little is your collection kind Most of the excitement's gonna Now this is a kind of water tank. If we pick this bit out, (metal clangs) it's quite a clever little device, because this is gonna sit in the water, and water will obviously be And when we flip it, whatever water's in here is then gonna pour through making us a nice little pour over. So our base chamber is this one here. We've generally used the kind There is a little tiny and that's to stop this So when the water boils and that can escape through It it's also how you know you're really at the boiling For this one, I'm not I haven't had a huge difference So I'm happy to skip the wait time here. And then our coffee goes So it's gonna sit in there and obviously when we filtered by this piece here. Now like a Moka pot, you can by the confines of the water Generally we found 90 grams a liter to be a pretty good thing to aim for. So the basket's pretty full, but it's not compacted in any way, but that's about the most So 22.5g, to about 250 grams (kettle pouring) When you insert your, don't just slap it in there because you'll just push So be gentle and just (metal clangs) We're gonna use a very gentle flame, mostly because the pot's quite small and the gas burner is quite big, but you want to be relatively You don't want a very rapid boil in that kind of water tank section. For what won't be the first time today, we're just gonna wait. Now, this is, I'll warn you Water has to kind of come out because of the boiling to At that point, we're gonna cut the heat and do a thing that makes every single time, which is (James exhales) Whoop. And so there's nothing to do now, but take a moment and wait. Brews with this thing can take maybe up to So it's a moment for which brings us to this video sponsor and a short ad for Headspace. Now, maybe you are someone of meditation, things like or improved focus, but you Or maybe you're someone just like me who had heard the benefits, but struggled to really For me, this is where Headspace came in and changed everything. Now Headspace is a to offer in helping you around meditation. Wherever you are in your journey, there's something there for you. It might be that you're at the start and you want a bunch of It might be that you you want some walking meditations or some specific breathing exercises. There's over a thousand different pieces of content in Headspace and there will be something there for you to help you progress in your journey. For me, I've struggled with a busy mind with being kind of And meditation has really helped me flex the muscle of concentration. It's not that I necessarily I just want to be present all through life to pay attention and really be there to If you wanna give Headspace a try, and I recommend you do, then if you use the link in or the QR code on screen, then you can try it for 60 days for free. Thank you so much to Headspace Now, if you're really impatient, you probably can get away getting the water tank off and you can actually see the water inside. Usually wouldn't need a tea towel to take this hot piece off. And then we can use the little hat or lid and you've got your So you probably wanna know It is actually quite Now, it's a similar kind of strength. It's a similar ratio of coffee to water. And I could see how because it was kind of quicker and the resulting coffee Maybe they liked that about it, but it does feel close in style. Now I will talk a bit more and my experiences brewing with this thing and trying to brew specialty But before that, I wanna in Italian cinema because that's the bit that really got me about this brewer. In the 1967 film, &quot;Questi Fantasmi,&quot; Sophia Loren, a star of she spends nearly two just talking about how to brew the Neapolitan That's, that's like a really long time and it's kind of fascinating to me that this deserved inclusion in the film. Now, &quot;Questi Fantasmi&quot; was He himself is a kind of very famous, very influential author, And he wrote Questi Fantasmi as a play. It was performed then in the 1950s. They made a film of it in 1962. And in the film, well he and it's like a four minute So, clearly there's an going on there. Now both of them highlight one fun little thing about this brewer. They highlight a little paper cone that goes on the spout here. It's called a cuppetiello. The idea behind this They thought that the to drip through, the first was the strongest and you didn't want all those to just escape through your spout. So you put a little hat on the spout. And like I said, it's a lovely idea. I'm not sure it would hold but it's a cute little thing. And actually these kind in other parts of Italy too. But usually they, they have like fried fish in them or something like that. Or in some cases you to reference like a pastry But in Naples, very specifically, it sits on the spout of your brewer. Coffee culture in Naples has clearly been a thing for quite a while. And I love the fact that that so much that other places because it's not the the Neapolitan brewer, it's everyone else. They called it the Cuccumella, or actually a' macchinetta This was just the machine but it wasn't even 'the coffee machine', it was just 'the machine'. Which is kind of nuts to think about. Anyway, should you buy Maybe not, no. I don't know if it is the best brewer, especially if you enjoy specialty coffee. Let me talk about a couple trying to brew specialty Most of my problems actually are in the kind of This finer, sort of, set of And that works pretty well. I don't have a ton of complaints. You'll get some fines coming through. It's not the end of the world. My complaint in many ways because don't forget it goes upside down. Now when I'm grinding coffee at the kind of ratios that it's using, which is around 90 grams a liter, I need to grind relatively fine with sort of, dense light roasted coffees to have them extract properly. It's just, it's just a necessity. The problem there is once you put it on the heat, a not insignificant quantity of coffee will fall through these holes 'cause the holes are actually quite big. I know that Sofia Loren is kind of into a scoop as it heats up. I'm less into that if So that was kind of a But yes, going that little bit finer, definitely worked to get a We did mess around by putting both sides of the coffee to see or kind of distributing water more evenly, but didn't really feel that there was an improvement I can totally see how this with darker roasted, kind of But with specialty, it's In addition, you gotta be really careful when you heat this thing We made the mistake, especially of being a bit aggressive and while there is a kind in the sort of water tank section that was woefully inadequate (melancholic string music) But like I said, it's a If you come across one in a relative's house, dig brew some coffee, be gentle. It is a ton of fun. And I hope you've enjoyed all around this thing earn its, sort of place Thank you again to Headspace The QR code is once again onscreen, but now I wanna hear from you Do you have any tips and tricks that maybe we haven't found out about yet? Something handed down through generations or maybe something you picked up yourself. Have you experienced Has it been a part of your life? I would love to hear from you But for now I wanna say thank and I hope you have a great day.