About a year ago, the local people from &quot;we're worried about sort of a rush to there anything I could do, as a travel calm things down?&quot; And I said, &quot;really the consequence would be to produce a TV to spearhead this,&quot; but can get me the permission, crew together, we'll go over there and public television.&quot; And it's complicated go to Iran as a individual, and it's really see. But we finally got our permission, permission until just a week before we We were filming in Athens and that we visas in Athens. And it was just really embassy in Greece, and it was a casual days later we're flying into Tehran. Now when we went there, we didn't have a a kid. We had a friend to go ahead and do what we wanted to film, but for me this wanted to know about I--more about Iran. I didn't know much about Iran, and I'm a these things, and my neighbors didn't us, history stopped with the embassy that kind of thing, and we've just been &quot;they're the enemy and we're at just really thought there must be-- it must be worth knowing what's going on. we almost left our big camera in Athens I charged up on my batteries because I charge things in Iran. I heard there was no cash--no credit I didn't know how people were going to learned a lot. It really bothers me that I believe society. And I just--time and time again I there and I find it's not that scary. And what I believe I find is the countries on this planet. This picture symbolizes to me the stress I wanted to see the place from a clear in my presentation to the Iranian politicizing it. I didn't want to deal want to deal with their treatment of deal with nuclear, you know, issues. I just wanted to be a understand the culture, because it's a I wanted to get the big city, I wanted to historic perspective. Right off the bat friend in Seattle who's Iranian. He grew and he was my assurance that I wasn't was savvy with the local scene that government. And then we had our minder, Ted Koppel around when he did his thing him and the blessing of the Iranian airport, they met us and they took us to the CIP CIP lounge, the commercially important Okay, so we settle down there and we had customs police came, and they--Simon Simon's from New Zealand, and they said and they said, &quot;come with me,&quot; okay. So they escorted me over and I had to get fingerprinted, and I think I I've never been fingerprinted before. come here if they're going to get in so they're going to fingerprint us when we that's a reasonable thing and I had to Right off the bat you see, &quot;respected mean it was clear this was not Denmark, okay, this is a different world and We were in good care with the government our fancy hotel. In each city there's a and big shots, and that's where they here. There was security, it was a very from around the Islamic world mostly, hotel, fine rooms, a prayer room, always in the to have a few moments of worship. If you wanted to prayer and you didn't look up on the ceiling and there would 14th floor balcony I could look out and More than 10 million people. So I was out this city, but you have to do the stuff, so we had to go to the Ministry of which is the governmental Tourism, and sit there and have tea and into all the sites of our next 12 days around, and I'm saying, &quot;let's go shoot, I to this and that, you know, but we had--we this is cameraman Karel getting his to have our journalist passes, and they transliterated it so people knew that we were the streets. And at this point we don't going to get, but we were everywhere we taking pictures of us as we take we're quite a stir to have us, an streets of Iran. There's not a lot of great tourist the prettier cities around. They have this to see that has stylistic roots that back 500 years before Christ to the Our guide, Saeed, spent a lot of time with what we were doing. A lot of people &quot;Rick are you just going to let them you're not going to get the real story?&quot; Well you know what my mission was, it for all the bad stuff, I just wanted to in Iran and gain an appreciation for Given that, I felt I was able to go information I wanted to get, I'm very Saeed, our minder's, responsibility was to I could go anywhere I liked as a tourist that as the cameraman was doing his work every time the camera went somewhere the minder had to go with him to protect and to make sure we're not shooting trouble. What could not we shoot? We couldn't shoot banks for some reason, and we let people break the laws. You know, I mean, we wanted to go into the and girls not wearing the scarf in sync with us, they would love to share evidence that they were not following Iran, they could lose their license, and film crew proves that people are allowed people drink in our bars, to have any racy dress, or alcohol consumption. So we didn't get to film there and I what we got for our purposes. The city was crazy and the traffic was The amazing thing about the traffic in coming together with no traffic lights. Now I would have--I've seen that in because the traffic lights are broken. Here they just didn't want traffic sit through it, and they break out of just the way they do it. Now I might've thought this is crazy but who am I actually works okay. We were meeting people all the time. And where I met more people and had more you see a lot of people and you bump into a talk to people all the time. When I was bookstore people, and so on-- wanted to talk. And I did this thing I don't look very Iran--Iranian, and contact, that's what I needed to do, as soon as hello.&quot; And in Iran a foreigner is a gift Literally, I mean they treat you like a and they would always take very good I was stuck in a traffic jam, you just saw down your window,&quot; and they said, him this bouquet and apologize for the I mean can you imagine that on our thought, &quot;there's a lot about this country I know. &quot;You've got a foreigner in your take this bouquet.&quot; It was like that. So I walk around and &quot;hello,&quot; say, &quot;hello,&quot; they--invariably they'd say, America. I would say, &quot;where do you think I'm from,&quot; guess, and they'd guess five or six countries, get it right. Finally they'd run out of guesses and they'd And I said United States of America, then they go--it kind of shocked them, doing here,&quot; and then they'd say welcome. Then usually like this. And then we'd talk politics and president or something like this. But and I have never been in a place where, such an asset. It was thoroughly an asset to be an okay, so make of that what you will, I just I think--I went into a bookstore, it was the beautiful books, lots of poetry. I had to be call the back to the front. And I just they brought us tea and everything--and I wasn't gonna buy anything, so she says, from us,&quot; you know it just doesn't happen but again it was that kind of like, just quite nice. When you go to Iran it is clear from day one that these for a theocracy. This really bugs me. I government and the lack of freedom. You know, I say a lot of progressive appreciative of freedom. I am such a fan of freedom, I mean that's this kind of dynamic better. And there Americans trade away our freedom aren't freedom, we've done a lot of it lately. And there their freedom. And when I went there, I Okay, they love their kids, they want to afraid of encroaching Western values, they've got reason to be afraid of it's right or wrong, I'm just saying I'm country to have a guy like There are reasons for this, and I believe Now when you go to Iran, you see how them talking about Imam Khomeini, is the revolution of values. It's been a discourse for the last 15 years I think, family values, right? And family values they don't want their little girls to be Hilton, that's what terrorizes these parents. And separation of mosque and state in order going to trade away their freedom, which they're more--but their concern for to grow up in trumps their need for okay. Again, I just--I don't know what the but what strikes me is how little this before just saying, &quot;they're the axis And there's this kind of bombast that we I've learned is, politicians on either Why would one politician say, &quot;bomb, bomb, from the other party say, &quot;we'll why would they say, &quot;we'll bomb them out of you know? Who are they talking to? I don't other country, I think they're shoring up their base. So town, frightened, fundamentalist, less Iran, I would imagine. When we hear that understand that. And when we look at Iran, I think we've where we can have this people that people makes it less--makes it tougher for them the roots of this. For us, history with historians--in 1978 or whenever the What did you know about it before that? Just of a tough guy but at least we got the history starts in 1953 with us. And in 1953 is the year Britain, and the United States, and the CIA prime minister. Why did we throw him out? Because he for Western oil companies to get their the CIA--and there's no dispute about just history-- they threw out their prime minister so-- who is friendly to private ownership, natural resources, okay. That really is hard to swallow for a of their parents, from '53 to '78, they had to live with a guy, the Shah, as with the Shah as your dictator and you really irked at whoever put him and I think it'd be natural for you to be it's not free, there's no apologies about it's just not free. They're not anti-freedom, okay. And you look around and you find the corner, liberty, there's an Alms Box for concerned about the poor people.&quot; And if can find the orphanage. So you find all over Iran these theocracy. Now I was interested because I'm interested non-free governments, tick. And I relate it a Iran I kept thinking about the Soviet It's the same pattern, the same tactic, motivated for economic ideology, the other is religious ideology, but you control and shape people's minds. In the and everywhere we go in--advertising is making us buy stuff. Go to the TV Look at the sweatband of some great Go to an airport and sit in the lo--in a you have to listen to CNN with their off, it's illegal, they're getting paid to run creatures. You go there, late at night in channels, here you'd see shopping channel, Mecca live. It's meditational images to pray by, it's feel the energy in the economy because they're driven to drum into you their it's Islam. Every time you're looking at of discourse, you gotta discount what they're saying Hugo Chavez, Sarah Palin, Ahmadinejad, if what they do for their people, and they you gotta discount it, don't you. Well, Ahmadinejad can do all sorts of stuff, his people don't pay taxes, they don't rolling in from oil. I just think that is really quite you see billboards, and they're not there's some, but mostly it is propaganda dedicated to propaganda. Some of it's okay. This would be pro--I can't read the war against Iraq. Saddam Hussein and Iran lost a quarter of that's more than a Vietnam. So this is a and your political leader saying, &quot;martyrs and we should all stand strong against them all the time. Martyrs marching into the setting sun, if you die for God and country, you see. think, God and country, God and country. We get this one here, this is the famous one. shoot it right, and you've got skulls And it's sad to see this, it hurts me to see this. And I had to and I wondered, &quot;what do they mean, who's have on the people, do people really buy heavy experience. Some of them say know, &quot;care for your loved ones, take as you,&quot; all that kind of stuff, and then Israel,&quot; kind of stuff. So &quot;death to America,&quot; what do you make of it? Well learn more about this. I was, on that same day, in traffic, and we suddenly my driver just blurted out, &quot;death to traffic.&quot; And I mean, I remember going, &quot;what?&quot; I mean, death to America...death to traffic?&quot; And I And he said, &quot;well in Iran, anytime were of our control we say 'death to it.'&quot; It's in their--it's in their--what do you call about that quite a bit, and I thought say, &quot;damn those teenagers.&quot; Do you really mean eternity? I don't think so. Now I don't want to Israel&quot; thing at all, but I do think it complicated than what some commercial hysteria might pound into our heads, or into our fears. We need, as citizens, to expect a little in this hysteria when the consequence of us not getting It's very expensive, and that haunted me that we sort this out. Because I didn't on the streets look at this stuff and thought, &quot;death to are the free spirits in Iran. And I just to the greatest university in Iran, and said, &quot;where is the, like, the student union got the student union building, and the anarchists, and the Communists, and went there and it-- this is one of the most discouraging University and see nothing but nothing but conformity, nothing but up to professors that have their jobs theocracy. And it's happened for 30 years people in Iran are less than 30 years who's writing their textbooks, and what think? You add into that the fact that they've got a huge blogosphere and a web going on, but still higher education is People were delightful to talk to, people the campus there wasn't a bit of there wasn't a bit of posters, nothing was the system. Having said that, I've looked and since I got home there's plenty going on behind the cosmopolitan, you know, people that that effectively hidden from the public, and And I really take that as a warning, the university environment is sacred. piss off the government, you know. This is can learn all the things that you didn't character, and make their choices, and be individuals. I love it when we have that aspect that discourse and political discourse in our go to a country that doesn't have it and way completely from top to bottom, it's pretty Now there's a big issue about women, and Because you hear about women who have to back of the bus, and it just reminds me a had to sit in the back of the bus and so So you've got--you going in the subway and you American in a quick look would say, &quot;well but then you look at it a little more in the men's car, there's a woman, there's a woman, but men I talked to the women there about this, and subway the women would appreciate it if for them,&quot; and I just thought, &quot;wow, I never thought And I would be so quick to judge them a car for women, and it's just something solution. It humbles me, every time I get realize, &quot;oh, there's a different way to and I celebrate that, and when I find that know all the answers about how evil The state of women in Iran is a matter men in the mosque. Well that's happened in churches and we got to be honest about that, and you your husband, and husband respect your it's not unique to Islam. When you look some women agree, most don't but many do, statistically, would like to have more but thirty percent of them think this is they're told to cover up is out of Anything can go in the domestic world, Women cannot show the shape of their neckline. And when you look at the-- presentation in public is to look at the Iran Whenever you see somebody is a be perfectly attired. Not a single strand of hair will show, and you know. Now so there's the--a proper way public, and then there are bad girls that get with the style, you know. You go on the are out in public pushing it a little Now there's no--I never saw a what you do is, this is what's exciting, a right here, just a little hair. And if-- authorities are around, the scarf goes my eyes going right here. There's a real weird sort of thing, and I It was, psychologically, it was a trip love looking at men and women when I'm no shape of body, no neckline, no hair, this is it, this is what it's all about. accessories, beautiful hair, a woman who is looking good on the Why not? You can show your face, let's They have more nose jobs per capita in Beautiful people, modest, but they are not sex when they're out and about, it's fascinating stuff to observe. If Western you will go to the rich part of are just as expensive as our fancy everything, and you find people--these but you'd hardly notice it, you know, they're pretty decadent, and with it. There's lots of business, and lots of 30 year em--old embargo from the United obvious American companies, and no I couldn't use my credit card. People-- suitcases full of cash there. So the American embargo, you know, life-- countries that have been living with if you want to see the elite, you go into you pay to get into a fancy park, and you all. Even here, public display of affection hands is about it. That was really quite racy. And it was everybody who is educated, I found spoke There was not much of a language barrier talking to Americans a lot, but it's just other countries. The country is dry, there's no alcohol. I thought, &quot;well sure Intercontinental Hotel in Tehran there's--I can get a beer.&quot; Nope, nothing, okay. So you have something beer, and tastes like a beer , it's malt have that and they drink it all the time As I mentioned, there-- my impression was a very strict and You just don't take drugs, you don't have that was the impression a visitor gets. in Iran tells me behind--in domestic to call you can get anything delivered okay. I didn't see any indication of hard something that I saw in a garden there, but of a--there's a parallel world that is ghost is there, you just feel--everything or the Shah Mosque is now called Khomeini the Shah used to be on all the money, now just one radical swing of the pendulum fundamentalist Muslim dictator, basically. museums, and they're showcases to remind what a horrible dictator their parents the Shah we'd have his palaces open and When you go to the the Shah's place, all there. They learn the whole propaganda by the United States and he kept us down, decadent way because they wanted our Christians or all like Jews, is instead of like good Muslims like we gets drilled into their heads and that's to reckon with. Why are they telling their kids this? not true, that they feel this way. They Embassy. It was like, &quot;when are we gonna go to the crew you'll want to go to the embassy,&quot; and and of course this is what most embassy. 19--what was it--78, the kid--the took--overran it, and they took 50 or 60 hundred and some days. We remember it thing, this whole hostage crisis, I think it's interesting to talk to them, and so on. A lot of people think they wanted have been a moderate revolution but if polarized it--it's what happens in make it more radical, and you do that by the United States, you make United States the United States, and everybody runs to all right, that's what happened there I revolution. And that was 30 years ago, at that time, and it still is part of When we went there, they had the graff-- murals on the walls, quite clear. They've you know, embassy medallion, and so on. And mixing United States, and war, and killing, and Israel, and all this, and you look at the day, and you wonder what is--is this is white Or do they look at it and does it really My hunch is young people just have to lot of kids will do whatever they--you they just mouth it or something, and do they really think about those I'm sure the kids just gotta say, little bit of a limp wrote response when top down, and it kind of gets, I think--is hunch. It is sure good, vivid imagery, when I that political murals can do for represent. And here of course you see the controls everything, we've got military we got--we spend as much as everybody you can get elected in America without state, you know. There's all of this stuff that And when you combine that with vivid it's quite believable that there is a sights set on Iran. And why does Pakistan certainly not justifying, just telling you it's make do, just be compliant, we'll be good to you, well because there's not a lot of So this is the guy, Khomeini, that replaced I grew up thinking Khomeini was this guy, and you get there and you--- he's a--he has a different persona among He's an approachable, wise, lovable, elder. said yeah right, I went to his mosque where he's buried, people in his mosque, we were there on a very such casual ambiance in the mos--I've never kicking the soccer ball, families were having a little picnic, old next to his tomb, and it-- I don't understand Khomeini's appeal, just easy to put on TV and hate. But there must be something about him fundamentalist, small town Muslims in This is his tomb here, this is all money, We wanted to get out of the big city, and stuff in the countryside. And, you know, stop and talk to a shepherd. It's a scene we had a good time filming that. And then a very hot and dusty sort of world. This town was quite famous with tourists every door. And one knocker was for men, Now what's with that? And then I learned, hear the knock and it's a woman, great, get up and answer the door, no fixed up in order to answer the door. It's just a very practical way to tell I was having so much fun with the people, delight to be on the streets of Iran. And tourists from Tehran, the wealthy, big time, local tourists were coming to this the Iranian tourists, they were kind of let the big city Iranians take their their photograph with an American. And an America, and so on, and it was just a we found--again, we found a nice welcome out flags, there's flags everywhere, and collections of flags, and I think it's States, and Britain, and Israel. I noticed the only time you see those things I just showed you. I mentioned that because of the American Embargo you got ATMs but they're only for local There's a lot of rials in one dollar, hundred dollars makes a million rial, my friend, and I was amazed when he paid are you counting there? And Abdi--we'd count it explained to me that the country doesn't something, and you've got to make sure and one way to tell is you rub the makes the number disappear, and then it counterfeit. Here we have the greatest view, from a This is the great Imam Square in see in Iran if you're a sightseer, glorious tile mosques, wonderful grand bazaar, bazaar in Istanbul, this puts that to shame, because there's real people doing their real shopping. carnival of color, and fragrance, and doing their chores. Persian carpets, great because they love to sell them to embargo, there's creative ways to get for Iran, but you look at the people man's friend. I just really want to understand these there's not that many little places to bazaar and it's hard to find any place quite know why, but we had to look hiding away where we could sit down and a little break. Part of it is just floating around for that kind of thing. Now here we have Abdi and Sayeed really interesting, because we wanted to Sayeed was on our side, but he was also--he had to because it's complicated. It's just--you you can't go in there and so on. And one of I wanted to shoot a prayer service. I it's not that clear that this is a you don't hear a call to prayer like you it's kind of odd. And when I look at the this is just my take on this, I thought they've got a top-down, ordained, theocracy, felt there was a lot of lip service to strong, grassroots kind of faith like I where I just felt a lot of strong, from I'm not sure about this, but I do think a passionate Christian, and you wish had a chance to make your government a have to pray in school, and they'd all celebrate the same holidays, because you I'm just telling you, I think the ironic that was less faithful than if you just to live their lives the way God wanted That's the beauty of the separation of Christian ideologue, and that's the mosque and state if you're a Muslim So we went to the big mosque. I went there wanting to look at it as a clear to me, you could edit it in a way edit it in a way that it would look like, essentially like my church service okay. And it was clear to me as a TV bring home what you want. You can take in guerillas jumping over barbed wire, and yourself one scary Muslim clip. You could wanted to and they do, you see. Or you could go there and film it the neighborhood worship service. Well this is the big mosque, we went there rolled up, it just felt like a chaotic even envision it full of people. And the all the rugs were laid out worshippers. In Islam when you have a big soldiers, because--it's just an indication days, if there's going to be some angry, fringe group that's going to shoot up it's probably gonna be at a mosque, so they're always going to be worshipping prevalent until everybody bows down and then okay. So we want through all of these through the service, and we set up our was fascinating for me because we had just kept thinking how much this is like There's a sermon that goes too long, people bowing, there's passing of the piece, pulling on their dads finger to go, go off and they go &quot;oh darn, I should've turned there's people catching my eye contact just was very much like a church. Everybody was dressed up, you know, the curtain there because they have their Why do women pray apart from the men? So we're there filming this, and people Abdi, &quot;what does this say?&quot; And it says So you got this top-down propaganda soldiers, you got the tension, and you've according to their faith. It was fascinating to watch the whole there. I got a real friendly vibe in there, not one of--in their faith, Muslim with a big camera and we're just welcomed us there, and afterwards everybody shakes hand with the pastor on the way out of church, and coffee and cookies, right? Well here it the neighborhood, and they've got--because everybody there is the same conviviality you'd have in this Sunday morning in a So you got the old-timers shaking the gathering the mulberries, and the kids everybody catching up on what's going on so-and-so got into school, and what about it was just that kind of neighborhood quite a charming situation. The cleric was all excited that we were talk, he spoke English quite well, and you know it was just a very poignant experience for me to witness that. dressed up, and it was there Sunday go thing, and then they take pictures of the healthy, and feel good about worshiping Now when you go to Iran, there's two world, Shia and Sunni. Eighty-five percent of percent are Shia. The only real Shia power learning about this now--is mostly Shia, a minority who was the heavy head guy who sustainable. Today you're going to have a Shiite Iraq be, you know, natural allies because world or something like this. People ask, &quot;is their religious freedom in deal, because I've got Baha'i friends killed, or they'll be in danger if they I asked my guides, I asked the Iranians Yes, there is religious freedom, as long and Mohammed says he is the last prophet. So if your profit, like Jesus, is before Jesus is 600 years before Mohammed, no characters are revered in the Muslim Baha'u'llah, who is the prophet of Baha'i people, Muhammad. He's not okay. By their religion, they are offended by a Okay, that's their religion. And they've got Iran. Now, I don't think that's okay, but they they're not going to change. What do we do? That's a tough question. If know, and find some other place, but I I asked my guide then, ok it's really if I'm a Christian or a Jew can I get He said yeah, I said what about the he said well no, then you have to be a Muslim. Practicing Shiite Muslim? Yes. Okay, so if the government, you got to be that religion. Now a lot of then can you imagine a Muslim candidate for the it's not allowed here. Just like a Christian is not allowed mean that's the honest truth, isn't it. So we can be appalled at this stuff, but and we got to understand what motivates There's some beautiful, beautiful things were working I had a lot of time to work trying to find a private place to papers and stuff, and invariably people At first I was annoyed, and then I everywhere I go in Iran I've got friends, and confused about America, they want to just looking down at me, &quot;hi where are you from?&quot; &quot;Alright, we'll beautiful thing, and many times I wished I wasn't working people. If you ever want to go to Iran you'll meet lots of people, I can promise you would have no shortage of fun people And when I look at these little girls, their body language, I celebrate them. I just hope the best afraid of the rest of the world, because intentions, I just think they want to be able to them to live. We did a lot of walking around in the people were, you know, happy to clown careful because we're more casual and just implied and puts people in mannequins even had to cover their heads. where life really got relaxed and fun. I really enjoyed going down the river more casual and candid there. They have a on either side of the river, and in the twilight, everybody's out. It's gotta you know, that you find just as people anywhere in my travels. And we had plenty of went to a martyrs cemetery. I mentioned the Iran-Iraq war, they lost, nobody knows exactly, but there was a Iran and Iraq, a million. And the West-- Front I believe in WWI, it was lost a couple hundred thousand boys interestingly enough. Every town in Iran a powerful experience, as an American, go see all these flags flapping, and all loved ones without their dads or image of a mother sitting on her son's doesn't matter whose side she's on, this is a horrible situation.&quot; And I just an amazing tragedy. We filmed that, we there's also a place for the unknown where their son ended up, so they also have a photograph, and don't have a flag, was a very powerful experience, and it film crew, welcomed by these people who were There was no problem with us being there, the tombs of their dead sons. And it important that we do not underestimate It's so easy for us to say we'll shock We'll shock and awe 'em, as if one big all give up and let us tell them how to I don't think they will. I had a very, cross the street, come right up to me, and said, &quot;I want you are strong, and we are united, and I want you know. These people are proud. I saw so raise your kids, get an education, build good people, and I thought, &quot;in one day we a sudden have 70 million enemies sworn I cannot stress the power I felt for fight until the last man was dead on There's gotta be a more constructive that's the challenge that we have ahead We talked about this stuff as we drove, here's Karel, and Sayeed, and Abdi, and me, we're just debating We drove down a long stretch where there mound of dirt so we couldn't see their nuclear power plants were, and all camera's down, you shoot a picture here and we're it was not allowed to take pictures of cultural heritage going back thousands Marco Polo times, Silk Road time, Ancient Every camels walk--days camels hike apart, there'd be a Motel 6, alright, with a little nightclub, okay, all within a nice fortified--whatever Think about that, if you were those Marco coming back to Europe, every day's march should have one of about what that was like was really fun. caravanserai, I saw this guy who was exactly like David had for Goliath, it was a guy was like a little teenager whipping field all day long, keeping the birds off. timeless scene. In the middle of his field and as we were driving it was fun just to American or a foreign film crew and get Here is Karel shooting the the bakery, and the day. For the whole first week I was running back to our friend who's the bus think, and I would be going like this, &quot;yeah, we got it, you know, hurray, we got it, name is not Najaf that's a city in it's something else and I forget his name. country giving somebody the finger. So for the rest of the trip we are both as just a little joke. But when you go going to help you. Our driver was so enough money to take you over to little kit there for your tea or coffee, donuts at the end of a long day of work. always looking for the untouristy places, give me a touristy restaurant, alright. And our guide was good at finding us and Sayeed was--I still don't know why--he It's got to be the most boring little Persepolis. I went through Iran back in the days of the Shah, and I--my big regret was life I've been neglect--regretting one of these sites that, you know, you be a little bit of an anti-climax. I finally got there and it did not expectations. Persepolis is the greatest and India. And when you go there today you these gross parking lot kind of lighting at this Well this is the remnants of the Shah's like that, remember that, when he invited flew 'em into in Persepolis, which is really from all the fanciest restaurants in Paris, and it was this most you can imagine, and it was really the end of the Shah, because when he did looked at that and they said, &quot;this man has got to as a reminder, because when we met they were going there to sort of roots. And when you remember when you're first of all they're not Arabs, they're they're Persians, they don't speak Arabic. No, they speak Farsi. And when you talk it's not the Gulf of Arabia, it's the you know, they told us that experience is to really communicate the to the days of Xerxes and Persian Empire in 500 years BC, and people come here. And we saw having a great national holiday of their civilization which was not a Muslim, but the first monotheistic religion. You look at the tombs of these great really, of the Pharaohs in Egypt. And it's out all this. Here's where we saw a lot a lot like a Cuban cigar. You know, it's a big deal for an American Lonely Planet guide to Iran is a big they just came out with a new addition. I but you know Canadians, Germans, Australians, today is a lot like the Soviet Union tourism, they want the money, they want for permission to film they recognize wanted us to give them a good shake, you know, that's why they let us in. And they don't get how to make tourism, and you Westerner you got to take a tour like it's the same kind of fear of having unless you got relatives or something. You met a lot of tour groups here. They it would always have their local guide. their Lonely Planet book that had a you have to have a guide, but they would thing. From Persepolis, our last stop was a rich history, a great market, wonderful chance to get out and see the Shiraz is the tombs of its poets. And when you religion for the great poets of that of love really, and people go on--it's like dressing up great cultural center. The people in Shiraz would go there and read the poet--the poems of their poet at his tomb. And that was a very that I really didn't--I still don't Everybody told me, if you're going to eat somebody's home. And we wanted to get have an American film crew come into I wanted to see everybody kick back and happens, but as soon as you take the it's like you're outside, you know what I good behavior, it's just the cultural norm. So we went man is quite wealthy, he's got a couple scarves, and we have a glorious dinner, We got to meet the kids, and, you know, it's a wealthy home in the United States. And just thought, &quot;okay, the company has worn out go home, I think I'll just curl up on the big in suburban America, just like in a fancy Well from there we flew back to Tehran, away from Tehran for 10 days or up there, we were thankful to have all of and flew out of there, and came home with determination to help our country better Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much, okay, thank you.