Hi all! This is Olesya. I'm very glad to see you! I am using a translator, so I apologize for any mistakes. Enjoy watching. I missed last week because there were a lot of unforeseen things to do and I couldn't shoot a video. I miss you very much! I hope you do too! Sometimes circumstances are out of your control and you need to deal with current affairs. Today I will start decorating the house for Christmas. I really want to fill my home with a cozy Christmas atmosphere. First, I will share with you my old recipe for simple but very tasty cookies. Take 500-520 grams of flour and 250 grams of butter, grind together. It is very convenient to do this with a grater. Add 250 grams of kefir or yogurt. Knead the dough. Place the dough in a bag and put it in the refrigerator for 20-30 minutes. Take out the rested dough and divide it into 6 pieces. Roll each piece into a circle I cut out an even circle using a plate. But this is not at all necessary. I divide the circle into many triangles, I use a pizza cutter. In the middle, on the wide part, place thick jam and roll the dough towards the narrow part. Line a baking tray with baking paper and place cookies. This batch makes quite a large amount of cookies. But believe me, it disappears very quickly. The process of forming cookies is fascinating and calming. Bake in the oven at 190 C until golden brown. I never keep track of time. I focus on color. I got 1.5 baking sheets. Sprinkle the baked cookies with powdered sugar. You can also use cheese or cheese together with ham for the filling. You'll get a good snack. As you can see, there were a lot of cookies. Let's start decorating the house. I'll start with the kitchen. Textiles are the first assistant for changing your mood. Nyusya: - Hello! I'll sew a new table runner. Red checkered is a win-win option for all seasons. Nyusya is such a cutie. She wants to be at the center of any events. This is understandable, because she has no one else except us. I have already sewn a table runner like this, there is a detailed video on the channel. I wrote the cutting dimensions in the description under the video. I have already folded the edges of the runner on both sides and stitched it. All that remains is to sew on the ruffles. As always, I will hide the raw edge with cotton tape. I hope the video explains how I will do this. On this side I have already sewn one piece of ribbon. I try to get into the previous seam. I bend the ribbon and fasten it with pins. The table runner is ready. From the leftover fabric I will make two simple towels. In fact, sewing new home textiles is very quick and is a really good method for changing seasonality and creating atmosphere. I'm done, I can put things in order. The mushroom pincushion suits the gnome very well. Have you noticed that Nyusya controls all my actions ..lol Two ready towels. I will remove the fall decor and replace it with winter decor. Another indispensable element for creating atmosphere is lighting. Garlands will create the necessary comfort. I drew this deer on a towel using a stencil. And these are store-bought napkins for plates. As you can see, they are also with a deer. I really like deer in winter decor. Let's see how the table runner turned out and finally decorate the table with it. Very beautiful. In my opinion, it looks homely, simple and elegant. These houses are easy to make yourself. My husband cut them out of regular construction timber in different sizes, and I painted them. Yes, you are right, I will change the curtain again:))) I think such pleasant chores as creating comfort in your home bring happiness and make your home special. Despite all the events that happen around us, we must create a family nest and comfort at home. Our home is our haven. There are people who, despite the troubles occurring, glow from within. There is sun in every person! Look for happiness inside your heart and let it out! This way, both you and the people around you will be charged with positive emotions! And the world will become a little happier and kinder! I'll glue snowflakes to the windows. Perhaps I'll also swap the autumn mushrooms for fly agarics. I think a lot of money is not necessary to create a pleasant Christmas atmosphere and comfort. And you can do a lot with your own hands. I'll cook dinner. This will be a quick, tasty and healthy dinner. I'll put the rice on the fire right away. I will share a recipe for a very tasty and juicy chicken breast. Brush chicken fillets with olive oil on both sides. sprinkle salt and black pepper on both sides. Pour olive oil into a frying pan and heat well. Place the chicken fillet in a well-heated frying pan and fry for 2-3 minutes. Turn over to the other side and fry for 2-3 minutes. Crush 4 cloves of garlic. Add garlic and dried thyme (a few sprigs) to the chicken. Place in an oven preheated to 190 C for 10 minutes. Remove the chicken from the oven, add about 60 grams of butter, 1 teaspoon of mustard and a couple of bay leaves. Sprinkle with lemon juice. Pour this sauce over the fillets. In addition to the garnish, I will stew some carrots. Very quickly, literally a couple of minutes. Make carrots aldento. Let's see how juicy the chicken fillet is. The fillet according to this recipe is very tasty and juicy. Suitable for both holidays and every day. We are discussing plans for tomorrow. We need to go to the forest house and demolish one small barn. Hello forest house! It even breathes differently here. It's so good to be in nature. Let's light the stove so we can come in and warm up. My husband did a little repair on the wood stove, all that remains is to paint it. It's 9 degrees below zero outside. The administration ordered us to demolish a small shed, since the former residents had built it illegally. Otherwise, it will be difficult for us to complete registration of the land. The boards from the barn can be used to heat the stove. We also took the concrete pillars to the barn so that they would not get in the way near the house. As you can see, we had a very busy week. Thank you for visiting our home. I am always happy about our little meetings and this warm exchange! See you in the next videos! I'm waiting for you in the comments section. In the next video we will continue decorating the house. Hugs to everyone! Health to you and your families!