I use this reverse pricing strategy in my handmade jewelry store to double my sales. And the best thing is it only takes me a minute to do each time. This can work for selling any type of physical product or even services or digital products. And it's so counterintuitive. And so few people do this, but it can work so well at making you more money with your business if you do it right. Before we get into what the reverse pricing strategy is, I need to get you on the same page first or it won't make sense. So most store owners, when they see that their products aren't selling default to lowering their prices as a way to drum up sales, right. If you sold on Etsy, you also know this to be true. Your competitors selling very similar products as you are start charging less than you so then you feel pressure to lower your prices in turn and then it's just a race to the bottom as you compete on pricing. But here's the thing that all of this is assuming the customer is doing price comparisons when shopping. And the kicker is not everyone does that. Price comparison shopping happens more commonly around products that are commodity products or that appear to be commodities, meaning products that are kind of just the same from each other. For example, if Shop A has an amethyst necklace and Shop B she has an amethyst necklace as well and they look pretty similar, then you are likely inviting shoppers to go with the option that's cheapest. It's not a great position to be in selling commodity products because you feel the effects of competition even more and you can't charge what you deserve to be paid. And it's really hard to grow your shop from this place. And if you're in this situation and you're like, I don't want to be a commodity product, I have a free workshop I teach that's linked in the description that will help you turn your product into something that can stand out in the competition. And it's actually really simple to not be a commodity if you know what small tweaks you can make to make your products stand out. But that's a whole another topic for another day. So having said that, not all customers are driven by price alone. And I promise we're getting to what this whole reverse pricing strategy is. But first, you have to understand that we are all different people and we value things differently. I have noticed that as artists and makers, we tend to be very conscious of pricing because we know all the materials that go into making a product and the process in which it's made. As artists, we also tend to undervalue ourselves and charge too little for our time, so we generally price our work too low to begin with. Consider that most of your customers are not other artists and makers, and they don't know how you make your products, they have to rely on other cues your shop and products are giving them to make an assessment for whether or not your product is worth the price you've given it. I'm sure you have been in this scenario where you see an amazing product. It looks super well-made, high quality, and the design, it's beautiful. But you see the price is disproportionately too low. It's easy to think something is wrong with this product. The more educated buyer might understand that, okay, this product is made in a third world country and instead of cotton, it was made using polyester instead. So that's why it's so cheap. But see, this usually is someone who knows something about materials and production. A lot of customers don't know stuff like this. So to give you an example, I'm a maker myself, right? But I deal primarily with polymer clay, so I don't know much about fiber arts. And it was only last year that I learned that cotton is more expensive, more desirable, and more comfortable than polyester. The point is, not all customers are driven by price. Price is just one component of a person's value system. So when someone says I'm getting a good value, that doesn't always mean they got the cheapest price it could actually be they paid a higher price but it feels like a good value because of everything they got from their purchase right, the full package. For some people, they care more about quality and durability. For others, eco-friendly production methods and materials are more important to them. But for others, maybe not so much. For my customers in particular, they're interested in a product that is unique and novel, so they don't mind paying more for an experience that's fresh, new and different, which my shop can give. Bottom line is most people care about the outcome of what we make. But as makers, we spend too much time caring and focused on the process. So understand that what we as the shop owners value is quite different from what our customers value. So, okay, what is this one minute reverse pricing strategy that doubled my store sales? Now that you understand that most shops default to lowering pricing, the reverse pricing strategy is opposite of that. So I did a price experiment on my best-selling necklace, the scented snow cone necklace. It was originally $28. I was selling so many of them that it was getting hard to keep up with making them. They're also a bit time consuming to make as well, so I had room for making more profit from it. I decided to test it at $35 instead and it was really cool to see that the increase in price did not actually affect sales. In fact, more people bought at the higher price. Interesting. So then I tested between $35 versus $40. And again, more people bought at the higher price. So I didn't stop then I tested it at $40 versus $45 and as you guessed, $45 sold more and overall, made me more money and profit. Now, this is where things get interesting. I kept going with this pricing experiment to see how far I could push it, right? So the next logical step was $45 versus $50, right. And then this was where I actually saw sales drop at the higher $50 price point. So I thought to myself, okay, I hit the limit. $45 seems to be the sweet spot. But then a few weeks go by and just one day it randomly hit me that I could do yet another test here. And can you guess what that was? So I tested between $45 and $49.99, which is essentially the same as $50 to me. And lo and behold, the $49.99 price won. At this price, which is almost double what I was originally selling this necklace at, I am getting more people viewing this product listing, more adds to cart, more checkouts and more sales and revenue and of course more profit. And the best thing was I didn't have to change anything else about the product. The product, the packaging, the product description, everything else stayed the same. Isn't that so fascinating? Can you imagine if you could do this for your own shop? You would only have to get half the number of traffic to your shop everyday to make the same amount of money, which means you wouldn't have to spend as much time doing marketing. You'd be making more money for the same amount of effort, which to me that's leveraged income and what I aspire to create more of. And I think all of this is also a perfect example of how charging too low might actually be hurting your business. I was making fewer sales, charging $28 for a very detailed, unique necklace. Charging lower meant fewer people in the world had my products and I know when people have my products it is so much fun for them. It makes them smile. They make such great gifts, and there would be less of that magic if I continue to charge lower. I also find it interesting that this is an example of how you need to match your products perceived value with your pricing. My snow cone necklace, to a lot of people looks like a very detailed, appealing and fun product, right? Plus, it's scented and you can't find it anywhere else. So it's totally unique. All of these things increase the product's perceived value. Let's use an extreme example to prove my point. See, I charged $10 for this necklace. Something super low. Now, your brain might be sounding off alarm bells and thinking this must be a scam. The low pricing mismatch for something that has a high perceived value makes me think, Hmm, if I buy this item, will I even get it in the mail? Or is this shop just going to take my money and run? If you're making your customers think thoughts like that, they are for sure not going to buy from you. Now, I don't want you to just run off to your store now and just willy nilly increase your prices because the reverse is also true, okay. If you have a product that looks poorly made and the product photos are not great and you have a really high price tag for it, people are going to think it's too expensive and therefore not buy. Well, here's the thing. Your product might look very well made and look absolutely stunning, but if your website is poorly designed, if your logo looks unprofessional, if your shop is triggering your customers anti-virus software in their computer, you know, things like that that are going to lower the perceived value of the product, then a high price will not feel justified, even if your product is the most amazing thing on earth. If your shop has good branding, good products, good photos, and so on, then definitely consider charging more. This is something you can do in 60 seconds or less. You just go into your website and type in a new price and then press save. I don't think I need to do a full tutorial for how to do that, right. It is literally the easiest thing you could do today to make more money without any extra work. But again, if you're feeling like your branding isn't very good and you're not super confident about your products or your photos or your website, sign up for the free workshop linked in the description below, that will help you with all of that. Now, if you're worried that a price increase will upset your customers, you don't have to make such a big price jump. Test increasing the price a few dollars every few weeks or months. Most of your customers aren't paying that close attention to your shop and they're likely not memorizing your products' prices and the customers you really want to work with anyway will understand the need for raising prices. And if they don't, do you really want to be working with those people anyway? And if you're interested in more strategies like this that are small tweaks you can do in your shop to make more sales, or you're wondering exactly how to do this pricing experiment in your shop, then you'll definitely want to join the waitlist for the Nerdy Creatives Club, my new space where I teach more about how to do fun experiments and give out more tests like these that you can do in your very own shop every month to help increase sales, increase profits, and lower the time you're spending in your business. So you can put all that extra time towards the things you actually love doing. The Nerdy Creators Club is where we focus on working smarter, not harder. And for me, it's a bigger mission where I want to bring together ambitious creatives who want to stand against hustle culture. I only open doors to join the club a few times a year and only let in a limited number of people each time. So if that sounds interesting to you, the link to join at the Nerdy Creatives Club waitlist is in the description below.