Andi: Your last-minute tax questions answered, Should Brad in Wahoo, Nebraska save to his regular the American Opportunity Tax Credit? Should IRA and file taxes for their 13-year-old in San Diego have to report her Medicare Advantage And should our buddy Carl Spackler wait until Em in Florida needs ideas for moving her Mom from area, Wannabe Landlord wonders about and can CJ in Florida and Indiana report pro-rated the 5-year rule on Roth withdrawals once and Bruce from Joisey is back, this time he wants and hold on to your seats as I do my best to with the hosts of Your Money, Your Wealth(r), Joe: "Hey guys. I ride a vintage 1980 Al/Andi: Moped. Joe: Oh my god! All: Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha! Joe: Alright, "Drink of choice apple All: Ha ha ha ha! Joe: You gotta be careful man! Al: You can't risk breaking it. Joe: You can't risk breaking that thing. 80 miles per gallon, $75 tag fees, $100 a year plus some freelance on the side. My first kid American opportunity tax credit worth changing 401(k)? I figure with HSA, my 401(k) IRA, I I have 529 plans for the kids. My state income. I can only claim my son every other in years, I can claim him, shifting to to drop my adjusted gross income to below I don't claim him I'm doing Roth and paying long term plan for taxes in retirement? Willing to Andi: And that is a real place. Al: Okay. So what's the question? Joe: He's looking for the Al: He wants to know whether he should do Roth, he might not qualify for the tax credit, by the way, pretty good credit for $2,500, per think when you're single, it starts phasing you can't really take any. If you're $80,000 I guess that's the question. Should I be high where I don't get the $2 500? Or should Joe: I haven't seen the American Opportunity Tax First, let's explain what a tax credit is versus Al: We learned about that today. Joe: We did. So a tax credit. Andi: You're welcome. Joe: Tax credit is dollar for dollar off I have a $2,000 tax credit. Al: Dollar for dollar. Joe: Dollar for dollar. A tax deduction is your taxable income. So depending you have to do a little bit of mathematics to So if you have a $1,000 tax deduction your tax benefit is $220. So for a $2,500 tax so dollar for dollar. So I can see why he's like, tax credit? If you qualify, I would definitely but I would be careful if you get it low get the credit. You just missed that year projections here. But if he can receive the Al: 100%. This is too big of a credit Joe: All right. "Dear Andi, Joe and Al: Zeke. Joe: Yep. "Subarus and Coffee in New back in May. Really appreciate it. Thank specific question that I can't seem earned $70,000 in cash from cat-sitting Andi: Joe, it says $70 cash. Joe: Oh my gosh, am I buzzed? Andi: What, do you just think in you don't even see $70. Look Joe: I was like this 13 year old kid makes Al: This cat, Joe, you don't know what Joe: Is it a tiger? Oh, pretty dangerous cat. Al: I'm flying into New York Joe: "I have talked up the almighty Roth IRA to which is great. But I first want to consider the $70 was his only income I believe we could the $400 self employment threshold and go ahead keeping a private log on how we earned the will also have unearned income from the UTMA we have reported this on our own tax return on return for him. It is unclear to me whether in I would have to file a separate return for him. amount of earned cash, but if we were going be sure that it was properly following all the I may decide that the small Roth contribution Al: Wow. Okay. Joe: That $70 could grow. Al: It could double. Andi: To $70,000! Joe: It could grow to $70,000! Andi: And he could buy a mop! Joe: He could ride a tiger! Have another contribution is not worth the hassle. Okay. investigating this for a while and look Al: Okay. Let's put it to rest. Joe: Let's do it. Al: First of all, I wouldn't bother myself, Joe: What do you mean you wouldn't bother filing the return or you wouldn't Al: Either one. It's too small. But see, so the I do believe he has to file his own return, do have to put the amount on the return. You $400. So there's no self-employment tax. It's tax because it's only $70 and the $3,000 but you'd have to do a separate return. Then none of that is worth it. I'd wait till and do it then. That's what I would Joe: $70 Al: $140, Joe: I don't know. He's 13 years old and then Al: It will, tax free. Joe: No, it could be like $10,000. I don't know! Al: Anyway, that's my answer. But I think love it. I think you'd want to file his own Joe: But how long will it take to Al: No, because I mean, it's Joe: How many inputs is it? Al: Well, if you understand TurboTax, but if you're not in the profession, this Joe: Do you think so? Al: I do. Joe: I disagree. Al: I wouldn't do it myself. Joe: If you're a CPA for how long? Al: 1984. So compute that. What is that? 40 years? Joe: It's been a couple years. Al: Yeah. 40. Joe: We got JZ from New York. "Hey, Joe, Al, Andi. Al: I think so. Joe: Beyonce? Al: I don't see why not. Joe: "This is JZ from New York. First time, long time. I've been listening since episode Andi: 457. Joe: Wow. Al: I don't think it's "the" Jay Z then. I don't Joe: Of course. "And really enjoy, and often, insights. I typically enjoy your show on my Al: Ah, nice little SUV. Joe: "And once I'm home, I typically Al: Gin and tonic. I'm getting to learn Joe: Yeah, Jay Z, he likes a little gin and month's rule for HSAs? My employer has we switched to a high deductible health only HSA eligible for six months in 2023. which is $7,750, using the last month rule, through all of 2024? Are there any other watch what institution manages the HSA to use that Health Savings Account. So, with the Health that you can invest in. Right? You could go in grow for you. And then when you take the money Al: You get a tax deduction, right? Yep. So the money. And then you pull the money out, and Joe: If you're really nerdy in our business, Al: And what's the triple tax? Joe: Well, it's triple, you know, Al: I thought it was federal, Joe: It's a triple because you. Al: Okay. So the last-month rule for HSA simply as of December 1st for the full month of December, for the whole year. That's what the last month Joe: No clue. Al: Yeah. Yeah. And I think that's right. 2024 the following year, but don't hold me on that one. Otherwise, let's just say you then you can only do a prorated six months, you had it by December 1st for the full Joe: It's got to come from Al: Yeah, that's right. You'd Joe: All right. Thanks, JZ. Joe: We got Cindy writing in from sales tax question that I don't think So I'm tuning into the experts with Al: That's not us. Joe: Wrong place. Al: Wrong show. I appreciate Joe: "My Medicare Advantage plan has an $105 per quarter for eligible health and online and purchased at CVS with the payment supposed to claim the amount of the benefit it be considered a flex spending account, even I have placed online orders. I've Andi: Only placed. Joe: I've only Al: What is okay too but Joe: I'm just...oh. Now, where was I? Al: Only Andi: You're on Only. Al: "I have only placed online orders Joe: Oh, Imagine that. "It's not shown on the for online orders that no sales tax was paid when Andi: A quarter Al: Well, that's for the over the I can answer both questions, but Joe: Okay. I have had an OTC benefit for a few income or part of my CA return for sales reason I started wondering if I'm supposed to may sound like I'm looking for ways to pay more Al: Cindy is wondering if she hasn't paid counter benefit of $105 per quarter. That's an so this is just a benefit you got from insurance. do not have to move outta the country because yes, if you buy something, like on Amazon, you're supposed to include it on your it's an extra tax on page three of the not. I'm not going to answer that question, Joe: Very good. Andi: There are several actions you can take to before December 31, so the clock is ticking our Year-End Tax Planning webinar on demand, and from Pure Financial Advisors' Tax Planning Manager tax loss harvesting, tax gain harvesting, the and charitable giving strategies such as a - and which of these strategies fit your specific of today's episode in your favorite podcast app, Tax Planning webinar, and download the companion Joe: We got Carl Spackler back. Al Again? From the golf course? Joe: Yes, he is. "Hello, YM YW team. We're not giving advice. We're not even doing guidance on this show. We're Al: Not even suggestions. Joe: Not even, it's called a spitball. We're just chatting. What would you do? What would Al: You kind of sit around a bar stool. It's Joe: Hey, what's going on? You know, and then people like to talk sometimes Al: They hear you're into finance Joe: And these are good questions what I do because they'll go, Hey, what Al: Oh yeah. That's the worst, right? Joe: All right. "I've been making backdoor traditional IRA, so the pro rata rule doesn't contribution slash conversion in early 2023. I did later in the year. All of a sudden I'm blessed to be made payable to the IRA custodian of my choice. I was thinking about putting the check in my 2024. I would still be in the 60 day rollover same? Am I overthinking this? Anything else you I'm making decisions on how to invest the reading an article about buffered ETFs with no just wondering if you would spitball the topic as you're gonna pay a couple of bucks in tax Al: Yeah, 1099 will be 2023 even if you you had constructive receipt in 2023. It's part Unfortunately, when you do this pro rata rule, factors into this. So you're going to have that. the tax on it, right? Then it wouldn't be part of course, because then you'd pay a huge tax that one. I think go ahead and just deposit it the 1099s anyway, and you're going instead of a backdoor Roth, you're going right? So you're going to have to pay taxes on the Joe: Buffered ETFs. We don't have enough time to Basically. It's an ETF, they have a Al: Like an option type wrapper. Joe: Correct. Derivatives. Al; So in other words, you can't have huge gains, but you can't have huge losses Joe: Exactly. So you could buffer the losses. 10%. They're buying options on the overall but there's a cost to do that. So if the market in the upside of the overall market, but you can these strategies are coming to Wall Street in forever like in, you know, structured notes. fees and costs and very little transparency. Then would get stock market returns with no risk. The so many different unique things that people can Al: If you just look at the market long term, So you're basically limiting your upside. If which you probably wouldn't, if you're Joe: Part of your portfolio, to protect there's all sorts of different types of on very high level as a spitball, you can up some of the upside. So depending on what sense for a portion of the overall portfolio. Al: Yeah. I think that's key because cause you read the marketing stuff on it and it's Joe: "Hi, YM YW team. I'm Em from sunny driving that 2007 Pontiac hardtop Al: Oh, that's too bad. Joe: Oh, yeah. That is too bad. "I'm 42 and married with two small kids. My to help with the kids. She's Al: Is your mom going to move to sunny Joe: Uh, no! Al: No?. That's not in the plans. Joe: Uh, no. Al: Okay. Just wondering. Joe: You know, when she stays, Al: I know, well, she kind Joe: She stays a couple months. It's like Al: There you go. Joe: All right. "She's looking for some thoughts on the best financial strategy to Al: High cost of living. I'm guessing. Joe: Yeah. That's a good acronym. HCOL. Al: HCOL. Joe: "Area from her low cost of living area. Al: She used to live in LCOL Joe: I've never seen anyone put Al: Me neither, but why not? Joe: Uh, Andi, anything? Andi: As soon as I saw it, I recognized it somewhere. Al: It's just clear. Like the month. Joe: "She doesn't have much in retirement. I'm are bad. Prices are high. My random thoughts. All Al: Yeah, what do you got, Em? Joe: All right, "Could I rent back to her her money to offset rent? I could pay but would that mess up her social security? Is IRA option? Not sure even if she needs that also to help take care of her. Something to consider. Hoping for a home under $400,000. Any better HELOC? Have about $3 million in equity in our $100,000 for a down payment. Any tax breaks in Thoughts on the best way to help take care of children care costs. Thanks. Look forward to your trying to get creative here. She's got mom moving. Al: Yes. Sunny Florida. Get mom then try to figure out how to get a tax break? Joe: How do I benefit here? I'm going to give prices are high. Interest rates are high. What Al: So can I call it a rental? Well, a rental. There's several. First of all, if you can't take any losses because that's pay you fair market rent. So how does she get Right. And then she'd give it back to you. That so now you basically have this income that you'd can deduct the mortgage anyway as a second home, which you may or may not get any benefit for. a deduction. If your income is over $150,000, you would tell you this, and this has been true losses in real estate is difficult unless you have a lot of rental properties, you're I love all the thinking, but no, it's a lot of benefit as far as paying her a W2. Well, now deduction because you don't have a business. So Joe: For her to do a Roth, which Al: I love all the thinking, but no, I think She pays you whatever rent that she can to to deduct some property taxes, you might but that's about it really. That's Joe: No, I like it. You know, Al: I like the thinking. Joe: Yeah, I've helped my Al: Yeah, I know you have. It makes you Al: That's the benefit. Yeah, I'm with it. Joe: Okay Em, thanks. Joe: The real reason I helped my mom with Al: I hope she doesn't hear this episode. Joe: She stopped listening years ago. Al: You don't have to worry about that. Joe: "Dear Big Al, does it make sense to investment real estate properties? I'm single family homes for investment rental properties in my name or form an LLC to hold Al: Yeah, great question. This is Joe: Little wannabe landlord. Al: It's a little tougher than you think. hold properties. What's the benefit? The benefit then typically the person that is suing you only the LLC. So if you have three properties and you different LLCs. If something goes wrong with but not necessarily the other two. And you may assets because the liability is limited to that It seems to me there's ways to pierce that if not foolproof. So that's one way to do it. The insurance, which is the easier, simpler way to do especially if you've never had rentals, we don't maybe start with one, see if you like it and to you know what, this is for me, then yeah. Then setting up LLCs. There's a hassle factor in. In California, you have to file a state of California. Depends upon your state. but you also have to set up the entity. Joe: We got CJ from Florida and "I I drive a 2015 Tacoma with 219,000. Al: Exactly, yeah. Joe: "I'm a loyal 4+ year listener. Nora. I believe these are questions Andi: Magnate. Al: Magnet. Joe: Are you a magnate or a Al: Magnate. But I mean, when I see it and Joe: I was going to say magnet. "Thanks in part Al: Yeah, Joe: Thanks in part to you two and Andi, I retired Al: We had a hand in that. Joe: So it was like you two and Andi. Al: Talking to the two of us and Andi. he did several backdoor Roth conversions. Joe: In the craziness of this real estate market more sense for me to take a first mortgage out in cash from my brokerage, paying cash of $650 four months in the winters, in additional weeks We had rented it for about 14 weeks in 2023. We can I put a prorated interest rate on Al: Okay, the answer is yes. In you're supposed to. In other words, you're borrow the money for on your residence, got to trace what the money was used for it goes on schedule E. It still goes on going to match it. But then you back it out on itemized deduction. But then you show it on Joe: "Second question, are my weeks it was available to rent or just Al: Yeah, great question. Available to rent if you rented it for 30 days and it was even though it wasn't rented. You can, you but be aware of this. The vacation rental rules, be a little tricky. So make sure you understand Andi: It's that time again: the DIY right now at YourMoneyYourWealth.com, and this is your last chance to download it this and handbooks are always freely available in but the 40 plus pages of this guide are packed that we only make it available on a very limited retirement income, sophisticated strategies for guidance on developing an investing strategy the unexpected, and other actionable information classes or one-on-one meetings. Click the link favorite podcast app, go to the podcast show this Friday, December 1st, 2023. If you know financial education, share the podcast Joe: Brutus Buckeye. Brutus Buckeye, writes in from Columbus, Ohio. Think he's Al: I think that's a good guess. Joe: "He's a long time listener. First I have a five year rule question." Al: Just listen to all the episodes. Joe: I know, you should be dialed. "Most of our We won't have to take RMDs until we're 75. So I'm 65." So he wants to do conversions from age into the Roth while we're in the 12% tax bracket. confused on this, since I'll be older than 59 1/2, I'm converting each year during those nine years pass the five year rule, I know I'll pay taxes. get an exemption from the 10% penalty. We went Al: It was really like we went over a cliff. Joe: Yeah, it was just like a sudden gluten for our daughter several years ago. Alright, margarita. Occasional seltzer. Thanks for the Al: No, he doesn't. Once you're 59 1/2, once you do funds immediately. That's the whole point. you have to wait five years or 59 1/2 to have that's a different story. To have the income be over 59 1/2 to have access to the income or once you're over 59 1/2, you do the conversion. reason is because there's no 10 % penalty because Joe: People were avoiding the 10% penalty than 59 1/2 and then taking the money out. So that 10% early distribution penalty. So then they Al: Yes. Everyone, I would say. Joe: There's two five year clocks that if you're five year clock until you turn 59 1/2 . Once you type of retirement account and not have an clock basically goes away. The other five year Roth IRA account established for at least the earnings or the growth of that account. No old and do your first Roth conversion. You would to the earnings of that account because no Roth Roth account is established, that will mark turn over 59 1/2. Maybe explaining that way might Andi: Ha, ha, ha, ha Al: That's a good one. Joe: Well, I am a Florida gator. don't do the conversion if you Al: Yeah. Good point too. It's Joe: There's no point. Just take the you're paying tax to get money into a tax free to build and grow tax free for you. So if you're out the next day, I mean, don't waste your Al: Yeah. I think people ask it's not like they're intending on spending it, have to get at it? And the answer is that once contributions. It's just the growth and earnings. so here's a little tip for our listeners. do a Roth conversion. Even if you're in the do a Roth conversion today. And your five So you almost have a whole year in just Joe: All right, Brutus Buckeye. Joe: Andi, what's up with Joisey, Bruce from Andi: Yes, we just got that email. Joe: He was cringing or something. Andi: Yeah, he said, because you were saying TV show while he's waiting for new episodes of the "this is your show. It's your money and it's Joe: That makes me cringe. I don't ever Andi: He figures that's what you so I don't know if that means it was going I'm not sure what he's referring to as, Joe: So I would say It's Your Andi: Yup Al: Well, I guess. Joe: Well, it is Your Money, Your a way that I was trying to talk to and it's their wealth and we're just Al: Cheesy. Joe: So, so bad. So bad. That's these episodes.We'd never listen to ourselves. Al: We would never do another that's what we're putting out there. Andi: Did you want to respond to Bruce's question? Joe: Yeah, what the hell? What does he have? Andi: Uh, let me go down to it. Al: Oh, we don't have that. Joe: I got page 7. Al: I got to page 12. Andi: Let's see. Al: Why don't you read it? Andi: Bruce... Joe: Bruce from Joisey Andi: Okay, he hasn't emailed us since August of your old YouTube episodes while waiting for the time Joe said, "This is your show, your money, your money, and it's your wealth. I only imagine or he usually uses that phrase with thousands times speed. It's still understandable, but since aware of, I'm just getting ideas and getting Joe: That's a good speed. I know a guy who Al: I'm aware of that same guy. Andi: This is watching the TV show at 2x the 401(k) segments and how powerful it is. It should solo 401(k), and Roth IRA. My actual question of living expenses, can we buy a $38,333 IRA? My spouse is not likely to put money but if they are only earning 4-5%, then math I'm not sure if cash is king with cars, but we expenses. Thanks for all your great info. I'm but it's still not for me. Al: Okay, so. Andi: $38,333 for a car. Al: Cash? Or get a 6% loan? Joe: What's he getting an Acura? What kind Al: Oh, Acura? Is that what you're trying to say? Joe: Acura. Al: Acura. Joe: I would just pay cash. Al: Well, so he's got eight months know what other kind of money he has or difficult to answer the question. I would Joe: At 6%? Al: Yeah. Joe: That big wallet you got? Al: Yeah. Just to give you some more options. Joe: Pay cash. Al: I don't have enough information. I would you can draw on for other things, then pay Joe: All right. Thanks, Bruce. Sorry I made you cringe. That made me cringe Al: True. Joe: And that's it for us, folks. Thanks go to yourmoneyyourwealth.com. You know where Andi: Thank you. Joe: And Big Al. Al: Yep. It was fun as always. Joe: Right? Al: Yep. Correct. Joe: Show is called, Your Money, Your Wealth(r). Andi: You'll hear why that's funny North County San Diego, mops in Wahoo, and Al the real estate monster pointing hard, Help new listeners find YMYW by and by leaving your honest reviews and ratings and any other podcast app that accepts them Pandora, PlayerFM, Pocket Casts, Podcast Your Money, Your Wealth(r) is presented by An Assessment" button in the podcast show notes to schedule your free financial assessment, in country or online, a time and date convenient one of the experienced financial professionals to identify strategies to help you Pure Financial Advisors is a registered intend to provide personalized investment not represent that the securities for any investor. Investors are advised in the broadcast in the process of making