Among all the hotly-discussed topics in the be toward the top of the list. Ever since his believing in himself in Sonic Adventure, he's leaning into this newfound confidence, while where he's left dependent on Sonic. As such, should be handled--since he already went through Should the writers have leaned into this combining it all together into a character And yet, as I watch these debates from the all that much, if at all. Because I already He's the Michael Jordan of What immediately makes our little fox friend feel is that Archie Tails hardly ever struggles with the likes of Robotnik no problem! The real problem don't put respect on his name! How dare they! He's TAILS: "I'm gonna take out Robotnik stand a chance against ME! Luckily There's his obese silhouette now!... Really, Archie Tails's lesson couldn't be in his first "solo" adventure in the comic's to be rescued by Sonic. And though he vows that doesn't quite pan out--because, even after needing Antoine and Bunnie's help in cleaning enslaved by Robotnik's robotic ruse, he TAILS: "Sonic... Sally... This guy... You were good friends when I was a young pup... This becomes the focus of Tails's first despite prophecies of being the chosen adventure... screwing up and getting rescued he needs to be humbled and realize that he the freedom fighters will find success not together. Likewise these are the moments when he uses his bravery and good heart to lift up and But while I say that Tails has a bit of ego, it's often just funny to watch this sassy little kid to succeed. After all, it's not that Tails Fighters. No, he simply admires them all special, and heroic as they are. And it's hard From here, Tails just sort of... glides through way of character changes or arcs. He'd mellowed team mate he always wanted to be, firmly and number one companion, going on adventures and it was all good. In fact, Tails was just... the Freedom Fighters. Really, in a comic full of Tails was often a pleasant reprieve, and I issues of this comic and its various spin-offs, Or, well, I would say that... But then there's issue 155. See, around this time, the comic had melodramatic romance story and, sadly, even Sonic had started dating this he had noticed his little buddy had a crush so naturally he . . . started dating her? Regardless, this obnoxious plotline resulted in twin-tailed kid, where he yelled "I HATE YOU!!!" crying without Sonic even attempting to comfort art certainly didn't help either. And that was it felt like the comic itself was just . for granted--like, no matter what happened would remain invested in them as a pair and And yet, somehow, this obnoxious became the catalyst for what makes But first, this video is sponsored by So a few weeks back, I received a few things Parliament wallet, and a tracker card. It came at so I loaded up all the cards I'd need, got their a bit paranoid and constantly checking to I'm away from home, but being able to check its feature to find either of them at any time protection to protect from data theft and wireless Plus, the wallet itself is just super nice and while still holding up to 12 cards and cash. trigger mechanism, which makes all the cards for the space-grade aluminum coldholder So, with Christmas right around the corner, to pick up one of their smart wallets, card you want any of that, click the link in the Black Friday sale, and use code LOWART at checkout and thanks to Ekster for sponsoring. When something dumb and bad happens in a story, Wipe the slate clean, you know? Just pretend it However, one thing I appreciate about the Archie it so rarely does that. And this scene See, in issue 160--soon after this encounter--Ian to lean into this conflict. So now it Tails's friendship for granted--it's Sonic implication of Sonic never following up on This way, the comic expands on the problems casual willingness to brush aside Tails's advice. Then, later, when Fiona does pop up in of course he doesn't chase after him! see! Everything's good! They're As such, over the course of multiple issues, really focusing on it all that much. Instead how Sonic is ready to charge headlong refusing to listen to his friends. Clearly, this Sonic's pattern of behavior. You can feel the friendship forming, and that all comes to a See, the Freedom Fighters have only just managed father has some . . . plans. While he was abroad and he wants to bring democracy to the Acorn to give up their power--and so he leads a protest, this frustrates Sonic. Tails only just got his landing himself in jail? What kind of parent Tails feel? All while Sonic confidently voices to Sonic, he's defending his buddy. Tails, meanwhile, isn't willing is imprisoned. So he helps his mom break him out, while Sonic goes to investigate the problem. ROSEMARY: "Then what about Tails? Can you stand SONIC: "I know you're his real family, but he grew up with me. Heck, the TAILS: "Get over yourself." And just like that, Sonic can no longer to make them known, even if it means punching Tails clearly explains all the reasons he's mad at this isn't just about some girl anymore--this ignoring and belittling him; this is about thing clear: He doesn't view Tails as I love everything about this. Way back at the sort of feelings Tails dealt with. At the time, through the fact that Tails actually was a little even if he's still a kid, he's also time again and shown that he should be his best friend still isn't showing him Obviously though, Sonic never wanted after it's all laid out for him, he can't deny hadn't properly taken the time to see just like with everything else SONIC: "I've been a jerk to you, man. I didn't mean it, but that doesn't change the fact that And just like that, what could have been forgotten argument instead becomes the them--one where Sonic and Tails aren't just But does this mean Tails is all grown up, that he He still gets ticked when others disrespect him when his old crush comes back. And of course succumb to emotional outbursts and a refusal But if anything I find these moments only To see Tails as not just suddenly no longer being of his childish ways by being allowed to just like the characters are being kind with allowing his transition into a proper young while this could have easily been a conflict just not seeing that, I appreciate what's and he still deserves respect Naturally though, it's not like now between them. There's still Sonic and still something as simple as them or Sonic rolling his eyes when he notices Tails core of their charming dynamic is still Sonic is just a bit more . . . careful, a bit the way he did before. Because now he doesn't Already, these types of cute scenes would have prior argument? Knowing that they had to work to letting me see just how much they've grown their bond as a matter of course, And this friendship goes both ways. As such, showing an emotional maturity and understanding when Eggman loses his mind after a brutal himself weirdly feeling bad for him but is the one to validate his emotions--the telling him that he understands why Sonic would When I read this scene, I can't help but think of New World special. Here, Sonic was similarly that his Uncle had kept so many secrets from he needed to move forward, supporting him. It was different somehow. Tails is no longer just the and is as stubborn as a brick, but someone Sonic And as the story continues, Tails consistently composure in the toughest situations--being a again, until eventually, the only child like thing game of capture the flag with his best friend. than ever. It sells just how much he's grown--from Freedom Fighters of all. And there's one story in "Trouble in Paradise," a four-part story fully Bunnie to enjoy some time on his private the battle bird armada attacks, the newlyweds are First and foremost, this story is just a TON loving aunt and uncle here, with the way they get with him. Watching Tails almost act as Antoine's too. But beyond that, it's a great culmination Tails discovered this island during his first era, but at the time, he wasn't able to fend for last time he had a story where he was specifically into danger for his sake. Because he was too leading charge and coming up with the plan, using weapons in a comedically over the top fashion. relationship he accidentally helped start in fray! He's going to have his bravery celebrated, Already, this makes the arc a good time and Much like Tails in his younger years, this his people and be taken seriously. So he to take care of Tails, Bunnie, and Antoine with others or asking for assistance could loses the same way he did in the past, but unlike and he rejects the opportunity to gain one - as he's willing to carry Speedy to a medical heroes. Overall, Speedy's presence only makes it as a reflection of Tails's past inferiority when Tails casually considers how this mission he doesn't begin to doubt himself or rush to taking everything in stride. They'll has enough time to think. After all, Tails is based on a couple glances of some maps and it's one of the armada's airships submerged in and feels like a sinking ship, is actually the into the sky, revealing their escape, allowing for And what's the reward for all this? Does Tails get Finally acknowledged by his peers? No - because TAILS: "I couldn't have done it without you two. All of this is great, and yet, when this story isn't the first one that comes to a scenario far more dangerous and serious and a moment that solidifies Tails' transition At this point, Freedom Fighters' AI by a maniac technomage. Though Sonic and Sally another hero decides it would be better to destroy that he's seen this play out before... He's also Tails: "Khan! Wait! Where are you going!?" Khan: "To put Nicole out of her misery." Tails: "NO!" Khan: "Kid, this isn't easy for Tails: "No, it doesn't! We're heroes! We Khan: "It isn't a matter of being Tails: "Nothing is impossible! why did you come all the way here? Why Khan: "I don't WANT to have to destroy her..." Tails: "Then wait and see what Sonic and Sally Khan: "You make it sound like It might seem like a small thing, but really, the his friends, how pointed and convicted he is that but is instead cowardice, abandoning hope and that Tails would rather be struck down believes in Sonic and Sally every bit as much as equal. That he'll do everything he can to lift he's the type of hero who will never back down, trying, and to me, being able to watch him confidence to finally be earned and resonate... Hey folks, hope you enjoyed the video! As always, names are scrolling on by and, uh, yeah, if you a bunch more Archie Sonic stuff to watch and I've I'm interested in, so... thanks for watching,