This is a syringe full of water. I've closed off this end And no matter how hard I push... Nothing really happens. I can't compress it. Even if I put this inside a machine that can push down the volume would only decrease by about 1%. But what if it was squeezed even harder? What if this water was subjected to the extreme pressures Or inside the Sun? What would happen to it? The answer is something really bizarre. Something physicists are just starting In many ways, this is We just don't fully know the rules yet. It's an entirely new regime of matter. To try and wrap our heads around and the way they warp physics Let's go on a journey We'll start our trip up here on the surface How much pressure is that exactly? How does it compare to, say the pressure of my phone Well, the phone's weight, is spread out over about That's how pressure is measured: A force distributed over an area. The pressure of the atmosphere the hundreds of miles of air above me... pulled down by Earth's gravity That's like the pressure my phone if Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson But because the air is free it's also pushing up The Rock Every phone sized patch of my body inward by the equivalent of Of course, all the structures are pressing back and I'm so used to this equilibrium Before we leave these familiar conditions I'm going to grab a few things to take with us. A gram of hydrogen, and a kilo of water. We know exactly how these substances But what happens when Just ten meters of seawater adds another whole atmosphere 27 floors down... we pass the unassisted diving record. And just a little deeper... we hit ten atmospheres. Now we're going deeper than There's a blob of fish. They look like depressed jello but down here, the pressure One kilometer down, The kinds of pressures we got with that Sperm whales can dive this deep... and their hinged rib cages fold inward Here, the Titan submersible and here is the destination [My Heart Will Go On by Celine Dion Somehow we're still passing fish. And now we've reached the bottom and 1000 atmospheres. We're now up to the pressure of a phone balanced on top. Let's check in on the samples we brought. Our balloon of hydrogen gas has shrunk down to the size But both our solid sodium and liquid water They're just barely compressed. Why is that? Well, the molecules of hydrogen had plenty of space between them. Room to shrink. But the sodium and water were Even the pressure down here can't overcome the electrostatic repulsion It's nowhere near strong enough. But let's keep going. Every meter of rock nearly three times faster The temperature is rising, too. As we leave the crust, we hit In the mantle, temperatures shoot past and some of the rock starts to melt. This is where many diamonds form. Carbon is squeezed into a tight crystal. As we go deeper into 100,000 the rock is compressed further, Our sodium, meanwhile, has melted... and our bubble of hydrogen Compressed into a little clear globule. The water is also changing. It's getting squashed so much, But not the hexagonal crystals Instead, it's a tighter cubic lattice. Scientists have found trapped inside diamonds. As we get close to Earth's core we pass 1 million atmospheres. That's the equivalent of an oil tanker This is the threshold we're now leaving the world that This is where the external forces are about the same and starting to overwhelm The crushing pressure is starting the electromagnetic forces holding apart and maintaining their shape. The behavior that in these extreme conditions How do you study matter that normally only exist That was the point of creating the We're going to be doing all the to be able to understand matter under these really different CMAP is headquartered at and they've got a tool that helps them The enormous Omega EP laser This is the facility's schedule. Scientists from around the world queue up for months to blast a tiny sample of matter And how do you feel in the run up to this? Unbelievably nervous. You spent a year of planning and crossing T's and dotting I's... just to get to this point. The shot director gets on the intercom Five... four, three... two, one. [silence] Shot 39607 That was it. During that split second, were momentarily created in the next room... the same pressures that exist deep within Earth. How does a beam of light do that? Let's go through it again. Just way slower. The laser beam is born in these machines and it's directed through a maze of lenses and devices that shape Bouncing through these it's infused with more power until About 45 centimeters across. Then it races towards the target chamber which is hidden behind this tangle This is a visual representation And the target is right at the center of it. Those are really, like a pinpoint... on the tip of a pen, The target is a tiny, with a sample of whatever substance in the middle. The laser light is focused down which explodes into a And that plasma blows off of Ahat creates this buildup of pressure And that shockwave really quickly travels The last layer acts as a window allowing the passage of electromagnetic rays generated during the experiment. And then surrounding it you have these spaces and other tools that we use to measure the various things If you look through this porthole... you can see a couple of these sensors In 2017, researchers put a tiny bit of Ice-VII sandwiched between two diamonds... in the target chamber. As the shockwave passed through it... pressure in the ice spiked and its atoms rearranged. Oxygens formed a tight lattice... while hydrogens were free It was Ice-XVIII, four times denser and able to conduct electricity For a few billionth of a second... the laser had recreated conditions Speaking of, let's get back As our water starts our glob of sodium is undergoing Under these pressures, scientists have seen Now, what could account for this? Well, metals like sodium are shiny because they have a bunch of that can absorb and then retransmit light which we see as a reflection. What happens when you apply pressure to it is you're squeezing the electrons and into these localized pockets. Trapped like that, the electrons can't and so it just passes through. We've reached the center of the earth... but that's not the end because found inside larger plants. Tens of thousands of kilometers Physicists think hydrogen will go through becoming a shiny conductor of electricity. It's thought that a lot of Jupiter is made up of this metallic hydrogen. We think of high energy as completely inverting so your metals become transparent and your transparent materials and all these gases become solids... And the universe holds The center of Jupiter sees over just about the highest pressure And now we're diving into the sun... where pressures rise over The island of Manhattan balanced on a phone. We've seen extreme pressures, that keep molecules apart. But here within the sun, the very glue that holds atoms together. Here, individual hydrogen nuclei a process that releases energy. This is nuclear fusion: The ultimate source of all energy The reaction at the center If we could somehow recreate this process on Earth we would have a near limitless source And researchers around are using giant lasers, to study this possibility. This is all a relatively new frontier Scientists still have so many questions about how different elements and substances act and interact under different conditions... and how that might influence and their ability to foster life. They'll keep chipping away at those unknowns... one split second experiment at a time. [Lump of Coal by Adam Cole] Squeeze me tight... Get together/ Feels so wrong/ Break me down/ You want a diamond/ keep on tryin/ I'm just another coal! [Lump of Coal by Adam Cole fades]