This is the story of a Mongolian dog. His name is Jiri. Jiri now reigns supreme over a vast herd which he protects against attacks from wolves. His power and loyalty make him an accomplished shepherd. He has already killed more than ten wolves. His reputation as a protector extends beyond the mountains, but this has not always been the case. Jiri became a shepherd ten years ago. Jiri is two months old. He has just been separated from his mother. A necessary traumatic shock. His instincts tell him to defend his meal. Precisely, it is these instincts that man will thwart. First lesson, don't bite the hand that feeds it. That day, two men he didn't know came to take him. They took him away from his world. Where are his brothers and sisters? He needs affection. So he rebuilds the family he lost with those around him, the humans. Now the hardest part, its natural prey. Suckling lambs, the best food. And he's not allowed to touch it. A real torture. Every day, for weeks. With adults, it's a different story. The black goat knows very well who he is dealing with. A young predator. And he doesn't want him around. The black goat will become his worst nightmare. In the meantime, we'll have to get used to smelling like goat poop. An idea from men to make it accepted by the herd. Jiri gradually understands that his family takes care of the herd. So he gets into the game and does like them. When there is a wolf attack, people are unhappy. Men don't like this wolf smell. Jiri understands that the wolf must be fought. On the other hand, when the herd is peaceful, its family is happy. And he likes it. What Jiri wants is to please his human family and receive affection in return. By observing men, Jiri learns what to do to please them. Especially stay quiet when they are having a ceremony. Don't protest when they put ribbons on you. Men can invent whatever they want. As long as they receive affection, Jiri is happy. Jiri is now six months old and a series of tests awaits him to perfect his learning. His new mission, to watch over the flock when the man sleeps. And when danger threatens, warn your family. This is yet another of the dog's prodigious faculties. To communicate with us, he started barking. A language that wolves don't have. Jiri will now learn the most demanding part of the job. This is his first migration. Towards new pastures. Towards the salt lakes. No more barriers. More protection. Just the great outdoors. And hundreds of sheep and goats to protect. The black goat included. Keep the herd in one group. Bring back those who try to escape. Push those who do not want to move forward. And watch. Watch constantly. Always watch over your flock. In return for his dedication, Jiri holds his reward. He is loved by the leader of his pack. It is the implicit contract that binds the shepherd to his dog. Now Jiri has their trust. He can guide the herd in the absence of men. His predatory instincts have transformed into protective instincts. And the herd accepted it. Even the black goat. Here's how Jiri became a perfect sheepdog. Everything that is theirs is his. In winter, he sometimes spends weeks alone. And with nothing to eat. So exceptionally, he has the right to eat an animal from the herd. A black goat preferably. Our alliance with the dog was decisive in domesticating animals. And the benefits have been considerable. Food, always accessible. Fertilizer for our crops. Wool and leather for our clothes. Bone tips for our arrows. Grease for our candles. Little by little, we wanted to have many animals by our side. And the dog agreed to protect them. Everywhere on the planet. The animals that inhabit our lands have fabulous adventures to tell us. They live there, close to us, out of sight. They travel immense distances above our heads. They help each other and become friends. Men and women share their lives. How do they manage to seduce each other? To educate their little ones? To conquer territories? They metamorphose and acquire unsuspected powers. Descimation of the highest mountains to the shores of our oceans. Here are the most beautiful stories from this wild world that surrounds us.