Hello there and welcome. I'm Bob Proctor. I wanted to talk to you that'll literally change your world. I formed this habit a long time ago, and I'm going to tell you, my world changed like night and day. It worked for me. It'll work for you. But before we get into it, I want you to come back in history with me to September the 12th, 1962. For the eyes of the to the moon and to the planets beyond. Our leadership in science and industry, our hopes for peace and security, our obligations to all require us to make this effort, to solve these mysteries, to solve them for the good of all men. There is no strife, no prejudice, no national conflict Its hazards are hostile to us all. Its conquest deserves We choose to go to the moon. (audience applauds) We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not be they are easy, but because that challenge is one one we are unwilling to postpone, and one we intend to win. Do you know what John Kennedy did there? He made a decision. That was a decision. It was a big decision, and it Well, do you know, decision is something most people never really Stay with me, 'cause I'm going that you possibly have This book changed everything for me. In this book, it's Napoleon There's 15 chapters. There's one chapter, the entire chapter is Now, you may say, well, I make decisions. Do you really? You may make little ones, but do you make the real important ones? Do you go after what you want in life? Do you get everything you want in life? See, the truth is, only about are really living the driving the car they want to drive, taking the trips they want to take, living in the houses they wanna live in. Most people do not, and they'll and they'll give you a string All seem very practical, very reasonable, and the leader of them all Well, the truth is, we live in the richest country Money is the easiest thing once you learn how. Well, if you turn making you're going to learn how you may think you can't do. See, what we're doing is of our personality that we Now, I photographed a page out of here. Napoleon Hill said &quot;Those promptly and definitely and they generally get it. The leaders in every walk of That's the major reason He said, the world has for the man or woman show they know where they're going.&quot; And he went on to explain for very good reason. &quot;Indecision is a habit which The habit takes on through grade school, high school, eventually through college, The major weakness of is that they neither teach or encourage the habit of definite decision.&quot; Now, why is that? Well, the truth is, most people really don't know. We're dealing with a that most people do not understand. What you see here is not me. This is my body. You never hear anyone say, am hand. You see, we've got to take a look at the non-physical side of ourselves. Lincoln, President Lincoln He said &quot;To believe in the is no belief at all, but is a triumph and a blessing.&quot; Well, let's look at this. Making a decision, we're going to into the using faculties most people You see, Einstein said &quot;The intuitive mind is a sacred gift,&quot; while he said, &quot;The rational He said, &quot;We have created a and has forgotten the gift.&quot; What is the servant? Well, there it is there. It's our sensory factors. We can see, hear, smell, taste, touch. What are they for? They're to help us with our outside world. But you know that the but the manifestation of That's right. Here, we've got something that's when we look at it properly. This is a little cell phone. It has more power than the computer had that took the first Think of that. And I'm carrying it around in my pocket. I can touch a button and bang, like that, send a picture to you, and you'll get it, simultaneous How does all that happen? Well, it happens because we're dealing with the non-physical side of ourselves. We're dealing with just pure power. How do we get at that? Well, we've been gifted. We've been gifted with something no other from of animal life has. We have these higher faculties. You've got perception, will, reason, intuition. I want you to shift your perception for a moment of yourself. You know, our good friend he put it very well. He said, &quot;When you change the what you look at will change.&quot; Change your perception. Do you know the reason most 'Cause they can't see how So what do they do? They keep doing things that they can see how they're going to get there, and that's why their life Stick with me here for a moment. Think of you. You are a mass of energy, and That's what you are. Take a look at yourself. Here's a shot taken by Semyon Kirlian was a of photography way back in the early 30s. It'll photograph mass the energy leaving the body. There's a glow of energy around you. This physical thing we live Well, we're going to be talking You see, a frequency is Do you know vibration is a Everything vibrates. Nothing rests. We live in an ocean of motion. Now, there's an infinite Now, get this. Let all these lines represent Levels of vibration, as we said, are referred to as frequencies. You and I think on frequencies, the highest function we're capable of. Now, here's where you This, if you get this, if I your life can change, We think on a frequency and the frequency we think on So, we're sitting here and you but this is where I really wanna go, and we point to a star. Some say, what do you really want? I really wanna be wealthy. Do you know that most people never live the way they really want to live? They don't. They never earn the They don't live in the house They don't take the vacations Why? Because they don't know how. You see, when they set those targets, they look off into a space, and they see nothing. Now, look here for a moment. These lines represent levels of frequency, or you could say levels of awareness. But when we set the target way up there, it's all gone. We don't know how to get there. Think of that. Think of what Steve Jobs says. You cannot connect the You can only connect So you have to trust that the dots are going to connect as you go ahead. Now, that's pretty big. If you're going to look at the unseen, you have to use the higher faculties. That's what Einstein talked We can use faculties to We can go into the future and see ourself where we and then bring that into the present and begin acting like the So, let's go back and look at this again. We'll say, that's where I wanna go, and I'm going to get there. Now, we do make decisions, mm, I'm not going to start yet. I'm going to do that as I talked to a young couple. In fact, I wrote about them I sat with them in a hotel in Toronto, and they said they wanted to buy a house. And I said, well, go on out and buy one. They said, we can't buy a house. We haven't got any money. I said, you don't need any money. They looked at me rather strangely. I said, what do you need the money for? You haven't made the Do you see, you don't need the money until after you make the decision. A person says, I wanna take a trip, and I'm gonna go as soon You don't need the money to take the trip. I'm going to start my own business, as soon as everything's right. Things are never going to be right. You've got to make a decision. Now, do you see, when everything starts to change. Look at this for a moment. You're thinking down and that's what's giving you If you want to go where you've got to get on that frequency. You see the truth is, you're not thinking about getting there. You're letting the present results repeat, and that's the star you're shooting at. You're going to get the and over again, as long as You've got to get your thinking Because when you get on that frequency, the thoughts and things into your mind will take you there. How do you think we got to the moon? Kennedy didn't know When he asked Dr. Wernher von Braun, who's considered the father what will it take for us to build rocket to carry a man to the safely to earth, he The will is one of your higher faculties. That's what Einstein was talking about. The will gives you the ability to focus on one thing to the When you focus on that one thing, you're on that higher frequency. How do you do that? Well, first, you've got to You see, your mind and thoughts must be focused on the same How do we do that? We make a committed decision. That's where I'm going. And when you make the committed decision, it's irrevocable. You cannot go back. You shut the past off. You begin thinking on and you think and act like Does it sound preposterous? That's what the Wright Brothers did, and they introduced us to a new kingdom. That's what Sir Edmund Hillary did. I had the good fortune He was a beekeeper from He was the first person to He didn't know how to get until after he got there. He trusted in the image You've got to trust in the You've gotta think like the It takes a decision to get and the secund you make the decision, everything starts to happen. But you've gotta believe you can do it. The moment your belief the higher frequency is the state. The moment your belief you fuse with it, and this the projection of plots and plans and conditions and circumstances. Things start to happen. Think about it. You're going to a dance. You need the new dress. You make a decision you're getting it. You don't know where but you've gotta have the dress. You get the dress. You want that car. You make a decision. You get the money, you get the car. The moment your belief you fuse with it, and this union results in everything that happens. Now, look. This new state of conscious awareness becomes your home from You're operating on a different frequency. Don't expect a lot of support They don't know what you're doing. They probably think you've But listen. In your workshop, and if you're observant, reality shaping itself upon Do you wanna know the beautiful truth? This works like unadulterated magic. It does. This is what all out deal with. I want you to control the flow. There's thought energy It's flowing freely to and through you. Make certain it improves You've got all of this Utilize it. Go after what you want. Quit going after things you There's no real game in that. Don't compromise. Go after what you want. It's not that easy, but I'm It sure is worthwhile. Turn decision-making into a habit. And when you do that, everything changes. See, I didn't go back to school. No formal education. I didn't gain any business experience. I made a decision and bang, away I went. And everything started to fall into place. I opened offices in different countries, different cities. I earned all kinds of money. I had money coming to and so can you. In fact, if you turn this into a system, you can earn more money than you'll spend when you're awake. Decision. It'll change your world. (steady guitar music) Check us out at for tips, tools, and resources.