Here's the roadmap In this video, we're going to dove deep product research and supplier outreach. Now, before you go looking for who exactly a wholesale supplier is So who is a wholesale supplier? These can be either manufacturers Now, manufacturers, Brands are those who market These are people who have established connections And essentially what they do is they buy and sell their products Now, there are some pros And let's begin with manufacturers and brands, A lot of times you'll find out that the manufacturer is the brand So the benefits of these two are and you'll get the best possible price And the drawbacks are they typically So you may spend a few thousand dollars Now, on the other hand, distributors, minimum order quantity. So you may only have to spend to open a wholesale account And because they've done the hard work and they have these established connections, you have a much wider selection So when you ask for an inventory list, you're not just going to get products You may get products And finally, if you can work with a local distributor Usually they offer Again, especially if you work you may even be able and pick up the goods for free. But the drawback with distributors and brands. They are the middlemen. So their prices are going to be because they're out to make a profit, too. Now that you know, you want to start reaching out to them to begin this process So how do you find wholesale suppliers? Well, there are two main strategies The first one is traditional this is where you start first by And then you go on Amazon, and then you hopefully sell But on the other hand, you have another And we also go through this strategy This is where you basically do You start on Amazon first, identify and then research and contact Now, you may be wondering which And the answer is both. The truth is, the best strategy is to If you just do one and ignore the other, you're most likely miss out So if you haven't already, because I'm now going to walk you through the best suppliers and the best products We'll start with this first one here. And remember, there are three Let's pick on distributors first. Now with distributors, There's local distributors But the same strategy applies Okay. So the first thing you want to do and type in your city and state Google will pull up all the distributors Now, alternately, You can type in any city you want From here, go to more places. And these are all the local distributors And you can see their websites listed Alternately, you can actually type instead of distributor. That will work as well as go out I'm going to go with this Austin Head over to the website. And now we can see a list you know, navigating throughout this list Scrolling And let's just maybe find one real quick. I'll go to novelty, go to that category and just try to find a product here. One of these. So be playing cards here. So these are like poker playing cards, And they come in at 12 topic. And what's really cool of this, I see I can actually come and near me so it'll save me a ton and then the transit time as well. I can pick this up within 24 hours. That's huge. So if I wanted to buy this product, But just to show you the process of, you know, finding I can come up here and apply and this will So on this form Later on this video, exactly what to say But once this form is filled out submit down here at the bottom, to get the inventory list So they'll send a list of a bunch of products So when you get that inventory list, You'll see the name of the product So the Asian is the identifier on Amazon. If the product has an Asian, that means and start to analyze the listing, which Now, if it doesn't have an Asian a product you're just going to be responsible that listing and uploading it yourself. And if you need help with that, showing you So those are just some practical ways Now let's move on This time, manufacturers So there's two main ways You can either use a wholesale directory through the manufacturer's website So with wholesale directories, where the suppliers said they're willing In a lot of cases, they're willing to work This is great because a lot of big companies just don't or even just directly with new wholesalers Wholesale directories are also the fastest to find relevant suppliers, and so you can Also, these wholesale directories, they're not middlemen, They're essentially just connecting you who said they're willing So to find these wholesale directories, just go ahead and type in wholesale And for know, Some directories are just general. They have a bunch of different products and some directories are, So what you could also do is maybe the sporting goods, at the end of your search results Now there are two directories The first one is Worldwide Brands. Now they're awesome because again, who are willing to work and they even have a category The only downside to this website Right now it's about $197. And in my opinion, that's not that bad. Paying for a directory like this, because if it were free, So it's kind of nice to a bunch of suppliers The second website now, It's called Wholesale Central they have a category specifically for suppliers that said So that's the first way to find is using wholesale directories. But like I said earlier, the second way to find them So here I'm on a manufacturer's website. This is the United States playing I'll show you how But when you're on the manufacturer you can come over here to the contact Most will have it either at the top You should see. Contact us listed here. And from here, this is where I can go I like to work with you you know, again, what to say But this is where you would do that. I really would want to come back I noticed they had a shop button. So if I go ahead and click that here. All right. Now, I just noticed that when I clicked it brought me to a different website which is a brand underneath In this case, I want to reach out since obviously they're the one Now, I can confirm this by going over And this example, this is the listing You can see the brand name And then down here But if we scroll down now you can see the manufacture here is listed So this just confirms for this brand over here. I can also confirm this by going that the bicycle brand playing card company. So this is a really important point Manufacturers can get their products so they can do direct sales themselves or they can do a distribution channel, So this is a perfect example, again, of instead of the manufacturer, So back on the manufacturer website to show you all the brands You can see some bigger brands here seems to be a smaller brand. Aviator is a big brand. And then you see Another really good point here is with really big suppliers or brands. You want to work with smaller and lesser to have way less requirements of you and So bigger brands, they may, you know, A brick and mortar And then they'll also have you place They'll have really high So this is why I'd recommend Like I said, this, you know, this brand B doesn't I'm not exactly sure who they are. So if I click into them I notice that I'm back on the bicycle home But what I found out I can actually filter for the brands So it looks like the brand of bicycle and they're all made under And then right over here I can see that exact same product So now if I wanted to contact the brand Except now I'm noticing another link, So oftentimes link and reach out to a brand But if you see something else or maybe just as a wholesale or resellers, and oftentimes will bring you to a portal for you know, we're trying to do here in this case I can see, you know, some of the requirements We'll talk more about these requirements Like, you know, a resale certificate do you need to register your business of minimum order quantities? You can see here order quantity of 300 I did the math on this earlier. I think that's only like an additional 30 to 100 bucks if you use that minimum So this brand actually isn't that bad. But then I'd come down here and do this were able to download an inventory list Okay. So now that I showed you first using the first strategy let's now move on to the second strategy, So this time, before you'll first start on Amazon And there are three different ways So let's now head over to Amazon and we're So on the Amazon best sellers page here, really well. They're in high demand. And what I would do So maybe we'll go through baby You know, I'll go for Mom's and now, here's what you would look So again, you want to look for brands You don't want to work So when you're on the bestsellers page, I'd skip over that and try to find a brand Also, you want to make sure that the brand and we'll show you how to do this when you're looking at the buy box But also you want to make sure That's huge. You just They're always going to win the by box. So it's best to avoid selling anything But also you want to make sure with private label products, you're So you want to make sure that there's and and usually it's two or three sellers next you want the buy box So for this you want to look for a buy box I'll show you what this looks like later. It basically is looking at the ratings and the price points Next, you want to look for high demand And for this, we use a 300 units Next, you want to find And for this we like to use And then lastly, you want to find products So what I mean by this is maybe there's, you know, poor images, not that many keywords or We're going to show you later you know, kind of how to do this analysis, that are really low quality. That way you can improve them So let's go ahead and look at our results I can scroll through and just, you know, I wouldn't sell those as pregnancy test. I'm coming down here. Palmer's not familiar with I'm not familiar at all with. So it's a pregnancy pillow. Maybe we click into that and check it out. Okay, so the first thing is You know, I don't know this brand, Next, I want to make sure that this They're not selling the product. So I can come over here, click over here. I see there's four sellers, The buybacks owner looks like it's doctors the brand or Amazon selling it And Amazon is not a seller Also, we can confirm that this isn't a private label product I see doctor deals here, sleeping on clouds and again, It looked like with different shipping Now the next thing we will look for So again, earlier quality sellers in the buy box There's only four total. But what I mean by high quality is each seller has. So that's the first way In this case, Doctors They have 21,000 ratings You see they have a four If I scroll down here, the next one in here quite a few times. They just have different shipping options. But sleeping on clouds has about 2000 So that's the first way In this case, we don't worry too much about that You know, obviously, if It's going to be tough to win the buy box, and rotate with them And that's the second way to How many sellers are within which you see up here is 49, 95. So I say 2% because this is where If you're priced within you should be rotating with the buy box Maybe not at an equal rate, So in this case, at 449, 95, That is significantly higher than 2%. And I'll show you what If just pull up our calculator tool this is go 49, 95 plus 2%. And you know, that looks like around $51 would be the highest price And as you can see here, there's really only one product within And that same seller doctor's deals, is significantly more in 2%. So they're probably not if we can get our price So in this case, around a 50 or $51, then we should be able to rotate So just another way to verify how many sellers are within that 2% Now let's I said we want to find products that sell and there's a few ways of sort I'll show you a free way of doing it. First is to just use So all you need to do here is collect The first one is the BSR So to find that, go ahead and go to the And in this product information section, So you won't take the top one Copy that in there. Choose your Amazon marketplace. And then the category in this case, we're selling in the baby category. And then once you click estimate, see the estimated monthly sales And this one's looking really good. And the second way monthly sales is by using the Jungle Scout I have a pull up here just to see, you know, 18,000 monthly sales for this product I'll see the monthly sales over time, And that's really helpful Also, this next half historical trends the monthly and daily sales even So we can really start to track this and you can even see the buy which is the next thing So we recommend selling products And we can use this to verify to that level of under $20. I can see it's it's came down to $31, And it looks like the lowest price point typically stays in that 40 to $50 range Okay. And then the last thing you want to look at on any product you're So I mentioned this earlier. You want to try to find products that use In this case, if I look at the title, The images look really good. And I noticed earlier, just by scrolling So this listing is pretty good. It really doesn't have any room That doesn't mean but it's just something I'll show you example later on that you can definitely improve. Now that we've verified the listing we can go ahead and look up this supplier. So I would just take the name of the brand and maybe even the product as well So here we go. I'm going to copy and just try to find the website, which From here, again, Scroll down to the very, very bottom any portal here for wholesaling, and this is where, you know, about downloading their inventory list I want to show you another way of finding these products In this case, I have up the Jungle Scout So this is a tool that lets you track for really any category But unlike the bestsellers list on Amazon, So I can see here if I go back to, you know, Bebe I can actually select a date range And this is really powerful because on Amazon you're just able to see So for example, maybe to October 1st and see what the best for this subcategory here. And, you know, we can start to keep by just choosing different dates So at the top here, And again, You can open up any product and see a And you can do things like, you know, clicking You can add it to your product tracker. I'm going to show you this in a second. This is where you can start to list your products and keep your ideas Or you can actually look up the top Now, I want to try to find that product I think this is it right here. Yeah, the farm doc pregnancy pillow. And I see where that BSR spiked over time, the best selling products over time rather So when you're coming up you can just add any product looking at it from here or just on Amazon, And then when you head over this is where you can start to group I see we have a bunch of different ideas that we're looking at. But you can sort of go into the individual and see a group overview. So if I was looking at, you know, pregnancy pillows, for example, I can put And then this is awesome over time, like the average daily and then even open it up which lets me go back six months over time or record Now the next way to look for the best is using a tool like product database using advanced filters. This will make the process so much easier We showed how to do this in another video, all you basically will do is select country you're selling in the categories What do we look at? Last time I think it was Baby, and then you can use So remember earlier I said, we want to So here we can put that down In terms of sales, we can use a 300 as our minimum We want to remove Amazon from the by box. So to do that, click FBA and FPM. Alternatively, small and lightweight, But I just want to keep my options open and we can always come back in, filter out And now what we can do is add to And again, this will show us products therefore weeding out Now this last filter I'm going to use is listing quality score So what this is, is an in-house that is looking at listings on Amazon So on a scale of 1 to 10, ten listings, Jonah Scouts the titles, the keywords being used, whether or not using bullet points, and then obviously the images themselves, We're going to grade like six or under, will have seven, eight, So I'm putting six here to help that have really poor listings. That way we can come in, optimize them, or manufacturer. Now the last thing I want to do here before That's basically going to try to weed out all these really big I also want to do some of that work Now, once you click search, here, in this case, 1700 Now, I can go ahead and sort through the monthly sales to get the and do that for any of these columns. But the main thing that you want to that the brand is not You don't want to sell anything where the manufacturer of the brand They're not going to open So to do that in this tool here, right here and the name and the number So, you know, taking any product here, is the name of the brand and there's nine So, you know, we're not seeing Star Mark But to verify that, let's just head over Okay, so have the listing open up here. I just want to open up the box and confirm that Star Mark So the big box owner is Monster Pets. Let's see, I'm also looking for Amazon. I want to make sure that sold by is Is it in here anywhere? And I'm not seeing Amazon or Star Marks. That's a really good sign. Cool. So there's about nine different sellers You know, again, So the first thing I'm looking at is The quality of these sellers I see this you know, that's a little intimidating, but that doesn't mean But the next thing I want to see is listings are price within 2% of this Okay. So 22, 27 plus 2%. So the highest selling price here $22 and 71 or $0.72 here. So so let's now see how many of these So, okay, looking for 22, 71. I see one over here. See another one. Another one will count. That's about three. It's about three. So a three of the nine sellers It's not that much. Again, our indicator So when we look at three here, is how many of these sellers are using So if a lot of sellers are using FPM, That's a pretty good sign because Amazon They want they want you to use Amazon's fulfillment service and a bunch of other benefits and you can find out by seeing FBA if it says in this see no well actually this got in here He's the only seller on this buy box So if you're looking at a buy box of the sellers in there, I would also look Again, but in this case that's not But again, from selling Now I want to go through this listing This is a product that I think So starting at the title here, it's You know, you probably want to go ahead for this product, If I just look up the top keywords, I'll see a full list of keywords, that we can potentially add And next thing I want to look at here There's only two images here. So, you know, this price getting 685 The bullet points could certainly be If we scroll down here, they really don't So either we would add a new product you'd add a plus content. So definitely You see, the listing quality Now I just showed you how to do this but everything I just showed and filtering products that way. So if we stick with this idea here, Dog Dental, choose type and we can pull up the extension this way and use those same filters So coming up here We want to see $20 minimum 300 minimum no fewer than two sellers, FBA and FPM and listing quality score the max six Now I can go ahead You know, I wouldn't want to sell Kirkland another big brand for back It looks like they have 647 monthly sales. How many sellers? But four sellers. Let's go ahead and click into the listing box here. So making sure Vermaak is not a seller So who's when the buy box okay I'm not seeing Amazon or the brand Also, I didn't notice that, you know, but I see an FBM product listed here, And then 2% range, so 2304 So it looks like 2350 is the maximum price And looking down here, Look. So two other sellers are price within So that's a pretty good sign. There's only about three And then coming back to listing here, just checking the listing quality it looks like we can definitely improve The bullet points, There's no lifestyle images and as you So that's good. Potentially, we can actually and put So actually They have a brand section here. So we can definitely come in The listing quality score is five. Now, using those two products Let's now see if we can find their contact So from here, and then paste it into Google So I see it listed right here and then from here going down right here. And so in this example, So what we can do is actually and either ask for their email So that works out here. Now, let's go ahead and do the same thing this three pack star mark. So same exact thing. Try to find their website and go back to Try to find their website. It's not at the top, but it's right here. Okay. And then scroll down to the bottom, or their email address right here But I did notice up at the top real quick websites linked here, If I click the first one here actually see a different league Now if I click into this, this appears of all their distributors Or you can see nationwide catalog here. So on the distributor page, I can just come over here and from here this is the company So coming down here to contact us a retail partner, I can just add Once I submit the form here, hopefully I will be able to open and download their inventory list. Okay. I think this is a really good point in order to open a wholesale account and also what you should say Let's start with the requirements. First, there are three things in which is an employee and either a retail permit And depending on which state you live It may be called a permit, it may be called a certificate And in some states, you need both. In some states, you just need one. I'll show you how to do this in a second, but you want to look it up A start with a business license. Now, you don't technically need this, but you will open up If you have one, you'll come across So the few ways of doing this, and register your business. I know in Texas that costs about $300, but Just check out the prices Most people do form an LLC, Now for your in your employee ID number, You just head over to IRS dot And lastly, So again, each state is different. Some of these will be free, and some of these you need to get two separate ones for this and get that resale certificate We'll go ahead and drop this down in But for example, you know, I come here, so I click Texas and then you'll see for your specific state This just makes the whole process of And if you want to complete all of these and resale certificate much easier. I recommend using a site like Legal Zoom You will pay a little bit more, easier to get all three of these things Now let's head back over to this and I'll let you know what to say after you fill this information and your first message to them, a retail business and hence You want to come across as professional you partner with online retailers In this case, you're saying, you know, you want to open a wholesale account and to let them know And then the last line that you're serious, that you have your business license That's going to be the first thing after reaching out to the supplier. If you don't hear anything you can go ahead and either So in the next line of communication, all the ways that you can improve their Amazon listing So this is important because they're most every single week from Amazon sellers Except how many them do for the opportunity Identifying the improved potential is one of the best ways And if you want to learn more about this I dove much deeper into it in this Thank you so much for watching this video Oh, crap. Lot 8000. That's a lot. And you can even see the buybacks Yeah, you can make it bigger. Can you think so does it.