We have to draw it out. If this is our DevOps framework where into our production environment, then while our SRE guys sitting here. is focusing on the system. So what makes SRE such a What makes SRE such a trending tech skill? We'll understand in this video. So in this video, we'll cover IT, its history, what exactly SRE The roles and responsibilities We'll also understand the key skills, skills and it skills, which will be needed We'll also understand the bro code, These are two very, very So we'll just touch base upon what these are different from each other. And at the end of this video. We'll see some specific I've taken some snippets out of company expects from any SRE engineer. So we'll understand that That what is expected from us when So I hope by the end of this video, Site reliability engineering what it role which we could pursue in IT SRE year 2003 as an extended devos practice make large scale sites more reliable And that's when they realized that cater to these needs which were not And that's when they coined this term Site name itself is quite self explanatory. This discipline was primarily focused sure that the systems are reliable. And systems could run on its own with go into specific details as to what do, but this is a brief history. So if we have to see the evolution discipline, then in the beginning traditional IT, there was dev. And then there was ops And then there two because you you know all the reasons so you can check that out as well so more standard devops practice where we code Testing it and deploying it and you sure that we will have fast Iterations code to production is concerned But even these developers Were pushing the code You know, which was adding more, more DevOps engineer perspective, they were and making fast iterations, making fast Once it is in production, there code is being shipped into It was all trad IT, traditional IT, also, you know, was not sufficient. And that's when SRE came into between DevOps and traditional IT. If you see you know, if this was was DevOps, then this was SRE. So SRE acted as a bridge. SRE ensured that, okay, whatever DevOps ensure that you know, those products, And then once you know, once it is it into the hands of traditional IT. So that's the whole purpose of and that's the history of it. It has been evolving a lot progressed completely on cloud. This has become even more important applications today are based on agile that's where SRE plays a huge role. So yeah, this is about the history section where we understand in detail. What is SRE and what are some? roles and responsibilities While SRE engineer has various roles to summarize it, we can summarize So, the first and the foremost, being build softwares, he has to build scripts, could make the life of devops team it So building software is a must fixing issue is the primary responsibility of There are certain slas service level adhere to and when it comes to Fixing There is a definite timeline in which the priority of sre engineer on call a worldwide audience worldwide something which sre engineer optimizes. They ensure that their team Is system documenting tribal knowledge? This is very important because a lot of from teams when people do some stuff, but also a very important and very important this scattered information and knowledge on Confluence or some other repository. Because no matter who joins or who team so that it could be used later. And most importantly. They perform incident postmortem. So after any incident, any major incident, sit with the dev team, conducts or that we understand what were the root There are no blames to be put on SRE engineer just wants to understand. Why it happened and what we So these are some core Now, let's understand what technology want to transition into any SRE. So what technology you need to learn Now this path is not a linear path. You have to go through a lot But just to give you some guidance, Without that, working in SRE So you need to have a grip on like Python, Go, Java, Node. js. Any one language should be programming aptitude or if you You have to understand DevOps and CICD kind of toolings which are required in Git, GitHub, Ansible, Jenkins, ErgoCD. many, but as I said, SRE role is needs to know almost everything. If not in deep, then at least have a Infrastructure management is one need to understand how to provision Fulumi, all these kinds of tool set. Containers and containerization is very understand how you create containers, Kubernetes to orchestrate, you know, DevOps projects run on cloud using last but definitely not the least SRE He needs to understand AWS, Azure, different clouds and how we manage logging, all these kinds of things Friends, you must be knowing that whatever Nowadays everything is I have made a course, which Cloud if you want to learn And after that, we are understanding the We are also understanding And how you can prepare In this, we are focusing on core services. Telegram community from, you can also connect me on related. If you are enrolling to is a use special offer. Have 55% discount. , you have to use code. Get 55. Get 55, 13. Definitely help description technically as a group, as a community. So see you in the course if you So apart from this, there are some operations side or business side, management, managing tickets, soft skills. SRE has to be a very good communicator, Business acumen, SRE has to They need to understand why something and SRE engineers need to be the face. To the business, so they need to they need to have business acumen. They have to have a detective mind, extent if, if they can understand a by step by step to the root cause of So, let's quickly touch base between SRE versus DevOps. What is the actual difference? The first thing which I would like to add So it is SRE with DevOps. These two are, you know, brothers, between these two technologies. DevOps you know, came first and then technologies complement each other a lot. So while DevOps is more of a framework, DevOps will always focus on agility DevOps framework wants to release For example, Netflix, they every day, every hour, right? But at the same time, SRE focuses on So while Netflix wants to release those popular show of Netflix goes offline a bug into production environment. So who ensures that does not happen? That's the responsibility of SRE. So if we have to draw it out, if we are deploying the piece of code Then these people are focusing on is focusing on the So the whole focus of this SRE guy is So both complement each other, there So without DevOps, you cannot SRE, you cannot maintain the site. Okay. So this is a quick two cents confusion SRE versus DevOps. Now, let's quickly Look at our last snippets of LinkedIn job postings are posting their job requirements as So I tried exploring two, LinkedIn for SRE engineer role. And I have taken some key skill sets Now, don't get frightened by looking the first and foremost requirement top is ability to learn new skills. No one in the world So don't get overwhelmed If you know something, And if there's always a possibility. So, the first and the foremost is tasks on applications and infrastructure. We have already understood. Why it's important. Troubleshoot priority incidents We have already discussed this. Participate in 24 x 7 support. Hands on with Git, Jira, Infrastructure Now, I missed Jira before but it is most of these DevOps projects run You need to have Jira understanding or which which is a project management to get some understanding of that administrator certification or aws just collated it from couple of job you an understanding of what kind of for exposure to azure gcp Kubernetes So we didn't cover this in detail, but service level objectives and you know, comes before SLAs. So these does not have any legal you can manage your SLAs better. And then there is error budget. What is error budget? Suppose if your system offers 99 remaining is your error budget. Within that 1%, you could But within that time span, You can free field to fail. You can implement your new scripts. You can implement, you All those kind of things, ensuring that because then you can hit your SLA. Troubleshoot and escalate key issues. So if we are trying to fix something, we involve relevant technical teams to fix So, implement telemetry and observability So telemetry is all about monitoring your into your system, how it is performing. All these kind of things comes And why you need it? Because you may want to maintain by your system in real time. And that's, that's what is being would implement those things. Many cloud providers have within their cloud offerings. So that can be used as well. Understanding of Python, Django, Software engineer needs to code needs of skills are being asked for and administration skills linux comes devops and kubernetes environments. You need to have this hands on So these By no means you have to tick all the skills in some of the key areas And you you are very well ahead in the game. You can apply, you can go And if you are having a good analytical mind, who knows, you land So guys, this brings us We started with the history of SRE. Then we understood what is SRE. We understood the roles and The technical skills required We also understood what is And eventually we looked into some would help us understand what is needed So I hope this video brought some And if you found any value out of you could hit the like button, hit the get notified when I bring my next video. And until next time, guys. Please keep learning, keep sharing all Bye for now.