Miaomiao, please go away Meet at the Inn at the Foot of the Mountain Shiyu, I Go fast Want to save Su Miaomiao at the city gate Fang Shiyu Why did you pretend to be the Guillotines and kill my adoptive father? So the token is in your possession. I'll ask you again Why did you pretend to be the Guillotines and kill my adoptive father? Then you have to ask your godfather. Secretly communicate with Qianlong and meet in Wanhua Tower Want to hand in the Red Flower Society token Abandon the Anti-Qing Restoration Hand over the token Our entire Red Flower Society will die. The great banner of Anti-Qing and Restoration of Ming I'll take it for him. The flag of the Red Flower Society You can't just carry it if you want to Bold Red Flower Society Rebellion How dare you act wild here? Catch him for me How come you are all so stupid? Come on, get it to me! Don't come over here Let me go Someone come quickly Let me go No, go. No, why not? My two lords, please take care. Why are you walking so fast? I was scared to death, it was really Fang Shiyu Then catch him. Capturing Fang Shiyu will earn a reward of 100 taels Go back and find reinforcements Go up You go, you go Help! Help! Go to hell south wind Shoot all the arrows and leave no one behind World Jade, World Jade, World Jade you Walk kill It seems that I can't kill Baimei today. Go ahead, I'll hold them back. The disaster was caused by me How can I abandon you? Fang Shiyu superior What are you doing back here? If I hadn't come, you would have died, bastard. Fang Shiyu, go! I won't leave Don't let the blood of brothers be shed in vain Go, you guys Mei Niang, Mei Niang Go, Fang Shiyu Fang Shiyu In the next life, I will kill you again to claim the reward. I will kill you for the reward in my next life. Go fast Chase yes Miaomiao, please go away Meet at the Inn at the Foot of the Mountain Shiyu, I Go fast Fang Shiyu, hand over the token. Baimei, you killed my adoptive father Clear out the brothers Is this token really that important? Of course it's important This is my lifelong wish. With the token I can command the entire Red Flower Society. Kill all the dogs Complete my great cause of overthrowing the Qing Dynasty and restoring the Ming Dynasty Shiyu, go away! Fang Shiyu, I want to save the woman you love Just hand over the token. otherwise This coffin is prepared for you today I will never give you the token I must take people away kill Shiyu, go away! If you kill one person, I'll cut off one. Shiyu, Shiyu, please go away! Fang Shiyu If you stray, return and hand over the token I'll give you a chance Don't even think about it Shiyu Okay, then I'll fulfill your wish. Be a pair of desperate mandarin ducks Shiyu Shiyu, please get up quickly. I don't want you to save me, please get up quickly World Jade, World Jade, World Jade Shiyu, please get up quickly. Shiyu, please get up quickly. Fang Shiyu Shiyu, Shiyu Don't be afraid You are tied to me for the rest of my life father father father father Do you know who ordered my assassination? Shudo group He sees me as a thorn in his side I wish I could pull it out as soon as possible Shuo Tuo Shuo Tuo Come out to me Who is here Disturbed my sweet dream I want you for my whole family Thirty people were buried with him Master Su Why do you say that? last night I have been with Miss Ruyu Besides If it weren't for me You're still eating in jail. Master Su This is how you treat your savior. That's right Is it good to smoke? but Master Su has a good eye indeed. last night I spent a wonderful night with Ruyu Found her A more gentle and affectionate side A-chan A-chan Don't hit me, please. Stop fighting. Please don't hit him anymore, please. A-chan hehe woke up Master Brat Can recognize the master Prove that it's nothing serious Master knows you are sad. alright It's all over The most important thing now Heal your wound first. Okay, okay. Lord Now the trouble has been eliminated Our goods In short supply again good You've worked hard, Kosaka. It is my honor to serve you. Lord I heard that Su Can Being tortured to death The King has also heard This is all thanks to your clever plan. Su Can looks like this now It's much more interesting than death. Yo This is not the top star in our Zuihualou Chen Ru Yu Chen Xiao Jie Ma Bu Zhi Chen Xiao Jie Qu Zun Jiang Gui Come to my gang What is the matter? I heard that Su Can is here I don't know the warrior Can you take me to see you? Chen Xiao Jie Su Can He is just a star of misfortune. He killed his whole family. Addiction to drugs again This life is wasted. Bu Ru Chen Xiao Jie Qingli Stop talking nonsense More and more disorderly go out Neglect of Discipline A-chan Look who's here A-chan You got the wrong person. I'm not some Ah Chan You stinky boy A-chan I know I'm sorry for you See you're okay I feel relieved. This is what my mother left behind. Said she would give it to her future daughter-in-law Do you want See for yourself I'm leaving first Miss Yu etc. You're a stinky boy Do you despise yourself so much? Open your eyes and see Standing in front of you Standing in front of you This is the woman you said you would marry. Do you think Miss Ruyu Is he the kind of person who will be abandoned after his rabbit is dead? She's trying to save you. I had no choice but to drag him together anyway You owe her everything. Look at how you look now If it were someone else, they would have gotten away with it long ago. Why did Miss Ruyu Think about it yourself Just say &quot;I'm not A-chan&quot; and it's over. You are evading and shirking responsibility Gang Leader Please stop talking From now on, please help me take care of Su Can. I'm leaving first Rubbing ball A-chan A-chan Stay away from me Stay away from me A-chan Hold on for a few more days The leader said As long as you can get through this half month I can quit smoking. Ah Chan, can we hold on for a few more days? A-chan A-chan Master Master, I can't stand it anymore Master, I can't stand it anymore Master, I feel so bad. drink I don't remember anything when I drink too much. drink Brat How about it happy good I will teach you today. Drinking Skills Look at it good I've made a lot of progress recently. Thanks to Master for his kindness After this incident You have lost a lot of your youthful edge My mind has also calmed down a lot If it weren't for Master and Ruyu I'm afraid I've already been addicted to drugs Tortured to death This also depends on your self-control I bear the blood feud of thirty members of the Su family. Shuo Tuo and his gang formed a clique to sell opium for personal gain Discovered by my father Then they designed me to get addicted to drugs The deal with my father failed Kill him and then hurry up I will make him pay with his blood. A-chan Just fighting violence with violence It is not the only rule to resolve your inner pain Should we just let him get away with it and do whatever he wants? A-chan The most important thing now Collect evidence against Shuo Tuo and his gang Hearing about the new Minister of Opium On the way to Guangzhou He is just like Mr. Su. Enforce the law impartially and without bias We'll sue him then. Naturally, we will not allow Shuo Tuo and his gang to do evil. evidence Ge Fu Wang Ni Yesterday, Su Can went back to the Su Mansion Took out a bag of stuff really See it with your own eyes Absolutely true elegant Go ahead Lord Have you heard? Your court's newly sent minister for destroying opium The Left Censor-in-Chief Gu Ying is here At this moment, his sedan chair has entered Guangzhou City. I heard that this person is selfless and upright I'm worried that it will ruin our plans. Lord You are Mr. Gu has just arrived The king prepared a small gift A token of my appreciation Lord Gu Ying is the Left Censor-in-Chief Your Majesty, please don't embarrass Gu Ying. Why Mr. Gu is worrying too much. You have traveled a long way This is just a little thought from the king to you. That's all What virtue and ability does Gu Ying have? Let the prince send such a valuable gift Mr. Gu, you are too serious. Besides I've delivered all this stuff. There's no point in taking it back. this Sir, please don't refuse. That I'd rather obey than be disrespectful. after If there is a place where a villain can be used Please tell me I like dealing with people like you. I have heard for a long time that the prince is a bold and free-spirited person. See you today Really high-spirited Let the little man admire it You and I serve in the same court We should take care of each other As long as you are sensible Wealth and splendor Some are what you want I only follow the prince's lead. Then from now on We are our own people. Thanks to the prince for his kindness A villain will obey orders. brother Gang Leader You take everyone away first. Gang Leader Who told you to turn your elbow outward? Master Master is leaving Master Chan Er I can't turn back Ruyu to you Deep Love The thieves came too suddenly and failed to bring her out. You must rescue her. Master, rest assured Ah Chan must bring Ruyu back And the traitor Su Qingli Shudo group I must have stirred up this mess. A-chan We Beggars It has always been Punish the strong and eliminate evil Narrow sense first I am today Dog Beating Stick Grant you Master Temporary The leader's position Master Master Master Gang Leader Gang Leader Gang Leader Master Master Who? The police asked me to deliver the documents to him. It's so late Here it comes Almost there, Sengo Let's go Walk I said you are playing tricks on me No Come Slower Slow down. Slow down. You're still playing tricks on us after drinking Big Head It's so unkind. after Give me all the drinks Be honest, do you know? We are brothers Brothers Big Head happy Big Head Why is your head so big? Have a drink Not yet real All of you Go to my house Drink again good good Don't leave any one. Big Head Big Head You drink less Why is your head so big? Don't cheat. You must not cheat I'm home. Home See? Your sister-in-law even left the door open for me. Slow down, Sengo Okay, okay, let's go back. Brother Sen, I will support you again Wanjing Wanjing Wanjing Wanjing Wanjing Wanjing Wanjing Isn't this okay? rest assured Stop making trouble How about it Chief Inspector Zhang was taken away by Chief Zhou's men early in the morning. Take away Why? Said he was cooperating with the investigation Closed up Wife Wait till I come back team leader Walk Owner What's wrong Those policemen came Then let Butler Wang Let them lead the way. Or I'll go. These guys are all pretty good at martial arts I'm worried about Butler Wang. Are you worried about Butler Wang? Worry about other people Let Butler Wang go. If the police help me kill that bastard I'm relieved. The taste What's wrong, Sengo? Big Head Wait for me at the door Mr. Haircut Or shaving? shave This side Mr. looks unfamiliar Outsiders Jiangcheng People Doing business Small business Come here They all do big things. Not an official It's a bandit You guessed wrong I am not an official Not a bandit either. As long as you're not coming for me You are the same no matter who you are Mr. joked. Why should I come to you? Mr. Soap It smells delicious. I made it myself The workmanship is very exquisite It's my first time Smells so good soap This is what I made with camellia oil. Has a calming effect It's a pity The fragrance is so good Can't hide it The smell of tobacco on your hands Not bad Very neat You killed Wanjing You are the policeman. You should really want to know Before your wife left What did you say? She told me she was pregnant with your child Kneel down and beg me She begged me to let me do it for the sake of the child. Spare her That scene That's too pitiful. you guess Is your wife pregnant with a boy or a girl? withdraw Don't move Brother Sen, save me Brother Sen, save me Sengo hurry up Walk The master brought it Dear distinguished guests, Tianlong Failure to welcome Please Please forgive me You guys came uninvited. I really don't consider myself an outsider. You sent someone. Killed my wife to this end I want to apologize to you Just now I am still praying for your wife. But I forgot to tell you In my territory Killing is not against the law