There are a lot of things that you but I'm sure that you already know that because 50 things you should know before traveling to Beyond The Tourist Trail, which is out now you should always carry cash on you because you're shop or something that doesn't accept credit walking shoes because you will be doing a lot should always keep your passport on you for legal Japan for any reason, they're going to ask you so just always have it on you just in case. purposes. If you're going to be buying anything if you present your passport, then you can get it is the big one: masks. Can't wait to get into this a mask mandate per se. They've just had a lot means that 99.9% of Japanese people are wearing downgraded the classification of the severity flu. They are now recommending and encouraging of general rule that I go by: if I am indoors, I put on a mask. If I'm outside or I'm walking offended thus far. So I recommend that you do entry procedures, so you either have to be fully you need to have a negative PCR test taken within You have to log all of this online via a website. that you do that before getting to your flight the most out of your trip, you should definitely and the prices are pretty competitive. You can egg is kind of like a portable router, so if that can be a really economical option. But keep will have to charge it every night, but the choice you don't need to tip in Japan. I've heard some I wouldn't say it's rude, but I would say it's three travel locations in Japan are Tokyo, Osaka, Triangle, which means that there will be a lot off the beaten track into lesser-known places, Beyond The Tourist Trail, which is now available of the top travel destinations in the world, and Andrew? It's my own personal nightmare, which to help you avoid the crowds and have a truly Trail is an e-book with over 150 pages of 20 top locations. It includes step-by-step travel tips, and maps presented beautifully in one Japan for over eight years now, so I know that But one thing that I've noticed with this advice experience or if they just went to Japan that one I've personally seen some very, very big YouTubers for traveling to Japan. I've personally traveled so I know that my advice is accurate, realistic, tips in this video, but there's even more phrases that you should learn and even a survival first time that all of my travel tips and favorite place. So avoid the crowds, support the experience in Japan with Beyond The Tourist Trail, so much. I've spent so much time and effort on I need a drink of water. There are very few trash stuff, so just keep your trash with you and Number 11: There are so many staircases in Japan, so try to avoid changing hotels and traveling Number 12: There are two times of the they are Golden Week and Obon. These are so that's when all of the which means that a lot of places will just look up those dates on the internet. They There is a particular scam that happens in Tokyo familiar with it, but a bunch of YouTubers the gist of it is that you get lured into and you buy drinks for you and for that the drinks are like hundreds of bill that's like $5,000. So watch those videos This next one is less of a tip and more of a my &quot;Travel With Me&quot; trip happening in August this the places actually listed in my travel go and check out the link in the description Number one, buy yourself a tap-and-go public Suica, or Icoca. Very easy, very convenient. and you can also use it at the convenience store, in Japan. Please try to talk as quietly as you be considered rude. Taxis in Japan are quite especially to and from the airport because it can the topic, Uber, Lyft, ride-share apps, those download it and you can still use it, but it won't just hail you a taxi, so it's convenient, but I always just use Google Maps to plan my public buses, I've heard a lot of people say that never had any issues with Google Maps. It's very how much it is, the departure time, duration, you what train carriage to get in for a faster fan of Google Maps. Trains in Japan usually stop The next category is for driving. If you could It'll make things a lot easier for you. Not driver's permit, so go check out the link in the are going to drive in Japan, I've heard people Personally, I don't think you've got anything to Shibuya Crossing and the back alleys of Higashi I found it to be quite normal. Japanese drivers I haven't had any issues with it. Signs are and yeah, the speed limits are quite lenient. The next category is language barriers. English recommend learning some Japanese phrases for that, so go check it out, and it's also a whole website. If you don't speak any Japanese at all much English, speak very slowly, as few words like common sense, but I swear some people just loanwords. For example, &quot;toilet&quot; is pronounced as say a word, you can slow it down and elongate each &quot;su-pee-kah.&quot; Wow, fluent. &quot;Hotel&quot; - &quot;Ho-te-ru&quot; Now I can speak Japanese! The Google Translate Japanese text for you, and the Google Translate If you're a photographer and want to take please try to be courteous and remember forbidden. This is because a lot paparazzi and chased after them, In some temples and shrines, as well as busy to fly a drone in Japan, it's not as complicated rules and don't fly in any cities at all, since density. I've made a whole video about it, so you now have to register your drone online and not super complicated, but it is time-consuming. a lot and want to get a lot of drone footage, it description. Also, the 250 gram rule doesn't apply The next category is food. I think you should hygiene standards are very high in Japan, so it's legal to drink on the streets, and convenience day so have fun. Speaking of drinks, tap water is but those people would be lying because I've fine. Seriously, it's safe to drink, so you don't If you're a vegan or vegetarian, it can travel in Japan. I've made a whole video also recommend using the Happy Cow app could also buy my travel guide that has a In the countryside, it's not uncommon on a random day of the week for no reason. It's close between 2 PM and 6 PM or 5 PM, so make sure This next category is for the ladies. Japan is time hence my YouTube channel. However, there with men here. Yeah, it's a really big topic, and much more I could go into about it, but for now, be aware of. I wouldn't trust when people say would disagree with that. In general, I would night time in Japan than I would in Australia the fact that there are a lot of people around in you know, there are still a lot of things that quite important in Japan, but the standards very normal in the West. So, for example, you and that's fine. But if you're wearing a tank top decolletage, that is considered to be realized this like six years into you can still just dress at your own comfort Speaking of modesty, another rule that years is that apparently, if you're wearing that is okay. But if you're wearing shorts that risque or just risky in general because people which has happened to me, actually. Yeah, so in Japan, then you can't turn off the camera Hi, quick editor's note here, I should also fact. This is just something that a Japanese man sure everyone has their own different opinions basically I'm not speaking for the entirety of all So, if you would like to curb any of these train in peak hour, they will have ladies-only safer. Other things that I have personally done haven't been jakant to recently, I dress more don't wear spaghetti straps and stuff like and I've also aged, so that has In all seriousness, though, I know I'm serious and big issue that a lot of women in So, yeah, it's something that you should generally quite safe, but there are The next category is experiences. If you want be prepared to pay per person per night. Not every you're booking it. Please, please, please try like my favorite experience ever. And it's not as strangers. It's liberating, it's body-positive, if you have a very large tattoo, unfortunately, are specifically like a tattoo-friendly onsen. But a little baby one, you could probably cover that want to call it. Sports tape and normal notice, wear a kimono in Japan, and nobody will think it's about that, so go check it out. Whichever, it's sure that you already know that generally, Japan just be on good behavior, you know, be courteous, was reminded of it because I'm in Australia at the full on, like, karate kick one of the pedestrian kicked it with his foot, and I was like, oh, last point, which is, uh, if you, accidentally disrespectful or something like that by accident, Japanese people will see foreigners and, if I can kind of give them a free pass just in general even if you have been living there for eight I just have seen a lot of these videos around, while walking, and it's like, eh! I don't that I don't think are necessary. I think Japanese usually. I think you're gonna have a great time, about accidentally doing the wrong thing. Just be fine. And that's it. Holy cow, what a long, and as valuable to you as I hope it was. That Um, go and check out my travel guide if you Bye. In the nick of time, oh my gosh, I've just