The M1 Abrams entered service in 1980. A fast, heavily armored tank with the very on the battlefield. First seeing action in Operation Desert Storm. The plain arid camouflaged tank gained a reputation and Kuwait. Powered by a high speed turbine engine, the liberate Kuwait from Iraqi occupation. The german designed 120 mm smoothbore cannon advanced ammunition. It easily dispatched the lower tech soviet Sometime this year it's expected that the tanks to Ukraine to once again face off against The Ukrainian Army will need training to maintain unlike any other tank. And although this tank are over 40 years old own on the battlefield, thanks to continual This is the insane engineering of the M1 Abrams. The M1 Abrams, upon engine start up, sounds to take off. *minor pause 1-3 seconds to allow sound to A terrifying increasing pitch as the engine The whirring sound emanating from the rotating The turbine engine, typically used for jet operation with minimal weight, a counter intuitive So why was it chosen? The turbine engine would give the M1 two huge They are much lighter than an equivalent diesel 1500 brake horsepower. The V12 diesel engine of the Challenger 2 tonnes of metal. This compactness and extreme high power to of armor without sacrificing acceleration We can plot torque vs shaft speed of the HoneyWell V12 MTU 883 of the Challenger 2E, and we can at lower shaft speeds. In its lightest configuration M1 weighs 61.8 A typical toyota corolla weighs 1.1 tonne. That's equivalent to 56 Toyota Corollas, kilometers per hour in just 7 seconds with The M1 Abrams primarily uses diesel fuel, armor. Liquids are extremely good at absorbing energy they are most effective against shaped charges, of fuel. It may seem counterintuitive to use a fuel fuel is not very flammable. In fact if you throw a lit match into a puddle Diesel engines require immense pressure and Because of this diesel can actually be used However the turbine engine can also operate This is a huge advantage in military logistics. Making joint operations with NATO vastly easier. In the years following World War 2. The Soviets favored diesel compression ignition The western Allies used a mixture of both ignition. Transporting fuel is one of the largest logistic Needing several types of fuel makes it all The M1 can run on marine diesel, gasoline Which not only makes it easier to procure bonus of helping the M1 Abram operate in hot Dealing with the wild swings in temperature with ease. Where diesel fuels can crystallize at low The turbine engine of the M1 works similarly differences. Air enters the engine here, where it is compressed high pressure compressor, each individually These turbine stages are driven by the combustor, aircraft combustors. It is mounted perpendicularly to the engine, This makes maintenance access to the combustor to be removed. There are two drive shafts in this engine. A secondary drive shaft, driven by the high accessory gearbox that runs things like compressors, The main drive shaft, driven by a dedicated compressors, runs rearward to the tanks drive This primary driveshaft and its reduction a recuperator. This is the biggest difference between this engine. We don't want the hot exhaust of the engine this would create would be a giant beacon location to any enemy using thermal vision. We also don't want to waste all that heat The recuperator is essentially a giant heat Air coming from the compressor stage is passed before entering the combustion chamber. This lowers the heat signature of the exhaust more heat energy back into the engine instead But the M1 Abrams is still a thirsty machine, The turbine engine uses twice the fuel as Where the M1A1 consumes around while cruising 2.2 liters per kilometer. [REF] [1] worth paying for the capabilities the turbine Allowing the M1 to carry an obscene amount The armor installed on the M1 Abrams has evolved The exact details of its thickness, location, reasons, but there is a great deal known about It is well publicized that early M1 variants Chobham. Which derives much of its ballistic resistance Hardness in material science is a measure deformation, like a scratch. Diamonds are extremely hard, and because of tools to help them cut through materials, A hard material can scratch and erode a softer Hardness can be measured with a vickers hardness into the material. The hardness is then calculated by dividing area of the indentation. The rolled homogeneous armor steel of world carbon hard steel is about 550, while a ceramic times greater, up to 2500 [2] While being Making it an excellent candidate for armor. But, anyone that has dropped a dinner plate They shatter into a million pieces with little but this can be used to the tanks advantage plating. In this configuration the ceramic is placed like an extremely hard outer shell. When a round strikes the armor the compressive causes the round to fracture and break apart, to fracture and fragment, spreading the energy absorbed by the tougher metal plate backing Tough in material science meaning it can absorb of brittle. Further research and experimentation found placed under compression. This can be achieved by simply adding a face This changes the dynamics of an impact significantly, from long-rod kinetic energy projectiles. [REF][3] These are rounds specifically designed as They are thin, long dart-like projectiles barrels. They are typically manufactured from high With a thin aerodynamic shape and high density, coefficient, allowing them to ram into targets They can obliterate rows of concrete walls Embedded compressed ceramic armor can defeat [REF][4] When the long rod projectile strikes the face ceramic that pulverizes it and increases its This creates what is essentially an abrasive the penetrator has to push through, gradually [REF][5] Computer simulations of this effect show that This is the magic of ceramic composite armor. [REF] [6] On top of these metal and ceramic layers there a spall lining. Projectiles don't necessarily need to penetrate If they hit with enough force the kinetic as a wave and cause material on the inside shrapnel inside the crew compartment. This is called spall. Some munitions are specifically designed to High explosive squash heads are made from the armor's surface. With the increased surface area and direct a great deal of energy through the material This works by sending a compressive shock rebounds inside the material, creating regions The spall liner is a ductile and dense material For early M1s this layer was typically composed began to be upgraded with depleted uranium And all new M1A2s were assembled with depleted However, modern composite armor makes it difficult material and a spaced layer with an air gap Additional reactive armor tiles can be added Reactive armor is particularly effective at Shaped charges consist of a charge shaped metal liner. When the charge is detonated a pressure wave and accelerating the metal into a lance stream The shaped charge effectively creates a hypersonic [REF][7] It's highly effective at cutting Reactive armor works by placing an explosive When a jet from a shaped charge strikes the You may think this could damage the tank, of dealing with the relatively blunt pressure The outer plate then flies outwards to disrupt by the detonation also breaks up the stream Ofcourse, the best defense is to not be hit for itself when needed. The M1 has two systems for generating smoke The first involves simply spraying fuel into and creates a large opaque cloud behind the However it's extremely important that the on. This works for diesel fuel, but if gasoline M1, it will set it on fire. The second system uses these grenade launchers There are two versions that the M1 uses. The 8 canister M257 typically used with US 6 can M250. These launchers are controlled from the tank Pressing 1 button launches 6 grenades, 3 from Pressing both buttons launches all 12 of the Launching them about 30 meters from the tank to hide it's movements. The engineers of the M1 Abrams did everything as possible, protecting the crew inside. And the highly trained crew are the most important The M1 Abrams does not have an automatic loader, It has a dedicated crew member, the loader, Autoloaders are a feature of modern Russian their tanks, seeing an autoloader as an unnecessarily reliability. Seeing a forth crew member, capable of keeping over responsibilities in an emergency as an The loader enters the tank through the turret with access to the ammunition box behind them aiming at targets using these day and thermal finder to input target distances into the When instructed by the tank commander, sitting switch with their knee to open a hydraulically The tank commander will specify the round load it into the breach, close the breach This process will be repeated until a ceasefire The armored ammunition access door is only the survivability of the M1 Abrams. If a round penetrates the ammunition box it stored inside. This armored door is capable of withstanding called blow out panels, are designed to break upwards and away from the crew. [REF][8] mm cannon. Early M1s were fitted with a 105 mm cannon. 105 referring to the bore diameter of the This decision was made primarily to allow the 105 mm on the previous generation M60 With the development of depleted uranium rounds adequate to deal with any soviet armor. However US allies like Germany did not want implications, and were moving towards 120 using the Royal Ordanance L11 and the German This posed a problem for NATO's goals of logistics. With ammunition factories across NATO countries ammunition could not only be shared, but manufactured The 120 mm guns of the M1A1 and M1A2 are in under license in the US. A 5.3 metre long, 3.3 tonne smooth bore cannon. This large bulge in the middle of the cannon propellant gasses after each firing. Once the round leaves the barrel atmospheric and once the breach is opened the potentially compartment. The bore evacuator is a pretty simple solution, evacuator as the round passes by. This acts like a pressure reservoir. When the round leaves the barrel with this forward facing holes at the far end of the The two primary rounds used by the M1 are a saboted kinetic energy round, and the M830A1 not use heat as part of its offensive. It uses a kinetic energy shaped charge. We have been piling on weight in this vehicle. The armor, cannon, engine and ammunition makes Weighing between 52 and 68 tonnes depending The M1 Abrams needed a track and suspension For a vehicle this heavy typical helical springs First, their maximum travel is limited. At a particular load the layers of a helical possible, bottoming out and providing an extremely To deal with a heavier vehicle we need to up an increasing amount of space. This was an issue for world war 2 era tanks, spring, which is a conical spring that is as the sheets of spring steel overlap. However most modern tanks utilize the torsion the tank, though they do raise the tanks height The torsion springs of the M1 are located they raise the hull height by 150 millimeters. The road wheel is attached to a lever that attached to the torsion bar so that it twists The spring force is derived from the bars Older tanks incorporating torsion bars had The M1's predecessor, the M60, had a wheel During development of the M1 the two tanks benefiting from 20 years of material science that of the M60 at 38 centimeters. When tested on a track with a series of 30 The M60 managed to break its front front wheels, The torsion spring of the M1 runs along the Making them quite heavy. We need the torsion spring to be as long as function of the torsion bar's length. Longer torsion bars can twist more before An interesting quirk of the torsion spring mean that the road wheels cannot be aligned. We cannot simply connect the lever arms of as they would frequently travel together, The far end of the bar needs to be rigidly develop a spring force. So two torsion bars need to be mounted alongside between the two sides of the tracks. The two sides of the M1 are not symmetrical. This comes with some drawbacks. The leading road wheel will hit bumps first, trailing road wheel. Increasing the wear on the leading torsion Torsion bars are very easy to swap out when or if the body of the tank is bent, it can out. Modern tanks are increasingly moving towards Which look like this. The road wheel has an attached axle pivot piston. This piston connects to the hydragas suspension The first chamber is filled with a fluid, The oil is relatively incompressible, and chamber has a damper valve that serves to chamber and the next, which contains a floating other side. This provides resistance to ensure the road also dampens out vibrations. [REF] [9] This system is much smaller, lighter and easier the height of the tank, lowering its profile Not only that, but each individual suspension pressure inside the cylinder. Allowing the tank to take a crouched position Hydrogas suspensions were considered for the new technology at the time, and so the torsion [REF][9] The M1 Abrams has had incremental improvements With three primary variants the M1, M1A1 and in between. With updated sensors and controls to bring Like the Crows II on the M1A2 SEP. SEP standing for systems enhancement package. Which added additional thermal sights for to run it's electronics without running A remote control sight that allows the tank of the turret. [REF][10] We are currently on the M1A2 SEP V4 variant, the M1 program, whether that's an M1A2 SEP no mistake, despite the M1 being one of longest decades old it's still highly capable and the ground in Ukraine. The next episode of Real Engineering is about imaging. It will be out on YouTube in 2 weeks, but understand what we talk about. MRI machines use a pretty incredible property of hydrogen atoms and how they interact in It took us a long time to write this script. Understanding quantum mechanics is hard, and in everyday engineering. From magnetic resonance imaging to quantum you started with understanding this scientific It's powerful knowledge to obtain, and you up at brilliant.org/realengineering. Getting started on your first course is completely 500 people that sign up with our link will Brilliant makes learning fun and interesting make it easy to jump in and out of courses, even easier with their mobile app, so you on your morning commute to work or school. Brilliant includes interactive elements to test knowledge along the way to ensure you Brilliant focuses on facilitating effective learning goals, whether it's professional learners. Brilliant are adding content monthly, so there's You can get started for free for the first and the first 500 people to do so will get