I'm standing by now with CEO of And we are just one week out from Donald of one of the country's largest banks. you're expecting with the Trump Well, first of all tonight, thank you so headquarters in New York. Thank you. perspective of our own operations, but clients around the world. The first one is the tempering of Second would be taxes. And the final one would be tightening And as we look across the board, I would pro-growth agenda. in the country. global finance to potentially be shaken policy in particular? clear. implementing. that there's going to be changes, but Trade is not going away. I think we've already seen major changes years driven by geopolitics and If you speak food, energy, technology, these different lanes are changing This just puts one more into the mix. time from trade and the tariffs to see actual agreements and the policies and We'll have some time to work out what Another major reason I bring up trade economists have brought up the idea of the heels of tariffs. You were kind of very early here to Certainly there are elements of this At the same time, we've also seen, ability to have productivity through. people decide policy and determine Let's see what the policies are and then response to it? is that the interest rate expectation that's given concerns around fiscal How concerned are you about the deficit, even beyond that? for me, for the medium and longer term, to this equation. denominator is obviously the fiscal And I think one of the benefits here in is that we've got the growth, the growth This is clearly going to come into play need to see the fiscal discipline. equation globally for the next couple of lead to the US in terms of investments It's interesting the bond market of this morning you were flirting again a bank. of the curve tailing off? for you? long end, is it something everyone is But I take the step back and look at moment. We've been waiting to see on the M&amp;A When is it that clients can be more acquisition range? unlocking for them to participate more. Same for the IPO market growth of 11. actually going to pivot to the primary behind it. while. I will take you there. and acquisitions. the largest deal of the year so far, the There's an expectation by investors out bigger deals. are they to push the button? on deals that are even larger than $35 I think there's been a there's a lot of Time I see, particularly in the States, activity at the moment and is likely to It is game on. States that they are looking at driving It is a scale game at the moment in is changing so quickly. clients who are not necessarily in be and they're going to be buying So it's going to be pretty active from sponsor space and partly pent up, but Do you think that means that this is a to make the deal market come back in megadeals still there? there on still how much those deals will Even in Trump antitrust authority, think it's an and not an all. week. the world all wanting to be very focused to Silicon Valley. above at the moment. As always with M&amp;A, there's a difference that's where I certainly are. You've got a new investment banking after more private equity clients. equity deals to come back. possible is that deal flow to come to Obviously, lower rates is helpful and the rates down. at the moment, as everyone knows. from where they are. How far down they go to be determined. know, there's a lot of reason for people You also have private asset market. relationship and partnership effort with provide into non-investment grade So those are important parts of the And there are innovations out there to and acquire. wondering more on how it's going. yet? conversations are you having just like Well, in the States is the overwhelming the private asset market. attention by the scale of this because I alternatives when they come to us, when So they have more alternatives and they We've worked a lot with Apollo over the efforts, so we know each other well. certainty is very helpful for any of our continue looking at how we can expand, You know, it's interesting, I've asked to your clients, but also interested in income. fall as much as initially expected, through this year and next year? look at us, we've got the benefit of a So you ideally are looking at something geopolitical environment. around and adapt accordingly. or higher for longer environment, that We had double digit and I o growth last We've had a strong focus on fees. franchise, our services franchise all that provides us additional cushion that about the financial sector right now regulatory regime. proposals will actually be rolled back increase in capital that has been put When I. We've had very constructive discussions in terms of looking at what are the because we need access to credit for farmers, for smaller banks and So I think the main goal here is to make consequences to access to credit to the banking system that is the best in the And I say that proudly. making sure that balance gets right. continue to be constructive. is, though. and then we'll we shall wait and see. regulatory environment here? We we have set a vision for our bank. an execution plan that we are just different step along the way. strategy is working. results. operating leverage, gaining share, We still have more work to do. that job done properly. we need to modernizing and simplifying When you think about your returns, discipline. costs in order to get to the targets We're making sure that we both get it to be more simple. agenda is very important. The transformation that we're doing is issues that were raised, but they're because ultimately they they drive to a We also need to be investing in our So it's driving forward on critical support our competitive advantage, and We've successfully reorganised the We've realised benefits from it. cost takeouts we've done from divesting. I don't want to take short term fixes sure that this bank is run well properly a more relaxed regulatory environment, and ultimately our transformation will I look at it not just from the banking I look at it from all of our clients and unlock, because over regulation can It can adding costs where it doesn't It can affect competitive advantage. pendulum in the right place? certainly help multiple industries make good place. well, how do you think about the ability an eye on expenses? We've talked about it a lot. bringing on New Deal makers? open potentially with a new head of M&amp;A. and very carefully, because we've got organisation for whom we're very proud We want to make sure it's not only that but that they fit the culture the right of the franchise. we have ahead and that they're going to forward. attract great talent to Citi. year since you announced a very massive Where do you stand now? And what does Citigroup, the new as you think about the path ahead after So I always said this year was going to again, the first the third quarter and The results through the year have shown We did the reorganisation, as you said, We got it completed six months later, We've managed to get some last taken out which is a lot. so that they were in the best position configuration around it. different activities and bureaucracy We've still been tweaking some things You don't get it right first shot I'm very happy where we got to. performance of the business, and we're our transformation done properly the we need to. focus and accountability.