[Music] Hey everybody, Mark Agnesi here for about to sit down with my friend, guitarist Paul the Starchild has been front and center for the more gold records than any other band in history, you better bet he's owned his fair share you got the best. This is The All right, we are here with Paul Oh, it's my pleasure. Been looking I've been looking forward to it too. You here we are. I mentioned to you earlier, I did with Dave Amato, who's right and he walked me into the incredible KISS oh, one day, one day I'm getting Paul in here. back. When did guitars first show up on your When I was a little kid and I saw Eddie Cochran more dangerous Elvis. There was something about a great attitude. Um, &quot;Summertime Blues&quot; and &quot;Come introduction to guitar. Although I grew up in a um, opera and classical music and all. But, when I had no knowledge of the guitar, just Guitar really is the instrument of, you know, When did you finally get your hands on one? Oh my gosh, I kept telling my parents, um, my you know, I really want a guitar, an electric &quot;Look under your bed.&quot; And I looked under break because I saw this big cardboard case. I nylon string guitar. I was shattered because you pushed it back under the bed. A couple of months So that was really the start, a nylon string Did you take to it pretty quick? Yeah, um, I took to it really quickly. I took a reason, the teacher was like, no, you have to stay When did you finally get your Probably about a year later. My first guitar was a smaller body. I knew nothing about guitars. I had start, but I don't really remember anything about to other guitars, and, um, ultimately, I think was an SG Les Paul, which I got in a pawn shop and, um, I still remember whenever I if you brought a guitar with a Bigsby and you the arm was off, and the spring was out. uh, Bigsby. But that was my first, All right, let's get started. Yeah, but this is a great case, and Fantastic. Well, let's take a look. Yeah, look at that top. So this is a a golden year for Les Pauls. I really this was one of my main guitars in the studio This is early, early, early Custom Shop historic. That top is amazing. And that but that is like the darkest piece of rosewood That, I mean, and it's, was this, is this natural aging on here? Because I see Lafur did quite a bit. Oh, this, this one went to Kim Historic. And, um, I just you know. There were a few things about it that there was a time where Gibson and the Custom Shop and they would just send me these guitars. And, the last two albums and a lot of other recordings. Stock pickups, or is something These are, I don't know if those um, I'm not sure what's Oh, sounds great, sounds great. Great neck too. Got a great neck, man. Yeah, that's catching it. Yep, that's, I think is like overkill. You know, flame that doesn't hearken back to what Yeah, and this is pretty authentic. Yeah, that's a way to start. I Well, we're just warming up. We just getting warm. Another brown case. Yeah, this was, uh, one of the new Lifton what those cases should be. So I got used acrylic dyes and Dremel tools and those cases were. So, you know, it's got the Got the whole thing. Let's Yeah, this is, uh, again, it's got that but it's again, it's, it's got a gorgeous I just see some of them that are quilted and, No, you know, what year is this one from? This is '94. This is another '94. Something magic about the '94s. '94s for me, I just thought Did this one go to Kim as well? Yeah. So I'm assuming that's probably the they would do. I mean, the guitar was, I'd these guitars deserve to be 100%. So, uh, I just Now, is this studio use again, or? Yeah, both of these have been used. I don't but I'm a real stickler about Clean, yeah. When that starts getting Houston, we have a problem, yeah. Nice checking. Now, for somebody who's why would this get used in the there something different that this I've had these longer. You've had these longer than the '59? Longer than that '59, so that's really the only Um, when we would go through all my guitars, just sounded great. You know, they, um, they not And this one came just Yes, yeah. This is from those days when Gibson oh, we've got this guitar you have to see. And uh, it was like Christmas. I would open them Oh man, well that's two good ones. Very nice. All right, this case looks kind of '70s. Yeah, yeah. I forgot all about this guitar Gibson got in touch with me at one point vintage style Les Paul, and, uh, they sent the bursts that they were doing at the it to Strings and Things in Memphis, and they did come a long way. You guys have Now the shape is wrong. Yeah. It's really stout up on the top. It's really weird right in here. Yeah, and here it's, it's, it's just clunky. Yeah, this whole bout is kind of weird. Which is crazy because we were making Les Yeah, I mean, and even this, So this is what, late '70s, early '80s? So, I mean, this kind of is before It's got a '59 serial number, but Double ring Klusons instead of single ring. This is a first attempt. Yes, this is a first attempt. Where did this come from? Where did you... Um, I got that directly from Yeah, at the time. It's really strange, The dish on it. Not right. I don't know if it had these, these DiMarzios but these are, um, early '80s DiMarzios. And, uh, what was your set? Yeah, as a rule, they were Interesting. So you said this was blonde when Right away. I sent it right out because, uh... Oh, so Strings and Things did this right. You know, it's a, it's an anomaly. it's got more historic importance than really Based on what we're doing original examples and getting top neck profiles, this is a little bit of a Almost like it was hand-done because the Cut seems... Yeah, the horn seems wrong. Yes. But it's Gibson and it's real. Just Okay, this is going back to bed. She's going back to sleep. See you, peace. Going back to the early days, whose licks were you trying to pull? Who Well, I was so fortunate because New York had the see all the, you know, bands that I would want although, look, I'd seen John Lee Hooker and people had taken, particularly in England, Jimmy Page was still with them, and, uh, that was more enamored with what I might be able to do as I wanted to hold down the fort. I wanted to be the was, was and is transcendent. He's a, he's on a saw The Who in '69, I think. No, I saw them in um, all, all the classic, classic bands. Um, uh, when I saw them, Frampton was still with them. Derek and the Dominos, all, all Oh, another one. Yeah, absolutely. That wrist, you know, I told my son when playing is in the right hand. This, this does Yeah, I mean, sticking on I was always drawn to lead guitar. That and all of this stuff. But like, as the older more and more and more sense to me. Why something that should be overlooked or looked Being a great rhythm guitar player, you should be happy walking. But, um, the idea that lead player and the quicker you get past it, um, I can remember playing with other guitar but when you said, okay, now you hold Falls apart. Yeah, I, I hear lead players where I go, well, Eddie Van Halen was different because he was again something else. But, you know, I'd rather, somebody hammering and tapping and, you know, it, same thing, you know, just a great player who can more appealing to me. Maybe I'm lazy, but, uh, is what you can do either with voicings, but what Now, you still chase it? You still looking of us when you were on the road this past are you checking local Craigslist I don't think that deals exist anymore. It's all relative. Yeah, you know, if a guitar is a deal at you buy your first burst for $2,200, It really does because, you know, I tell my kids, be? They were a dime. My kids can't believe a great guitar cost $120. The guys in Mott being, I think in Texas, and this was the shops and they had used guitars. You know, they sunburst. They said, how much is it? And the guy Yeah. You know, so, um, but I don't, I this amazing '52 conversion that my friend JR it's got cream PAFs and all original harnesses, Kim Lafur. And it's, uh, was all done before sounding guitars. That and the, the '26 V are, know there's people that would argue it, but They're not all, no, they're not all gems. Yeah, no, I turned down guitars I would rather have guitars that I can play because they're worth so much money. That's musical instruments are meant to be played. them away, that's not what the paintings are used. So I'm much more comfortable with what Got a flight-worthy case here. This case, you could drop out of a building and this case. My buddy JR, who, um, I actually got and he's a great, great friend of mine. And I was guitars. And one of them in particular, he said, really fantastic. And then at the end of the tour Wow. Yeah. I was actually with JR in London when we Great guy, great studio too. Oh, what a, what a studio. So and it is just, it's a note from him. It's just... Aged a little. A little extra. Even more. Yeah. So, um, it's just a fantastic Yeah. And, uh... So for people who don't know, when we say which would have had the long trapeze converted with the stop tailpiece Those are PAFs in there. Those are cream PAFs. And more than likely, this trapeze tailpiece, the neck angle was purposes, you've got a '57 Goldtop out of a '52. Yeah, I mean, everything there is I just go, what's the difference? You Top carve on this looks a little different from Totally beautiful. It's got that Wow, that's a hell of a gift. Oh, I was stunned. It was an amazing gift. Now, I mean, one of the things I'm seeing, P90s? Were you ever a P90 guy? When do you do Um, I had the P90s on my double-cut Les Those are great. And it was great. And, uh, I just prefer a great can hone in on whatever you want it to sound like. than a P90. And plus, I love the way it looks. when you see all the people who inspired me, uh, you know, all the Jimmy Page stuff all these people just, uh, this is, Now, I mean, we saw some guitars that a lot of like a Duncan '59 and in a lot of the Iceman. What is it about what's different about that than when Um, I think people sometimes They're not. But they're not. Yeah, you know, the, uh, what you expect them to be putting there's a warmth to it. A great humbucker is Yeah. You know, something sweet about it. As far as gifts go, doesn't get much better. That's pretty good. Thank you. Thank you. Wow, another brown case with some character. I think we've worked our way up the food chain. Yeah. This case, um, I aged. Did you do these stickers too? Yes, this is all new stuff. Oh yeah, the stickers are all new. The whole case has been aged by me, and I as opposed to some of the originals. So it was But yeah, this is a new case, Not a new guitar. All right. Oh yeah. So that's, um... This is, uh... This is your guy now. Yeah, this is, this is a '59, and, Oh yeah, the snakebite from the Bigsby. From the Bigsby. And, um, this guitar was it feels and plays amazing. And, uh... Great top too, really blistery and, and peak. When it hits the light in certain ways, you Yeah, so it had a finish on it that I really for. So I had it refinished, and, Why not? Now, we were talking earlier, how many bursts did you go through? How Just four, I think. Four, just four? You know. Were those first three all part when you kind of sold everything, I had, uh, the '59 that's, uh, Beauty that's on the cover of that, and a '58. uh, I sold to Dave Amato that belonged And he called me that day. He's like, Yeah, love Dave. And that led me to this. To this, yeah. And, uh, it's everything that I would want. Again, the idea of everything having to be Yeah. If it, if it's great, and if Do you know where the Stanley have you been able to keep tabs I believe I know where it is. Yeah, Not, not gonna happen? No, I, I, I put out some feelers, and, it's not going to be twice what I Not going to be four times what you paid for it. Yeah, so, uh, it was, it was great. I loved it, um, and I love seeing photos of it. We move on. We move on, and this is, uh, this sounds great, and it's a '59. You Yeah. Where does this live? Does this live here This lives... All my guitars right now live in the warehouse because I don't Yeah. We, we are building a new house, so, uh, until But this is something that would probably Sure, sure. I mean, the, the in or any of these guitars and play, I, I don't want to store things away. I That, that top is just so great. And the Yeah. Fantastic. Well, I'm glad to I, I want one, you know. I just you know, take the money from Different shape. Different shape. Different. Cannot live on Les Pauls alone. I tried. Um, my first legit guitar was, uh, be at Guitar Center on Sunset one day. and it was fantastic. I just went, that's for the last two albums, this So this, this has been used Ah, so this is just a off the What, '61? Yeah. Les Paul SG Standard? And it's a fantastic guitar. I mean, it is, to me, everything that an SG should be. I Being all mahogany has that really Well, I mean, for, for a guy who has so many a Les Paul? What does this do or give you Well, it's certainly not as, it doesn't Yeah. Got that, that, yeah, that clunky, it was Tommy's go-to. By far, it was the best the last two albums. So this, this was Yeah. But man, I mean, goes back to what I was old vintage guitar wasn't great. And there embody everything that you wanted in those Does that first SG when you pick it up totally? Yeah. They don't all have to be million-dollar No, there's a mystique to that, and you hear and what you feel. And there This is great, man. Does the thing, when the band was you probably had whatever you had. Was there oh man, as soon as we get paid, there like that dream guitar that you Sure, sure. Um, again, back to Dan Armstrong and they had gold tops and sunbursts, you know, then they were about $750, $850, which used to look at those guitars and think, you 70s, I decided to start collecting, and I really So, um, I think the first burst I got was a guitar. And, uh, that was, that was the start. Yeah. And when we would pull in, there'd be people there very cool. I had a, a '58 V I got in Houston for paid that much. My first, uh, '58 sunburst was guitars. And, uh, I had the, uh, the great '59, Yeah. And, uh, I, I can't remember if I paid Either way, it was a good deal. But it was an obscene amount of money. It was just... It must have been Yeah, it was '77. And, uh, that was a lot you know, great examples of all these different in Indiana and in that area, a progressive Will Sharp, had a double neck on stage, just a I asked him about it, and he said, oh, I have and he had just every, you know, permutation me something. So he sold me the, uh, sunburst Wow. You know, then, then there was a, there uh, SG custom. And there were two J-200s, J-200 and a '55 blonde. So really, I, I it was terrific. I had them, um, built into wire. So they were lit from above like God was, for whatever reason in the early '80s, I just And, uh... Made a profit? I was going to say probably still had some good You know, I got $50,000 And made a profit. Yeah. You know, arguably that's probably worth Yeah. But as soon as you guys started Totally. Totally. Because, uh, there were certain And whether it was, uh, seeing Mike Bloomfield Ronk or Eric Anderson with a J-200. Um, yeah, wanted to reach. Um, things that I had aspired to. guitars. And I, I, I haven't been a purist in, in at this point about what I like. And a lot of the Kim. Yeah, and Kim's fantastic, and Kim's worked I've known for decades. But, um, for me, it's, what I once had, but it has to feel right for me. is, is really an art. I don't want a guitar No. You know, I, I want something that's user-friendly Yeah, you'd mentioned people bringing guitars what was guitar shopping like? Tell me scene because you guys never got seen how is that going into stores and, Well, it makes you a little neurotic. Yeah. You know, um, you get so used to this idea that you can see a camera. You know, you'll walk to photograph you. And that was really part is never seeing them. But I'd been going to everybody knew me on 48th Street. Um, the original to see what rock stars would come in. And I would if you weren't buying, they weren't showing you know, I'd like to see that guitar, Yeah. Manny's and Terminal and Ben's Music, Styers, I sometimes would skip school and go down there. you had Larry DiMarzio upstairs on, on West 47th up there. So it was a really interesting magical street. It's a very different time se. So you didn't have people hiding in bushes the, the odd man trying to get a photo, but, um, taking the subway and, you know, it was, uh, Yeah. This case has seen some, seen some life. Yeah, we only got one latch This, yeah, this will be very easy. So how... EDS 1275 in sunburst. Yes. That's cool. You don't see that very often. You don't see those. I actually, when I got it I sent Jimmy a picture of it. Back where it belongs. So this was from my original collection. Just for the viewers at home, when you say I'm referring to Jimmy. I just want to make sure Sorry, that was Jimmy Page we were talking happens to be part of the story. So, yes, um, I, Cool. This is, uh, the only guitar from my original Oh, so this did get sold and then Yeah, and, uh, the person who bought it, had actually bought it, passed away, and, Yes. It's the necks on here are just fantastic, Oh yeah. A little narrower. Yeah. So you were telling me earlier, house and they had every, Every iteration. I was just the mandolin and the six and this and that and Yeah, the, the early, early versions. Every, every version of the guitars. And uh, he sold me this one. Um, I'd love to know if I'm ready. Um, but it's a fantastic guitar. I on Destroyer. And I kept this neck open so you'd um, ringing from the 12. And I played on here. Was the sunburst a selling point to you And, oh, and a double stinger. Yes. Double stinger on the headstocks. neck double stinger before. That is really cool. Yeah, it was very, very interesting. his guitars. All his guitars so collectible. And when I saw this, I Yeah. Well, I mean, technically, but up until Yeah. I just saw a photo surface the one that was an electric banjo and the, with the A-5 pole banjo PAF I never knew we did that. Yet Elvis had a cool one too that you know, like a six-string bass and a, and a then this kind of became the model, but Double stinger, come on. Very cool. Come on. Very cool. And they, I just love, you know, most of the 1275s that I've seen. It's, it's, you Yeah. When did you get this back? I got it back this year. Oh, this is like recent? Yes. I, I'd say a year ago, if that. I got it and the case says on it, &quot;Back to Paul's apartment.&quot; Never came off. And when I saw the case, I swear, it was like was like you're getting a, you're getting child. And it was like, oh my God, of course I the cap I have, and it's in two put back together. And this bugs Yeah, that wasn't there. It looks like somebody hit I was just talking to, you know, I got it back and it's great except it was Well, that's cool to have it Yeah, it's terrific. Is there, is there anything else from had a chance to get it back, you would Not at the prices they're... Not at the prices they'd be going at? No, it, again, it just goes back to, when you're talking about hundreds of thousands of it's just, God bless the people who Yeah. But it's nice to have this back. You betcha. Yeah. H KISS history. Flying V. This is of course I wanted another V. I wanted something that never existed. So I got a, my first Oh yeah, I remember seeing this on stage. Yeah. So this is, um, it's a great jack from here inside to here. It's much Yeah. And like on the, the '61 SG Customs, that that I used to do for Washburn, we had a long I like being able to palm when I want. So tailpiece with tunematic, thicker, bigger frets. with because we changed them quite a few Give it the belly cut. Yeah. So it's terrific because it sits much of a tilt to it. And, um, I was always partial to I had Charlie Lebeau make me, uh, a Flying V with he thought I was crazy, but I wanted binding Yeah, yeah. This is a terrific, terrific guitar. And this was, uh, on the end of the right? I saw there was like a silver sparkle Pretty much all of them except All black? I loved it because it's a it's got, it's got the character and the And it's got a little star child on it. It's got a little star child on it. Is this, this rhinestone related here? Yes, of course. This is why the bursts didn't Yeah. There's no, no bursts on tour. This, this got chewed up in no time flat. Great. What was it like, you know, I remember, KISS plays Gibson guitars, Pearl drums, because you got Tommy back on stage and Gene some Gibsons back on stage too at the Things, you know, I, I think in life, things always been a part of my life and Gibson is hoping, hoping to reach, be able to have Gibson beyond having a, a Flying V on this last again, everything I would want it to be. And, I gave JR one of these that I, that I just because I was so humbled. And he said it just sounds, it sounds fantastic. It's Well, we'll, we'll see what you have a long history with these, and the mirrored pickguard. I think it just I know you said you like asymmetrical but in terms of classic guitar designs, I mean, It's as good as it gets. It's some of the players who use them, I Yeah. And with the, with the peg here and you, and one here. So because I, I like a guitar to Yeah. Dave, Dave Davies had a, a great one. Kenny just the, with the wrap instead of was that just to, to leave enough room to Yeah, but you still got intonation and tunematic you want, you want as much downward pressure as possible to resonate in the guitar. Yeah. Saw that one on stage not that long ago. Yep. Cool. Well, anybody who's a fan these too. You got to kind of can Um, I was a stickler, um, with my original if you don't have your original case, especially with the amount, especially so few. Yeah, the wrong case is kind I thought this was vibey. So my friend, uh, in, he was making cases. So I was like, well, uh, I guess in return he, he made me this case. Great. It's cool. And we all know what's inside of it. So this, this is a 2006. Quite honestly, I wasn't crazy about the guitar friendly when I had it. There were some things clearly. I mean, it's such a classic, uh, perfect. I know that what you guys are doing now it left something to be desired. So, um, I called which is arguably my best sounding guitar. It's, he did a great job on it. The neck wasn't right. So is this a, this is the '59 reissue, which pretty similar to a '58, Yeah. When you had the original, how, That was, that was in the studio. , that was in the studio. So again, it was played on Destroyer. It was one again, I couldn't take it on tour. It would What is, what do you find the Korina does? maple-topped mahogany guitar and, that kind of stuff. Did you notice I find them, you know, again, I don't find it that different than a It's in the same family. Similar family. Yeah. But as far as the aesthetic of it and the design, Perhaps it brings something out in, in, in the don't play the same on one as, as you do on the tour, whenever I would have this guitar, all the Yeah. That's just, I mean, perfection of design. Just stunning. Everything about The, yeah, the rubber pad. Yeah. It's, uh... And the raised logo. There's just so You know, that's basically like the So this is very much something that you Yeah. Yeah, so it's, uh, it's, this And it really is, you know, I'm not but it's really, again, an example of, you don't have to have something that's Yeah. To me, this pleases my aesthetic of wanting, you find it prohibitive. Yeah. Absolutely fantastic. Now, I've watched a lot of old video of you guys it went all the way through the career. But like there was Marshall stacks and there was stuff. I've got a gig bag and a Kemper. You guys how long did it take you guys to load to the club to, to put on that kind We brought it. Um, literally we had This is a truck rental situation. To get all the gear in to play. There was a place in Long Island City called a milk truck, whatever was available. And, um, the truck. Some of it sat and didn't load the go when nobody was at where we were playing these guys are important. As opposed to seeing us somebody who was a friend doing sound, which terms of technique as players, we made up No, I mean, KISS was never a I just get so pissed. I see people in comment really? You guys invented the rock show. where there's explosions and pyro and lights and spitting blood and breathing fire you guys created that. The KISS DNA is in Yeah, I think what we were was a wake-up call we were first starting out, I was going to a favor by showing up. And it's like, not only show some respect, but do something. We Yeah. What if, what if the amps were this tall? What if And each one of us added, uh, a certain element you can't have four guys on stage talking, you to direct things. And pretty much the first or the talking, testify to the power of rock and roll this together. And historically, that's what we've The other thing I think younger generations, influential your band was. I mean, I personally picking up guitars and drums and starting bands And I think the great thing about it is have come along are unlike us. idea is to be inspired by us. It's saying hard work can yield all kinds but that's how you find out how much something Are there any moments that stick out to that when you look back on, you go, I think that with time, I become a better But in terms of writing, I can't recreate like &quot;Love Gun&quot; or &quot;Come On and Love Me,&quot; I Yeah. And there's qualities in some of those early songs knowing what I was doing. &quot;I Was Made for Loving All Nite,&quot; you know, the story was we went to and he said, you guys need an anthem. And anthem. They didn't exist. I said, what do you fans can identify with and represent who they to Take You Higher,&quot; Sly and the Family Stone, or okay. And I went back to the hotel, which was the just started playing around. And I want to rock And with that push forward, um, and then I went this? And he said, you know what? I've got this Very cool. I'm really proud of that. That song is so anthemic that we've had to You know, and I have to say, you know, the last for me, the best years of the band. It really progression from the beginning of the band to a 20-plus years with, with Eric and Tommy have to go to the next chapter of what the band Rock City.&quot; &quot;Love Gun.&quot; &quot;Love Gun&quot; is one of my um, if I tried to write a lyric like that today, Yeah. And, and beautifully so. Yeah. It worked. Yeah. We've reached the unplugged portion of Interesting. You know, this case was even more out of, uh, its shelf, these are done by me. Yeah. I mean, it was pristine. I've always been partial available, and it's a '54 J-200. It goes back in the West Village in New York, going to see Dave had a, a J-200. And, uh, you know, over the years, pickguard, but the mustache bridge down here. You And I had two of these in my original collection. granddaughter, I believe, said this was available, very nice guitar. I mean, again, aesthetics, it's That color is so great. And the, the thickness it's just, it's a very unique and, uh, Yeah, it's the king of the flat tops, man. Yeah. How's the back and sides? We got some curl again. Kind of, kind of a peekaboo. Yeah. When you move it around. Man, that is a clean guitar. Yeah. Well, it's, it's one of a guy who had it, it never left his house. Yeah. So what's happening is, is weather related and climate related. No, and you know, when you're going to, when got to go, ah, where do I put the button? Do I put Yeah, you know, you know, that's, I you know, and the guitar is like... Yeah. You know, back to the old tie, the piece I can remember having something Yeah. But, um, yeah, for me, this is the, this Well, that's, that's part of That's great, man. That is a clean This recent? I'd say five years. Yeah. How often do you play acoustic? You sit Yeah. Yeah, I like, I have Um, uh, from a, a luthier in Canada named Michael And the, the guitar that I have at home Yeah. Um, and it also has a piece to cap it. Um, I had him do that because my hearing But I, I like, I like playing acoustic. You know, if, if you have a guitar, Yeah. Any songs start on acoustics for you? Um, yeah, some of the later songs. &quot;Every Time I Look at You.&quot; Um, &quot;Hard Yeah. Yeah, there's, there are certain songs that, uh, again, I've been blessed that I grew up with I remember, taking me to hootenanny, you know, of folk acts. And, uh, that's as important I think the more you understand the And that's coming from somebody who's Another big jumbo case. And tear on it. You didn't do the aging on this one? No, this is called history. This is the road did the aging on this one. I think this guitar is, um, from the late '70s. Got one in the back. Oh yeah. Yeah, this is a Guild F-512. Rosewood back. This isn't the guitar that was No. Because you were playing a Yes. Is that a six, the blonde six that you saw? Oh, that was... That was... And then, you know how to make a 12-string. I do. That's so, I mean, this was, this the &quot;Hard Luck That is a 12. This is the sister Peter destroyed that guitar. Oh. He had a temper tantrum and Was that a 512 as well? Yes. A great guitar. And this has to be 45 years old, I would think. See, Westerly, Rhode Island. Tag. With your folk love, I mean, the 12-string And it's, and if you can wrap your hands it's quite forgiving, you know, Did you ever do Guild electrics or Um... The jumbo in particular that, that brought you in? The Thunderbird and the Polara? Yeah. The kind of the, the fun shaped ones? Yeah, the ones Zal Yanovsky had, one of them Yeah. Um, I played a bunch of those, but, uh, they were cool. There was, H, the one that Zal yeah, they had the built-in guitar stand, which I don't recommend using that. Put it So this is great. I think this is the first 12 we've had on the show. And I mean, a 412. This is a 512. This is the big daddy. The It is a piano in guitar form. Well, for anybody who's a fan of acoustic guitars, guitars, they know about James Olson. When did About six years ago, I started thinking if not a, a reward for the amount Kind of like the gold watch? Yes. A gift to yourself? Yes. And, um, Jim Olson, uh, he's made James guitars to play like James Taylor. I would I got together with Jim and we just this guitar. And he loves the guitar and I'm, It's not very often you see this thing. I'm very excited. I haven't seen or played Oh wow, look at the inlay work on this thing. So I designed the inlay work, and, um, a did them. Again, the guitar is called Adirondack spruce. And the back and sides Yeah, why not? So I think one of the things that derivative of anything Gibson did, and it's No, it's its own. It's its own thing. I don't, and when you hear it, I don't go, or it's kind of like a Hummingbird. It's, And his necks are just insane. I mean, just and he takes such pride. He was so excited, uh, from the ground up, we were on So this is similar to the, the James Taylor Yeah, cedar tops with the rosewood back and sides. bit. Man, the inlay is just spectacular. So You designed all of this. And Jim said when the guitar was finished, and I thought it might be too much. When does this come out? When, when this is... It's sitting on the couch. Yeah, it's, it's a, it's a home we're building one because, uh, you know, it I need to spend some time brushing up on playing played well. But, uh, it's, Yeah. Um, I was just on the phone with him today, has more orders and has more requests Handle, yeah. I mean, I would rarely would get and, um, they wouldn't stick around is years and years. And, and when one comes that's already in circulation see another one that looks quite like It was interesting because when we first spoke, this, that. And, and the more we spoke, he said, it's really, really a product to turn something out that's a piece of art. Yeah. It truly is. First Olson we've had on of firsts today. That's, yeah, that's spectacular. I always kind of group the guitars. the studio guitars and then there's the stage there's really only three bands I think of. and I think Dusty and Billy from ZZ Top. You you playing the old stuff on records was it all interchangeable? Was it these these guitars are for me at home while I'm That's a great question. I used to love bringing we were in the studio. So, um, the double neck is the V, the, the '58 V was on, uh, a lot of that studio. It was a time to bring out things that way I played on stage and given the, the outfits the really collectibles. So the guitars that I much akin to those collector's guitars, certainly the first PS-10s, the Ibanez guitars, really, it's a Gibson guitar. It's, um, it's specced a maple cap, you know. You put a great set of, it's, it is what it is. So the guitars but I also used them in the studio. They, they, Obviously I'm partial to Gibson guitars and outside of Gibson, my favorite non-Gibson shape, all, and all these different other things, the shape. There's still one, Jay from White Zombie I, I saw that when I was 12 years old. I wanted all of that. Tell me a little bit about how the I wanted to, to have a signature guitar. dream. I was in Japan, and I met with Hosino, they were very, very receptive. It was with me at the head of the table. And I but I don't think you know why they're great. I which was that Iceman shape with a I want that shape. Somehow it also reminded me Yeah, yeah, the kind of, Yeah. So, um, and I always like things that or an Explorer. So I wanted those, those um, explained what I thought made some of the um, they were very, very receptive and, um, made you know, it was like, tell us, teach, teach us. those guitars are terrific. Very interestingly, your guitar sounds so great. What are it's this guitar through a You went back to basics. Went back to a mahogany body with Set neck. Set neck. And, and the set neck has always folk background also. And, um, the idea bit like hardware. It doesn't, it's not as but as a rule, that's just not, it Now, we, you mentioned the cracked mirror guitar. about. Did Ibanez make that for you, or was No, as I said, uh, everybody at Ibanez at that receptive to my input. And I remember talking to, doing a guitar with mirrors on it was, they um, Noddy Holder with Slade. And back in the day, spotlights hit him, these beams went out. And I You know, we, we pulled that I was still using versions of that. and it has blood and DNA, you know, where, That's, that's steel, right? Man. Road-worthy. Very excited to see. So... Oh yeah. Yeah. So this was one of the three prototypes, for me to give them feedback before, uh, they So when would this have '77, I would say. '77? And this one in particular, they put the up notching the pickguard. Um, and, uh, the toggle switch was Yeah, it was very interesting. In the it had a poker chip. And they didn't So they actually recessed it Wow. And like all of the ones that we Oh wow. I never knew that. And the theory behind it was that it gave you Does that brass part almost act as like a Man, I've never noticed that on these. Crazy. And this is brass. Was that originally chromed? It was. Oh, okay. Oh, and the chrome is worn off. Yeah. Might need a fret dress. But yeah. Oh man. So this shape existed... Briefly. The shape briefly before you got... They had this, I think it was a cheap guitar. It had a Firebird sunburst kind of finish. And there are four knobs as well, This one had almost like a selector Yeah. Later on, Ibanez started with was a way to make the guitar without having to... Paying you? Yeah. You know, without giving me the royalty. Over time, Iceman and PS-10 got kind of Different guitars. Yeah. So this was the original with this wide... What Like a Schaller? Was it? Yeah. Or a Gibralter or one of those? Yeah. Was the thing that made these great was that the guitar. So the theory behind that Yeah. Was the pearl purfling on the top your... Yes. That was part of your design? Yeah. What were the pickups? DiMarzios? DiMarzios on these original ones. And the mirrored parts on the back. So you were saying this, so that Yes. ...top? Absolutely. To a mahogany back? Yes. With the set neck? Three aside on the headstock. It's a really smooth joint it from the side, you really see how sleek it is. Yeah. Well, so yeah, so I mean, this was a proto. use this or did this just kind of get kept as a And you can see it's neck through body. Oh yeah, you can see the seams here. Yeah. This was a, this is a full neck through. Oh, you can even see it more on the back here. And this was a prototype. Um, what wound up coming out was almost Got next. So this is what that prototype ultimately... Yeah, this is, this is the guitar. Um... It's really cool. You know, Paul Stanley. Paul Stanley on there. We Yeah. ...placement. With the full size pick guard. And the knobs have that rubber... The rubber grip on there. Yeah. So, um, and the Ibanez logo is headstock and your signature on the truss rod. So a few, few different variations from the proto. That rock of Gibraltar that, uh, bridge as opposed to just being post going in. Yeah. So this one saw some road. This thing, this thing was out and... This is not neck through the body. This is a set neck. Yes, this is a set neck. So that changed from the protos as but it is mahogany as you can see. And it does have the maple top. So this was officially then for sale, 1978? Yes. Yeah. And I was playing these. It was specced off a V I had, I'm pretty sure. Yeah. It's, uh, because I wanted a, a classic... Classic guitar. Classic feel. One of the most recognizable guitars in rock. Just one of my favorite shapes of Kind of like you were saying earlier, kind of Rickenbacker 4001, but Exactly. And then down here is where they really Interesting because that, that kind of, I kind of like, well, why don't we just do my original idea was, no, let's, Rounded. So, I mean, how many shows you think... Oh my gosh. Saw hundreds and hundreds all around the world. Yep. For years and years. There's your brass and bone. And the brass and bone again. And the Grover... Are those Grover? Yeah. Patent pending with the, the Nice. Classic. Love it. One last guitar. One to end on a, on what was the, uh, norm for road cases at, transported guitars. You didn't have, uh, Yeah. You just had these things. This houses a very special guitar I know what it is. And I hope, And there it is. Now that's got some wear and tear. That's... Oh man. You know, that's, well, we were talking Bring it this way. That's definitely up there. That's the original. I've never had a chance to feel... Oh man. It is textured. Oh yeah. There's some, this brownish stuff might some, some blood in here because, um, all these I filed because, like, this Right, right where you're Yeah. You know. Bleed for your music. So, um, this, this is the first and, It's glass. And, um, over time, the plating And it still has the, the abalone... Yep. ...trim around it as well. Wow. So, I mean, in terms of guitars is this probably the most, the most Well, I, I, it, it's certainly... Yeah. I would think it's the most played guitar and is most associated out of Yeah. It would be, you know, the mirror guitar. Yeah. And this doesn't happen overnight. No. That's not a, you can't fake that. Now, obviously, this, like, get retired from the road and you Um, this has, this has been retired for decades. Yeah. Decades, you know, because, um, with time, the it was a thinner mirror and then It just reached its point where if Yes. ...there's so much DNA on this We could bring you back. And this, on this guitar, this Um... Weight was not a concern. No. When building this guitar. This is when we go back to talk about showstopper on stage. And obviously, it was. And a back breaker. And a, yeah, there's nothing There you go again with the, Yeah. This is history. This is, you know, I have stared at this as a kid for magazines. It's kind of surreal to be, I mean, with this one, I mean, is this ever going to be a thing This one's going to go to the family in forever. I mean, do you ever think, everybody seems to be auctioning off I know this, um, I've heard offers for Make you stop and think about it for a while? Yeah. Or at least take a deep breath. Yeah. Who knows? Who knows? Um, I mean, I love the whole, my whole career. I mean, this was, um, it was another step going to this, when people talk about the, the PS-10s or the Yeah. And this is the first. Wow. Spectacular. The real deal. I was hoping I, I saw you on, on the farewell tour in six-year-old and nine-year-old sons are both huge it in right on, under the wire. Got to see it. the pay-per-view on the final night at Madison go before you picked up a guitar? Was it the That's a really good question. And, um, last week a guitar. And I, I, I've played a couple guitars I couldn't figure out why. And then I thought if playing with the band and, and doing what we do. for a bit. It's 50 years with KISS. That's at least in terms of being alive, and, and adjusting to. So I needed a little time just Are there still, there's still songs still? Do you think that there's going to Yeah, I, I think so. I, I, I do think so. I to stop and take a break. But the last thing I um, R&amp;B, you know, Motown, Philly soul type Otis Redding. I saw Solomon Burke when I was that's, that's something that, um, as I said, when I hold a guitar, there's I mean, 50 years of doing it with one band, obviously it's done. I mean, did it ever be times it felt like work, but did it It's always felt amazing. And I think to lose To the very last night, going out on stage and when I was at the Fillmore East and every concert and to have a 50-year career, to end it the way us to end in a way that was undeniable. I wanted a time, there was a band. And certainly there were Paul, this has been so incredible. I want to opening up the KISS Warehouse to guitars I've been staring at my whole You know, it's, uh, it's important that people what you do with them. And, um, any guitar can, that history. You know, I, I, I love the idea of what you do in the present and the future. And the foundation. Once it got taken over and Cesar and put the, the company where it belonged. We agree. Well, we just need to get you back So we can maybe get, maybe we can get you back I don't know. We'll see. We Paul, thank you again for being here. It's my pleasure. And, uh, I'm Mark Agnesi for next time on another episode of The Collection.