Okay, maybe we should The only thing I regret is the fact Some people say, John was not in America. If he was in Britain, for instance, Yoko Ohno and John Lennon's relationship connection, becoming known for solo career and shared political efforts. Tragically, their relationship was in front of her outside their New York His sudden death was a devastating blow to side through the most turbulent of times. In the wake of his death, Ohno as she struggled to rebuild her life Listen in her own words as she they shared and how John's violent murder Where did you two meet originally? Where did it all happen? We met at one of Yoko's art I went along to see it and met her. And we met her. And then we clicked. You just discovered that your heads Obviously, you had heard of John Lennon. Everybody had heard of John Lennon. Well, I heard about the Beatles, nobody's going to believe me. And maybe because I'm an Oriental Paul McCartney just didn't hit me. Ringo hit me because Ringo Did you know that a Beatle who John was at the time? At the time, I didn't. But right after he left, Monty's College. And one of them said, Is that the what? I said, I think And the way he said it very slowly, I said, Oh, really? But I met him and I felt that he without knowing so much As a I was a guy. I thought he But love at first sight, Yoko? Sort of, yes, I think so. Well, ask John, but I think he like a very strange, intense meeting. There are millions of girls married, one of the four, any one a lot of them-Well, I resent to I mean, or any one of the four, et cetera, and all that, and I didn't particularly The relationship By that, you mean what? Terrific highs, terrific lows, What? Such a celebrated relationship. We were very much together, even 24 hours a day, unlike most couples where they had to go out to, well, to work separately, or maybe just But it wasn't like that. See, most people think that, Well, No, at home, he was a very gentle person concerned about me, And also we really exchanged, and exchanged very fully. Every day was different because he knew what I was going through. I mean, being a certain race All that, he had an incredible John Lennon was tragically murdered on apartment building in New York City. Lennon's death was a profound shock grief from fans and fellow artists alike. In the immediate aftermath was understandably devastated. In the days following the tragedy, urging people to remember Ohno reflects on those dark days of grief the run-up to her husband's murder. I John did not die because or he had a heart attack. No, John was killed. It was very important for me to show that because I think that all of us of course, including myself. And both John and I were always And it's very ironical that John, died in such a violent way. That night, we had a different situation. You see, because when we got in the car, a cup of coffee, do something And John was saying, No, because But you know, Actually, the way I feel about it is as if he had known that his life was going to be not too long. He was a very prolific writer, and write and produce so many songs. Okay, maybe we should have been more how we could have been that careful. The only thing I regret is the fact And some people say if John was not for instance, he wouldn't Now, I don't know. I mean, people could have The fact that was gone so suddenly, because if it was a slow process, we But the The last John I remember is a very gregarious, energetic, high-spirited guy. When he said that he passed away, He's alive. I just refused to think that he died. We all remember the night he died and thousands of people outside singing. Did you hear those songs? Yes, because I My bedroom I'm right next to it. And so all night I'm listening they play the radio, John singing. And when John was singing, because he's supposed to be in bed Was it helpful? It made it very hard, yeah. Well, it It wasn't very easy I go to a shop or something, Just to choke me up, actually. As the world mourned the loss sat at the center of this grief. She speaks about how she initially the sake of the son they shared, stayed with her for many years to come. When I drive by this building, before, I sit and I think, Isn't that much more difficult for her? But this is where we live together. This is where every For me, it gives me the reminder It gives me power. That was the only home we had. And that's the only home I had with John. I'm not going to leave He's very good. Well, yes, so it seems like I'm holding to allow myself to go through that to cut myself off from the past. For instance, I still have which I don't feel like throwing away. And it's in the closet as he put it in. It's down to that. And then am I going to clean it up? Am I going to throw the cigarettes But those decisions I If John wasn't around, move on, and I could have been reckless. That's what I'm saying. And each time I felt like being reckless, I thought that I I have to just keep the same life that John and the same routine for Sean's sake. And also for Sean, that was We were having time as his father. Everything in the house Every room is where he's touched. How are we going to deep down? I'm a bit proud about I survived all that knocking and terrible But I still can't get over John's have to just cope by myself. And in a way, I think I just have to be kind to myself and take it slowly. However, lasting effect her husband's tragic whether she lived in fear for her and her and after years preaching peace the man behind John's senseless murder? Do you worry now about your own There are people who are still out there. Do you worry about the safety issues? Well, of course I do, but there's no point My feeling is that we always situations, John and I, with a bit John's name has been in the news, Mark David Chapman being denied parole now I realize it's very personal and something But my question is, do you Is that something you live with? I'm sorry, but it's just How do you feel about Oh, I don't want to touch that subject. Okay, we shouldn't And also it's painful for me. He's not a very stable person, John was actually asking that question. He was saying, Martin Luther people, why did they get shot? Why did they get killed? He was saying that, Should Mark David Chapman be forgiven? I know that the Pope and forgave this person who was trying But I'm not a Pope, for me to forgive what happened. But I don't even want to think about and I usually don't because Instead of finding it in her heart to dedicated herself to honoring her late creative projects, as well as holding on Do you feel because of the public nature both in some ways, such public figures, about him and that past, that a little There are many different kinds One is the fact that, yes, there's some and I would take it with me, okay? But also there's some stories maybe, and it's the other aspect of us. Well, somebody said, Well, Eight years or the 20, And I still get it. I'm infected by it. Yes, it does. I still miss him, especially now, because the world is not quite right, and everybody seems to be suffering. If he was here, it would But what do you think? This video, if you believe John Lennon the world has ever seen? And do you believe his senseless murder