- [Interviewer] Do you know how many feet there are in a mile? - [Interviewee] 3,000-something. - [Johnny] This is the moment I realized I will never use the metric system. Okay, let's see how far My six year old is constantly asking me to measure how far he can jump. - I have to get on that. - [Johnny] Okay, I'm gonna count it. Ready, set, go. And inevitably, this ends up happening. Okay, stay there, stay there. One, two, three... That was two meters. - No, it was six. No, remember you got... - [Johnny] Oh, six feet, yeah. Oh, whoof. - [Son] Yeah. - You're right. (upbeat music) The entire world uses the except for three countries. So, you have the richest, and then you have this that the US kind of invented It's a weird situation that Totally different. And then you have Myanmar, that used to be called Burma. You don't see maps like this very often, where the whole world is one color, and then you have three random countries peppered across the globe And I'm looking at you, Britain. I know that you're green on this map, but we all know you still kinda dabble in pounds, and pints, and miles. I want to show you and show you why I will - If somebody runs a 5K, I have no idea what that - [Announcer] A thousand two-step - We have no reason to be ashamed - [Narrator] Now, many a matter of moving the decimal point. - It's one of the great we won't change no mater (intense instrumental music) - Hey, real quick. We'll get back to metric in just a second, but I need to thank today's sponsor, because that's how I run a business so I can make these videos for you. The sponsor of today's video is NordVPN, which is a brand that has for a long time now, A VPN is a thing that sounds but it basically just allows you to connect to the internet This is useful for a lot of reasons. I've been traveling a lot lately and I've been able to use NordVPN to connect to my internet so that all of my Gmail that I'm, like, a hacker This is very, very useful to me, especially in a world of endless two-factor authentication death loops that I've been in many times It's amazing how a little And that's what NordVPN does. Oh, and by the way, its not some, like, coding tech-boy thing. You just literally press a button and you're connected to a VPN. It also works the other way: and want to connect to the Internet via Canada, or the UK, or India, I suddenly get access to all of the things that Canadians and British people see when they log onto Netflix. It's pretty cool. Oh, and NordVPN also has this new thing called threat protection which basically, when it's turned on, you and not worry about and malware and all of these things that you just don't want to worry about when you're on the Internet. So there's a link in my description: it's nordvpn.com/johnnyharris. Clicking that link helps but it also gets you where you can sign up for NordVPN and get four months for free. Oh, and you get 30 days to decide if you are gonna use this or and a you can get all of Pretty good deal. Let's get back to why I will (upbeat instrumental music) The first thing humans measured was time. You think of, like, sun, moon, stars, sundials, constellations. This was pretty easy because we're all looking up at the same night sky. It basically does the same Totally reliable and unchanging. Measuring stuff like weight and for a long time, the best thing we had was our bodies. - Humans are about this big. So we've always wanted a this long. The earliest unit of measurement that we know of is the cubit, which was basically the Not super precise, because we all have but it got the job done, at least in the case of building giant pyramids in Cairo, or in Noah's ark, which was Over time, humans needed to measure bigger and longer things, so they began using their which was mostly just Like the acre, which that a farmer could Or the hundred-weight which was kind of how much a man could Because, yeah, it's the - What say you, Corey? - More weight! - So by the 1700s, there was, like, a billion ways of measuring things. But up here, they had a few popular ones. So you've got the foot, which was, well, the average length of a man's foot. This is a ruler that you Handy. Hand, foot. Handy. Right? Should we keep that? - [Crew Member 1] Fuck. - [Crew Member 2] No, absolutely not. (upbeat music) - And then you've got the was decreed as three grains - From the midst of the ear. Right. Who knows what a barley corn is. - Super convenient, right? (cartoon sound effects) Who needs a measuring tape when you could just bring of all your barley corns And then there was the yard, which was the average measurement And then King Henry shows &quot;We need to standardize And for a while there in England, like the length from or like, the length of his arm, that was used to derive all of It was his literal body. Like, that's what they were using. And then there's the mile, covered by Roman soldiers They then somehow discovered that the mile was roughly about eight furlongs, furlongs, of course, being the distance that a team of oxen could The pound was defined at the weight of seven thousand grains. 6,987. 6,988. (sighs) This is really terrible. What is happening? I mean, all of these measurements seem so tenuous and inconsistent. And they were. 6,999. 7,000. We've got a pound, It was madness! (aggressive instrumental music) Meanwhile, down here in they were dealing with their own madness, and it had nothing to At this time, the French were and they were drinking lots of coffee, and sitting around in The people of France wanted to and the measurement systems were not off the table in these discussions. So in the middle of all they look at each other and they're like, &quot;Why the hell are we using our They needed something precise. Not like barley corns and forearms, but something that they could peg their new measurement system to that was an unchanging baseline. &quot;How about the literal planet we live on?&quot; said the coffee-drinking &quot;We should measure this &quot;and divide it by ten a bunch of times, &quot;and get a really precise unit of measure &quot;so that we don't have to Great idea! But how the hell do you get this massive measurement in 1792? And the answer was this So these two French astronomers go out into the French countryside, looking for high up places And then, they look platinum map telescope and measure the angles between two This fancy telescope allows without having to walk And in this way, they could start making little triangles across And then, using some basic math that we all learned in middle school, they could start to calculate along this straight line. It took them seven years but they got it! And once they had this distance, they were able to calculate this distance: between the north pole and the equator, one-fourth of the earth's circumference. So they took this line, this measurement, and they chopped it up into and one of those parts Like, this is pegged to a that is our Earth! I mean, it'll change eventually. (explosion) But not in our lifetimes. The name meter comes from which means &quot;a measurement,&quot; which is just super literal and precise and exactly what the French - [Announcer] Now, here's The meter. - So now you have this meter, and if you divide this into you have a centimeter. Centimeter. So put a thousand of these side by side, and you get yourself a kilometer. A kilometer. - The best part about the metric system is the time it saves in computation. - Wait a minute. I can do this. It's all about tens. So if this measurement divide that by a thousand, you (upbeat trumpet music) Okay, so this is ten thousand kilometers. (upbeat trumpet music) One-fourth of the earth's circumference. (upbeat trumpet music) Four of these should be... (upbeat trumpet music) Forty thousand kilometers! (upbeat music) The earth's circumference Wait, what? No, I don't want miles. Come on, what? It should be 40,000. What's this extra 75 Well, it turns out that one actually made an error making the final meter shorter than it should have been. The guy quickly discovered but he didn't tell anyone because support for this new system and he didn't want anyone to have any more doubt or skepticism. So it turns out the metric Take that! Finding this measurement Now that they have it, an entire system purely based off of this. Let me show you. Okay, so now we want a unit for volume. Let's build a hypothetical cube that is 10 centimeters on all sides. Fill it up with liquid, One liter. And from there, you can do the same thing that we did with meters. Centiliters, kiloliters, you name it. It's all tens, which to convert between these It's a lot easier than barley corns. Okay, so now we have a liter, Let's use this to make a (keyboard typing) I know they're different, but it's like, the earth's gravity makes when you're on Earth, blah, blah, blah. I get it, commenters. I see you. I see you typing right now. Back off. You fill this liter with water, Divide that by 1000, and you have a gram. Add 1000 kilograms together, I mean, it's simple. It's tens, it's hundreds, it's thousands. - [Announcer] Now, many a matter of moving the - Okay, so now they have all these units that are scientific and standardized and founded on concepts And this is really the first The Frenchmen all looked at &quot;Good work, guys, we did &quot;This is great. What should we call it?&quot; And they settled on... The metric system The metric system - Okay, cool, great system. But why don't I use the metric system? What happened? Well, that has to do with pirates and international politics. So France is like, this We're impressed with ourselves. We should tell the rest So it's the late 1700's, and France going around country by country with a literal meter stick, being like, &quot;Hey guys, look what we invented. &quot;It's pegged to the earth. &quot;It's literally like we &quot;and you should adopt it &quot;It's gonna make international And people were like, &quot;oh, this is cool, but And meanwhile, in France, they The current leader at the We've all heard about him. He's like, &quot;metric is awesome.&quot; You know what else he was into? Making sure everyone liked him. So when he saw that the French about uprooting what was working for them for hundreds of years, he decided not to enforce metric by law. So France ended up in this and meanwhile the US is and they're like, &quot;dude, &quot;There's no way. Napoleon is wishy-washy. &quot;There's no way this is &quot;Let's hold off on the whole metric thing &quot;and just industrialize &quot;that is built on, like, people's feet.&quot; - The metric system is My car gets 40 rods to the hog's head, and that's the way I likes it! - But we'll get back because there's still hope. In the meantime, France and successfully sells on the metric system, but the world. They're like, &quot;come on, guys. &quot;We sent two dudes out to do trigonometry &quot;with their golden telescopes &quot;for like seven years for this shit! &quot;Trust me, you don't want &quot;Adopt the system.&quot; It was a tough sell at first but eventually, they did. It started with Belgium, then Luxembourg, then Algeria, a French colony, 20 years later. And then it kind of snowballed from there, partly because countries but partly because Europe was taking over the world at this time, and bringing their values and language and systems to every corner Ah, yes. Colonialism will make it Okay, but what about the USA? Well, France had some beef It's kind of a long story. But what's important was weirdly put in the frenemy bromance gone wrong So at first, America wasn't invited to the inner circle to but as the world was adopting metric, France finally decided to send a prototype of the almighty, Inviting the US to join in this measurement revolution. There is hope for the USA to go metric. So this French ship is with the kilogram onboard and a storm hits it and where it runs into a The British pirates capture they imprison him, and they try to gain ransom Well, they end up accidentally but they notice that he has a package, and the pirates are like, &quot;Oh, &quot;the US Secretary of &quot;Us Brits are cool with the US right now, &quot;so let's bring this over Super curious pirates. I like these guys. But when they get to New York, Thomas Jefferson isn't the So they just hand it to the guy who is now the Secretary And Randolph is like, &quot;what the hell is this So then he gives it to this So, yeah, thanks to the US didn't get the kilo in time to convince them to maybe adopt France's new super-logical Britain also refused for a long time, sticking with the system that was developed using some dude's foot, but eventually, they got on board, but not fully. They still dabble in But get this: they've changed since the US became which is like 25% bigger They're both called the pint, but go get a pint of beer in the UK, and you're actually getting 4 ounces more than you would in the US. As if having one highly illogical, unreliable measuring system including feet and there are now two of them floating around that have the same names! It gets real bad when which is a word that is used to define several different units of Same word, bunch of different things. Okay, okay, but how hard can this be? This is my home turf. This (Pencil sharpening) I got this. So an ounce in the UK is That seems nice and easy. That's one 160th of an There's approximately 28.41 milliliters. Kind of gross. Okay, that's the Imperial Okay, so then the US ounce is one-sixteenth of a US liquid pint, which is one 128th a liquid gallon, which is exactly making it about 4.08% larger than the Imperial fluid Okay, but wait. This is What about the weight ounce? The one that came from, like, the seven thousand grains to be a pound. Okay, so seven thousand grains to a pound, and there's sixteen ounces to that pound, so that's 437.5 grains to an ounce. But if I want to convert the weight ounce to the fluid ounce, I just need to multiply the volume by 1.043176 times the density so that we can easily switch between the fluid ounce and the weight ounce, and the pound with the 7000 There's, one-sixteenth So grains are 437.5... Just convert it with Just super easy. (sighs) Yeah, that's where we're - [Interviewer] Do you know how many feet there are in a mile? - Three thousand something. - Every country on earth adopted the metric system eventually besides these three countries: the US, Myanmar, and Liberia. - The United States just a big finger and said, - Over the years, the US has attempted really formally to go metric. Like, in the 70's and 80's, and there were boards to find a way to migrate over to metric. But, of course, Ronald because of, you know, the whole This was an actual public debate. Like, this documentary I trying to convince people And then on the other side, in the 80's, there was this anti-metric group. Yes, anti-metric groups. That was a thing. They even hosted a gala, the Most Beautiful Foot contest. Don't you just love American culture? We just love to stick it to people. Just look at us, being But this stuff actually matters, okay? In 1999, NASA sent a satellite to Mars, and it went off-course and burned up in the planet's atmosphere all because of a misconversion One of the contractors while NASA Ground was using metric, and it ended up costing But what's interesting is secretly quietly got on board with metric, but it's just sort of behind the scenes in boring sectors that none and that don't actually make it into all of our intuitions. It's like industry, or Or, like, nutrition labels. I don't look at nutrition I would see grams and milligrams. And on liquid-based things, because nutrition labels are in metric. It doesn't matter that I don't really know what a gram or a kilogram but when I go to the pharmacy, the pharmacist gives me Progress. (chews) So, yeah, it's pharmaceuticals, it's nutrition, it's film, it's tools, it's bicycles, it's running races. Oh, and for some reason, this For all of these efforts, in getting metric into the brains of everyday people like me. And this is why I will I can't! I literally cannot. You don't realize how your in certain systems of measurements until you try to change it. I started traveling in my early 20's, really for the first time abroad. And I saw them using metric, and I saw how easy it was And I made a commitment to myself. I'm like, I'm gonna change to adopting metric. And I even swore, I'm going to teach my future children And since then, over a I look at this distance, and to me, oh, that's ten meters It feels like it's 20 degrees I would say. Oh, yeah, it's like five Oh, I'm gonna pick up to make the soup tonight. But my dirty little secret is that I've totally been faking it. Ten meters doesn't mean anything to me. What it means is thirty What I've really been is intuitively estimating things which is pegged to farming and then doing the rough math based on the numbers I know Without those conversion numbers, I honestly cannot estimate I can't grasp what running I don't know what outside of the context that I know is thirty centimeters. And so I'll never use the metric system. I don't know how, and I've tried. But then I had kids! There's hope. The next generation. I vowed to instill them and found that it's because everything they're exposed to at school, in math, on road all of it is in feet and miles and cups and pints and teaspoons and tons. I mean, I try. I tell my kids measurements in meters, and my six-year-old will &quot;Well, how far is that in feet?&quot; He is six. Like, this isn't happening. The ship has sailed on changing for everyday people. It'll likely never happen. I'm trapped in a system that was developed using people's body parts and King Henry's arm. - [Announcer] We interrupt this film to bring you a special (jaunty big band music) As America moves toward the metric system, the last holdouts have been Soon, it is predicted, the under this easier system of measurement.