What if you could only use happen to find in dungeons, from How good are Bethesda's enchantments? By enchanted items only, I This means no potions, so we'll Also, no scrolls. Technically, scrolls are already did a scroll-only I will make two exceptions, however. Four, actually, but let me explain. There are some fun enchanted course of becoming the But there are two if I restrict myself to We'll be taking the Tower Birth sign, so And we'll need to use a Very specific exceptions, you'll And then there's the whole I've beaten Morrowind by using NPCs It's pretty tedious, so I I will, however, destroy Kagrenac's A little different than I've done before. And remember, no potions, We have to be a High Elf not but because we want to have high enough magic skills so we can without needing to train We're Ella. The High Elf. Because Lady High Elves have Also, I wanted to name the character Ella. It's another movie reference. Ooh, what could it be? Of course, we're keeping Fargoth's Ring. Sorry, friend. Sometimes, some of the crates around items in them, like a piece of gear that So while we search around, rundown of how enchanting Here's an unnecessary analogy. Imagine you needed a separate device Each of these devices life, and once it runs out, Either you plug it in and wait or...you swap out the battery entirely Of course, the phone is more but then you only have a single battery But in the case of this analogy, you can without voiding the warranty because, Anyway, Magicka is like a phone's battery. Great for a bunch of different Enchanted items are specialized. As you use enchanted items, you gain and as you improve your enchanting level, you're able to use enchanted The phone analogy sort of immediately, actually. The point is, enchanted items with their own And you recharge that The best experience comes from recharging The batteries, if I wanted to keep You can also make enchanted but the amount of experience To get filled soul gems, we'll need Not as widely available That'll come later. It'll be quite a vampiric adventure. So there wasn't anything of Just a bunch of junk we heading off to Caldera and I normally only buy an but today we're gonna A Ring of Fireball, damage for 1 second A Ring of Aversion, 10 A Ring of Lightning Bolt, 1 to 25 points Veleth's Robes, restore And a copy of Nchunak's Fire and Faith. Since these are rather it doesn't take much time for so I can spam cast the spells to without having to rest for You may have also noticed a That's the Chronicles of Nchuleft. So you might assume I'm and get a pair of Intervention Amulets. We will do that, but not just yet. Instead, we're gonna go to He's not just the guy you bring nor is he just the guy you He's also the guy who sells other books. We'll five-finger discount a copy And buy a second copy This one will be for Edwinna. Oh, I also stole some sell to Janand Maulinie Stole his Limewire Platter, too. Now we can illegally download What do you think it is, good boy? Hello? I trust you've received the package. Narratively spurious clone. Is this your doing? Not quite. This video is sponsored by Manscaped. They sent it. But... we have alopecia, They offer more than Hygiene products as well, my friend. But we're gamers. Hygiene isn't-- Hygiene... is paramount. In that box, you'll find the Buff Bundle. Rather than continuing to wash with a you can use the Manscaped Body Buffer. An exfoliating silicone brush, unclog pores, and reduce ingrown hairs. Well, that last bit doesn't really Y'know... How do I use a bar of Body wash. The Buff Bundle comes and two bottles of A cruelty-free, dye-free, vegan body wash infused with aloe vera and sea salt Comes with an authentic How can I get more? You can use the link manscaped.com/jbn for 20% off with free Thanks, narratively spurious clone. I'm no clone. Clones don't handle the sponsorships. Another thanks to Manscaped Go to manscaped.com and get shipping when you use the It begins in Sadrith Mora, Hall, where all the councillors' In the context of the Telvanni, you'd be actual mouths using magic or whatever It's actually just a bunch of elves. They're like secretaries to their patrons. We can get some starter chores from them. Some are simple, like fetching alchemical What we're interested in doing right Going to Gnisis and asking One about the disappearance Dwemer artifacts, and one The answers don't matter. We just need to ask him the questions. And here's where the first Baladas is behind a level 50 locked door. And there's no hidden key anywhere This is why I took the tower birth sign. Once per day, we can The astute among you might have Ondusi's Key, a pre-enchanted It'd be perfect for this. It's actually a quest reward from a Effectively, the 50 point unlock Ironic. We ask him the three questions. What happened to the dwarves? Who knows? What about the artifacts? Go to Dwemer Ruins, dummy. How's about the Dwemer language? I don't know it. He, too, can give us some chores. He wants three books. Antecedents of Dwemer Law, Chronicles of Like any good Telvanni, he rewards us with Ondusi's Key, first of all, a second barrier belt, which is hard to and a pair of boots that fortifies acrobatics I guess each shoe is enchanted separately. And finally, an amulet of admonition. One to two points of frost and paralyze for thirty seconds. Frost ain't the best thirty seconds of paralysis Now we can help Edwinna. See, we needed Ondusi's Key, first, to We could have tried swiping her key but we're going to become Archmagister Killing the scamp is the only chunk of duties, and it was a Enemies tend to resist paralysis for it to actually work, but once Just gotta be careful If you cast paralysis on a the second cast, it breaks Basically, the second paralysis tries resist it, so it gets overwritten and then You may think Sirilonwe is just a of thievery, but she'll actually As such, I'll return the Let her know what I'm capable of. One last thing before getting back An amulet of Mark. These are my staples So many amulets. Omcivian Divine Intervention Verick Germain, and Mark I just gotta get to and then turn his But surely that goes without saying. Serethi? That name sounds familiar, doesn't it? Of course you've heard that name before. Everyone remembers the it's not just me since I Well, don't be confused. Galtis Serethi is not related to Their family names Galtis S-E-R-E-T-H-I, as Can't believe you didn't notice. Tch. Casual. Can you feel it? Does the darkness fill Or does it come all at once, Right now, the biggest issue Let's just drop that analogy. As powerful as the enchanted items rolls on the damage, I'm liable to run You might expect the fireball enemies in this game are Dunmer I'll have to fight my impatience and One to two points per I do wish there was some bars on screen, even if I It'd be awesome if hovering my crosshair The original version of Morrowind Maybe I'm just a spoiled, Neloth's mouth wanted sload soap and gave us Anis Seloth sells sload soap, and Hall, so I'm guessing efficiency I mean, Neloth lives in Tel Naga, He could just pop in and... He is old and has trouble moving about. Eh, alright. Fine. I guess that's a reasonable... reason. It's not just the Telvanni being... I'd say it's kinda sweet that Arara in a better mood, but I'm not Everything about the I mean, I guess you could argue We help each other without expecting bit because somebody might help me so if I help you, I'm improving the altruism isn't really altruism But, like, I mean, Shut up. I...just... stop overanalyzing. Just help people. Oh, what? No reward, just more chores? Get Neloth a Staff of Silver Dawn? We'll get around to that eventually. Maybe. We can already rank Retainer, Oathman, Lawman, but not Mouth. We need a Patron first. Once we find a Patron, only then Before we leave, we'll give Just another one of those simple Doordash-esque Her next chore for us is fetching a ring The Black Jinx. But, like most chores, we'll throw The dishes can sit in Actually, we couldn't even do some For instance, one task is to How are we gonna climb his Sure, we were given some Rising Force What do we do? Well, there's a quest we can Levitation, and we can pick that And therein lies another problem. The Telvanni don't believe in stairs, so Thankfully, Aryon built his tower I'm sure there's some symbolism there, but Aryon represents change in the Telvanni Uhh... One of the Imperial Towers aligns Mushroom in such a way that it's I just gotta remember which tower it is. Oh, look at that! The tower has archer slits Oh, scamp. What are you doing here? Anyway, archer slits like-- Jesus! Where did...? 20 feet of fireball. Magic goes through floors. I guess you should expect At least he's a Telvanni, so I Ooh, Viperbolt Ring. One to four points of Weak, but it's nice to have. Archer slits, like a real medieval Archers within the fort can shoot but archers on the ground have basically no chance of being that accurate that they could get their arrows In my Bloodmoon from why the stairs in these I was under the impression to give the people above, Turns out, that's a myth. So maybe this archer thing is a myth? It sounds reasonable, like just because it sounds See, if the attackers are you're already screwed to begin with. I should make an errata Compile all my mistakes We can jump from here. With full fatigue, I Ooh, that was close. So in Aryon's chamber is Turedas Master Aryon would like to nearby Zainab Ashlanders, but he We can go to the camp and ask self-sufficient and don't need Big buildings, heavy But if we talk to one of and raise their they'll tell us that some of common and blight diseases while And even though the wise to cure them, they're Not promptly, at least. What would be best for magic they could take Cure disease potions. With that info in hand, and he thanks us with It's not fast levitation, seconds, but it's the only And since we're here, we'll He's got some chores for us. He wants Baladas Demnevani to join the two will be able to wrest control Out with the old guard, in with the new. If we manage to convince sponsor us and promote Oh yeah, Therana's Mouth wanted She's a bit unhinged, so It might be cursed, so Alright, you're the councillor. Dratha: &quot;There is no escape!&quot; Uh oh, I'm getting outta here! Since we already helped out of House Telvanni, our So all it takes to get him to join Or rudely. I don't know, manners They're weird. As is Telvanni custom when a wizard takes him in as a protege, the A silver staff of peace. Here's where the second This next task Aryon the blight that's infested He wants us to go there Disease spell on the There are no enchanted items and making an enchanted item This spell has a base cost of 2000, which means if we wanted to make we would need to find an item A Daedric Shield, or a That's all. And that's not even Instead, we can buy a scroll from Yeah, I could have gone I could have stolen a I could have fought my way through But, I would have spent, like, two hours Nah. That's why I made the exception. Literally all that needed to be done. And what's our reward? A friggin' book. Mages and their books. Now he wants us to learn some spells. Recall, Levitate, and Fireball. We don't need to cast them, That is, buy them from spell vendors. Another book. The Art of War Magic by Zurin Arctus. Can't be all that good at war magic if Tiber Now it's time to play hero. Milyn Faram is being attacked Aryon wants us to head down way into Odirniran and provide Those Hlaalu dogs won't know what hit him. We got ghosts and probably summoned But you have to wonder why the Hlaalu Ah, I see. Perhaps the remaining contingent Two are already dead. Faram sure put up a fight. Oh wow, look at that dagger. 50 points of levitate for 30 seconds. I, uh... was completely unaware of this. That Zainab quest Damn. Ah, he summoned a Dremora. Well, I'm running low on Right, reflect. I fear that's gonna Let's just avoid it for now. It's good to see Milyn alive and well. He wants us to kill leader of the Hlaalu But he wants us to He doesn't want her... At least not by us. Uh... I cannot glean what his intentions Let's get away from this This must be Vedelea. Best of luck, ma'am. I was gonna comment in these large buildings I remembered I still have and not knowing where my next class is. Maybe I'm just bad at Maybe I'm just There are three Dunmer in this room, Only two chase me out, though. Since they're Dunmer, I can't really but I can strike both of them at They seem to be rather weak, anyway. The third one is Remasa, It seems alternating between most optimal because you don't I believe if you attack with enemy is still suffering when they're hit with the second, it removes the first, effectively Even if it's damage over one second. This normally isn't a problem if because the cast time Enchanted items attack instantly, Because we helped Milyn he offers to share some Scrolls of Summoning rely on the part of the creature you're trying For Daedra, they use But he's managed to figure out a of a Daedra, thereby reducing It goes without saying, but Aryon gives us another Hunger, which I assumed But instead it just casts Soul Useless for this run. Now Aryon would like us to deal Only the Mage's Guild is allowed non-members, and the Telvanni They've come to an agreement you know, the guys who just sent a But they also need House Redaran on board. Athyn Sarethi seems to be councillors, so Aryon I'm glad we're going There's an enchanter in the who may have some It's mostly weapons and scrolls, but 1 to 25 points of shock Being a touch spell dangerous, but at least it's The next part of the Telvanni similar to the Redaran Athyn Sarethi doesn't trust us, since but if we rescue his son from Venim Manor, it'll raise his disposition a fair bit, and he'll be willing to After returning his son, he agrees and will support We'll also need the support of Bolvyn Venim will never agree to By appealing to House Redaran's the councillors on our side, and He's pleased, so pleased, A left glove. That comes with a powerful enchantment. Command creature, and command humanoid. 15 levels for 120 seconds. I can't be certain if I'll need point in this run, but if I do, Another Telvanni is in Redaran that's pressing Man, at what point do Is Morrowind even a singular nation, Maybe it's different on the mainland. Maybe Tamriel Rebuilt can Wednesdays and Fridays Faves Andas needs our help. We're off to Shishi. I wonder if Shishi has any linguistic I know Molag means fire, in Vvardenfell have the It literally means fireclay. Molag Bal means firestone. Why did the Daedric Prince Ah, perhaps it's the and stone that come It's probably a carryover Northwest of Maar Gan is And as soon as we enter... yep, dead body. We're definitely in the right place. And here's the first Redoran Invader. Dunmer, of course, so our fire But the Amulet of Admonition It doesn't hold a lot of charge, Once per enemy seems decent enough. Should've used it twice. Better idea. Paralyze him, then use my on-touch Use the on-target spells Hmm. Amulet of Mighty Blows. Fortify strength 5 to 20 Won't help me in combat, But maybe I'll need extra Amulets are light anyway, so I'll take it. I didn't find Faves's body anywhere or he's hiding. Aryon told me to interact Ah, the skull turned. That means a thing happened. Everyone knows if you into a panic room See? What'd I tell ya? As Faves: &quot;I don't think we've been &quot;I'm Faves Andas.&quot; &quot;How can I help you?&quot; *Laughing* So stupid. Say what you will about good at staying composed Oh, and he gives us books as a reward. What the hell? At least Aryon gives us a staff. We can't use it for anything, But at least it's not a book. And now we're met with a roadblock. Aryon has no new chores for us as a Mouth. We must advance to a higher But we do not meet requirements for Aryon to We need 50 in one of the house's We've got the two others covered. I took several Telvanni specifically so I wouldn't have The level 50 skill, though? That's gonna have to be enchanting. We're currently at 47, so grinding But remember what I said earlier? The best experience comes But you need filled soul gems to do that. I don't have a soul trap spell I can use, For now. Instead, I have to spam cast again to gain a miniscule For context, you get 5 experience Using an item, you get 0.1 XP. 50 times less. At least spam casting is quick. Let's check some of the other I'm not sure what triggers unlock new items as you Galbedir has some new stuff. Nothing incredible. But new stuff nonetheless. Same with Tanar Llervi and Dabienne Mornardl. All the Mages Guild enchanters They probably randomly draw from It's a sad day for Miun-Gei. His shop has pretty typical stuff he's got a whole slew of And I can't open them with Ondusi's Key. I CAN open them with Miun-Gei's Key. So he has to die. In his chest of drawers, we've Health and poison damage, 5 to And we've got 5 Fingers of Pain. Fire, Frost, Shock, and Health damage, He's got a ton of stuff in his closet too. Hawkshaw Ring, Detect Might come in handy. Jewelry's light, so we And that's pretty much it. After all that, we've can rank up to Spellwright But he doesn't have Dammit. We need to be a wizard. Level 60 enchanting. Going from 47 to 50 by just Going from 50 to 60, that... I-I-I really don't want to do that. While I figure out how to deal with we can get a new task from As loath as I am to aid the slavers as I need to put my humanity aside and do what And the rewards we get from So powerful that I think the items that will carry Mistress Therana crushed before it spreads The slaves in the Ababal Wow, how unreasonable. Slaves hate being slaves. Crazy. There's two ways to deal The first is through diplomacy. By hearing out their grievances. Therana keeps expecting more But the mine isn't able to produce And she's not even eating the eggs. She's just using them Personally, I'd have more The whole being a slave thing. But whatever. For the best rewards, they all gotta die. Sorry, Eleedal-Lei. A perfect application Works great in confined areas like a mine. We get two rings as a reward. The Ring of Firestorm The former deals damage for 10 seconds The latter deals 2 damage for 10 seconds The damage range is wide, is about 250 and 300 over Pretty good. I think I know what I want to do now. Recharging items is more XP. 50 times more. But we need a way to cast Soul Trap. There are spells and scrolls, but those The problem is, most of the Trap enchantments on Except for one. The Amulet of Gem Feeding. We get it from Sirilonwe But there's a catch. She'll only offer us this That's why we're here in Ashmelech, The perfect place to put our Vampires go up like kindling. Interacting with vampires, either their corpses, has a chance to And after three days, you'll and attribute boosts and social We're gonna need three helping so we might as well There might be some interesting Like this flame eater robe. Resist fire 20-40% and 20-30 points How thematic for vampires. Most of the vampires daggers with on strike The leader of this clan, an ebony short sword And she's the last vampire in this place. And I haven't been infected. But, just the act of opening the loot I don't know the exact chances, but diseases, so it'll take a bit of attempts Ah, there we go. In three days, we can get We better get to Vivec won't be able to use the Actually, let's go to Caldera first High elves have a 50% weakness effect from the boots will be But we'll still have the speed boost. While we're a vampire, we So, we'll be doing a Well, not by foot. The boots of blinding items will make getting We'll be like a plane. Pemenie, do you mind I can't see, but I'm fast. After three days of napping in the Vivec Oh no, how could this have happened? There must have been So, Sirilonwe, thanks You need me to kill someone for you. Sounds easy enough. Shashev in the Ald Skaar Inn in Ald'ruhn. Kill him and return with his key. You got it. Since we can't use the guild is actually to recall back to Aryon, Getting back to Vivec but we'll cross that Killing civilians is easy Half of them just attack you for talking There's a lot of bystanders here, so for this, but Shashev's pretty weak, Oh, this is a good ring. Paralyze for 15 seconds and On target. Didn't know he'd have anything good on him. I just wanted Sirilonwe's Pretty cool. To get back to Vivec Divine Intervention to Sadrith Almsivi to Molag Mar, levitate with a Boots of and Divine Intervention to With Shashev dead, 3 piles of Vampire got on hand, and in she awards us with the Now we have a way to Soul Trap The best merchant for Soul Gems And he does offer services to vampires. The DLCs are unique. But I don't really want to And I'd also like to have So we're gonna get Azura's This might come as a Azura's Star by doing And, even more shocking, to her at her shrine in Sheogorath bet Azura that solitude Azura believes it allows So in all her loving wisdom, to seclude herself in a shack Let me see here... *Checking notes* 100 years is almost up and So he sent some Daedra And we gotta go there and deal with that. The shack is up near Dagon Fel. And getting to Dagon Fel So we'll want to get to thing real quick so we Molag Bal is the progenitor of vampires. So it only makes sense In the Daedric ruins of Bal Ur. Beyond all the random even a lone golden is a shrine to...the original You see it? Second recording session. Let's hope this sounds similar enough. He offers to cure us of vampirism his daughter Molag Grunda along Molag Bal: &quot;Nomeg Gwai&quot; Easy enough. Dubdilla's pretty close to Tel Vos, Almsivi from Bal Ur to Molag Mora, and Levitate north with This place is full of to be careful with Just about every Daedra on them, and all of my And I have no immunities. In fact, I have several weaknesses, Scamps aren't a problem though. They don't have reflect. I hate this woman's name. Wow. I'm not going to read it out loud. You can. Our first hunger. Do they have Uh...alright. What the hell? Does it resist everything? Yup, they have 100% resistance to fire, So...what? Magic damage only? A sword in the face? I guess the idea is that they're Except magic-based magicka. They don't eat that. Whatever, he'll be stuck there for a bit. I'm leaving. Yeah, no. I'm not dealing with you. And here they are. The star-crossed lovers. Grunda and the Atronach. Jesus, why's he so Firestorm would obviously be the best. Yup. Now to deal with Grunda. She's a winged twilight, so she comes with What a surprise. Imma say it. High elves are probably The extra magicka is a noob trap. Nords and dark elves. Best mages. Nords have frost immunity Dark elves have 75% fire resistance. If poison were a better damage type, Molag Grunda's dead, Molag Baal, he says Molag Bal: &quot;It was not easy for me to &quot;but I was able to pry it from Why does Vermina hold Shouldn't Molag Baal just be Maybe Morrowind's vampires Hmm. If different Daedra can produce Aedric vampires? What does it mean to platonic version Questions to be We got a golden saint to kill. The shack's still a bit out Go go Gadget, boots have *Sounds of becoming a blind airplane* We'll have to be careful. There's a ton of we only need to kill We could try to pull her away from... You know, if I were still a vampire, Vampires are immune to paralysis. Okay, so this time the frost damage That's fine, though. It's a slow burn. Just gotta hope she doesn't Excellent. Now we wait. As proof, we bring Sheogorath's Also, we'll take the ebony Azura lets us keep the ring, fortify personality and drain Her star, however, is the real prize. A reusable soul gem It can hold the soul of any We can soul trap enemies, and need to enter the pause screen The drawback is that you can't you're fighting multiple enemies, We need other soul gems to I'll admit, I thought running around rats and scamps would be the Rats die easily, and the how much XP you get, So instead I did what I should I went to Mournhold, bought a bunch of selling him a bunch of the glass and ebony equipment I had collected, I could have skipped But we'll still use the star for So the goblins aren't but they have a wide aggro At least in the part of the sewers Trap them, kill them, use the gems, run All the goblins respawn, And the loot on damn valuable if you're Those maces sell for 3k each. And there's a vendor in so you don't have to As soon as I got 60 enchanting, I But there's one more qualification we must We need a stronghold, and Llunela Hlaren is She's in the Telvanni council hall's She's a wizard in a basement. A basement wizard. The polar opposite of sky wizards Ground wizards aren't looks the same when To build a stronghold, a construction contract Not even the Telvanni She also wants two strong souls. The best souls to use Winged Twilights and If we were a higher level, Saints would sometimes The Andalan ancestral tomb outside Daedra at the end can spawn as a Golden We're only level 5 right But I think I know where I Before going contract from Vadem Dren The name should sound familiar. He's the brother of Orvas ally to Dagoth Ur, and And Vadem Dren's daughter Twin Lamps, a group Bit of tension between the three. Before he hands over the requirement is that we vow to I'm sure the Telvanni we'll just tell him There's a guaranteed Maelkashishi, a Daedric I mentioned it earlier. This is also where you Longbow and the Falanserano Propylon Index. The Winged Twilight the hunger with her is We'll just leave. Another Winged Let me see if I can pronounce this. Addadshashanammu. Yeah. Unsurprisingly, all the humanoid trivial, because they didn't The Twilight, however... Excellent. Back to Llunela. My favorite of the two We wait a few days, the Stronghold's wants us to check in on the site's Our Stronghold is being built on You heard that right. THE Uvirith. Who is THE Uvirith? I have no idea. It's southwest of Tel Fyr. I understand why the Telvanni don't Why bother helping each other out, right? But damn if it wouldn't be convenient. It's not much yet, but it's getting there. And Gashnak the Foreman says That's the only reason Life before telephones must The next phase of the Stronghold schematics from Mzanchend, the But because we've already got our Stronghold to the rank of Wizard, meaning we're now And wouldn't you know it, there's a who may sound familiar if you've spent Edd &quot;Fast Eddie&quot; Theman. And he's OUR man for the job. By presenting him with which I totally didn't accidentally search around the entire game trying to figure he ascends to the rank of Mouth, and will claim a space in where he'll await But we gotta let Aryon know we Using our actual mouth, not Fast Eddie. For recruiting a mouth, Aryon's Helper. It's an enchanted glove Obviously. I wouldn't wasn't an enchanted item that summons a Frost Atronach for 90 seconds, Sounds super powerful, It's actually more underwhelming You'll see. Through checking on Eddie, we learn that The Ring of Equity. It's hidden somewhere in Neloth's He just needs the key. Fortunately, several Telvanni in Neloth's Murder doesn't bother so we can kill this guy And this poor schlub If you didn't want to get murdered, you We give Eddie the key, not back within a week, What a wonderfully nihilistic outlook. Excellent work, Eddie. I'll put this ring to good use. For 30 seconds, we'll have 70% reflect I believe the vanilla effects flipped, so the reflect The spell gets absorbed But one of the mods in the I I think it's one of I don't know. Either way, this is amazing. We mostly wanted it for the absorption The reflect effect is just gravy. Now Aryon wants us to assassinate someone. I guess he's not interested in Maybe it's cheaper Although I was under the impression that the houses had to use I don't know, keep their espionage quote unquote crimes, more orderly. But maybe they don't. Maybe they could do whatever they want. Morrowind is a hellscape. Off the banks of the River is Rethan Manor, a newly Aryon would like the stop doing that thing that You know, living. Raynasa, allegedly, built this stronghold I mean, whatever, I'm a Telvanni wizard. Shoot first, ask why Let's say we give Obliterate this Hlaalu mongrel Um, where are... Oh my god, these three Ooh, look at this ring. Two to forty points of shock damage It's like my firestorm A whole new way to reflect to kill myself. Awesome. Another stronghold popped up. This one built by a Redoran And Aryon would like us to Aryon is different from the other Telvanni House Redoran doesn't have a it's not surprising that the manor And as soon as we arrive, our target He just has a little trouble with doors. Well, I guess the But remember, their wide area, and I gotta use the Ring of Equity just Now, the only thing ourselves master is the We gotta find those schematics But there are a couple because I think we need some It'll be quick. Get the Black Jinx for A member of the Morag Tong has it, He'll duel us for it, Get the Staff of Silver for a few hundred gold And get Dwemer Scarab's schematics Look, a copy of Chronicles The reward for that last quest is summons a Bound Helmet and a Dremora may not be as but they're And here we are in Mzanchend. What arcane secrets What mysteries hide What is there to discover? Well... Here, Llunela. Getting these We're ready to become a Telvanni Master. But if we accept the title announcing that we deserve There can only be one would be an open We've killed him before, in different so We're gonna topple his rule. What I find odd is the rank level 70 and one of House In the case of this run, that would be And this isn't like during my Poison Only I didn't train Alchemy Telvanni don't care about Why am I able to rank up here? Gothren could be tricky, a lot of mileage out My biggest concern One has a bow, so he could The other uses magic, It's the archer that's the problem. It's always the archer that's the problem. My plan is to use the ring initial fireball, and maybe reflect He'll either do a lot of or that reflects some When I run out, I can summon my squad Three Stooges energy, and block the hallway, And while they're dealing Archers. Alright, let's try that again. Attack. Absorb the fireball. Summon the Atronachs. Why, I oughta. Dodge the arrows. Blast them with poison. The Atronach chucks And they're dead. Great. Gothren's still stuck in the hallway so I'll summon my Dremora, and My Ring of Equity is out of me if he gets too close, so I Little bit of poison... And that's all she wrote. Gothren's dead. And when we return recognizes us as Awesome. Let's go kill Dagoth Ur. Uh, I killed Dagoth Er, well, I didn't lose the footage. I actually just forgot to press the record button. And if I revert to an old save, I'd have So, um, yeah. Save often. Don't just quicksave. Save...do-do hard saves. It wasn't all that interesting anyway. And the amulet of Heartrime We can get Keening without killing Dagoth Probably won't be, but Eh, I'll keep it anyway. Amulets are light. Dagoth Tureynul, like the an innate reflect effect, My three rings, Fire, Storm, Lightning, do enough damage to kill any enemy Assuming they don't any of the damage and The amulet of Heartthrum Amulets don't weigh a lot. How many times can I say that? Vemynal has more enemies vampire citadels, but They don't have reflect. The biggest nuisance are the squid faces. Their poison leaves me with a But the Ring of Equity As for Dagoth Vemyn... The amulet of Heartheal. Fortify strength 10 to Could be handy if it stacks Probably doesn't, but who knows. So if you're paying watching this long, well, half of you are probably asleep, I did get the books Yagrum killed Vivec and brought him But I have no way of fortifying survive wearing the jerry-rigged Remember, I said no potions. So how am I going to do this? Well, I could bring some NPCs up the sell Sunder and Keening to make the merchants mad at me, cast Command Creature on the heart, get them to attack the heart, and Or I could bring a guild guide to the or something like that, and have But I don't want to do that this time. It's a little tedious. But I do still want to kinda... not cheese the game, but beat it Without Wraithguard, equipping to take mortal damage between But, if you unequip the weapon fast However, it seems that the amount of time the weapon's For instance, let's say the the damage from Sunder and You might think you can unequip it, then But the second time you equip it, I don't know the exact amount of testing, this So we need to be clever about this. First, we just run through Dagoth Ur's Blood Ring--this is important--and meet He's a pushover because he We'll take the Heart Ring too, To make this easier for off the bridge so he's while we deal with the Heart. There's going to be a lot of RNG here. The first thing we need and strike the Heart If we miss, we've wasted See how it killed us almost I only have 50 health, so I can't even The minimum damage With this information, I reloaded a Chamber, lured Dagoth Ur off the bridge First, we have to save A single miss is wasted I can get a single Sunder Keening stabs before And now I'm dying instantly. Two more strikes is all it'll take. So what do we do? Well, remember the Blood Ring. Fortifies our health 10 to 20 points. If the mortal wound low cycle to get the last We just gotta keep And no, the Ring of Equity doesn't work. Yes! There we go. Survived the mortal wounds. Now, we need to heal up, and... Who needs Wraithguard? Oh, and I'm aware, Keening But if you take 50 points of damage, then And then when you want to equip Keening, Yeah, Azura. Prophecy. I got Almalexia to deal with. Tribunal. You might think this'll we can blitz through If you want to know more my Tribunal at Level 1 The first thing we have to the two Goblin Warchiefs They're deep in the sewers. Killing Goblins wasn't a big problem I will buy a bunch of Soul Gems The higher your charge you consume So even though we don't any quests, it'd be nice to In fact, if you fortify 110, you only use one The equation is super simple. Base cost times 1.1 minus your 110 enchanting brings game defaults any Paralyze them, blast them with AoE. Sometimes they resist The same is true for the Warchiefs. And their trainers. Next, we need to escort a Priest to Something I learned recently is, if You just forfeit any reward So we don't have to keep the Priest alive. In fact, if he just so happens to the sewers, we could just return to He'll be upset, of will still give us our Oh no, Urvel, you were so Don't know what to tell you, man. Back into the sewers we go. This time to get the mazed band of Ain't it convenient that he's Like they were meant for each other. With the Ring of Equity, their they don't have reflect, I don't Barilzar isn't paralyzable, point spell absorption buff, he I just gotta dodge his that's an easy task We return the band to just long enough for her to the city comes under attack by Fedris told me to go want to accidentally attack so I'll just throw and wait for the guards The attack has the city folk End Times cult that's already It's been one afternoon, and-- you know, if by world-ending events, I'd probably Anyway, as a show of power, Almalexia the Dwemer ruins that the and activate the weather How does she know Was she already down there? Hmm. How intriguing. What could that mean? She wants us to cause ash storms to The Dwemer constructs down here are pretty I'll let my Daedra To expedite these quests, the weather machine We'll also grab the key from Radac's open the level 100 locked door, loot blow up the first pile of debris, continue place the Dwemer Coherer, fiddle with then blow up the second pile we want to get the Pyroil It's a room full of Daedra, so Normally, I'd try killing deal with every other spell It's annoying. Our best bet is to try a distance, and aggro as Alright, so we pulled one That's fine, we'll paralyze him, and of Not a big deal. It's survivable. Now we just gotta get lucky and not Finally, we got the Tar, and the There's one more thing we Trueflame, and that's killing Not a... Rogue HAND. Like Doctor Strangelove. Almalexia's hands are just elves. Telvanni have mouths. Almalexia has hands. Sotha Sil probably had feet. I have no evidence to support that. It just seems reasonable, you know? I was worried about his armor so I was trying to use my but companion combat They can't keep up with the enemy, if Turning invisible could help, just run off into the sunset Lightning Storm and Poison Cloud I'm gonna take some of his armor. The helm for a bit of reflect and the I won't need the strength from the gloves. They're pretty heavy anyway. And we'll take the extra from Almalexia as a Time to reforge Truflame. To get the two missing pieces of Truflame, we need to donate two and defeat Karrod in battle, we need to deal with an assassination to prove ourselves to Magic is awesome in Karrod's a surprisingly tough fight. He has a ton of health, which my storm rings do a ton of Redguards resist poison by 75% for me to safely hit him and him Instead, we'll summon The Atronach's spells are only 10 feet wide. Excellent. Helseth gives us the Dagger of Symmachus, the first artifact we'll be donating, and Karrod gives us his shitty sword. A piece of Trueflame. The second artifact will require At first, I figured we could Ald Redaynia and take a sip from Then I remembered the Vampiric Absorb health and fatigue And, since they're absorbed spells, I absorb my own health. Oh no. I should have gotten this thing earlier. Kill the Bonelord, grab Why is everything already dead? I mean, deader...huh? Oh, did my spells hit them Magic is weird. Oh. It dropped my willpower by 20 points. I guess if you have your lowest, it just This is probably a bad idea, but whatever. I already committed. Pretty sure intelligence charge, and willpower I probably just screwed myself. The second artifact we'll be donating It's in Mamaea, a dungeon bone dust, not sand, and is Honestly, it's mostly dreamers Even the boss, at the end of A walking stick. I'm pretty sure I just killed an The dagger is right here in the coffin. I could have donated the Boots the Dagger of Symmachus, but With all three pieces of the blade, we have into Bamz-Amschend to have the specter He just needs the Pyroil to procure, like we've With Trueflame, a sword that if we do her one last solid Yeah, why not. Now the astute among you There are a couple that have some pretty The first is the speed room, but we The only thing more scary than a giant is a giant spinning death wheel The second puzzle that's going You need 100 strength to push this We have 50 strength The elixirs that boost your strength But those are potions. If you remember, I do have The Amulet of Mighty Blows 10 to 20 points of strength But that only gets me to 90. What do we do? No recall or intervention There is no escape. And I'm pretty sure my last Well, we only need 10 points of strength. Acrobatics is one of Took about 20 minutes, Eh...to 90 acrobatics. Level 12 with 62 strength. Now we can push that plunger. You know, I've done these videos, but I think I could have console-commanded myself out and grabbed the Fist Almalexia teleport me quote unquote for the first time. Or I could have just said Meh. With the Ring of Equity, the Believe it or not, after a and just chases you around Once you're at that have to do is drop a Now, Almalexia. I have no idea how this will go. The Ring of Equity should absorb her magic to continue casting spells once my Oh my god, she CAN run out of magicka. Now this is just a battle of attrition. She's got 3000 health, can one-shot fire and poison, and has a 50% But I think I can still pull this off. Strafing works against her. She stays in place, letting without all of us sprinting It's risky, though. One wrong step and I'm dead. I'm doing this because most I could leave the room, wait for a then she'll have magicka back, Lady, you have no health. Yes! And... I got her soul That's where she's gonna stay. Beautiful irony, that. I know Azura is the but I feel like Azura and They both demand undying loyalty. And if you cross them, you're screwed. Now, do we continue to Solstheim? This video is already pretty damn long. Yeah, alright. One more detail, watch my Blood Moon at level We get to Solstheim, deal with a get to work dealing with a soldier Since we have and invisibilty we can actually have him wait outside and then invisibly run through the Because Lucianus is &quot;with us,&quot; we leader and tell him to get out of But when we get back to the a bunch of werewolves attacked If I had a nickel. Gaea gives us a Skaal skull north in hopes that they might They have no idea, but Solstheim has disturbed So we need to perform the Ritual of the Simple. The ritual involves standing stones on the so let's zoom through them. Ritual of the Beasts is first. We need to rescue the good Using AoE would be dumb here these Rieklings are a low enough I can pull some onto With a Vampiric Ring as the bear throwing hands, Ritual of the Winds comes next. We gotta open up the Greedy It's a Nordic tomb, so it's other magical enemies, They're immune to Frost Shock, attacks aren't so strong Getting through the tomb only because there were And they're super fast, The Ritual of the Water Swim out to sea and enter this cave, healing yourself as you Easy. The Ritual of the through another Nordic but this one has fewer and there's more space to maneuver. Ooh, a new ring. Not incredibly powerful, but it's At the end of the dungeon are stalactites that we need to Middle, right, left, right, For the Ritual of the Trees, we a nearby Riekling who has a He who has the seeds controls the take the seeds, the spriggans Plant the tree, ritual complete. Finally, the Ritual of the Sun. More Draugr ahead, use my Ring of Aversion All we gotta do is go to the end of the its eye to melt the ice wall behind the The Grahl is weak to fire, about fighting Grahl is that Get too close and you'll Best to keep away. With the Ritual of the Gifts completed, Rigmor Halfhand tried to by placing his own wolf All so that Ice-Mane would be exiled. But if found guilty, Ice-Mane was That is, getting eaten by Rigmor was only doing this because he had By finding a note from Rigmor we have all the evidence we need, We'll choose to exile him not not out of mercy, but because waiting on the As if we haven't done they now want us to In the caves below the lake, And guess what's down there with him? That's right, bubblegum and ice cream. We'll use our ring of aversion When we find Aesliip, we Either aid him in destroying the Daedra that or just kill him and take his interest in fighting a bunch of Sorry Aesliip, your sad tale of self-sacrifice Returning to the village, we find it Fighting them isn't easy, want to hit any of the Skaal But once all the good boys are reveals two more werewolves Before they turn into werewolves, No idea why, that's just Werewolves resist frost, but I don't Fire, shock, and poison, woo! Those extra acrobatics levels I Of course, we've been infected don't get cured within three If I can't drink potions of cure Do I have to go on a hunt for Maybe a ring? Nope. Mark the village a divine intervention, an imperial blessing that cures disease, Now cured, Korst is willing to bestow Once again. To get the blessing of the and the first step is procuring In the tombs of Skaalara, a nordic tomb, Werewolves! Right! And at the end of the tomb is We can either run through with a we can fight our way through, or we That third option probably but I thought it'd be It's so liberating not You know, if the lock on over level 51, this run But it's only 30, so hooray! Totem in hand, like a to meet with Rolf in order He's there with two other hunters. One other... It's just me and Ro... So the spirit bear is Finally, to figure out if the upon us, we must investigate Is it divine? Or is it just a bunch of This is probably the You need to kill all the Grahl in And you can't tell him to the Grahl will kill him, There is something you can First of all, Krish is slow. He got tiny legs. So if you get ahead of him, bit of damage on the Then if you wait several hours regenerate some health, tipping Just make sure if you run ahead in the cave because Krish will path After we finally manage to ESCORT Castle Karstaag and kill a bunch Dulk confirms that they are not Horkers, meaning that the Blood The next time we The next time we sweep, owo indeed. The next time we sleep, we Nooo... The last part of our journey not a werewolf this time, so I have to say we'll kill Carius Oh, I thought he had the key. We'll run through the maze ignoring and we'll loot the key. I probably COULD Wow, uh, that was like, six werewolves. And that's why so many Tharsten's here! But he's a wolf! Tharsten's dead! And he had the key. Even though werewolves don't need Why did he have it? Because he didn't want me to have it. How devious. The Frost Giant Karstaag. He has 1500 health, 50% reflect, This is gonna take a minute. Oh my god, Atronachs Finally. Imagine if Almalexia had reflect. What aspect would we end this run with? Well, they all have 50% of speed and guile And guile comes with 75 The aspect of strength has a would kill me anyway, so I'll be It's also a lot slower As much as I hate constantly don't do this here, then I'll just Basically, I would and hope I win several I guess if I had a ton of low damage its health while healing the tiny bits I saw a comment at one point asking Even the Vampire run was Well, this is why. Maybe I should have gotten Remove the reflected And I suppose Bethesda didn't balance Eh, I'll try to keep that