Okay, so those are some of the basics when it comes to identifying zero-force members in a trust structure like this, so any questions Yeah, can you explain why there's no force on the center beam. I intuitively. I don't see how that's possible. Oh, okay That's a terrible question. So and try to keep up F force in that center beam equals zero, hence, no force All right, you guys remember they say there are no stupid questions, but come on let's be real in summary We have our input signal right and put that in that will go this way and then we got we got a transistor here and then Passer, of course, and then can't forget this passer Right, and of course two diodes to help with the you know, what's going on and then of course We got another transistor here on this one and then and when it gets here, it's it's a louder signal, right? So the middle parts gonna be what's on the midterm. Okay, so you guys have any questions on that? Top right corner. What's the purpose of that capacitor? Oh you mean this right here? No, what top right corner this capacitor right here. Which one are you talking about point to it right there? Right right there. Keep going right don't go down Okay, keep going. Keep going There it is Yeah, we got it. We got that says 100 sorry about that. I can write a little small sometimes Not it's value its purpose. Yes. Exactly. It has a purpose. It's not just chillin there real good real good So there no more questions. I'll see you guys on Monday All right So did everyone get the three hundred dollar textbook that's custom-made for this class and only available at our University's bookstore Even though you can find the same information literally any other engineering textbook. Yep. Got it, right? Okay, because that is not required I won't be using that at all The thing is just gonna be easier to use online notes and practice problems, so why was it required in the syllabus? I don't know. Yeah, that's a thinker but you kept your receipt, right? No, I just assumed Well looks like we both screwed up on that one now You could try reselling it next semester But and then we're gonna have the 2020 winter edition Which will be the exact same textbook except some of the numbers will be slightly different for no reason besides profit But hey, at least you learned something Alright you guys so the test is today Now for the majority of you you should be able to finish within the next 45 minutes That's not too bad. Yeah, and you started two hours ago. I Mean look at this thing. I'm so gonna take this So yeah, pretty much. No one has ever finished one of my exams before now Does it make sense to have a test like that? No, but is it gonna prepare you for the real world? We have to think on your feet and make decisions at a moment's notice no, but it is gonna make some of you cry and to me that's funny now the problems on the upcoming test next week will Look absolutely nothing like anything you've seen before but that's why we have the midterm review packet. So the test will look similar to that No now take me from the fun of seeing your face on test day once you get to that first question But now this is still required to do though. So I'm canceling all homework due this week To make up for the Pape midterm. You're about to take right now, but don't you guys worry? It'll only count for 40% of your grade Not gonna happen Okay, you guys so welcome to the first day of hell Wait, what welcome to lab? Let's start going over the syllabus. Let's just talk lab reports. What are we gonna have for lab reports? Gotta have a title page, of course name date all that stuff. I have a table of contents, right? Why don't we need a table of contents or? no reason Exactly just more points to lose and more work to do So everyone's happy except for you guys, then don't forget you guys need individual conclusions Even though all of them are gonna look exactly the same now Each of our lab classes is exactly three hours which is why each lab is going to take you five hours Though the labs aren't open on the weekends Then here are some things that can cost you a point. Like if you're missing a caption on your graph You got to lose a point if you use the wrong verb pets you got to lose a point if you use the first person You got to lose a point for every missing unit You lose a point If you don't include the equipment serial number you lose a point if you use the wrong verb tend to lose a professor Yeah, how many points are these reports out of oh great question. These lab reports are worth five points each What and you take off an entire point for each of those oh, yeah, but it's only one point That's 20% still it's just one point 20 percent I feel like we're both saying the same thing like it's just one point not that bad. Do you ever take off half points? Yeah, but I think those half points like gravity You round down around that right up exactly integers are just easier work with for everyone, you know your job and you you know I'll give you half a point extra credit for that. No nice. Can you round that up? No, that'd be like 20% that's way too much in fact we round those down because there is no extra credit in this class Really? Yes, really? Let me tell you there is a time and a place in life for Extra credit and free handouts for doing nothing and that's called the College of Liberal Arts and their doors always open Speaking of which I do need to refill my coffee And remember when you guys are doing your prelab, we have to calculate the value to expect to get in lab Just assume no friction. No air resistance. No internal resistance. All gas is an ideal gas. All fluid flow is laminar He is 3 PI is 3 4 is 3 Sine of X and any other function that also crosses the origin or the exact same function then we were doing your lab ramps I want you thinking why was there error between my theoretical value and my experimental one? Because I mean no one's going to measure the exact theoretical value that you should beginning, but just fine No one's theoretically going to get an A But I want you guys talking about this in your sources of error section of your lab reports Will the sources of error for each lab be exactly the same? Yes, they will will we have to write that every single time? Absolutely. Why is that because Okay, and lab reports will be turned in on lime. So I guess we can make the due date whenever we want So what are you guys thinking just don't make it Friday's at Friday's that midnight makes the most sense. Well, Friday's at 11:59 p.m That way you don't have to worry about it over the weekend But if you procrastinate you can't really enjoy your Friday, which is kind of funny Professor. Yeah, I have my write-up for the senior project all ready to go All right, let's See what you got. Okay, you might want to consider changing your title to how to end my sentences with a preposition so let me just Write here. Were you literally talked about a more efficient method of renewable energy you use the first persons to have the third So yeah, that's gonna cost you Do you not like commas or do you just not get them? You know semicolons aren't just used in programming right if you like you need stronger adjectives is English your first language Did you read the papers? What kind of margins are we working with here? You forgot to comment your name on the top of your code like I instructed So now it's like I don't even know who wrote this code, right? I Wrote it exactly. It could have been anyone else assume. It's plagiarized for now. Okay, good news this part just about your opinion So there are no right answers. Oh But there are wrong answers All right. This is a solid D plus paper. I did everything the requirement said Oh, that's only if you wanted to see at the max So what do I need to do to get an A. I don't even know see that's the crazy part and That's it. You guys are pretty much done the finals next week. But otherwise best of luck with everything You are all ready for the real world now I mean you've had several years of solving and deriving equations which pertain to very ideal conditions Which won't reflect reality ever all doing labs that we came up with which will look nothing like anything you'll see at any company So best of luck in your future engineering careers And Before you go back to not doing that homework, that's due tomorrow one Be sure to check out Andrews channel if you liked this video or just like physics in general Then definitely go sub to him and - I need to thank my sponsor this video, which is you guys. Yeah something different this time Not just the ones who donate but everyone new comments likes shares and simply watches these videos You want to thank you guys for making this channel possible But as always a huge thank you to the ones who do donate and if you'd like to contribute links are below With some help maybe I can make more videos that aren't brand sponsored like this one But with that I hope you guys enjoyed and I will see you all in the next video