I always like to be out in the than, like, being inside. My mom always told me And I was. Like, I always liked to-- I'd more rather, like, do [MUSIC PLAYING] This is where I put my makeup I got some eye I like my makeup, and that And it makes me feel, makeup on and stuff like that. I want to leave the really, is work and sleep, to really go out and have fun. We live a strict and simple I never been to the beach, and And I never even had I really want to, like, go I'm going to go to It's a really hard decision get to see your family anymore. You don't get to see, like, My biggest fear like, shunned or my parents They'll just consider me, Like, that's the biggest I don't even think When I leave, nothing I'm going to put feed because I'm going to and I want to try and get my I'm going to go in and and then I'm going to [MUSIC PLAYING] [VIOLIN MUSIC PLAYING] This might be the last time but I just don't want and I think I'm making the I'm what the English would take care of my own self, but only good enough to be I feel like I can Like, that's why I don't Today, I have a date with I never had a date before or This is exactly what I want to be the girl that with the boy that likes me. (SINGING) I think of days when beneath the summer sun. We're here. I think it's going Nick picked me up to I never really played it, how to play, and I'm excited to that I've never done before. I hope you know I'm about - Oh, yeah? And I don't know how, so. Like, I know, like, kind of how. I never played it, but, like, Yeah, sure. Ooh. You got those big muscles. I swear, you're better You got a lot of hidden talents. Good at golf. Pretty. I think that he went, like, to it can tell me how amazing I am. So you having fun so far? Oh, yeah. NICK: Oh. Come on, grow up, dude. Real mature. You're a big tough guy. Nice. Nick is really told me they liked my dress, I'm sorry about that. You shouldn't have to deal That guy's just a stupid jerk. I don't care. Ooh. Nice and easy. Beautiful, beautiful shot. Not as beautiful as you, Oh, look, our balls are kissing. Maybe that's a sign. I don't think so. No? No. Sometimes these lines but I guess not on you. I'm smart, like, I know what's Hey, there we go. All right. We're done. One high five. There we go. Wasn't too bad, right? No. No. Gosh, you really are Oh, thank you. Can I give you a kiss? No. No. Oh. Yeah, no. I did have fun, but he I think, to turn Our balls are kissing. Can I kiss you? You're so pretty. Look, I'm sorry. I really am. Oh, it's OK. It was just-- it's just awkward. I had some fun, but I think I moved It's just a cultural really didn't fully understand, And I wish I didn't The Bishop always said and I think he was right. If I ever hang out I hope Claudia is, like, to hang out with him by myself. [MUSIC PLAYING] I had to go tell my mom I don't know, like, how I was so relieved like, don't have anything Like, they wouldn't let But my mom said I to go home and visit and stuff. I called Claudia to help me. And when Claudia told me that my makeover, I was so nervous, can't see who I really and I'm never going until I look like they do. Whatever you want, I'm very excited. I know, it's Feels kind of weird, like-- [LAUGHTER] It's definitely Filing's always Do you like your nails? Oh my gosh, yeah. I really like them. They're so fun. So we could do your Yeah. OK. How does it feel? Yeah, it is cold. Cold, right? You already look Look at you. It feels so great to like Claudia and her friends. I never had a group of friends Well, we can This is so exciting. OK, are you ready? One, two, three. [GASPS] Oh my god, that's so pretty. It looks good. Gorgeous on you. It looks so good. So good. I think I like this one. You like it? Yeah, I really-- Beautiful. It complements And it-- Do you want to Come on. Yeah. Wow. I look a lot different. I like my hair, like, curly. Like, I never had it like We were never allowed to Gorgeous. This is now how I want Oh my god. Oh my goodness. Looking completely different. You look beautiful. Wow. Rosanna is hot. She looks absolutely gorgeous. You look like a totally You're actually smiling. [LAUGHTER] When Rosanna came she had a huge smile on since we met her. It's just, like, I This is you. Yeah. This moment, as I stand here, I an English girl named Rosanna.