We have a very special guest today. We have Dr. Fischer-Katz, from MIT, who does nanoelectronics research and she's agreed just to give you guys a little bit of a flavor about her research. So will you please, very warmly, help me welcome Dr. Lorraine Fischer-Katz. [Applause] So, um, I'm here to talk to you today important topic that affects all of us. Nanoelectronics research initiatives in the CMOS... wait... so this is not the right... Sorry, I'm very sorry this really never happens, so let me, um, (mumbling) I'm sorry this just really never happens, so let me just, um... Alright here we go! [Applause sound effect] I like the applause. Ok, so, um, I'm going to talk to you today about nanoelectronics research initiatives in the Beyond CMOS FET area and, um, there are a number of people that, um, we wanted to make sure that we um, um, um, that we acknowledged here. um...[from audience: I think it's right on the computer] Thanks, Thanks. So we wanted to really give them credit.Thank you. Alright, let's jump right, let's just jump right in, so CMOS FET is an optimal electronic switching device as shown by the following equations for minimum energy per bit based on so this is basically a reiteration of Landauer's principle, which you should know is any logical, irreversible manipulation of information such as erasure of a bit or merging of two computational paths must be accompanied by corresponding entropy increase and non-information bearing degrees of freedom. Yeah? Okay. So you guys with me? Good? Yep? [From audience: Actually, I have a question] Can you please explain what MOSFET stands for? Are you serious? (Laughing) I'm sorry. Okay so, if you don't know what that is you probably shouldn't be here, but we can talk about it afterwards, so if anybody has that confusion, we can really talk about that later, but I really don't want to take the time to get into those kind of basics right now. Okay, alright, thanks. Because otherwise we won't really get there. Okay so let's get into the nitty, the nitty-gritty here, um, as MOSFETs suffer from very fundamental and unavoidable limitations. At room temperature the sub-threshold swing in a MOSFET is limited to 60 millivolts per dec and even if these other solutions are successfully implemented the resulting device still functions based on the same physics. Okay, so, basically I think you get the gist of this and we will move on. (mumbling) um, my phone here... Oh, here we go. Okay so, um, consumer demand, right, consumer demand. If we do not figure out how to overcome these limitations, how are we going to get our devices smaller, better, to make the next... [meowing sounds from cell phone] ...Oh, wait, you're not going to believe this, I have a text. Sorry. Sorry, it's important. Okay, good, alright, date tonight. Alright, moving on! Um, this one might be above your head, so we're just going to switch. Alright, so let's, let's get into the solutions. Um, we've identified the problem, right? We've identified the problem with and understand how emerging technologies and nano-devices need to fill that void. Let's look at some of the solutions that are coming down the pipeline. Um, I'm really pleased how this particular graph came out because we've got lots of information that I can fit into one, um, so we've got switching time here, this is, um, size switching time and cost. Keep in mind these are all on a log-scale and, um, energy densities, so that's how these are represented. um, so, right, so color is representing energy densities, so, this is, we've got quantum solutions, we have plastics, biologically inspired, and, um, molecular. You all see that alright? Good. so, um, you know, that pretty much summarizes where we are with emerging technologies and, um, summarizes where the limitations and, um, I guess, yeah, so I guess that's pretty Carol Lynn, do you have that check? [Yeah, we're going to send it in the mail to you] Let's thank Dr. Fisher-Katz very much. Thank you for coming over. Thank you. [So, it's in the mail, right?] In the mail, the check is in the mail. Wasn't that a great research presentation? I would now like to introduce to you, Lorraine Grosslight who is actually an actress on the side [Laughter from audience] and she came here to impersonate Dr. Lorraine Fisher-Katz in order to do a spoof about some of the most egregious research presentations that we have all seen in our lives. You were brilliant! [Applause] Thank you very much. You're good sports! You're good sports!