The dumplings were made right in front of me. Japan Fukuoka Established in 1964 (Staff) Do you have a backache after all? My back hurts, my legs and back hurt too. Occupational disease? Occupational hazard By the way, how many kilos is this? I think it's about 300 kilometers. The food stall that he runs with his wife 17:03 Customers before opening Two people from Aichi I think I'll take two. Beer 630 yen Homemade dumplings made to order are popular Bite-sized gyoza with garlic Good size for snack Tofu, gyoza, mochi kinchaku Tofu, Mochi Kinchaku, Gyoza Roll Green onion, bonito flakes, kara shi, yuzu pepper It is in this area before Yes, sir. Udon noodle stall Ah, Aya Yes, yes, yes. You already quit, didn't you? A man who is a regular 18:00 opening Gyoza: 480 yen Noodles, oden, yakitori, grilled chicken, stir-fry 2 people visited Regulars order oden Mustard? I don't want any. No mustard? I don't need useless things. Okay, thank you. Okay. Tofu 180 yen Gyoza order Wrapping dumplings Setting dumplings in iron pot Steaming the dumplings Dumplings are baked! (Customer) I can eat as many of these dumplings as I want. Pork belly and chicken skin Can you do three of each? Yes, thank you! Pork belly 180 yen Chicken skin 150 yen Eggs, tendon, daikon radish, and fried bean curd Daikon radish, Konjac, Iwashiten, Atsuage Oden is a dish that makes you want to drink more and more... Cancer Ganomo is very popular. Toyama prefecture gets a lot of snow. There is no culture of food stalls. I like it. It's delicious to eat and drink outside. Two young guys in suits Ordering ramen 2 pieces Braised pork, green onion, sesame seeds Ramen noodles 600yen Simple Tonkotsu Ramen, light and easy to eat Medium-thick, straight noodles I can eat a meal while exchanging like this. I think that's the charm of a food stall. (landlady) busy? I had a little too many meetings. Finished up to the soup! Oh, it looks so good! Looks delicious! It's beer, isn't it? Oh, it's so good. I recommend, most of all, dumplings. And the next one is hormone or lebanilla Hormone recommended My father did one. And then I was a father to him after that. And then we got married and we were both So, two people, 36, seven years. The proprietress's cheerful service attracts many regular customers From the burnt minute, it's four pieces of meat and skin. (Staff) That's great, you can come to the stall with your children Hey, that's right. I knew I wanted to come to the food truck. I like yakitori very much, (Customer) Please make me a customer. Yes, general! Thank you very much! I hope I didn't forget anything. (Guest) Thanks for the food Thank you very much Thank you very much! (Regular) Welcome to Hakata! Thank you very much for the food. Thank you very much! I wipe the dishes with kitchen paper and use as little water as possible 19:03 Delicious Sorry. Yes, sir. What is a four-footer? (General) It's a thigh. (General) One four-pack good The dumplings they made in front of me The warm taste of the owner I do Gyoza (8 pieces) 480yen A must order when you come to Chusuke Beer Asahi 630yen Order hormone yaki Saute onion and hormone with salt and pepper Cabbage Stir-fried with hormone yaki sauce Garlic chive Hormone 750 yen Thick hormone Many customers drink alone Ordering Yakisoba Pork belly, cabbage, bean sprouts Yakisoba noodles Stir-fry with sauce Sprinkle aonori (green laver) on top and it's done! Oden. Cabbage rolls Tonpeiyaki 650yen Regular customers I don't know what I've never eaten. Oh! Tonpeiyaki That's what I thought, too. It's delicious. It's the only way to go. I'm just glad to be alive. Ramen noodles 600 yen Liver was delicious! Shrimp was really good! I didn't think you could get this kind of food from a street vendor. It's amazing! Maruten was delicious! Japan Fukuoka Established in 1979 17:00 Assembly of stalls Gas stand Pork bone soup Ramen noodles Seasoning Oden 160 yen Ice pork bone Kalashi Ramen noodle 750yen Queue before opening 18:30 opening Can I grill only beef tongue and bonjiri? I'm going to grill them all at once. It takes a long time to order more. I'd like to order some more beef for you. Tan, Ichibo, Karubi or Sagari Liver, if you don't mind liver Jun Eguchi, the car chief Popular menu Light homemade ponzu Wagyu beef liver from 800 yen Wagyu beef tongue from 1,400 yen Ramen soup is poured in two parts. Eating while feeling the air outside The condiments for ramen are sesame, garlic, pepper and red ginger. Please let me know if you need it. Ramen noodles 750yen Soft Braised pork Medium-thick straight noodles Each one at a place, each one at a location, the intensity of the fire is different. So, with a good shifting I'm doing it just like I'm baking it just right. I'm the second generation. My father was in the business originally, so I'm kind of taking it over. I'm from thailand Bangkok travel go to Fukuoka 3rd time yes Geso 300 yen Bonjiri 230 yen Tiger prawns from market Touring from Chiba. I've done a round trip around Kyushu. Today is the last day (Staff) Something about how good this was? Liver and shrimp were delicious Liver was good Shrimp was really good. Shrimp? Shrimps are very tasty. I didn't think you could eat this at a food stall. It's amazing! Live tiger prawns 850 yen From Okinawa all the way from Japan Yes Today is the 1st day Tomorrow I'm going from Fukuoka to Thailand. I'm going to eat grilled food, beef tongue and bonjiri are delicious, and And the oden martin? The round ones... Maruten! It seems to be Maruten! Maruten is delicious! From Miyagi It was all delicious. I enjoyed the liver. I was... Oh, no, not WW 19:24 Mentaiko Ramen 1100yen Beer 650 yen Oden Kalash Sine 160 yen Cabbage roll 350 yen Daikon 160 yen Kuroge Wagyu beef ribs from 1400 yen Wagyu Sagari from 1300yen Live tiger prawn Squeezed with lemon Wagyu beef liver from 800 yen Ramen noodles 750yen Pork bone is sweet and has no peculiar taste, recommended for the end of the meal. Mentaiko Ramen 1100yen Mentaiko and pork bone go well together The customers eat the rice and say it's delicious. And that it was fun, and that it felt good. I'd like to be in a place where people can say that. Japan Fukuoka Established 1972 Preparing for 18:30 opening Shelves Electricity Gas About 120 menu items Mochi-mochi gyoza rice cake powder. Many original products The most popular item is &quot;Mochimochi Gyoza&quot;. Our original dumplings. Spicy lotus root is stuffed with spices. No, ours is original and stuffed with cod roe. Ramen noodles, rice, drinks... The menu changes seasonally. About 16 kinds of oden ingredients Stewed Beef Hakata tonkotsu ramen 650yen Teppan-yaki pork belly 900 yen Thick-cut bacon 700yen Customers start to line up 18:30 Opening of the store Some customers have reservations What do you want to drink? One highball and one orange juice. Yes, and a highball and an orange. Here you go. Teppan Grilled Pork Belly and Bite-sized Pork Belly, please. Bite and rose, yes, please! Here you go. Berg, yes. Braised beef tendon Beef tendon, dote 1 Mustard menkong Menkon 1 Mochimochi gyoza 1 Yes, I have! Moti3 grilled ramen Yaki Ramen 1 Yes! It's a bite-sized gyoza from before It's hot. I'm not pretending, It's really hot, so be careful. Thank you for waiting pork belly Hakata Yaki Ramen 850yen If you mash an egg, the taste will be mellowed! What? I didn't know it was like this. It's burning... Of course, I'll just remember the order. Excuse me, barley shochu with water Here you go. Here you go, chewy gyoza. Please eat it with ponzu (Japanese sauce) and yuzu kosho (Japanese citrus pepper). Continue Jidori Teppanyaki You can eat it with lemon, yuzu kosho, mayonnaise, etc., as you like. Delicious! Wow! It smells so good. I was thinking of ramen noodles with soup in it. I've never had crispy noodles without soup It was so good! Yes, chewy gyoza from before Ponzu (Japanese sauce), Yuzu kosho (citrus pepper) on it. Be careful, it's hot. Make room for the dishes. Braised pork. Can you handle it? I can place it. I can place it. This is absolutely delicious Yaki Ramen stir-fried in Tonkotsu (pork bone) broth Hakata tonkotsu ramen 650yen I guess I'll go to Oden Hakata Stamina Yaki and Stamina and Yes, yes, from before. Mochimochi gyoza. Please eat it with ponzu (Japanese sauce) and yuzu kosho (Japanese citrus pepper) Yes, it's grilled ramen from before. If you mash an egg, it tastes mellow. 19:10 Mazemen and Hakata tonkotsu ramen, chewy gyoza I can do it soon, sorry. Ramen customer Hakata mazemen 600yen Delicious! 1:29 Mochimochi gyoza 650 yen Mentaiko Tamago-yaki 800 yen Stir-fried ramen noodles in pork bone broth Hakata Yaki Ramen 850yen 2:27 Food stalls close for business 17:00 Authentic Tonkotsu Ramen &amp; Gyoza Chili pepper, black pepper, red ginger Tonkotsu Ramen 600yen Refill 150yen Handmade gyoza (10 pieces) 500yen Chicken thighs 200 yen Sandzuri 150 yen 18:30 opening One dumpling Mentaiko egg omelet Gyoza (dumplings) made to order Gyoza Wow, looks delicious Hot You can eat it. Right? delicious Mentaiko Omelet 19:24 English menu Grilled skewers from spit-roasting Great drinks... Tonkotsu Ramen Gyoza Of course it's delicious. The dumplings are tiny and unique, aren't they? Mentaiko omelet Yaki Ramen Pork bone ramen Tonkotsu Ramen 600yen Full-bodied pork bone soup Large size and meaty Braised pork Medium thickness straight noodle Making 2 cups of ramen Customer from Sapporo Delicious. Here, to the big guy at the company. If you're going to come to Hakata, this is the place to go. Delicious! Food stalls are nice. Wrapping dumplings (Owner) Dumplings! Thank you very much! Tonkotsu Ramen 22:31 Tonkotsu Ramen Ajitama Wipe dishes Handmade bite-sized dumplings (10 pcs) 500yen Small size gyoza with garlic is good.