Grave warnings to celebrities, finding love Harding fits into all this? Tyler Henry may be Hollywood's favorite when we die? Stay tuned to find out. Tyler Henry only turned 26 in 2022, but he's In an interview with Ryan Seacrest, Henry he first discovered his abilities. As he tells it, everything was business as to wake up later with a premonition. &quot;And when I woke up, I had this overwhelming to die, and I didn't have a doubt about it.&quot; As he was telling his mother about the feeling her that Tyler's grandma had indeed just passed. He summed up the experience by saying - &quot;That whole instance changed everything.&quot; For the last decade Henry has been aware of a starting point for his Hollywood career Tyler Henry started being paid for his medium Pacific High School, receiving about $40 per At the time, Henry was living with his parents Henry said that while he was shy in high school, performing readings for other students and an article about Henry in the Fresno Bee. But according to The Outline, Henry was unhappy Pacific to begin homeschooling instead. Through an accelerated program, he graduated Just three years later, he was well on his who routinely hangs out with celebrities from When he signed on to do his TV show, he wasn't Fans of &quot;Hollywood Medium&quot; have surely noticed the show. She appears frequently, driving Henry to his because Henry doesn't drive. This is why his mom transports him to and When he was only 18, Henry suffered from a something was wrong after a headache that &quot;And then I went to my mom after a few days think my brain is swelling and I want you He decided not to drive after this event. That's why mom Theresa serves as his chauffeur, seat next to her. It's an arrangement that suits Henry just He told TV Insider - &quot;Trust me, I don't mind being chauffeured Tyler Henry told Out magazine that he always But originally, he thought he was going to He enrolled in college with the goal of becoming up taking him in a different direction before As he told the magazine - &quot;When I was going to school, I got a reading I'd start filming a TV show, and that it would was my life purpose.&quot; It may not be how he pictured it as a child, helping them, in whatever way he can. &quot;Do you have any questions about your personal &quot;...Do you believe in aliens?&quot; It's not just Hollywood gossip -- Tyler Henry just months before the former TV dad died Henry gave Thicke a reading about three months In a later episode of his E! reality series, widow, Tanya. During the reading he talked to Thicke about his blood pressure as he got older, adding &quot;It's possible that within your family, there age dealing with blood pressure issues, but arrhythmia.&quot; Thicke sort of laughed off Henry's concern, a heart issue, he wasn't aware of any genetics &quot;Just not a genetic line that we've known.&quot; &quot;Right. Interesting. OK.&quot; &quot;That is unbelievable.&quot; Tyler Henry says that many are skeptical of abilities before they will trust him, telling that can't be found online or information Despite endorsements from celebrities and as a fraud and a &quot;grief vampire&quot; by some. Henry was the target of a blistering editorial label is used outright. Henry has also been a frequent target for as well as the Skeptoid Blog, where he's been Tyler Henry is starting to become as recognizable of people aren't quite sure which famous person and about in the world. When speaking to BuzzFeed in 2017, Henry revealed most, saying - &quot;I'm typically used to being mis-recognized he's 36.&quot; &quot;Do people think you're Macaulay Culkin?&quot; &quot;They do. I feel like I'm better looking than Macaulay I will put that out there.&quot; &quot;Ohhhh...&quot; Look at images of Culkin from 10 years ago, Henry is a dead ringer for Culkin's character Even today, the similarity in their features The Hollywood Medium could easily pass as Henry has also been mistaken for Dylan Minette though the resemblance there is much less Tyler Henry has given readings to many celebrities, fans more than everyone else. In an interview with Elite Daily, Henry said and Jenners. Henry has given readings to multiple family &quot;They're lovely. When I talk to them it's like talking to anybody They're looking for the same things, they Henry was attending a party with some of the a reading to Bella Thorne, who was also in Henry previously gave a reading to Khloe Kardashian, Tristan Thompson. Later, reports that Thompson had been unfaithful In addition to his other talents, Tyler Henry views on the spiritual world. His first book, &quot;Between Two Worlds: Lessons initially released in 2016 and became a national The book not only reflects on how Henry's clairvoyant, but it also addresses how spirituality The reality star's second written work, &quot;Here Can Transform Your Life Now,&quot; was published readers learn how to live their best lives Additionally, the day before the release of where he answered questions and offered signed Stating that the new publication involved one of his recent health issues, which forced his lung collapsed, is also addressed in his Going on to explain that &quot;Here &amp; Hereafter&quot; told his viewers that we can all gain insight &quot;If we can approach life in that way, we can other people have to teach us.&quot; While Tyler Henry is well known for &quot;Hollywood option for watching the clairvoyant work his Recently, the reality star released a new Tyler Henry.&quot; His new unscripted series sees Henry taking the country to offer readings to people searching Additionally, Henry also gets personal, sharing and how it affects his life. The series also seeks closure for a bizarre Back in 2019, Henry's mom learned that the was, in fact, not related to her at all. If that wasn't shocking enough, the woman had also been convicted and served time for While trying to dive further into the mystery he was too emotionally close to get a clear possessions, though he did reflect on the &quot;She could have had a completely different Additionally, in an effort to explore the Erin Jensen received a special reading from actually the real deal. While admitting that some of the information Jensen added that certain statements were concluding that she's convinced by the medium's With an ever-growing reputation for his clairvoyant are clamoring to get a reading from Tyler While you don't have to be a celebrity to least according to his still-expanding waitlist, Similarly, Henry's site doesn't list any rates waiting should probably keep in mind. Some high profile mediums, like John Edward, others like &quot;Long Island Medium&quot; star Theresa However, even with a potentially hefty price for the opportunity to get a one-on-one with If you really want to try speeding things Henry is known to sometimes give away readings and sending a message could result in getting When Corey Feldman appeared on &quot;Hollywood when Henry offered him messages from the late E! News stated that while Feldman was initially convinced him of the clairvoyant's abilities. Henry even ended up offering Feldman some open about his mistreatment as a child star, words were the exact answer he was looking However, despite Feldman's positive reaction, According to TMZ, Judy Haim, the late actor's Haim stated that Feldman's attempts to contact were purely for financial gain, adding that Feldman. Similarly, Entertainment Tonight Canada reported an interview, saying that Feldman's claims are statements he used to stay in the spotlight. She accused Feldman's interaction with Henry Many relationships begin thanks to a third a friend of a friend or someone's relative, But in most cases, the people setting up the Tyler Henry met his boyfriend, Clint Godwin, brought them together. Henry talked about how he came to meet Godwin About two weeks before the future couple met, That's when Henry's medium abilities began &quot;But I think his grandpa like hooked us up &quot;Really?&quot; &quot;Cuz he kept coming through in dreams and He did, and he and Clint have been happily and the cute couple gets a ton of social media Being a medium can have its advantages, as some of Hollywood's most elite celebs, but related to strangers. Sometimes, as Henry revealed in an interview on relationships. Though Henry is happily in a relationship world makes things really weird. Sometimes when they're together, Henry begins the other side. However, boyfriend Clint Godwin is very understanding, &quot;Something will come through from his grandfather understands that I kind of have to get it It's a little awkward, but he understands While plenty of us wonder about an afterlife, He told Newsweek - &quot;I think there is definitely life but that this realm.&quot; In clarifying his words, the celebrity medium himself, he believes that it's natural for of the spiritual world and what comes after Still, Henry thinks that the deceased he connects at peace, saying - &quot;When people come through they're not talking Henry also noted that no matter what or where is that something awaits us and that these left behind. The medium also said that he's constantly as he continues his work. As for the doubters, Henry acknowledged that saying - &quot;I've definitely come to a point in understanding my help.&quot; Though skeptics say that many mediums use give their clients accurate readings, those reality show insist that he has no idea who The show's executive producer, Michael Corbett, - &quot;We are very secretive. We never let Tyler know who he's going to It's never written down anywhere [...] he he opens the door. That's the reality.&quot; Speaking in an interview with TV Insider, name in order to maintain the utmost secrecy, after he received a reading himself, after a show featuring Henry. &quot;And when he left it he understood from the he had the firsthand experience.&quot; While chatting with NewNowNet, Henry discussed a small conservative area to his life as an Soon after, Henry revealed the significance drag queen appeared on &quot;Hollywood Medium&quot; &quot;I would say that one was so memorable for was somebody who I felt a sense of relatability In getting to meet the iconic celebrity and Henry stated that he felt like he was finally a wider range of representation during his Additionally, the Netflix star noted that one point, RuPaul even gave Henry a recommendation &quot;And we made chocolate together, so I think made chocolate with RuPaul.&quot; Tyler Henry has done readings for some of His client roster includes such names as Megan Michael Jackson. However, there is one name that remains on When asked who he would like to give a reading some people: infamous ice skater Tonya Harding. He explained in an interview with Elite Daily, &quot;I'm a huge fan of Tonya Harding, but in seeing extraordinary stuff. I just feel like as a person, she has an incredible There's a lot of healing that could be had from.&quot; Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more List videos about your favorite Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the