In this video I'm going to teach you a technique but you probably didn't know about, and when you think and feel. But to begin with I'm going to seconds. And in case you didn't know, I use And one of the things that comes with experiential therapy, meaning therapy through we don't just, you know, think about our that lead to a change in our perspective. So so 30 seconds. I just need you to answer this Go ahead and pause this video for 30 seconds section. I'm really curious to hear your different Okay so maybe you think the desk looks is padded - that's an upgraded generation, before chairs in the history of humanity, so I've asked this question of dozens of clients, and great answers - and they're all wrong. The desk is that question your mind immediately began filling It automatically creates connections between And when it doesn't know why something it makes these guesses it doesn't feel And we do this over and over. These assumptions, Your unconscious interpretation of situations So stick around because today Now once I was working with a client who was in but the biggest difficulty in her She lived in a culture where marriage and family and she longed to have a family of her own. the more she wondered why. How come She started to think maybe it's because I'm a bad get married. Maybe there's something defective or one day she said something that, like, haunted me said maybe the reason I haven't gotten married is Now up to that point we had been focused on other on this one. I knew I had to intervene, so I know this could sound bad and I didn't mean look around and tell me if the only people who get She thought about it for a minute, and she could mean, or unskilled people who had gotten married. Now obviously it's possible to get married Now obviously this this story, the the reason she's defective, this story was false. She healthy, attractive, just really good human You know, what other ways could What if it's not about your goodness as a Maybe you don't know how to date. Maybe you how to be vulnerable. Yet these are skills that maybe it's not in God's plan yet. Maybe there's process. From another perspective, maybe it's a than men in her community. Maybe it's because guys don't know how to date anymore. Maybe it's because I mean, what if this isn't about you at all? opened up for her to do something different. came to her mind, which was, you know, I'm just can I learn? Se started exploring her negative She started dating differently. She started And within a year she'd met a good man, and in this situation the way she was interpreting How we consistently see problems, how we One of the ways that we can change our life I like to use the six-pack exercise to do this. exercise. The trainer who taught me this, he was your guess is as good as mine. But this exercise so that we can hopefully choose which set of to act on. And when we do this we can change how Let's use an example of someone who's really so she keeps leaving her dishes out. It's selfish, guests over, right. This person feels like I I so that's the example we're gonna use. Um, take a calling stories, right. The easiest interpretation Or I'm the clean one, the good roommate, and she's feeling angry. Great, how helpful is that, right? Are they truthful? Does it give you The way that I'm thinking about this problem, she's being awful. I'm innocent. She's ruining my to act. Now just for fun I want you to think of um, this roommate who's not doing her dishes, why she's doing what she's doing. And just to these new ideas, this six-pack of ideas, or accurate. You just make something up, she's doing this out of spite. She's doing it Here's another one: maybe I'm just a terrible Okay, now obviously, right, this is but what we're doing right now, we're alternatives. Okay, maybe she just comes from a dishes, or culturally she's used to her mom Maybe she's completely overwhelmed. She's cope with life in school in a job and a boyfriend, Maybe I can learn something from this like how someone. It literally takes me five seconds so there's my six stories, my six pack. Okay, and to interpret a situation, I'm just gonna throw out different than mine. Maybe she likes to do them at space alien from another planet where there was a Maybe I'm actually the one being way too uptight by demanding that the dishes get done immediately, nice feelings in the apartment. Maybe she has ADD through on tasks right now. Some of these might right, like the space alien one. That's okay. Just but how we consistently think leads to how we me feeling angry. Thinking I deserve to Thinking maybe she's completely overwhelmed helped she doesn't know what bugs me gave me a little You can choose how you consistently feel by situations you consistently believe. When we can and we often feel powerless to act. When we we can choose which thoughts line up So here's the technique that therapists use all when a therapist says something like let's look previous story you know how to do this yourself. the six-pack exercise. Think of the last time and for a minute just put yourself back in that thinking about that person? And then use your own seeing the problem. If you catch yourself getting you may be creating unnecessary rigidity. I am not the process of considering alternatives, it's So allow yourself to explore different ways of to seeing these different alternatives, then you Here are three questions you could ask yourself want to act on. Question number one: is my story self-deception, self-justification, and cognitive these in upcoming sections, and then after we've, then choose between a variety of stories based on is my story kind? Now kindness is one of my lines up with the kind of person I want to be. So Do you value looking for the best in people or their actions, no matter how frustrating their truthful and helps you live your values. You want you. And I would say in general kindness leaves right, but there are definitely some times for Okay question number three: does my story give situation is good or bad or, you know, whether that all leaves us powerless. Asking instead, I change or influence this situation? When when we in our situation, this is going to give us more do and how we're going to feel. Gandhi said, &quot;You Am I getting so bugged about the situation that bugged at? So I mean, for example, you think about right, or someone being so mad at another person the value that you'd like to see, and then ask us get a little bit of clarity on which story we stuck even to do the six-pack exercise or to ask Sometimes we get so wrapped up in our stories Sometimes we get stuck in seeing the other person saint yourself. And sometimes the reality is But regardless of the other's actions, we need sunk into our own perspective and we can't and reach out to our resources. So here's a couple you're seeing a situation. Take a break from the it later when your head's clear. Do some activity Maybe it's playing the guitar or watching out in nature or praying about it. Write about the And another thing that can be helpful but comes perspective, right. It can be helpful to hear but you've got to look out for depending on of your story. So I'm going to encourage someone who doesn't always agree with you, When you slow things down and you try to get other choice in your life. One of the most powerful ways and turn it into a situation that empowers you is that with each challenge I face, instead of using &quot;This is a bad, uh, situation,&quot; right, myself what can I learn from this? Or how can When we consider problems from this perspective, strength. Sometimes I even pretend that everyone to test how I'm going to react to a certain with integrity. The bottom line is we make an and our interpretations, our stories create our how we feel and how we act. But if we can learn to going to give our energy to, and that can free you Basically, learning the skill of reframing This video is one skill from my 30-skill where I teach 30 of the most essential and improving mental health. Emotion processing emotions, but most people have never been main video lesson on YouTube for the world to sharing them, contributing to my Patreon If you would like to access the entire course in downloads, extra videos, live Q&amp;A's, additional the link to buy the course