Marc:The Wood Whisperer is sponsored by: Powermatic, the gold Rockler Woodworking and Now that I'm back in my old hands full with projects and actually build my first piece all starts with a lumber rack. (groovy jazz music) This lumber rack is very easy 2x4s and plywood. You need space in your wall and you don't necessarily have to You could downsize things, you could make the whole You customize it so it Let's look at some of the materials and we can get started building. I just picked up my 2x4 stock Keep in mind not all of Some piles are kiln-dried You can even take your hand and you'll feel the stuff has a lot of moisture It feels cold and clammy. This on the other hand, generally feels room temperature. You can feel a little bit of here in Arizona it's a little the most part the kiln-dried What that means to you is that Even though this one has a lot especially here in Arizona, there's enough in here that I wait too long to work with boards this morning and I'm That way I don't have to worry about it. If you do use the regular want to make sure you soon as possible because and turn into pretzels The other thing to keep in mind is the total length of these boards. I like to have the back of the boards, I don't really for each vertical support, corresponds to how high you If that's eight foot, great, if you can get 10-footers accommodate 10-foot boards, Just make sure you get them long enough to accommodate the size Wood is stored in an insulated humidity and air Excess moisture is driven course of weeks to a month, Although you bought your resist the urge to buy Unfortunately that plywood moisture so as soon as you within a couple hours sheets you're going to They tend to really warp and it just makes it miserable to work with. Instead I recommend going and asking them about Don't get the cabinet-grade stuff, you don't need it for a project like this. It's going to cost about would pay at the local maybe 50 bucks a sheet You're going to have more plies, in fact mine has 11 internal plies. It's a lot like baltic stable over time and it 40 to 50 bucks a sheet, It just means you've got to make one extra trip to a different store. Behind me here is where our The first order of business Our lumber rack needs to so it's absolutely vital members are attached to studs in the wall. I use a standard stud finder If you're having problems with this, a lot of people don't realize very easily by putting it (beeping) You hear that, right? Obviously I couldn't have a stud finder in my hands and not do a joke. I put the stud finder against the wall, slide it over and when a sound and you'll see the red light and it tells you where the Use that to ballpark the From this point on if all you need to do is measure across every 16 inches and mark the Keep in mind, some houses, some so you're going to want to I would make sure that if you have 24 inch centers, put your vertical supports If you go to the next level a four foot gap between your verticals, that's a little bit too much. I don't feel comfortable doing that. Put your verticals on every 24 inches. For me, since mine are 16 put mine every 32 inches enough to support the weight Go all the way down the line, studs and that's going to project when we need to The first thing I want to onto the wall. This is not support for each one of these also going to make it a lot it helps us hold them in place. Just a regular old 2x4 is going I've marked already on it every attach it with a single screw Before I drive the screw just because I want to material and I don't (drilling) I'm just going to go along the length and get each screw started. I'm using 3 1/2 inch You can certainly use lag I'm going to drop this about 12 I've got a little mark here be absolutely perfect. I'm Line up my screw with a known Now I can drive the screw. Feels secure, that Now I can continue along the I do that I don't like to make sure it's perfect, I'm Hey, look at this. Scorpion. To get the full length I did have to add one additional piece because the size that I One 30 inch extra piece should cover it. Just make sure that the me make sure that Each one of our vertical pieces of screws from top to bottom How many? It's up to you. mine maybe every 16 to Just make sure that you have one at the top and one near the very bottom. This way everything We're going to pre-drill again. Once again I'm going to This one is very similar, it's a SPAX screw but look how long it is. It's actually 4 3/4 of long to go all the way through this board. We'll recess it by quite really nice amount of a One thing I should have about before is when you you're going to want to make enough to take the entire Not too wide but just wide enough. This way when the screw hits it will pull this entire If this screw starts catching our vertical support they You need to have this and that should really help If you're lucky you'll be able the cleat and start driving My problem is I've got going to need to mark the cut a little scoop out that Perfect. We'll start by attaching this It doesn't have to be the very Eyeballing at this point. Now with one screw in place If one screw is in the stud, straight up and down and be able to put your level make sure the bubble is nice and centered, and then drive the rest of the screws. By the way, an impact driver is worth its weight in gold on a project like this. I'm going to continue way down and installing (funky electronic guitar) Our shelf supports themselves from a 2x4 that's sandwiched This one's loose, nothing is me show you the components The one side piece of The 2x4 is added and it's Then the other piece of What that does is it creates almost a open mortice or a little pocket here. This is going to go into To make the support brackets I cut up a bunch of 2x4s to 18 inches in length. For a full-sized rack you're I then used my track saw strips from the full sheet of plywood. I find it much easier to on the floor instead of at the table saw. The plywood strips are then Remember you're going to need On each piece of plywood I from the back edge and 3 1/2 Then I use a straight The taper can then be cut at the bandsaw since the line doesn't have to be perfect. If you're lucky enough to have you can certainly make Once the part are cut they can be assembled with glue and screws. A level line across the studs Before screwing the that the stud is making vertical support for the We don't want any gap here. Now I drive two screws in from each side. It may be overkill but I like screw to each side that vertical support and into the Speaking of overkill I decided to make a late game change here. I added a few extra-long vertical member just Ah, now that feels better. The next order of business is The entire thing is made the parts are cut to the Each joint is put together with It doesn't get simpler than this. These parts are very large just get creative using some (upbeat jazz music) Before we put this a good idea to attach the casters while we still have access to the underside. The casters that I'm going to use, I just picked these up at Home Depot. They're really heavy each and they're blue so they look cool. I'm going to install them before I do I want to There's only one piece of I like to have something a little bit more substantial to bite an extra strip of ply where the casters are I can attach it with some glue and screws. Now I'm going to mark the locations of the holes in each caster. Have it roughly centered here. I'm just pre-drilling the center just to help the screw get started. Now I'll drive inch and That bad boy is not going anywhere. To install the plywood to need to prop up one the one end has casters I'm just using whatever I up to approximately the Attaching it to this vertical member here I'm going to use on of these gate hinges. It's a pretty big one so it I'm going to attach it like this triangular leaf can be attached to the side of the cart itself. Let's drill these in Now with two hinges move the whole thing Get it lined up as best we can. Now we can screw them in place. If all goes well we should be Hopefully you won't This bad boy should swing right out. Yeah, baby. Here's the cool thing. have to move it out much more than this. Just enough so that it's convenient to slide sheet goods in and out. Once they're in place push I see it's actually a little bit so you may a little hook system or place but for the most part And thankfully I don't I'm going to attach this little This should finish it off nicely. You can see I've already main racks and now we can Plenty of room for solid scraps here, whatever you Now I'll load up the main sheet good rack. (sultry jazz music) There it is. A sturdy rack and a sheet goods It's nice and convenient. door so I could just pull the truck and put it Honestly I'm really happy There are lot of different ways that you could take a project like this. You could add neat little features to it, you could do more to reinforce it. Let me know what you guys do because I'd love to see your changes. For me, for now, I think pretty good until I which seems to always be a problem. Thanks for watching. Of for this project at TheWoodWhisperer.com and we'll catch you next time. (sultry jazz music) (woman singing)