Hello everyone from Rita and welcome to my YouTube channel RITA CHEF CHANNEL. Today we prepare together the most representative traditional dessert of Christmas: PANETTONE. I prepared the dough by hand and tried to make panettone really simple for everyone. Just follow the video step by step and scrupulously respect the doses to obtain an extraordinary result, a fragrant and super soft panettone. Before going to the kitchen I remind you as usual to subscribe to my channel, share my video recipes with your friends, and click on the bell to receive notifications of my next videos. Let's start preparing the yeast for our panettone: we need water at room temperature, fresh yeast, sugar and flour. The flour I'm using has 13 g of protein and W 400. All the weights of the ingredients as usual are written in the info box under the video. Let's start pouring the water into the bowl, add the sugar and brewer's yeast and work with a whisk. Yeast and sugar are well dissolved and we add the flour and continue working. Here it is ready, it must be so fluid, now we cover the bowl with cling film and let it rise for 45 minutes at a temperature of 24deg. Now let's see together the ingredients of our panettone dough: three eggs I'm using and they are medium eggs, their weight is 160 g without shell, 400 w flour, Bavarian butter, granulated sugar, vanilla flavouring, organic orange and lemon zest , salt and finally the yeast. Add the sugar to the bowl and work with a whisk. Now we add the yeast and continue to work with the whisk. Have you seen how foamy the yeast is? It's fermented to perfection... now let's add the flavors and work some more and now we add the flour twice Now we leave the whisk and continue to work with a spatula, adding the rest of the flour at this point we add the salt Now let's start working by hand because we have to incorporate the butter into our dough. Let's add the butter a little at a time... I'm working by hand but if you want you can work with the planetary mixer.... it takes us about approx. 15 minutes, even if you work in a planetary mixer you will have to add the butter gradually . Even in a planetary mixer at medium speed it will take about 10 minutes. The butter has been well absorbed and the dough, as you can see, comes away perfectly from the bowl... now I work it for 5 minutes in this way. Here is the type of dough we obtained, now we put it in a clean buttered bowl. We cover the bowl with cling film and let the dough rise until doubled, at a temperature of 24deg. Look at the wonderful leavening we achieved, the dough took 3 and a half hours to reach this point at a temperature of 24deg. Now we have to butter the work surface and work the dough on the surface we expand the dough and at this point we have to add the suspensions to our dough. In this panettone I only add raisins... I have already soaked and squeezed them. If you want you can also add candied fruit or alternatively chocolate chips. Now we have to close the dough... We put the dough inside a low 1 kg panettone mould. You can find the dimensions of the mold written in the info box under the video. Now we cover the mold and wait for the volume to double, always at a temperature of 24deg. After 4 hours of leavening, the dome of the panettone has gone beyond the edge of the mold, now we remove the film and leave the panettone uncovered at room temperature for 30 minutes. 30 minutes have passed and as you can see the panettone has grown again, but above all this little skin has formed on the outside, and this is thanks to the fact that we discovered the panettone. Now let's carve a cross, and once cut we put a knob of butter in the center ... and now we cook our panettone in a preheated static oven at a temperature of 165deg for about 50 minutes. Here is our freshly baked panettone. Let's do the toothpick test, here it is, perfectly cooked. now we skewer the panettone, in my case with bamboo skewers, and turn it over. we keep it upside down until it has completely cooled, and once we turn it upside down we cover it. I left the panettone upside down for a night and now it's time to remove the skewers and cut a slice together... I don't think there are many words to say, we have created a panettone with a single dough made entirely by hand and the result is simply extraordinary! I wish you were here to smell the scent of this panettone and also I think you can all see the incredible softness... it has a fantastic alveolation, I'm just telling you try it try it try it!!! Well, I hope you liked my panettone, put LIKE and I'll see you at my next video recipe, I invite you as usual to subscribe to my channel, share my video recipes with your friends and click on the bell to receive notifications of my next videos... A big hug to all of you from Rita.