Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. Earth only contains 1066 people. Earth, Texas. The only place on Earth officially named Earth. There are at least two places named but the Earth only has one astronomical Or does it? From September 2006 to June named 2006 RH120. It's a near Earth asteroid that usually orbits around it fell into an orbit around our planet another Moon of Earth. We can call it that a Moon is just a natural satellite. Something in orbit around a planet that humans There's no official minimum size The Moon, it's a Moon. Sputnik, space junk, the International not Moons, they are artificial satellites. Astronomers believe that, most of the Earth has additional Moons. These long and they tend to only be about a meter in diameter, so we don't always detect them and they could, less sensationally, be called temporary asteroid moons. But, the vagueness of the word Moon means that, yes, technically Earth usually has more than one and Earth is booking it. I mean we're incredibly quickly. A light year is an unfathomable distance to put in the human but our solar system orbits around the at about 782,000 kilometres an hour. Which means, that from the perspective of the center of our galaxy, about every 1300 years Earth travels an entire light year. In other words, the Great Pyramid of Giza, wasn't just built 4500 almost three-and-a-half light years away. Big deal - what's it all worth? Could we assign a price to the entire Well, Greg Loughman, an astrophysicist at devised a beautiful equation for assessing the value of exoplanets we discover. It considers their habitability, their ease of being studied and, of course, how much money we've already spent looking for them. Funny enough, you can solve for Earth and find out that compared to exoplanets - and what we know about them - Earth is worth about five quadrillion dollars. The History Channel famously stuck to rang up all of Earth's resources like current market prices they arrived at a total of seven quadrillion dollars. If you isolated all of the elements your body at market price, you could fetch about two thousand dollars. Reddit user Shady Potato applied this map to Earth. If we could mine the entire pure elements, and prices didn't change for 15.8 sextillion dollars. Of course calculations like thing earth, or any other planet has to offer, and they also don't consider supply and demand. If someone here on Earth, or some extraterrestrial group of planet shoppers, had quadrillions, sextillions of dollars, or the well, they would have the option to shop larger store. For crying out loud, there near Earth. And just one of them - 433 Eros - is estimated to contain a half alone, and by weight, even more iron. So to be more realistic, instead of on Earth, let's calculate its value on the galactic marketplace, or the universal marketplace. If you, or some aliens, shopping for a planet could pick any planet in the entire Milky Way galaxy, what about worth anything? The Milky Way galaxy is estimated to contain a supply of around 100 to 400 billion planets. As far as Earth analogues go, Kepler space mission 40 billion Earth size planets orbiting of stars in our galaxy. And within the Quadrillions. So, from a raw materials and habitability probably isn't that rare. But Earth does have some unique selling points. For one, it's probably the only planet like itself So its location might be prime real estate for an intergalactic rest stop or imminent domain. And secondly, statistically life as we know it might not be unique to Earth, but there probably isn't life with jaguars, palm trees and hairless who made the same buildings and that we have. These might be the truest Aliens wouldn't have to understand, or if it merely amused them it might museum, or zoo at the least. Of course, interstellar planet shoppers Earth currency to buy it with, and space cash isn't worth anything here. But the technology it would take for them to get to us would likely be at least thousands of an equitable trade might be, say, limited use of Earth in exchange for their knowledge. Or full use - or abuse - of Earth in exchange for and fair relocation of all earthlings to some equally habitable exoplanet. Boy, this type of speculation is totally sci-fi. But you know what's not? The next part of establishing Earth's value: demand. Despite what Earth has to offer, despite what makes it unique, and despite ten reasons other life forms might want Earth so far we have received 0 offers. The Fermi Paradox formally phrases this puzzle. With so many planets out there, many of which have even Earth, why haven't we been visited by, or heard from, intelligent life yet? Maybe Earth, and its intelligent life, really are rare and special. Or maybe Earth is so typical, so unremarkable, no other could be bothered to stop by. But this Even if something came by, what makes us make an offer? Why would it consider our wishes at all? In Star Trek 4, the aliens wanted to and humans were just an awkward third wheel. When Thomas Jefferson made the Louisiana say, squirrels in Nebraska for did it. And all those squirrels were without knowing it. For all we know, that may have already happened to us. Earth interstellar landlord. Furthermore, this entire question rests on an assumption, the assumption that other share our concept of ownership; and the belief that physical things can and sold. Amongst earthlings, human bartering is pretty unique. Only we have developed complicated, socially agreed-upon norms, goods, the use of currency for goods, or own a piece of Earth's surface. Sure, animals can be territorial, but they expansive sense of fair exchange. And when it comes to an individual owning more or defend on their own, well, we humans We can teach some animals to use tokens treats, but left on their own they don't economic ideas into their regular social lives. At the most, we observe animals bartering amongst each other for services - but not goods. Why? Well, they may lack long-term transactional histories. two other extremely important things: Services, like grooming, are difficult to steal, so But without a language to facilitate snitching, non-humans can't easily report thefts or devise systems for reporting and punishing violations. Animals create some pretty beautiful things. Bowerbird nests, Pufferfish circles, termite mounds, or the dramatic costumes out of sea floor debris. But ownership, and the right to buy or is only as useful as the power you have to enforce it. And if you don't have enough power, for you. For instance, we have decided that animals don't own the selfies they take. Three years ago in Indonesia a monkey stole photojournalist David Slaters' camera. He later retreived the camera and found that the monkey had snapped these fantastic images. Slater maintained that he should receive Wikimedia, but US federal regulators non-human animal created these photos, they're officially in the public domain. They The same goes for selfies taken by elephants, or lambs, or Asian short-clawed otters, named Musa. And it's not just selfies at play here, chimpanzees or dog artists. So, maybe Earth is worth quadrillions or sextillions of dollars. Maybe it's worth renting in exchange for technological know-how. selling our own planet is pretty I mean, we don't have a deed to planet But we didn't stumble upon Earth like a hermit crab in its shell, we really just emerged from it. We didn't if anything, its selective pressures Does that mean Earth is sort of like a womb? Does that mean us selling Earth would be parents? Well, not really. Because we aren't here for the purpose of leaving, analogous to being born. Honestly, the most fitting metaphor not that we are Earth's owners, or or one in the same with it, but rather Earth's first willful effluvia. In the context of the human body, effluvia are little emissions of things built-up within. They often make us giggle and can be gross. And isn't that A sometimes messy, stinky presence that within and will one day inevitably, and discharged out into space? I guess what I'm saying is that putting on Earth is all speculation. We don't Earth's sales person. But what we do know is that we are Earth's first fart. And as always, thanks for watching.