Everything that I learned relevant today as much as really just stays the how to rank. People Google. Don't try to out want to get clever, do it saying the sky was Let's, uh, let's just doesn't die. Hello, guys. It's Tom from Linkouse. SEO Estonia conference. Hello, Kyle. Uh, how are uh, a bunch of questions, 15 questions. Okay. Uh, have you with me. So question. The first know, warm up question. viewers about yourself? am the co-founder of High uh, multinational SEO co-founder of Page an on page SEO tool, and courses, which is a SEO. I'm also one of the Estonia. Yeah. So, uh, what about your first day of the feel after you speak the whole thing? Um, this is a quality Yeah. Uh, the people that level, um, the kind of around, even if they're kind of people you want sponsors are fantastic. of presentation has been ouse is one of the best, the best, the best, Okay, so, uh, a little recently impressed you Not even only the SEO general, what books do think I've ever read an to write one. I know, really good book that I Algebra of Happiness by the idea of can you be a still be happy and still highly recommend that. read books, I like to like, I love Agatha I think I've read every Yeah. It's like, to be is one of the, you know, favorite outfits. And and Okay. Uh, so what can you presentation? What was Why have you chosen the talk, I walk through some I've done. But I did it of my earlier tests and and kind of the concepts But then, um, kind of everything that I learned relevant today. It all know, as much as Google just stays the same when rank. Okay, okay. So in terms of rank, can ipsum? And you can Lorem can still do it. Yeah. sure. Um, so regarding um key to success? Is it, um, building something completely top, the top four places your URL, your H1, uh, title tag. And that's forever. And so I would don't overthink it. clever Google. Don't try Like be very plain and especially in those get clever do it least like get the basics take care of a lot of there. Yeah, yeah yeah. to remember about the People. People skip the reason. You can't skip you can do fancy stuff you've hit those basics missteps. Okay. Uh, so, to build a real SEO So what tips can you your experience? Um, you transparent. You have to, teach, everything that I do, um, I don't share The, the methods that I that I've developed from you have to come from is how I do SEO, this successful, and then it in a way that people think you really just order to, to establish, to a level of, of to trust what you're are a lot of people out but then try to teach SEO know, like because also questions, they don't I don't know, you know. they're always making it They're making it from times when I don't know and I'm comfortable to Yeah, but this is what I I think. Or this would be do know. And so you just to do SEO. You have to be build that credibility. can build a community. key for sure in every building your credibility it's it's nothing bad know. And this and this your credibility. Yeah. Um okay, so let's go with think about the future of questions, but maybe you it. You know, a lot of SEO right now. I'm the bullish on SEO. Um, I do think we'll have in SEO, people maybe or people offering see that for the next 3 be, I think, a slight that I think it's going 2019. I think there was a getting into the SEO doing their own sites or then Covid happens and And we had a bigger surge doing side projects, you think the industry got terms of the amount of and the amount of service what I think we're that, um, a lot of people but they didn't Okay. And then when there like we've got HCU last core update, maybe their anymore, but they didn't And so that's where I that contraction of think they're going to to 6 months, and then back up again. Okay. point of view. Uh, so Ads affect SEO in your it's a great indexer pages that aren't them to show up in the minimum, I think it can other factors involved. I cocurrent factor that Maybe it's as simple as on page two, and then ads don't think you can run five and get it to me, getting any clicks shouldn't be getting any weird for that to then if you've got something spot and you run ads to to see it go up to the get a little boost that affect rank, but there concurrent factors that to for it to work. Okay. Sorry to interrupt, but if you like our talk Sign up using the link in the video about SEO from Kyle and back to the podcast. Okay. So, um, what are your predictions about AI specialists be worried when it's going to be snippets, when featured everyone was saying the dead. You know, this is everything. And and it changed was it actually for optimization. Now we featured snippet area. overall traffic did drop remember the exact 8% or some of that or 10% something similar like anticipate, but I see it optimization opportunity. and we know what it is changing a bit. They're adding new features. Once is, then we can start to start to figure out where pulled from. And then of optimization for us. advise what is worth nowadays, you know, I Okay. Um, sites that got think were mostly manual was algorithmic, so I techniques have changed doesn't work anymore. works consistently will that is still, I think that got hit, I think while. I don't think anytime soon. Okay. Let's recoveries here and if those sites that were affected. But anything Anything that was to be think would be totally stuff that was working work now. Okay. Okay. So important underestimated talked about enough, uh, this is interesting everyone, uh, who is something else in mind. about it. Factors not don't know, I do focus a feel okay. I'm not sure groundbreaking. Okay. Um, a lot of people do Like, um, people talk You have to do this that vector thing. Mhm. Just write like you outline with like your and you get an idea on So like get the title, understand how neat, how You're going to be fine. going to cover a lot of And then if you run it uh, you should be bit here and there. But the tool is telling you meaning you wrote a You know, rewrite that, if you get if you just do your time to do that, I really worry about a lot Yeah. Specialists often Simple Way. And they are exactly like it's got to I'm gonna this magic and. simple. Yeah. Straightforward. You'll promise. Yeah. So what is your, uh, perspective? How to build it and how link profile? What You know, the secret is And again, this is overthink it. You know, I House you can go in and right where you can see If Google is rewarding one, that means it likes have links that you don't I would get. You know, I it off of just one site, like, say, three of the consistently winning the you want, see what they clearly doing something see commonality between you don't have those exactly. That's a very Yeah. Now is it is it time. No. But this is the give you the best chance And then so like when you hey, these three sites all of them have this have that. That's where I that's what I would build a little light. You know all have that many. build. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. year is 20, 24 looking at lot has been happening at thoughts on recent League and the recent it bigger than in the situation that Google speak to the leak. I big embarrassment for know, I run SEO tests a stuff that's on there is that I've tested. And spokespeople say that know, and we all kind of mean, you just kind of intentional. Yeah. But leak like that, it's hard they've said is as you dishonest, but it does on on how they presented SEO. So the leak was lot of the work that I've is that it'll be just SEO where like people they don't do anything they then want to go to like just, okay, these here like. And we can now straightforward or a because we can feel good going to be right every things consistently so times than not. Okay. And because it's not it's not the time. But if you can 60% of the time, you're of your competitors to now you're really you're You know, um, and then I of information out of foundational things. And consistent. You'll do Okay. So, uh, if SEO what will you do? That's a great question. looking. So the model You never know. You never life, I was a lawyer. I'm still licensed, uh, scenario. I could do want to do that. It's not honest. No, but that'd be I don't know, let's let's make sure that SEO Okay. Let's go that away. So, uh, how do you see building in the SEO in know, like a lot of links are to become less disagree. I bet they because they can curate within the update, they clicks and bad clicks and through links. And I be the best way to to of a link is if someone's Right. Um, and that would saying that this is a in that sense, I could more important because lot to to validate a link these links demonstrate good content or this is want. So really I can I Becoming more important becoming less important. So I think I think it's pleasure. Thank you so uh, I think some of all answers was was on point. joining us today. Um, and subscribe our channel Probably. I will hope in SEO Estonia next year. So thank you once again