Maybe more than any other type of infrastructure, "Railfans" as they call themselves; Or should an earlier era or the simple appeal of seeing the trains that ride along them are just plain engineers, but operating a locomotive is far In fact, building and maintaining a railroad is share some of that complexity with you, starting where the steel meets the... other steel? It might sound like a simple topic, but don't say that to the attendees of the annual Wheel Rail so this is the first in a series of videos I'm do the rails of railroads have such a weird shape? is Practical Engineering. In today's episode, Why do we build railroads anyway? They might seem modern railroads are the result of hundreds of innovation, the development of railroads For example, how can we move upwards of the road in the process? Well, instead of we can build the road out of steel. But steel save cost by using two narrow steel rails directly a lot of rolling resistance because they deform individual train car. So, we use steel for the this works. My wheels are plastic and rails are Steel wheels on steel rails are just so much Well, there is the problem of turning, too. doesn't mean it will follow the same path. You the direction of the wheel and keep it on track, the answer is obvious: flanges. The wheels projects below the rail to guide the wheel as it You could put flanges on the outside of wheels turn caused one of the wheels to lift, the flange on the insides of wheels so they can keep a train track. Let's put some flanges on my wheels and You can see we haven't fully solved the problem. the rail, a flange is a big surface that curve. If you've heard that characteristic that's the sound of flanges rubbing and grinding are often made of higher-grade hardened steel and sometimes they're even greased up to minimize But, there's a bigger problem at play in Instead of independent wheels, most railway cars wheelset. They need that design to withstand the a problem around bends. A solid axle means both the outer portion of track in any given curve is the same diameter spinning at the same rate will, Since there's a mismatch between the distances the cylindrical wheels would always experience That would not only create a but also keep the wheels from following the The trick to railway wheels is something that's actually conical. The profile of the wheel is gently narrows toward the outside of the wheel. tend to self-center itself between two rails. On higher on one rail will naturally fall back down, In a sense, conical wheels There's always a little bit of wobble (exaggerated sinusoidal side-to-side pattern that you can Incidentally, that helps the wheels wear evenly. The turning forces on a train cause it shifts the wheels over as well. The outer tread nearest to the flange, while the which has a smaller circumference. This way, in a curve and solves the slip problem Take a look at the way these conical wheels that can see the outside wheel rolling on the wider thus distance traveled per rotation. Conversely, the cone, and so it has a smaller diameter It really is kind of ingenious. Most vehicles have of navigating curves; train cars just use some story. You might even be thinking, "Richard It's nothing new." But there's more engineering including the interesting shape of modern rails. in the US uses a 1:20 ratio. For the main part is roughly a quarter inch or 6 millimeters less a big effect on the allowable radius of curves in curves, since there's a bigger difference in You can see my wheelset can't navigate this This challenge is partly solved UK. You can kind of think of trucks as big The trucks can rotate relative to the rest serious springs and suspension systems to the wheel sets parallel, but some can even However, even with trucks or bogies, wheels can When the simple sinusoidal motion created by the car, the oscillation can violently slam the trucks behavior. The violent motion can even cause a and usually only happens at higher speeds, wheel profiles and truck designs that raise the fast a train can go. That's a lot of innovation Just like all parts of a railroad, the Turns out there are a lot of shapes they can but modern railway rails are shaped that way big steel structures, so there's nothing on these rails are I-beams, a shape that is well-known plenty of other heavy load bearing steel The bottom part of the rail, called converting the extreme contact pressure of a steel wooden or concrete tie. The web elevates the train of the wheels and keeping everything clear of The head of the rail with where the action takes an awful lot of abuse over its life, An old rail section, especially on the high side newly forged rail. Here's why: Theoretically, the speed of the rail at a mathematically precise even steel wheels on steel rails deform a little there is a small contact patch between the two. carries all the weight of the train into the rail. the tapered wheel, the wheel is turning at many the center of the contact patch actually moves at small amount of grinding as the train moves along, Eventually they start to conform to each Wheels can wear down to get a vertical face profile with a quote-unquote "second flange" Most rail wheels have some amount of hollow to Some wheels are even designed to be taken off and best way to reduce this wear is to use hardened patch by curving the top of the rail so that rolls by. After that, it's just a decision about the rail. The more metal you include in the rail will last. In fact, not all rails are equal. The small commuter service lines. The largest rails Once they get worn down on the main line, they yard or a siding where they can still bear So, rails are shaped in the funny way for the size of the contact patch and provide enough And the shape of rails and wheels is Just in the past few years, the standard profile updated to the new AAR-2A standard. Just a tiny have 40% less wear than the previous spec. That lower friction, better fuel consumption, In many ways, railroads might seem like old more engineering. But it's just not true. Modern like the Train Energy and Dynamics Simulator, in how wheels and rails interact. Simulators different track conditions, and more to characterize how trains will That's the topic of the next video in this In the 19th century, railway engineering finding routes through difficult terrain and engineering is all about getting the look like much when you see a train passing and engineering went into the shape of those rails Research and testing is something that applies getting kids to eat healthy foods. We recently but if you have little ones, you know that at home. That's partly because of you have to do. Luckily we brought This is 3 meals that I didn't have pre-portioned ingredients meant it I didn't have to worry about bringing home already melted. That simple box went a long vacation it was meant to be. I do wish I would HelloFresh has a bunch of different but this time went with the Quick &amp; Easy perfect for a cabin with a limited kitchen. but I was able to pan fry the crescent I tell my friends about HelloFresh because we've our life better, and you might find that's true code PRACTICAL16 for 16 free meals plus free only and varies by plan across 9 boxes. That's free meals! Thank you for watching