- For years, aluminum sheet for professional chefs, - But aluminum isn't the only material in the sheet pan game. (upbeat music) Hey, everyone, welcome to &quot;Gear Heads.&quot; Lisa is out on vacation, so joining me once again is my ATK Reviews Thanks for joining us, Val. - Great to be back. Hannah - Rimmed baking sheets or jelly roll pans are true We have stacks of them that we as baking cookies, roasting or baking chicken and fish. - Aluminum has been the standard for years but more recently stainless steel and non-stick challengers and both options might over the classic aluminum sheet pan. So if you're looking for a new one, then holy sheet pan do Val's gonna give you an overview of our aluminum sheet pan testing and then I'll take a and non-stick options to analyze the pros and cons of each. Drop a like in this video (screen swooshes) - When we did our most we tested aluminum and stainless You'll usually see the dimensions as 18 x 13 inches, but in practice the actual to 16.5 x 11.5 inches. When we tested sheet pans, roasted vegetables and meat, baked dozens of cookies, and more. We identified some key across all types of sheet pan. In general, we preferred that weighed under two pounds. They allowed us to grab with one hand or carry something heavy without the total weight We also preferred models that were at least one inch These not only contained liquid and produced straight sided cakes, but also give us Especially important when a bulky pot holder. Our winner is a commercial gray pan with sturdy rolled edges. It warped way less than This is one of the testing pans and hundreds of recipes And as you can see, it's You want to avoid low Baking sheets with low to spilling liquid ingredients. Most of our recipes were developed with baking sheets measuring Baking sheets smaller or larger than the standard dimensions won't necessarily accommodate We use wire racks and in recipe development. They are a hugely versatile and make a big difference The specific size of a sheet but it's something to be Our longtime testing winner Everything we've prepared in this sturdy warp-resistant sheet pan cooked appropriately and evenly. Best of all, this pan is only about $15, so it's a great bargain. So that's what you in any kind of sheet pan. Now Hannah is going to and show you the pros and cons of each type of (energetic music) - We rate all of our sheet pans on a set of three parameters. First, performance, how and broiled on the baking sheets. Next, warping we noted whether and how extensively they did so. Then handling, we rated the baking sheets on how easy they were to lift and maneuver and whether a wire rack inside them snugly. I have in front of me our ATK-recommended aluminum One of our recommended stainless and our winning non-stick Let's compare all three based on our three rating parameters. First stainless steel vs. aluminum. Aluminum sheet pans are lighter and much cheaper than There are a few drawbacks They're notoriously prone to warping. You need a good one, like our with a sturdy rolled rim that reduces but does not altogether prevent warping. There's also a concern The long-term health effects of consuming aluminum but some health agencies recommend as much as possible. Most sheet pans are made from aluminum. Lightweight aluminum is an The downside is it's highly as citrus juice, vinegar, and tomatoes. Such items can cause aluminum imparting a metallic taste, and leaving the cookware Baking cookies in comparison because the food is drier, and makes less physical and spends less time cooking. Those are all factors that increase your aluminum leaching risk. Manufacturers have by launching lines of We tested stainless steel pans and honestly weren't super impressed. And we found stainless steel to warping as aluminum pans. When it came to performance, stainless steel sheet to aluminum pans. They did brown a little faster, but stainless steel pans are heavier, and a little harder to handle than that lightweight aluminum. If you're gonna get a look for large handles so you The other downside is that stainless steel pans This model by All-Clad is around $180. Our winner by Williams Sonoma is around $100 compared to our aluminum sheet pan Since they aren't that in terms of warping or performance, we think our by Nordic Ware is still But what about that aluminum? To mitigate the leaching of aluminum, add a layer of parchment paper when cooking particularly wet, salty, fatty or acidic foods. When it comes to sheet pan A darker pan will cook your food faster. Think of how like if on a 90 degree day, you're gonna be hotter than you would be if you were wearing lighter clothes. That's because darker colors So if your pan is lighter, it might need a couple Conversely, if your pan is darker, you should start checking it earlier. We also tested non-stick sheet pans, like our winner here by USA Pan. These had some limitations as well. They can't be used under the because they will off gas and you can't use metal utensils in them or you'll damage the surface. They are impressively slick though. Maybe a little too slick. Cookies and cakes practically When it came to cleaning, non-stick sheet pans were definitely the easiest of the bunch. These are dishwasher safe, while we recommend that and stainless steel pans. Non-stick rimmed baking the traditional rimmed but if you value ease of use and cleanup, these might be a useful addition to your cookware collection. We still think aluminum is the best option for most home cooks. It's inexpensive, lightweight, and performs very similarly to stainless steel and non-stick. If you're in the market you should probably stick with aluminum. - For more information on all the gear we talked about today, and more sheet pan tips, or go to americastestkitchen.com. - What sheet pans are right for you, aluminum, stainless clad, or non-stick? Let us know in the comments. Be sure to like this video and hit that bell icon so (upbeat music)