In the Vietnam War, among the high-flying jets a distinct contrast. This compact jet, tipping the at waist height, lacked the imposing presence of the cockpit, a departure from the norm of climbing Equipped with a mini-gun that some BB pistol in the fierce theater of war, the unassuming exterior lay a surprisingly versatile This humble jet trainer was initially no one could have imagined that such a into one of the premier counterinsurgency In 1952, when the United States Air fighter pilots into the new Jet Age, company Cessna entered their Model 318 The T-37 model was an inexpensive twin-engine J69 engines and side-by-side seating for a teacher with straight wings, training-wheels landing a simple avionics system. In fact, most students With over 1,200 copies produced, thousands pilots learned how to fly in this stable, a max speed of 425 miles per hour. Despite perfect learning environment, the aircraft had a turbine blades of the engines produced a some ground crew alums suffered from ranges from the earplug-penetrating sound, While the T-37 Tweet had already established trainers, it was about to prove it could do much involvement in Vietnam was escalating, specialized counterinsurgency COIN aircraft. with its operations ranging from forward and, most importantly, ground support missions. Looking to acquire the Tweet albeit with some modifications like shorter improved avionics, and specific landing and requested a couple of prototypes. The Despite overwhelmingly positive results, and the project was shelved. The decision prototypes being sent to a museum for public With the program shelved, as the Vietnam conflict for the COIN role was the A-1 Skyraider, a World newbie pilots accustomed to jets and dangerous mid-1960s, the service was burning through their Faced with this shortage, the Air Force Cessna for 39 attack-adapted version. finished jet trainers, was a subsonic light fuel and armaments. The model retained most of cost-effective price tag, at about one-sixth of Despite its diminutive appearance, the model, was much more potent than its jet trainer fully loaded and powered by a duo of General twice the thrust of its original power plants, a range of 932 miles. Rugged landing gear while added communications systems enhanced The piece de resistance was a General Electric mounted on the nose for easy and accessible use. 3,000 rounds per minute but carrying 1,500 rounds upon the enemy, complete with gunsight and and adding a total of eight external hardpoints, Mk.80 bombs, cluster tubes, and napalm tanks. When 25 models were finished in 1967, they to fast-track the aircraft's development. Lieutenant Colonel Lou Weber, a veteran pilot devised a groundbreaking strategy. He the A-37's operational testing, a method According to Lon Holtz: [QUOTE] in the States--they'd gone through their their maintenance procedures. That's aircraft went over to prove itself in combat.&quot; Air Commando Squadron, based at Bien Hoa in South transported to Vietnam in Lockheed C-141s. With in the service, from bombers to transports. unboxed and assembled each one. Some pilots aircraft mocked the kit plane, leading to a Weber's theory for the COIN role was to build a every pilot in the service was already comfortable With no advanced weapons systems to learn, a and without a traditional nearly the model was poised to either fail or perform During the Vietnam War, the A-37 Dragonfly counterinsurgency COIN role, one of the Well-equipped for operations from even the also required very little maintenance compared to As such, it was an ideal aircraft for South Air Force training but had great men nonetheless. under the public radar of Cold War-era aircraft Vietnam, where enemy air defenses claimed hundreds Laos, and Cambodia, where the United States The straight-wing design of the Super 100 miles per hour slower than swept-wing capable of reaching areas other larger models and difficult target to hit. Its unusual speeds The nose-mounted mini-gun, often described as to penetrate the dense jungle canopy during proved to be an exceptionally versatile aircraft. a variety of ordnance, including conventional and unguided 2.75-inch rockets. Although it additional mini-guns and cannons, these This aircraft had two seats from the remaining it is typically flown single-pilot operating as a Forward Air Controller, where an observer typically occupied the right seat. United States Air Force jet authorized to shut conditions. Doing this on one burner conserved In its first 3,000 sorties, not a single A-37 was and the very versatile A-37 flew over 10,000 rapidly gaining the reputation of being both Combat Dragon continued until December 1967, deliveries, the validity of Lieutenant Colonel The A-37 could be turned around as the Cessna-made model had none of the large to former crew chief Bill McCall: [QUOTE] hours was fantastic. An F-101 was something literally keep them flying day and night.&quot; ever lost to enemy fire, only two to accidents. of the type led to the realization type's lack of range and endurance. the Air Force continued to improve the Dragonfly, Unlike the original variant, the A-37B was tests-combat missions flown during the test trial, newer engines, larger fuel tanks, and a heavier The A-37B was even capable of in-flight refueling for longer missions, a critical feature in For enemy missions, this newly upgraded model ordnance and was armed with a variety and gun pods, across its ten hardpoints. the A-37B offered better protection and The A-37B remained extensively used in the and counter-insurgency missions. One of the unique night operations. This allowed the U.S. Air increasing pressure on enemy forces. most of the A-37 production run went to the to 254 of the type. By the end of the Vietnam War, sorties with only 22 American Super Tweets lost. North eventually overran the South, as As relatively easy to fly, communist pilots flew Vietnamese forces for the rest of the conflict. never as famous as other Vietnam-era models from 1967 to 1974, according to Air Force And today, more than half a century after its serve. In the forthcoming years, Vietnam exported service, where they continued to serve in COIN Latin American nations like Peru, Guatemala, and