Watch this video ad-free and see the exclusive of the US Military," only by watching The latin phrase Deus Ex Machina translates In ancient Greek theater, where the phrase In several Greek plays, a seemingly unresolvable entered the plot and solved a problem in a way wouldn't simply walk onstage- they'd descend "from descending from a crane above the set. This 2400 years ago. The titular character, Alcestis, descend and fight Death Itself to bring her back Nowadays, of course, the phrase rarely people use "deus ex machina" solutions that don't feel earned. Both the deus the eagles just flew them away from And sure. It's fine. It's a useful description translation is just so evocative. God from the to earth! A level of artificially created power Maybe that's why I can't stop An orbital laser, a satellite in space with the concentrated beam of energy, is about as fictional a crane. But like those gods, this sci-fi weapon needs to explain it. A movie or game or anime can spacecraft building a bright light at its tip, and militarization, the ultimate conclusion of the It's such a forceful idea that, despite being impractical, it has demonstrably influenced Even in non-existence, the Let's talk about the basics first though. I think the most useful thing will just as a plus, it means we'll get to Probably the MOST FAMOUS orbital laser And it does have many of the hallmarks of the number 2: Big laser, number 3: in space. But the while not totally disqualifying it, do set it's only "orbital" temporarily. Because the having it locked in rotation around actually has engines that can take it from place all times. The death star is, in practice, and because of its massive influence on space More classical examples can be found in the plots centering around orbital lasers. Diamonds have villains that control satellites that Diamonds are Forever might be my favorite its beam is. "Bzzzt," submarine blows up. though with all the fanfare of a more traditional "Icarus," it's basically slicing a continent in these weapons, they're all controlled from the or less a rule, though frequently that lunatic Goldeneye, within the fiction, was actually syndicate, which has interesting implications The Death Star and James Bond's satellites are their respective plots. But paradoxically, what of the orbital laser is almost an afterthought, into video games and anime. One of the most comes from the 2009 movie "Redline," movie about racing that just happens to have...a a big bioweapon named "Funky Boy" stars wreaking planet leader orders an orbital strike by the [&quot;Fire the cannon on funky boy!&quot; Redline doesn't need to explain what the Hyper Disintegrator Cannon is, or how it came to exist. We just 'get it'- we see a satellite with a bright light above a There's a similar scene in the TV show basically a sight gag. Or in the many Sonic games or in Tekken, or Vanquish, or the everpresent Ion Cannon or maybe my favorite- using the "essence to zap the hell out of some random street thugs. All these scenes work. They don't leave the the concept is thrown out. And that's because the literal existence, but what it represents. They're power only matched by how omnipresent the threat And because it's a sci-fi invention, it comes travel time, radioactive fallout, powerful person on the ground just something explodes. The ultimate Except it's not, not really. And to get into that, we have to talk about one of the best In the movie, SOL gets about a minute of screen then gets destroyed and falls down if we really want to understand it, we have With its first issue released in 1982 thousand different things. It's about punk youth urban development. It's about spirituality and honest-to-god anarchy. But within ALL that, a story of military escalation. How could it The first page of Akira tells us that the detonated over the metropolitan area of Japan, The historical parallels are obvious- the last, nuclear chapter of World War 2, mirrored But the explosion is not, actually, nuclear, nor very long story short: that opening explosion "parapsychology project" in Japan. The project abilities, and that these abilities could through a combination of medication, training, and was the most powerful child ever found by the created that explosion we see in the first two Do you get it? The message here isn't that it's the inverse: the creation of new World War 3 occurred explicitly because of The orbital lasers of Akira, therefore, project." We see two of them in the and the American-controlled "FLOYD." They, too, endless military buildup. They're the endgame development of psychic children. And in the orbital lasers are completely f*****g This is honestly my favorite part of SOL and incredibly powerful looking, and they basically is fired, it's attempting to stop two and guess what? It doesn't work. The second time one of the characters that destroys half the pisses off the antagonist, and the fourth time- the satellite laser which the Americans use capabilities are clearly enormous, its and yet the only thing it manages to do is Okay no I have to actually tell you Americans has been chilling offshore in and eventually the commander is like "okay that's the only way to resolve this," and so Tetsuo- the main psychic boy everyone is but what doesn't happen is Tetsuo starts riding towards the Americans who fired it in the first of the whole story. And it's falling, and falling, at the aircraft carrier and the commander is like the whole thing just smashes into the carrier Anyway, my point is this: the multiple orbital visually intimidating, and absolutely impotent. the shortcomings of their specific designs, they as a whole as a conflict preventative. SOL respective Deus Ex Machinas, divine light that can Japan's newest military project, the psychic that the orbital lasers are their only hope. over and over, they destroy everything Now let's talk about Ronald Reagan. Aside from ignoring and exacerbating the explicitly to facilitate the incarceration policy that would crush social mobility and being a top-5 contender for Most Dementia of Reagan's most prominent presidential ambitions On March 23, 1983- Three months after the first of Return of the Jedi- Ronald Reagan spoke live Americans from the soviets. He said that while missiles, the Soviet Union was only increasing 1981, he was appalled by the state of the United defense took up more than half of the federal low of 23 percent"]. But most significantly, he rest of Washington- that the days of simply assured destruction, should come to an end. ["This to tell your senators and congressman that you He said that America should of a nuclear attack by intercepting ballistic He said, in a genuinely moving turn of phrase, "I those who gave us nuclear weapons, to turn their world peace, to give us the means of rendering Although Reagan's speech neglected to mention the further briefings in the coming days would the President was indeed talking about that the press immediately nicknamed the Reagan had spoken publicly about the soviet evil empire"] and apparently, white house "darth vader speech." The President was This wasn't out of character for him; Reagan He would tell the story of a valiant pilot to be from the war movie "A Wing and experience photographing atrocities in only watched a documentary on the subject. As an aside- almost any story involving Reagan stupid, or is he leveraging that perceived and I just have to say...I don't know. I don't quotes of his staff treating him basically like a said Reagan "found it hard to think and on that question of incompetent or The cold war was the defining historical era of US and Soviet Union on such topics as nuclear of each country's military capability AND the of weapons. This was not Reagan's forte; his scripted talking points, the president would With this in mind, the appeal of an automated is obvious. SDI, a bunch of lasers in space, that disarmament couldn't. You don't have to Star Wars was the obvious, modern touchpoint simple story of good vs evil, featuring lots magic. But Reagan himself didn't use such modern author Frances Fitzgerald theorizes that Reagan's older- like, a couple thousand years older. phrase "Evil Empire," first uttered when speaking wasn't invoked to reference Darth Vader, as in an EVIL EMPIRE THAT WILL APPEAR IN THE END ONE THAT WILL DO BATTLE WITH CHRIST AND HIS a cynical ploy for the support of America's the lens through which he actually saw the world the Soviet Union as the malevolent side of a whatever you want to call them, it's clear where fields of Armageddon, they would be Reagan's From this perspective, the total non-existence functional space-based missile defense network is lasers as a matter of faith. Again and again, this was possible, the response was simply one of the president referred to SDI as "my dream." He James Abrahamson, the director of the initiative, think anything in this country is technically indeed can produce miracles." The tactic worked; the notion that America could not create near-blasphemy. As Fitzgerald writes, "when the that American technology could not do everything, In 1968, the science fiction author Arthur Clarke quoted ad nauseam: any sufficiently advanced But often, fantasies of a new scientific societal issues reveals an inverse to couched in enough inaccessibly technical claims, It's this inverse that allows a video game series a giant divine beam of light fall out of the sky just once! This beam is one of the series defining rifle with a chainsaw strapped to its front. It's immense capability that it's how a good half of found in gameplay, it's often the ultimate trump whole, is tremendously evocative- God's word "like weapon itself built to usher in a new era, "the Stylistically, the Hammer is in line with what world of orbital lasers. Blinding, instantaneous. almost exactly like the one used by the general Hammer of Dawn is how the series refuses to let for every problem the Hammer rescues our heroes the chainsaw-gun, might represent the individual soldiers, the hammer of dawn happens when every metric of stability is Although Gears is a series largely focused on appearance of the Hammer of Dawn, chronologically of Gears 4, you play a soldier of the COG army research on an orbital weapons platform. In one speak of the technology with a sort of radical oncoming world peace- perhaps this weapon will be But the soldiers in the raid have no such what does this hammer of dawn thing do, anyway?", And it does. The COG uses their operational and bring about their surrender, and what follows weeks. Then, the aforementioned creepy crawlies into war again. In a bitingly clever little move, the Hammer of Dawn with a demonstration of its and hands you control of the laser. This is it! it cannot, and even with its tremendous The rest of the Hammer's history in Gears follows death? Yes, absolutely. No one could deny. hugely important to the series emotional and fires an endless barrage of Hammer strikes on vaporizing cities, killing billions, and throwing Gears series, burnt-out skylines and crumbling And yet, the enemy is not stopped. They, further aggression and desperation because the the development of new weapons is what after armageddon, they can't help but keep using Gears 5 spends more time on the laser and its take is maybe the most damning the protagonist is overwhelmed and For a moment, it's a fun and bombastic scene; he incinerating every baddie in its path. But then disconnected from ground control. It veers In its opening levels, Gears 5 gives a violent as something that can be purely a tool of Good. almost entirely to launching a satellite that It seems the game begs you to ask. As we ride deal with the emotional fallout of its consistent But there's no other choice, of course. into the machinery of how conflict works, and countless others. The Gears of War weapons." And yet, through the constant it's created an environment where the its wars all the more massive and deadly There's a crucial difference between virtually and the kind the US attempted to build in any ambitions to "hit the ground" with a purely defensive system that would shoot But SDI blurred the line between offense and assured destruction- was contingent on for each side. And, whether through actual seemed to not understand the conflict this kind Because, at the same time as scientists were the rest of the cold war was still very negotiations between the US and USSR reveals America's insistence on continuing SDI prolonging it. Of course it did! It was a system nuclear strike with complete impunity, with no destruction. Reagan's utopian proposal of the inflexibility on negotiations surrounding it, his meant that the entire world continued A strange note I do want to mention is that the US figured out how to make space lasers so each side would be equally defended. While this it's actually not because no one, ever, took the soviets had no expectation that it would ever Reagan said and everyone collectively Fortunately, the US never even had the because the cold war ended. SDI did not and certainly was not an advantage for it just seems that the Soviets figured that the "Mr. President you do what you think you have system you want to deploy, go ahead and deploy you're wasting money. I don't think it will work. And then he said, quote, "Let's talk in the following negotiations, America ballistic missiles IF they could keep working possible through impersonal historical "For the past three and a half years, [the grand compromise in which the U.S. would use major concessions on offensive weapons from Soviets a concession on offensive weapons In retrospect, one of the most fascinating things the scattershot ideas of what it could be used the cold war, many on the right pushed for more urged the President to deploy an early version hardly a "defensive" maneuver. then-President Bush said that SDI could the ballistic missiles that would surely soon were "launched by accident." Most telling is the who compared weapon platforms in space to He wrote that this was a chance for the US to weaponry and tech as it became available. A All these ideas for what the space lasers their existence ended have, to me, the same billions of dollars on this thing! We've it!" Its existence creates opportunities for Which is ironic. Because if there's one true thing it never existed in anything close to its original of the scientists working on SDI admitted that was "a greater understanding of the difficulties The lasers didn't work, the platforms didn't argue for continued funding were largely faked. "defense" meant! Reagan's original speech promised but this level of efficacy was basically the system should simply defend America's even doing here? What's the point? That's just What Reagan failed or refused to comprehend, what that in real life, a system like SDI that operates no system at all. American foreign policy would believed there was little fear of reprisal. Enemy construction in response. Think about a missile against a simultaneous launch of 1000 missiles. Because what people wanted- what Reagan wanted, really. They wanted a magic shield, a win button, showed that Americans believed the US already missile strikes. Fitzgerald attributes this to the vulnerable to nuclear apocalypse- was almost too SDI existed without ever existing, a fantasy of The one time SOL functions successfully in simply perpetuate chaos, is explicitly and the one thing we know from all our depictions and hits its target, It accomplishes but in spite of it. God appears from the it is a magic idea that greater weapons idea that the end of war would ever be brought Like an actor descending from a crane, that become laughably, hopelessly naive real life should work like this. It is have "space lasers" one day. On a long enough But I will tell you right now that it will and representatives alike. Superweapons, in of invincibility. A false claim that utopia can Just because SDI never produced anything have any ideas- in fact, the program produced only matched by their complete impracticality. about this, "The Failed Space Weapons of the all the truly absurd ideas being proposed with a "what if the problem with those other lasers bomb?" | the guided electromagnetic defense told him that they could shoot down every SDI video joins my many other Nebula-exclusive and it can be yours for less than $15 a year. CuriosityStream with their cheapest annual plan, to BOTH CuriosityStream and Nebula for an entire Signing up for Nebula is legitimately making these kinds of videos, and it is the I'm throwing up there. Follow the link in the and then go wild finding all the other