- If you grew up in the early 2000s, you probably wanted a PDA, (crowd cheers) but you also had no money. (crowd boos) Well, instead of building the computer into a handheld device, LeapFrog spent about a $100 million to build Let's see how well that worked out. Sponsored by Linode, cloud (upbeat music) Hey everyone, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. My name is Krazy Ken, and this It was a clever idea. I even had one as a kid, but and I didn't even know they made a sequel product called Fusion. So today let's take a look at these futuristic tech toy products LeapFrog Enterprises was and Robert Lally in 1995. And as the old saying goes, necessity is the mother of invention. So why did Mike invent this company? In the late '80s, Michael in San Francisco and he had trouble teaching his three-year-old Matthew could memorize and identify each letter in the alphabet, the sounds or phonics of each letter. He tried various toys, but when he said, Matthew didn't &quot;What do I do?&quot; said Michael Maybe luck was about to strike. One day, Michael was by one of his clients, which used speech chips And eureka, Michael thought, why not take the physical letters and For the next five years, along with all the while still practicing law. He was a busy dude. Man, hopefully during that time, Matthew learned how to read. In 1994, Michael had a working prototype. A child would press a plastic toy letter and the prototype would Okay, so we have the research, check. We have the prototype, check. What's the one thing missing? Oh yes, $800,000. Michael sought some money and some of his clients, he quit his job in law and with Robert Lally in 1995. And that same year, they launched their first product already, Phonics Desk. Phonics Desk was a huge hit. It reached $10 million in sales by 1997 and big chains like But LeapFrog was just getting started. On their radar, a company named Explore Technologies was popping up. This was an interactive toy company founded in 1995 by Jim Marggraff, and they owned a patented This tech made products like the Odyssey Atmosphere Globe possible, where users could touch like countries on a globe and the object would respond through a speaker. LeapFrog was very interested in NearTouch, so they acquired Explore And this enabled them to launch Even if you've never owned one, The LeapPad. The LeapPad worked like the globe, but with a book in cartridge system. Users would insert a book in cartridge into the LeapPad and use the stylus to touch text in the and the book would speak back to the user. (book chimes) - [Voiceover] The Elephant - Wow, this is a good book. They should turn it into a movie... twice. LeapFrog's growth was phenomenal. In 2002, they almost hit And they went public on the They were moving fast and growing big. But in the midst of all of the success, Michael decided to leave in 2004 and start a new company in 2006, Smarty Ants. Also in 2004, Robert Lally And that brings us to the FLY According to LeapFrog's focus groups, users found the name FLY Pentop Computer to be infinitely sexier - A computer absolutely can be sexier. - FLY's development dates back to 2001 after LeapPad was taking off. Jim Marggraff was looking to LeapPad while it was still hot. But then he heard about a new developed by Anoto, a Swedish startup. Marggraff worked for the next to license its optical so they could make what &quot;Please license us the tech.&quot; &quot;No.&quot; &quot;Please.&quot; &quot;No.&quot; &quot;Please.&quot; &quot;Okay.&quot; So LeapFrog and Anoto And good timing too. LeapPad sales were starting and LeapFrog experienced their So they needed a new hit. The two companies spent a lot It's an undisclosed number, it's about $100 million. But perhaps it would pay off FLY officially launched I remember these TV commercials - Say, hi, goodbye. The world's first pentop computer. - Whoa, it's all coming So while we're on that these commercials and the FLY marketed the pen towards the product as the world's The ads claimed whatever you - Whoa! How FLY is that? - And young me was like, But older, wiser, and &quot;Holy frick, this is cool.&quot; Yeah, I'll admit it's still but you know, there's gotta Not everything can just So we'll test it out soon. The commercials showed off fun like playing hand-drawn instruments, but the marketing also For instance, helping - Need a calculator? Draw one and really use it. - Look, I know we haven't but wouldn't it just be find an actual calculator instead of drawing every single button? And look, they even included that you don't have to draw. How thoughtful. Something I find amusing barely mention LeapFrog at all. I found one commercial that did so far, but it's kind of a rarity. My hypothesis is LeapFrog's with younger kids and a slightly older demographic. So that's probably why LeapFrog wanted to distance their main You know what I just realized? What animal likes to eat flies? Frogs. So now let's take a quick I think the design is quite slick and it has a futuristicy sort But it is kind of, well, fat for a pen. FLY weighs 2.7 ounces, than a normal pen and it's very thick. But I guess you have to store On the front is a retraction a speaker and power button. On the top is the for connecting FLY ware cartridges On the bottom near the tip is which reads what you write using Anoto and MyScript technology which And this is the retail box for FLY. You get a lot with it. You get the pen, earbuds, a FLY paper, and other And don't forget to register your product. That's very important. So to use the software features There's FLY paper and FLY open paper. FLY paper is specially printed paper with pre-populated images and graphics that you can tap on and interact with. On the other hand, FLY with several pre-drawn FLYcons at the bottom for menu navigation. On this paper, users can write and they can summon different applications like Notepad and FLY Tones. Now keep in mind you can only use the FLY Pentop Computer with FLY paper. So if you run out, you'll from liveonthefly.com. I mean you can't do that that's what you would've done. There's also various you could purchase and those offered new software capabilities with new FLY papers. I actually thought the was stored on this cartridge. But no, all of the software must be stored on internal memory because There's nothing in it and to help protect the port All right, let's take it for a spin. Let's pop out the tip and boot her up. (pen dings) - [Voiceover] Hello, Krazy Ken. - How do you know my name? After you first turn on a simple setup process to You simply tap the pen on the and FLY's voice will speak to you. - [Voiceover] Canada, the (Canadian National Anthem) - Yeah, back then the only countries were the United States and Canada. Things change. But after that, you're LeapFrog wanted to make sure FLY can read what you write, so they designed FLYtype. FLYtype is a writing for the camera to read but it has some drawbacks, You could only write in capital letters, which really slows me down. I don't know about you, And there's certain character pairings the guide warns you about. You have to be really careful and four and nine 'cause it might confuse the camera. They also say you have to use Frankly, I never paid attention to that instruction when I was a kid. I just used it like a normal pen on a slight angle like but maybe the guide is The FLY TYPE guide And once you were ready, you But how does this special FLY paper uses a lightly which provides positioning The pen uses an optical infrared scanner to scan the dots while the And the scanner is only triggered when pressure is applied to the tip. The particular positioning of Anoto's dots helps the pen determine The dots cannot be perfectly because the pattern would not look unique to the pen's scanner. It would lose its position on the paper. Instead, the dots are so they can be identified. The pen sees the dot in one to the grid's intersection, So now the pen can remember the location of everything you draw like buttons. To decode the scanned information, FLY uses Vision Objects a proprietary handwriting trained on thousands So now that FLY is set up and we know how the tech works, let's play with it. I'll start by using some of the FLY paper with the graphics already printed on it. I'll play this geography I'm just so good at this subject. Okay, so I'm using the that has no labels on it. So let's do free for all. (cheerful music) - [Voiceover] Tuxtla Gutierrez. - What? I don't even know what that country is. Florida. Again, you could get but there were other things including word searches, I honestly really like To activate a game, you simply draw a line from the green dot to the Now let's try some FLY open paper. You can tap on the FLYcons at the bottom to scroll through options, and then the pen would narrate future instructions. - [Voiceover] Add new note. New note. To create your review menu, write NR and draw a box around it. - Yeah, you had to draw pretty much your whole user interface, so what else were you gonna do? Anyway, as you can probably see, I did some mining off camera and I already drew the KrazyBoard 3000. So let's crank out some tunes. All right, we have the synthesizer on. Let's do some theme music. (Axel F from &quot;Beverly (Wrong note) Oh (bleep). (Axel F from &quot;Beverly I nailed it. I can't go much higher because Okay, so now I have to text-to-speech thing because - [Voiceover] Add new note. Print up to three words in capitals. (pen beeps) Note 9... bleep. (Krazy Ken laughs) - It just bleeps it out. Okay, so after playing with I've been testing it out for several days. It just kind of gets a little And maybe that's just me talking nowadays because we're constantly and other high tech products. But even back in 2005, 13 years Even back in 2005, when I I don't remember playing with it for more than a week or two. But LeapFrog had some other Maybe their future products and entertaining than this pen. So what happened next? I'll tell you what happened next. Oh boy, I'm gonna need some more paper to write this one out. Shortly after the FLY launch, Jim left LeapFrog to work as CEO of Anoto, the company that licensed to LeapFrog in the first place. Then in 2007, Jim left Anoto to form a new company Livescribe, And guess what company Anoto, of course. Let me just make sure I got it down. Okay, so let me see if I got this right. So Anoto first licensed and that was facilitated by Jim. Good job Jim. Okay, Jim, you're successful. You're now the CEO of Anoto. You left LeapFrog, you dirty trader. Just kidding, we love you. Then he leaves and starts a and then Anoto just acquires Livescribe. And Jim's like, bye-bye, all right. Put that up on still store. That is quite a flow chart. But let's not get too ahead of ourselves. There was still something very important that happened on July 25th, 2007. LeapFrog launched the follow-up product to the original FLY, FLY Fusion. The FLY Fusion was sold appeared to focus on a showing photos of older and using less scribbly Fusion also focused more Even on the front of the it's the ultimate Fusion featured a new design and its big feature was FLY notes and the ability to and everything you write and on your computer via the FLY World app. And it plays MP3s because why not? All right, let's try it out. Okay, so I have the CD that and you'd think the FLY World installer would be on here, right? But no, that would be too easy. It's a lightweight installer to a server to download the application, which isn't gonna work were shut down who knows how long ago? So I went to the interwebs and sought out an archived version of the installer. And I found one, but I had to avoid those lovely fake download buttons. Seriously, why are ads allowed to show fake download buttons? Like FTC, get on that. And boom, the app but we can't log in with the websites were shut down. So we'll continue as guest. And here's what the It has a downloads tab new software onto the pen. That's right. All apps are now stored No more cartridges. And you could expand the You could also purchase for titles not available Like these algebra and writing titles. These packages included a Back in the app, there's for your digitized on the right side, Also, part in my extremely I can't enable Arrow on the Windows experience index. Driver issue. Anyway, let's plug this baby in and open up the butter packet. I can't get it to do anything. It just blinks red, which so I have no idea what's going on. One of my viewers, Ryan, reached out to me and said he had the same problem too. So maybe this is a widespread issue. So I frantically searched I found it and thankfully so it should be here pretty soon. Hey, look at that. That was fast. All right, take two. And it still doesn't work. I let it sit overnight, I I charged it from a USB adapter Nothing would work. Two dead pens in a row? What the (bleep)? Seriously, I felt like an idiot I just don't know how to turn it on. Maybe there's another switch But no, I looked at the press the power button right there. But yeah, none of them work. But I won't let that stop me. I might not be able to turn the pens on, but we can still take a Fusion came with some significant Users primarily wrote in a newly designed FLY Fusion notebook, which Inside the notebook cover is a brief guide and a double sided flap which could be used on any page. It featured global controls like volume, an apps menu, and MP3 controls. Fusion also used FLY Compass, In the previous FLY system, on an icon to hear all But now you could scroll to the previous menu by But there was a weird limitation. If you were listening to you couldn't draw a You have to stop the MP3 player first and then draw your FLYcon. Why? Just listen to your iPod. Anyway, Fusion also worked as a stylus, meaning you could tap on without having the writing tip exposed. On the original FLY, the pen's writing tip always needed to be exposed even if you didn't need to write anything. And this often resulted in but Fusion fixes that problem. Something I don't like is to expose the writing this tiny little plastic cone and it's just kind of hard to grab. And sometimes I can get ink so it just doesn't feel too comfortable. It's not as nice as this easy switch they put on the first gen FLY. But oh, well, that's what But thankfully when you you could now use lowercase letters. And again, Fusion's big and the ability to convert and write digitally onto your PC. So the internal memory, you could store about 80 to 100 pages, and to your computer with USB, the memory would It's a bit of a bummer that I because I wanted to show But hey, maybe the tutorials will show us. Oh, none of the tutorials actually show the application in action. Okay. Even Billiam had troubles and he bought two just like me. However, he got lucky with a third unit that he wasn't even He turned it on and boom, it worked. But when he tested the it was not accurate. That's not correct. I like how it picked up - Ultimately, the FLY line and it was discontinued in 2009. And I can't say I'm surprised the products were really that great. That's just my opinion. But it wasn't just that. LeapFrog as a company Leapfrog's stock peaked at 46.54 a share adjusted for splits. And after a steep decline the next year, it never grew near that peak again. Overall, LeapFrog sales were down, and a big reason was the company relied on the success of the LeapPad way too much, and those products were according to their 2006 financial report. And I can't find any so I can't imagine the In LeapFrog's SEC into their Leapster line no specifics about FLY. And according to East Bay Times, FLY won some awards at and it had some strong sales but it couldn't keep that momentum. But why? The pen tech was so cool. Why did it flop in only about four years? That's even shorter than Well, in my Pebble episode, I got lucky. Eric actually wrote a postmortem about why his product failed. But to the best of my knowledge, the LeapFrog guys didn't do that. So I have no direct information from them, but I do have my theory. Again, I had a FLY as a playing with it for about two weeks, and I had no idea a sequel So that's how fast the fun died for me. And I'm guessing that happened with a bunch of other kids too. One of my viewers, John, FLY at Staples, but they didn't sell many and the store never placed a second order. And ultimately, I just think the FLY wasn't really that fun or useful. Like it looks cool in a commercial, but that fun just kind of And even if some parts were useful, it wasn't really that intuitive. You had to draw much if you were using FLY open paper and you had to write a and there were bad limits on things. Like your audible notes could A lot of the FLY just As a kid, I was more by computers and things which even LeapFrog was selling since 2003 with the Leapster line. So I'm guessing the success of that product overshadowed FLY. But these setbacks didn't kill them. LeapFrog is still around today. LeapFrog continued to add and they discontinued the which looks kind of familiar, doesn't it? It used some technology and but it wasn't aimed at It was aimed more toward children. Tag focused on reading skills, so it didn't have any writing But that was added in 2013 the LeapReader in place of the Tag. And that is still available for sale today as of September 2023. And in 2016, LeapFrog was Yeah, the same company that I talked about in my CIDCO iPhone episode. But what happened to everybody? What happened to Jim Marggraff? Well, let's go back to When Anoto acquired his Jim left to focus on another company he already started in 2013, Eyefluence, which Google bought in 2016. As for Livescribe, they still sell digital pens like the Echo. And today Jim is running Kinoo, screenless smart devices The company is now named Kibeam, but their website is very vague and it doesn't show any products. So I'm assuming they're I found a kickstarter and according to Lastinger the name has since been which is probably a good magic wand, you get Aside from Jim's new ventures, to see modern LeapFrog products using the tech he helped build which helped kids learn to read But what about Michael Wood, He was at Smarty Ants until 2015, but he hasn't posted anything so I can't say for sure where he is now, but maybe he's just relaxing I hope that's the case. He's already done so many great things for children and for education. And to think it all started who wanted to help his son read. But instead of helping one kid read, he wound up helping millions. And yeah, it's still unfortunate that the FLY websites are down, but your website doesn't have to be. If you have a website or application that needs to be scaled or deployed, Linode has the 24/7 support and infrastructure that you need. Linode offers out-of-box like TF2, CS: GO, and even Minecraft. You can run your own virtual build an online application with Joomla's content a video streaming site with There's so much you can do with Linode's affordable Linux virtual machines. And to boot, they offer award-winning 24/7 technical support. Visit linode.com/computerclan and click one of the signup buttons. And when you do that, we'll just for watching this episode. And you're also supporting so thank you very much. Catch the crazy and pass it on. (upbeat music) I Wonder if FLY can recognize Sonic. - [Voiceover] Gotta go fast. - Whoa.