A Simple and Profound Introduction by Sri Mooji [Mooji] Om. Namaste. Welcome everyone to satsang today. And I'm actually very happy that What triggered today's satsang, was that a few days ago you were talking and I had mentioned the effectiveness, the potency, the directness, as perhaps the most direct to the recognition of the Self, of what we are. And I'd said that nevertheless, It seems difficult to understand. And even in the days of Sri Ramana Maharshi, when he was present with us on this planet, even as great a teacher as he was and is, even his own disciples found it difficult to grasp the directness and the simplicity Now, there are many, many, many paths, maybe as many paths as there are seekers, into the realisation of the Truth. Why I say this is because in each one, even if a thousand people are practicing through the method of inquiry, or any other path, it will still be uniquely experienced through the instrument of each body. I don't want to bring too much of that, because I don't think it is so significant. I've tried somehow to present the inquiry Because, in fact, it is simple. And the Truth, what we are, What you are is not a teaching. What we are is not something Teachings and methods may develop, That is one of the fundamental pointers, that what you are is not an evolutionary outcome. It is timelessly, eternally perfect. This is not a belief. And by the time I hope most, if not all of you, or have at least a better understanding I put it like, the inquiry is like a mirror. Just like you look in a mirror a reflection of your face. It is like somehow looking and seeing a reflection of your pure Being. You are not the one in the mirror! But the mirror enables you to both see, although it seems that your seeing is phenomenal, but at the same time, it's experienced here. Just like I see my hand there, Everything is inside of us. Now, human beings want to know but ourselves we don't know. Why? Because we take for granted our self. That, 'I am me! I am me.' And what is that? So OK. But this is your body. Or is there something else, or more, inside the body that's saying, 'I am me'? And this which is saying, 'I am me', what is that? Now, of course, because we are so unused to ... we're not accustomed Because no one in our life Your parents don't ask you, no institutions ask, Nobody asks you, 'Who are you?' So of course, it feels deeply, it's ... I call it the main assumption, we just assume that it is our body, And the conditioning that arose in my body But this has not proven to be enough, because with this belief, We still struggle to understand who we are, what our purpose is, or whether we do have a purpose And what brought us here? Where did we come from? Where are we going? Is there a going place Do you move on to something else? Because the body will fall. Then, is that it? Is that all there is to us? So these are ancient questions, And we have many theories, we have many ideas about life, but few know. There are many beliefs, many doctrines, but few sort of know inside the heart. So in spite of so much study, so much effort, so much literature, so much philosophy, human beings still are at a loss as to who we fundamentally are. And it is not a knowledge Whatever we have in our head, does not stay. Amnesia will take it away. Is there something that cannot be taken away? Even the body may get sick. Is there something that cannot get sick? The body can die. and in full despair, and we can go crazy. Is there something So I felt, it was a good subject again to start in as simple a way as I could, to try and look a bit into this subject, and to ask you to participate with me in this exploration, not a lecture. And to look together, today! Because for some years, it's the only subject I talk about. And still, some have not grasped it, 'Not quite ...' So is it that we don't understand, because the subject is so complex? We don't understand, because you have to be Do you have to have done the work and exercises in the past to be eligible, to be a candidate for this freedom? And perhaps you have not done enough. Why is it difficult? And what is difficult? What is difficult? Because the subject, the whole quest is to come to a true and profound experiential understanding of what I am, Why even do that? Why even bother? Until we do know, until we do know in the heart, we continue to be restless and dissatisfied, happy only momentarily. Mostly, pursuing one thing after another. Imagining that something will fulfil us, and finding after a short time, it does not. So I feel It's the most important subject, but of course, many may disagree. Some people may not even have at this moment. But at some point, life will compel you to look to find out, to get more out of this existence than merely material comforts There must be something So where do we start now? I told you that As many of you will know, I can't prepare, I haven't prepared. It's fresh, you have to be fresh, to see. If I prepare something, I've not been able to do this, even from my days of teaching at college, I was not able to prepare one class. So obviously, Art was my subject, which was more intuitive, But still, even with the intuitive arts, And I got away with it for a little bit, and then after a certain point, that it just ... Something inside knew that life ... I could not be ... It was not a belief, it was not an attitude, It had to be just, it has to be now. It wasn't a philosophy, it wasn't a belief. It wasn't that I thought about it. I was just not able to function like that, to plan ahead, in any meaningful, deep, rigid way. The best I could manage which themselves, I saw, went through innumerable changes before. So I feel the most truthful way is to come fresh and empty. And then what happens, something else happens. Out of the spontaneity of us being together, we are in real time with the universe. Because the universe is not planning somewhere down there, down the road. It will produce seeds but it doesn't plan how those seeds will sprout. All of life is one thing. This is another thing that Not as a teaching, but as discovery. I don't know how much today. Today, I only want to focus on the basic thing. You don't need to know so many things. You just become confused. The thing you need to know now. You don't need fifty keys to open one lock. You need the right key! Do you understand? You can have a thousand keys, and you'll just be a thousand times confused, You just need the right key. So today, To open what? The mystery of our own nature. So it sounds a huge thing, a huge, huge thing, but I say it's the most simple thing. One, why? Because what we are trying to find It's the first thing, isn't it? What you are trying to find or in some divine vault waiting to be discovered. It is right here. It has always been right here! And what you are going to find It didn't arrive here, because it is infinite. Now, I am saying, it is infinite, but you are going to have to discover If I only tell you it is infinite, you are only parroting my words. You have to discover yourself that it is infinite. And I intend today to prove to you that it is so, and that you are That! So it's a big order. And we have to prove like this. So let's see how it goes now. OK? Everyone speaks some language. Even deaf people have to learn some language. Everyone has a wide language Everybody has to speak some language. In order for any language to be spoken, whether from a deaf person or with words, or something to be spoken, something has to be there, The first thing of any language, the first thing that has to be there You must first have a sense that you exist, the one who wishes to communicate something. The first arising, the sense 'I', or the intuition, the feeling, the sense 'I am', the knowledge, 'I am', means 'I exist'. Only after, 'I exist' is formed 'I' must arise before 'you'. We are going to show you, 'I' must be there, because the sense 'you' I cannot refer to 'you' This is the fundamental thing. OK? You can try it. Try and speak without 'you'. Without the sense, 'Yes, what I want to do is ...' 'I am trying to tell you ...' 'Where I went ...' 'What I think ...' It's the subject not only say, but think. 'I am not feeling well today.' 'I think I've understood this 'I, I, I', 'I' must be there. Take any language. Thousands of words are there, but no one is more important than 'I'. None of them have any meaning without 'I'. At least the sense of who is speaking, Again, it is myself, 'I'. That is the most important principle of language, of the sense of self-awareness. Even if no one else in the world exists, but you, you will be aware of yourself, you will be aware of the feeling, Even without the words, you would know you exist. This knowing that you exist Where did you get this feeling, 'I am', from? Was it from your parents? Where did it come from? Your name you received from your parents. But no parent Nobody. OK? 'Let's call this baby George.' For a while, they are calling, 'Hello Georgie, hello Georgie'. It's just looking. It responds to feeling of warmth, It doesn't know it's called milk, it doesn't know this is father, But it is somehow naturally self-aware. The consciousness is developing. it becomes aware of itself It doesn't say it. The 'I am' is there as an awareness of yourself, That is the first knowledge, As I said before, you will still know you are, If you woke up one day and there is no one, the whole planet has disappeared, you will say, 'Where did they go?' You won't say, 'Where did I go?' You will know, 'I am'. This 'I' is there. It witnessed the absence 'I' must be there. OK? I am keeping repeating this 'I', because it is the fundamental precept, the fundamental essence of language itself is 'I'. It's the one who speaks, the one who listens, the one who lives, the one who thinks, 'I die'. 'I go, I come, I sleep, I'm awake.' 'I see you, I see your sister, I see, I, I, I, I ...' So as soon as the 'I' arises, The consciousness, has to develop sufficiently Just 'I am'. When it believes this 'I am', it needs a body also, to feel, 'I am'. It needs a body to feel, 'I am'. As soon as the body comes, and the feeling 'I am', the feeling, 'I am this body' comes. The feeling, 'I am this body' comes. That's the second one. other knowledge can start to come on top. That is the root knowledge. Other knowledge, 'This is my mother', Otherwise, 'the father' has no meaning. The parents give birth to the child, but the child gives birth to the parents, also. Because until the child is born, and you were not a mother. When the child comes, So this sense 'I' is fundamental. In each form, Even if you cannot speak, the sense 'I am', meaning self-awareness, must be there. Then self-awareness believes, 'I'm a woman', because it's got a female body, 'I'm a man, I've got a male body'. The sense 'I am' is not the body. But when it believes it's the body, The body type is male or female. It says, 'I'm a man', or, 'I'm a woman'. This is the beginning of concepts. Why? Because the 'I am' is not the body. The 'I am', you may say, you may call it spirit, It is not an object. It's a sense. It is actually consciousness So this is the first thing. You cannot say, 'I am not'. Because to say, 'I am not', OK? So we will come Now, if the sense 'I am' is not the body, and if it is not the body like, 'I'm a girl, and girls wear pink, and then, 'I go to school', 'My mother is this', 'My parents are Christians, 'My father is Hindu, I am ...' This is the building of concepts. And with the building of ideas or concepts, the 'I am' which is none of them, And an identity is formed out of this. And every identity is unique, All circumstances are unique. In the same way, you go to bed that even someone you love, they can't share the same dream with you. Your dream is unique. In the same way, your perception of the waking life is unique, in the sense of how things feel for you, Some days you like something. Nobody can control it. Somebody comes to you and they say, Suppose you have someone, a good servant, 'What temperature do you like your bath to be?' You say, 'I like it to be 38 degrees'. Tomorrow they come, you say, 'It's too cold!' 'You said 38 degrees. It's 38 degrees.' You cannot be consistent about this thing! Because your body is changing, So whatever you regard yourself to be, Things are changing. Your moods change, your feelings change, people you are thinking of change. So nothing is so steady in this field. Yet, we seem to be living on one common earth. Right now, and we all have the same one house. All of us are living And it has to cater for all these all these different ways of being. Now, let's come back to our point, So the parents did not give it to you, nobody taught you the feeling 'I'. Where did it come from? It is synonymous with existence. It is the way in which consciousness, which is what we are fundamentally, this is the way that consciousness the feeling, 'I am', 'I exist'. If you don't exist, nothing exists for you. Only after this 'I exist' feeling comes, The sense 'you' can come, time comes, change comes, all of this comes. You are the witness of them. They all report to you, to your consciousness. It is you who perceives them. But one thing went missing. It's that we forgot how important we are Everything depends upon your perception. Everything depends upon the way you perceive them. That is how important you are. You feel that you study and learn many things, and you believe or disbelieve many things. But in the end, according to your conditioning, Let's just take a second. We say 'I', we say 'I'. 'I think', 'I believe', 'I accept', 'I don't accept'. 'I, I, I, I, I.' Then I ask you, What exactly is 'I'? If you answer me with anything I tell you, like 'I am consciousness', if you try it, 'I am consciousness', you may say the words, 'I am consciousness', and from the point of view of words and language, yet it is not true for you, yet. It's just words. Very often it's just words. 'I am George.' What does it mean, 'I am George'? Who the hell is George? 'I am George.' What does it mean, 'I am George'? 'I'm Susan.' What is Susan? It's just a name. The 'I am' is there even before the name comes, because without the 'I am consciousness', It's the, 'I am consciousness' You can change your name. You can change even your belief, your religion, your country, you can change many things. But something fundamentally We want to find out what that is. Not intellectually, but experientially, Because until we do, You imagine something is going to make you happy, but after a short while, You look for something else to make you happy. And everything is only for a time, I can say, in a way, that we are three-aspected. The physical aspect of our self is this body. The body was born in time, lives in time, That aspect of ourself, you may say like this, has a birth, has a life, has death. You may say this thing. Mind also, the sense of mind, there is no thing such as just mind. Mind is only a relationship of yourself which is consciousness, or the beingness, with thought together, or identity. That is also in time. And that is also not stable, That from where the body and the mind emerge, like a tree emerging out of a seed, that from where they come, the seed of them, This is the goal or the aim To find where you come from, your Source. Most seeds, as soon as they germinate, It starts to become something else. The difference with the Self is that when it germinates into a living being, It remains the Source. [silence] If we learn anything, whatever we have learnt, or believe, after the 'I' thought, the 'I' concept, the first arising, the first born. It is referred to as consciousness the creative consciousness. That creative consciousness comes out of a deeper consciousness which does not do anything. It simply is. It just is. It's not a doer. It simply is. That is the ultimate discovery It is to discover the 'What Is', that you may call the Absolute, the Supreme Being, God, you can call it like that. And what is our relationship with this God? Are we only the creation of this high God? Do we have more of a status within this God? Are we simply a part of the God? Are we one with the God? We have to find it out. Today. How are we going to do it now? Because the belief is there, because the fundamental belief is there, first 'I am', and then the 'I am' splits The 'I am' sense exists by itself, But it's as though it is compelled by some power to identify with the body, identification with the body Other thoughts, plus the 'I am the body' idea create the sense of an individual, a person. And because the body is growing, and the conditioning and the experiences we have a sense of growth, and we feel that we are living, an evolutionary being, like this. But there is another dimension inside us Growth takes place in it, but does not affect it. This is why And you are going to see that you are perceiving, and have the capacity to perceive a lot broader Everything that you see, like there are thoughts and sensations but you perceive them. Because of the subtlety of consciousness There are some feelings that you are not able to really put any name to them, Subtle thought, sensation, imagery, feeling, projections, discriminative powers, the power to discriminate all these things, a capacity nobody taught you, it simply arose within your own consciousness. This is the marvelousness of the consciousness, the root consciousness. The root consciousness is there, whether it is identified with the body, and the body's characteristics or conditioning, or not. One of the great steps of spiritual discovery is when we are able to recognise the sense 'I am' without combining it It's as though you sieve it out, and so only the feeling 'I am' remains without connecting with other concepts. But because this was begun it seems very strongly that 'I'm the body', 'I'm a woman', 'I'm a man'. In the beginning, for many people, there is no desire to go beyond this belief, which seems like it's an unchallenged fact, It seems sometimes more loud than But first you had to be consciousness, before you had the thought you're a woman Do we understand this or not? OK. [Mooji] Before any understanding came, the first understanding must be, No other knowledge is more important than the conscious knowing, 'I am'. Only when the ideas, 'I am the body', 'I'm a man', along with our cultural conditioning, our religious conditioning, political conditioning, comes the pressure to perform according to our cultural norms and traditions, So the first, the most important thing, is to understand what this 'I am' is, because it's not enough that you say, 'I am'. Everyone says, 'I am', And it feels, And the reason why we ask, is because it feels sufficient enough 'I'm a man', 'I'm a woman'. 'I know I'm a man, I never question, I never doubt if I'm a man, if maybe I'm a woman.' 'Why should I say, &quot;Who am I?&quot; So this question is not going to have It's only somewhere along the line, even with many religious and spiritual people it may not be a path that they're aware of. They still feel, 'I am a servant of God', 'I am a Muslim', 'I'm a Christian'. And we say, 'I'm a Christian', 'I'm a Muslim', 'I'm Hindu', 'I'm atheist', or so on. 'I am' is what? They say, ''I am' is me, the person, 'I am a Christian.' 'I'm a Muslim.' Why would we go further than this? Isn't it enough of a fact to say, 'I'm a Jamaican, Because it's accepted everywhere. It's accepted everywhere. But it is put now, when you say 'I', what do you take your 'I' to be? Because as I said before, But the devil also says, 'I am'. The ego also says, 'I am'. Everything feels ... Life says, 'I am', inside the form, or something like that. So we are just trying to see which 'I am' are you speaking from, And if you listen keenly, go to any restaurant, sit down quietly, listen to conversations, And see, when people speak as 'I', And you will soon see, it is, 'I am this body', 'I'm this person', 'I'm my conditioning'. It will not be enough to recognise the Truth It's very important to understand experienced inside this body, And we are going to go now into that. I want you first to understand the difference because mostly, that are handed down to us, Like a child can learn to speak a language what the meaning really is, We use words, we have a sense of what they mean. We have a sense of when you say 'I', And no one looks further into this 'me' sense. What is 'me', who am I? Again, why? Because nobody wants to know, particularly. If you look deeper than that, If you look more deeply than, 'Who are you?' 'I'm ... My name is so and so and so. I ... I'm a 23-year old woman from Brazil. I studied here, at this academy. I did this ... Blablablah. Nobody goes further than this to question you. This is all you need, this is your password To enter the game of transacting, and interacting with other beings, it's only enough to know your gender, what you've done and experience. It's enough. Here, we are perceiving more deeply. When you say 'I', what does it mean? The inquiry looks at, when we all say 'I', what is the implication of 'I'? It is not merely a mental study or psychological, or intellectual. It is a research, an exploration Now, let's start with a simple exercise. If someone came and said, 'Excuse me, there is a Volkswagen car Would the owner please remove it? Whose car is it?' You will not say, 'It's me'. You will not say, 'It is me'. It belongs to me. You use the word 'mine'. 'Mine' is related to 'I'. It belongs to me. 'Mine' means 'it belongs to me'. 'My', 'mine'. 'My family', not 'me'. Not 'me', 'my family'. 'They are connected with me, You can say, 'My body is tired'. 'My', not 'me'. You follow? 'My body was exhausted.' So something is aware of the body and exhaustion. It is not the body, and It is not exhausted. It says, 'The body is exhausted'. So again, 'My', 'I'. What is saying, 'My body'? It can also say that, my sight in this eye, It's very weak. It's functioning at about 60%. In the right eye it's about, So it observes the sight even. It knows the strength of sight, It is not the sight. It says, 'My sight It also can say, It is not memory. It knows memory. It says, 'I used to be able to remember every person's name here, if I'm told it. For one year, I would not forget the names. Now, I can't remember even two or three.' It knows memory and the abilities of memory. If memory has faded, it observes memory, You follow me or not? OK? OK. So memory it is not. Senses it is not. 'This is my religion.' 'My religion', not 'me'. 'My chosen religion' or whatever. OK? Some people say, 'My ego is very strong'. 'My' ego, not 'me'. What is this 'me'? 'My ego', not 'me'. Who is speaking? 'My ego', not 'me'. OK? 'My relationship is not flowing very well We had a beautiful relationship six months ago. But now it's just completely falling apart.' 'Oh, my life is over, my life is over. Because my husband has left me, My life is ...' 'My life.' Who speaks, 'My life is over'? I am not over! 'My life as it's conceived as whatever shape, that is probably going to change.' And somebody says, 'Why do you speak like that? You are only speaking from an emotional state. 'But, OK, Emotions you are not, 'my emotions'. I am not emotions, also. What is left now? 'Oh, my breathing is very heavy.' 'My heart is beating very strong.' 'My heart', not 'me'. 'My emotions', My emotions are like this.' 'My emotion', you are not emotion. 'My breath [breathes heavily] is getting weaker.' 'Hospital! I have to get an appendix operation.' They put the gas, 'I'm breathing. I see, I [mimics inhaling anesthetic] I am watching consciousness go.' Who is 'I' when any of these, I can say, I am not? They depend upon me. I am the witness of them. I am the seeing. I am the witness of them. I am looking at my hand. 'This is my autobiography', not 'me'. So we go through everything, not merely the body, not the vital force, not the breathing, not the senses, 'My mind, my mind creates a lot of fantasies.' Fantasy, create, mine. Not me. Who is 'me'? So for a moment, 'My house burnt down! It is no more.' Who am I? my life, my dreams, my future, my past, 'I don't have a good past. I had a troubled past.' Past, time, all of these are not me. So let's leave them all aside for a moment. What remains is the sense 'I' or 'I am'. Take a moment. Feel this sense, 'I am'. [silence] Does it have gender? Does it have past? When it says, 'Oh, the past is gone', 'Oh, I don't have any future now, whatever we speak, emotions, intellect, breath, heartbeat, You who are perceiving all of these, You are not your body. Some people were born as a boy Some feel that they are different orientations, You are not that. Who are you here? Don't imagine now. That which is aware of imagination, or actuality, Something is here, isn't it? Something is here. But it's a kind of 'something-nothing'. Does anybody feel somehow disturbed Yes. Pass this microphone behind for me. Behind. [Questioner 1] What I observed just before, it's like a ping-pong ball inside, I see that something wants to attach to something. Search, search, search, search. 'Tsu-tsu-tsu ...' [Mooji] Something is going, But you are not going, You are watching, 'Ting-tong, ting-tong'. But you are not, 'Ting-tong, ting-tong'. Isn't it? Put anything there. Let anything come. And you'll see that it is only a movement inside your mind or consciousness. It's only a movement. What makes a difference If you say, 'Wow, man, this is so ... Then you see, right there, what we are doing is creating a relationship with that, When you personalise something, it seems to bring it much more intimately, it seems to make it more true for you. It's not necessary to personalise. You can perceive, and, in fact, the truest perception Because you simply are aware. But if you don't embrace it personally, 'Why is this happening to me?', And emotions are involved in it, but you stay as the 'I' What is happening to the witness? The habit is to say, Or, 'This is too much for me. Who is speaking? Who is speaking when this thing happens? Somebody comes and says, 'Listen'. You thought you had cleared up all your bills, and they call you again and say, but we can't accept this last cheque'. And you say, 'I've just had enough! Now, we can say that, and it means nothing. It's just letting off some steam. 'Huuhh, good.' OK. 'So what are you going to do now? 'No, no. I just had to say that.' [laughter] OK? But another one, 'I've had enough, So it just depends on the strength Because when it is believed, and makes this 'me' feel really real. Simply even that state, a very strong state, it is also observed. Now there's a strong feeling here. Now the feeling is getting weaker. Just like you feel a toothache is coming, And it gets very strong. Then you take some aspirin, then it goes. All the while you know, 'I am not that toothache'. Even though it is strong. If it was you, when it was gone, But you witness the coming, the strength of it, the weakness of it, the disappearance of it. And everything is like that. Who is 'I'? Again, we come back to 'I'. Now, because of habit, we are accustomed to feeling, Again, you go back to the old formula, I'm the daughter of so and so. You are only my cousin, you're not my sister.' All of these are concepts. But deeply believed in, And for many people, They just ... They live in the feeling of it. The feeling is enough. But those who are searching for what is true, I have given you a simple exercise. If you are the witness of all of this, of your breath, of your form, gender, your height, your weight, your belief, your education, your preferences, your family, your thoughts, your attachments, your projections and see, 'But all of these are interchangeable. If I take any of these out, I am still here. If I take any of these out, I am still here. If I take all of them out, I am still here.' Now, you may say, Yes, because at some point, the consciousness that is supported by the body, if the vital functions or the body dies, the consciousness will have to leave the house, it won't stay in a dead house. I just want to come to this point. Are you having a sense now, that you are not merely the object of the body? Does anybody have any query about this one? OK, over there, what do you want to say? And be quick with this. Just pass it on. [Questioner 2] There's something that still feels that when this body goes, I will go. That's OK for the moment. It's a feeling. 'When this body ... I'll go.' We are not deciding that now. Who are you while your body is still here? [Q.2] Something is stuck on, [M.] That is to do with some kind of fear. 'When the body goes, what will still be left?' Let's find out Then we'll see if we can find out Now you are here, the body is still warm, we can carry out this type of exercise Let's see what you actually can experience, It's not enough that you simply believe or accept. But what are you seeing? You say, and we talked about it, you can perceive the functions of the senses, the vital force, all of these things. The world coming and going, Sleep coming, sleep going, waking state coming, waking state going. Who are you? I don't want just a mental answer, Because it's just words. It has to be somehow informed by actual seeing, when something really has been understood. There's a difference and understanding really opening up, So we've come again to this place, Who am I? Who are you? Please now, take a look. Don't imagine. Anything you imagine will also come and go. The one who imagines is what? Who are you? Who perceives imagination? Feel. What is actually here? Are you something tangible? Are you this body? Is it clear for anybody? Is it clear for someone here that, Is it clear for anybody here? [Mooji] Yes, yes. OK. If I am not the body, then, what can I be? Look. Don't go into the mind I don't want speculation. It's enough what we have looked at It's enough to give you a next step. Then what really is here, Maybe the body allows me to make this inquiry, allows me to talk about it. I need a mouth to talk about it. OK? But what really am I? Look. Do I have a form? Am I particularly a woman? Or particularly a man? Is this fundamental to me? 'Me' is what? Who am I? Something tangible or intangible? And don't imagine. Simply look. Feel. Any sensation that comes in consciousness, if it's a thought or a feeling, It is secondary, you are primary. Thoughts come, feelings go. Notice, often we are reporting about a thought, 'This thought is getting more loud', 'This thought is so strong, Mooji', 'This thought is really about the past'. Why are you talking? It's just floating by. You are aware of that. But rather than looking try and keep your attention Who or what are you that is perceiving it? Do you have a size? Can I ask you now? Do you have a particular size Do you have a particular size What are you? Are you an object? I want to see some of the new faces. Can you see? You cannot. Objects you can perceive. Objects you can perceive. And by objects, I'm talking about objects They have some sense of tangibility about them. You can see whether they are bitter or sweet. This is what I call objects. And why not? Why are you not an object like other objects? You see people, different shapes, different forms, different races, from different countries. OK? If you are not the body, who are they? Take it in, take it in. Look. Inside this body, where are you particularly? And as what? Do you look like your face? [silence] [Questioner 3] I don't feel I'm a body, and this presence. But still, there is some feeling And in order to do that, [Mooji] OK, stop for a second. If you are not the body, what needs protecting? [Q.3] I know. We're not going to sweep over anything today. I want you to look clearly, so that we stop speaking things Are you clear, some of you, That's not cursing the body, not telling you to harm the body, I'm saying that it's not fundamentally It's not the body saying, 'I am George!' What is saying, 'I am George'? You say that there's a feeling inside, like, 'Do you know who you are talking to?' You are speaking with someone, How dare you talk to me like this?' So who are you exactly? Who is speaking this? [Q.3] I know it's just some identification and I try to identify what it is identified with. But if I go through that, I'm not going to really grasp what's this, and ultimately, I go to this one which ... [Mooji] But you're speaking Do you have a license to use this 'I'? You are using it very freely. 'I', 'I try to look at who's the one but I find it's too difficult.' I have to try to catch every 'I' 'I' try to see who is actually doing these things, but I just find it's too complicated for me.' You being what? Who is speaking? Listen, first of all, I'm not leading you I'm only showing you And then to bring you back The only reason is because everybody else is mad. Because we don't know who we are. But it's just like a whole village that's mad elects a mayor and a psychoanalyst I'm just saying like this, I'm making a bit of a joke about it, because we're maybe getting too serious, But we don't question this, because we may feel, 'I'm getting more confused'. The fact is that we are confused, but it's just that we're happily confused, Because when everybody is confused, We can just keep making out that we are together, So at least sometimes is part of growing out of confusion. Just to show that the ground is not quite the ground. We are going to pass this And no one can make you ungrounded [Q.3] Yes. This ground seems, appears, After a while of being out of this context, that is constantly pointing to, 'What am I really?' Because there is still something not grounded, or it's still interested. Even though I cannot exactly identify [Mooji] OK. Before we go too far, it's going far further into confusion. [Q.3] Anyway, I'm here now. that when you are not here sufficiently that there's something that comes back and a kind of 'ungroundedness', and so on, Now, this 'ungroundedness' that you may feel, there is an awareness of this 'ungroundedness'. What happens is that Wait. You are believing too much in what you see. And you are interpreting with the old mind, with the old regime of thinking. A feeling is there like, 'I don't feel grounded'. But, 'I don't feel grounded' That which is perceiving is that ungrounded? You must experience your discovery and affirm it! I am going to show you that No thought, no concept can destabilise you Because you are there before any concept came. Concepts came subsequent to you. You are not a concept. So if you feel, that is also a thought, believed in. It is the believing in it that gives it that potency. Now, I want to know if we can finish Otherwise I won't proceed. Yes, come. Come. [Questioner 4] Hello. either in feeling So there is still a sense to it, but it seems a weak sense of 'I am'. [Mooji] Who or what witnesses [Q.4] Yes. [Mooji] Who or what is witnessing of the sense 'I am'? [soft laughter] [Q.4] That seems also weak. [M.] Who is the witness? [Mooji] Is it after the 'I am' [M.] Is it looking back at the 'I am' to say, 'You're a bit weak over there!' Or is the 'I am' in front of it? And it's saying, 'The 'I am' itself is weak'? This has to be clarified. We are not going to leave any blind spot. Because we do this, it's how the mind works. It just brushes over something, But I want you to stop, There are not many, You say something, What do you mean by the 'I am'? And who are you who is looking at it? And the 'I am' itself, does it have any quality, In order for something to be weak or strong, it must be measured against something else. In what way can the sense 'I am' be weak? Do you mean it is weak by the sense of perception, that you are not perceiving it clearly enough, Or that within itself it has no muscle, [M.] What does it mean, 'It's weak'? [Mooji] Perception seems weak. [Mooji] The perceiver of the perception, [Mooji] that which is aware [Mooji] Come, you have to do this, and I go and watch some TV. [M.] I want to know from you, In what way is it weak? What is 'I am'? Make sure that the 'I am' is the 'I am' itself, not something maybe being created or imagined. [Sangha friend] Something has the idea [Mooji] So there's an idea There's an idea that the 'I am' should be strong. Whose idea is it? [Q.4] For me it's more like [Q.4] a strong presence. This I understand, what you mean. The sense 'I am' At present, what feels more [Q.4] The person. The person feels stronger The person feels stronger, The person, actually, is the sense of attachment, first of all to the body, and to the identity, and the importance the identity that perceives the identity. The person also is consciousness, but it's a very contracted, very conditioned, very limited expression of consciousness. It's full of self-belief and desire, 'I want this! This is important to me.' 'Why did I lose my house?' 'I don't trust God anymore. It has a lot to say. And it seems somehow Does the 'I am'-ness need to have an effect? The only thing that can happen is that, either something feels strong, it's full of adventure, it's full of intention, full of desire, full of attachment. That's one form of strength. Or something is so totally empty of any intention, so that it is not a flavour that keeps changing. Flavours can change in front of it, And it is strong, because it is unchanging. Either something is strong, and keeps going, 'Whoa, whoa, whoa!' like this. Or it's strong because it never changes. And it witnesses the movement, So who is to determine what strength is? You must define what you mean by strength. Or is it that the loudness of the mind dissatisfaction, pain also, Just because a thing is loud than the thing which does not fluctuate, What is the criteria for saying [Q.4] Its unchangingness. Is the person unchanging? No. The person is always changing. If the person is always changing, What is the shape of an amoeba? It's more like a verb than a noun. And it is being witnessed by something. It is witnessed by the unchanging. Because if everything is changing, Only the thing which is unchanging the amount of change that is being perceived. So it is from the state of the unchanging, which is not combined with anything, that you can perceive and then something says, Why does it say, 'More real'? [Q.4] It seems to catch all the attention. [M.] Because it catches the attention more. [Sangha friend] It observes The person, coming from inside ... [Mooji] Yes. Hold on, hold on! Please, stay with me, look. Because of the amount [Mooji] OK? [Mooji] Because attention 'Your', not 'you'. Your great powers. Where attention goes, it feels like, Attention is very powerful! OK? But something is able to observe attention. So attention goes to the person. So the person is said to be more real, The attention going to the person, [Sangha] Yes. You are still in the process of your inquiry. The attention is going, now even attention goes, and something is not gone. Sometimes people say, 'I could not keep It kept going off somewhere else.' So something witnesses the attention going off. Is this thing going off? Keep staying here! Keep staying in the place And you'll see that everything else including the attention. The next great power is the power to believe. And another power is the power You are that which is aware of this. 'I can see that something is believing [Mooji] You are still unmoved. [Q.4] Mooji, it seems that I am the attention. I seem to be ... [Mooji] But then, if you were the attention, and the attention moved, [Q.4] It seems like that sometimes. [Mooji] Yes. You need to check it out! The attention goes there. Now, you witness that the attention goes there, but something says, 'If the attention goes there, it makes it very strong.' These are beliefs, they are not truths. You are the witness of the attention, there is a power here that's unmoved. Attention is creating a big party over there, with the identity and the person, If there is disturbance, 'I don't like this, please stop it!' But there's a strong belief, 'I want it to stop!' And yet it is not stopping. If this is flapping here, and the attention is kept only in the awareness, at a certain time, the power will stop going there and just stay with the stillness. When the attention can stay with the stillness, the movement will fall away. [Questioner 5] Guruji, [Q.5] When you don't inquire, you are in it. [Mooji] There comes a time Meaning that it is now totally clear. You have used the mirror to see where you are, to see your face. Once you have really seen your face, you don't have to walk around [Questioner 6] [inaudible] [Mooji] You feel like [Q. 6] Everything is happening in me. [Mooji] Yes, he says, and everything is happening in me'. [Q.6] Even the 'I am' presence [Mooji] 'And even the &quot;I am presence&quot; [M.] But the 'I am' presence itself [M.] The sense of being is coming and going. [M.] When the sense of being is gone, [Q.6] Nothing. [Mooji] When the sense of being is here, [Q.6] It's nothing. [Mooji] It's not any different. The sense 'I am' is coming and going. We have come into the point, 'I am doing this', And seen that this 'I' conditioning and false identity; it is limited. The consciousness by nature wants to be free. Nobody taught it to be free, Just like when you're feeling unwell, you don't need a doctor to tell you, You know within your own self and you naturally want to be well. In the same way, the consciousness When it is bound, it can only be bound because it purchases that it's not really bound, it is just particular. And it likes It likes the sense of privacy. It likes that, It likes the fact that it can achieve and be somebody special by being a person, for a while, until it wears that out. Then it says, I want something more strong.' [Questioner 7] Sorry, [Mooji] She says, [Q.7] I feel it's like I know that I'm lost, [Mooji] She said, [Q.7] Not at the same time, just a bit after. [Mooji] Yes. 'Not at the same time, [M.] OK. 'Just a bit after I realised [Q.7] In that moment Then you realise, 'I've been identifying'. But in that same moment, you were not ... [Mooji] Yes. But only after the fact is there the recollection that, I was going off with my ... Does it mean then, [laughter] Because if you have to be consciously conscious, So it must be I would say, This is OK in the beginning, and you see, 'Wait a minute, I'm asking you to pay attention As you start to pay attention to that not coming and going, Because it doesn't exhaust energy. It takes a lot of energy to be a person, it takes no energy to be your Self. If you keep looking at the space in which the whole theatre of consciousness is being performed and acting, but the witness of that is not busy watching And yet, at the same time, yet it is beyond this body. [Questioner 8] Guruji, sometimes when you're speaking, And it's like, 'Don't do that!' [Q.8] So I try to keep my eyes open. [Mooji] Yes, yes. Sometimes this happens. She says, 'Sometimes I witness my body trying to fall asleep while you're talking'. And this sometimes happens, because the habit of the psychological identity, which is sharing in our sense of existence, there's an aspect of ourselves, that doesn't seem to want you to wake up. It wants you to stay in the form of the person and get on with your person things. So it is inclined sometimes ... When it's just at the right time to get the right thing, So something like this It just goes into [mimicking sleep]. But as soon as you're onto it, you watch him like this each time, you've just not challenged that 'I'm just so tired, I can't do it'. But when you're aware of it, And when you see then it will turn things around, gradually. [Q.8] So just stay with it? You're not the thing which is fluctuating, not the thing which is going to sleep or waking up. You are there before everything, [Questioner 9] You mention this quite often, [Q.9] Why does it seem to be so hard to do that? [M.] You say, 'Why does it seem so hard It is not hard to stay as the Self. It's not the Self anymore than space is trying hard Suppose I were to say to space, And just remember you are space.' It is like that, in a way. But because all along, we are always the Self, even in the limited expression. When the Self is identified, when the pure Self is identified with limitation, it comes into a kind of behaviour, and this behaviour tends to be or to be lazy, But as soon as you are things relax a lot more easily, you come to see that, The sense 'I am', whenever you feel your self, If you don't add any story into it, The story comes for the person mostly, And this will gradually become until it becomes effortless again. All witnessing of your fluctuating states, the witnessing or the observing, of all these things that come and go, that is occurring to the 'I am' itself. It is the witness, Relative to all else, the position of the unmixed, the unassociated presence, that is the witness It is from here and feeling, and desire, and all of these things are perceived in the 'I am', in the 'I am' first. When you have come to see that everything is occurring when you are aware that you exist, and that that existence is not merely a person, but more the existence of consciousness, inside which even the sense of the person seems to be a creative movement, then you are getting established When you are sufficiently established it will gradually become clear that even now the sense 'I am' When you're in the position you are in the unspeakable. You will not have any questions there. Just a few, just to confirm your state. But that doesn't mean The sense 'I am', which is what I may call the dynamic aspect of consciousness, through which we have experiencing needs this dynamic consciousness and to introspect and transcend. All of that is to do Only when you've made full use to recognise your Absoluteness, as the unchanging, the absolute unchanging one, then you will say It doesn't mean that the body drops immediately because of that. The body can be there, but delusions are over. You come to see and that it, in fact, purifies the world. So it's not that you see the world as, 'The world is so terrible Your pure consciousness It is the person that sees fault in the world. [Q.4] I might have a misunderstanding Is it, the more you put attention on the person, [Q.4] the harder it becomes to be the Self? [Mooji] He says, [M.] the more you put attention on the person, [M.] the harder it is to be the Self?' Yes. [M.] The more 'you', meaning who? [M.] The consciousness gives reality and then lives as personhood. Then obviously, When you speak, you believe, then somehow, the personhood state It is sufficient somehow, then the attraction to be in the Self I think if you are completely stoned on coke, you're not going to want It's enough for you, it's like, 'Enough'. You are in the coke state, another one is in a magic mushroom state. You are quite happy, you don't need any top ups from any other kind of narcotics. When we are in the narcotic state the aspiration to be the Self is not there. Only when the person is hurting, the aspiration to go beyond We need, actually, the difficulties, the challenges, the suffering, and so on, to stimulate the aspiration to go beyond them. And this is why a life of comfort, a life of comfort, where nobody troubles you Actually it's the worst life, And yet we work a lot for this comfort. just to take the sleeping tablet Whereas difficulties, challenges in life, compel the consciousness to look more deeply. The more it looks deeply, the more it's able to transcend the lower states. But at a certain point, When it transcends everything, it doesn't believe itself to be transcendental. It's the most natural thing, [Questioner 10] I realised during the inquiry ... [Q.10] Something I realised during the inquiry is that sometimes there's a voice that, says, 'OK, I'm not this, I'm not this'. But sometimes I see because it's still like a denial, and only when I see I see this is the whole thing running in front, But still, there's something Like I see I'm here, and this is all running ... [Mooji] I think I understand what you say, I think in your case, I think you have an illusion about the loss of finishing. There is still something that's playing there, 'If I'm really finished, Or something like this. Something is still playing it is like an event. It's like, 'OK, now the race is finished, what am I going to do with my shorts, There's something that plays in us like that, which is like, So do I, I mean, it is fine. But if you love it as a person, [Q.10] It applies to inquiry as well, when it goes, 'I'm not this. OK, I'm here.' [Mooji] Say again. for the person and for what you describe, but it applies the same logic sometimes Like, 'OK, I've seen I'm not this, I'm not that', [M.] I know very well that it wants to ride More than anything else, it wants to do that. It wants to claim victory Like it's helping out. There are lot of people who have attained a kind of fake enlightenment. Because they get the feeling, 'OK, I understand that, and that's what I am', but it's a kind of a belief. But what happens is that energetically, in their company something feels very wrong. Because it's mostly just a kind of idea. It's the idea, 'I am free', It's kind of like an idea Something becomes totally relaxed and empty, and non-dependent upon ideas. It's not an attitude, it's not a pride, It's actually empty of all of that. And out of this emptiness, the spontaneity dances out of this emptiness. It's not trying to ... It's still the person who has done something, and carries around the sense, I'm really the one who did it. I'm just waiting for somebody to recognise that [Q.10] It feels like that's when I spot, 'OK, it's not that'. [Q.10] Because there's still, the manager of existence [Q.10] And that's the thing, and it's like, 'OK, I've seen this', but still, experientially, it's not ... [M.] It is good that you share and you talk, especially when you're in the space, your talking is also a part of your sadhana. When you speak, you're sharing in a way, just kind of evaluating, and this type of thing as well, too. But, don't be frustrated with any of that, It's best to just stay empty. Except if the mind starts to go, 'I'm sure I'm the most empty one here.' Then you are in trouble like this. But then you will know that something is playing. The ego does not smell its own breath. When you are able to pick out these things, something is washing out And it is good. All is fine. Over there. Yes. [M.] Yes, go. [Q.11] in the face and in the heart. [Q.11] Like a very strong emotional, [Q.11] and I feel like it's me, and the face too. [Q.11] I feel stuck there in the inquiry. I can only tell you you are not. It's a feeling that you believe, you believe it into existence, and you'll begin to feel it as experience, The Self can never be stuck. First, it has no form But the Self cannot be stuck. It's a sensation that is felt, where there is still some amount combined with a sense of beingness, and that gives rise to this sort of sensations of being stuck and being blocked and so on. But in the big picture, they are not true. It would be like saying, You can say, 'The air is stale', but you cannot say, 'The space is stale'. You are like the space. It is more of a thing, How old is space? Does it grow old? Does it have moods? And I would say that space itself is regarded as one of the five elements. So it is phenomenal, in a sense, and yet it is perceived in the Self, which is infinitely more subtle than even space. So your Self is like this space. It's just a sensation, it's just a feeling. Don't give too much reality If you feel stuck, just say, But don't believe it too deeply, like it's a fact or a truth, The important thing is that it loses power and it begins to thaw out. But if it has belief in it, the most powerful service you can do in life. What you believe you make true for yourself. If you just see it as a sensation, it will change, as everything else is compelled to do. Everything that is elemental, everything that is perceivable, [Q.11] Also, I see that the seeing is not clean. Like it's a girl looking, [Mooji] But what is looking at that? Because you've heard me use the example before, in satsang one time I was asking someone, Who is looking out from behind those eyes? Who is looking out? And he said, 'Conditioning is looking out'. I was very pleased, I felt, It's good. But who is looking You are behind all. Everything starts after you. It's just that we have that has been firmed up because of habit, and then we take that to be a fact and we tend to start from that place. But gradually, you'll come to see that these are just sensations in consciousness. At a certain point, And not to your peril. It's not that you're going to ignore them and it's a great loss that you do it. It will be a great thing. You'll say, 'My God, I thought these things were so important Evolution or maturity in this life How much you remember just keeps your head noisy with things that you believe to be true. And it's not like saying, 'How much you forget', I don't mean you actively try to forget anything. You forget, you may say, as you come to see what you truly are, rather than what you appear to be. If you're a person, to keep going as a person. For people who are working in daily life, they only give you More than that Most people. But after a while, if you're not grounded in the heart with it. Some work you're clearly meant to be doing, it is deeply linked to your ... You'll use that work to evolve spiritually. And the other work that we're doing, especially if you have the idea you will not learn so fast from that, because the attitude is not truthful. [Questioner 12] I can feel that the love is seen [Q.12] And I've also seen that the attention ... [Q.12] I'm leaving on Monday, and I also can see or, 'You have to do that', And my question is that even the inquiry, The thing that is really felt in this is like a big light which wants to turn back. [Mooji] It can be put in many ways, and I'm happy that we learn and see things This is a very healthy way of perceiving, we should never perceive only in one way. All of this life, mental, psychological capacity is so limited, that if we were to learn from just one place, we would just develop bigotry It's very, very good that we learn from many different ways of looking at things. We don't have to go about doing that, [Q.12] So I go on Monday and I go with this life. [Q.12] And if it happens that I have to go If it happens that I want to make pasta, [Mooji] Yes. [M.] Yes, it is simple, phenomenally, What is important today, And today you can find out You don't have to worry about tomorrow or Monday in the sense that it becomes, But life still goes on! If you work, you'll still work. The place where you are looking from will have become much vaster than that. I'm not telling anybody, Go and kill your life. I'm just saying, As you come more deeply into your seeing, what is not in service to your Truth will fall away by itself, If you understand what I'm speaking, I pray that grace also ... because without grace the person is still present and thinks that it's the person doing it. Grace helps to remove the sense of the person and helps you to recognise introspecting into consciousness This is the important thing. Otherwise we are still retaining doing something to become the impersonal. All of this is God's will, God's grace and love, that allows us to come and look and to come out of the suffering state and the arrogance of personhood, and to begin to experience and clarify, and enjoy your divinity as wholeness. And this wholeness and holiness are not different. And what it comes to is, in a sense, your mind becomes free that bind the consciousness When I point you to That in yourself it is the most profound recognition, because if you are beyond quality, And yet you are not afraid of them, you understand things in the correct context, that in the phenomenal world, you'll move in this world And know that somehow this is your dynamic being, moving in life, having the sense of growth and maturity, And yet, you still know that all of this is in the theatre of consciousness, all of this is on the screen of consciousness, including you being there, But this is a three-dimensional screen. It has depth and time and a sense of space, and feeling and everything. At the same time, you're an audience to it. But where are you sitting inside all of this? This is why people say, 'Yes, I'm doing this, Because of this two-aspected feeling. One is that you're in the sense of doing, 'Yes, I'm going down to Sao Martinho, We're talking like that, it doesn't have the heaviness that it used to have when you had the pride of a person. When it comes out of the mouth of consciousness, it's a much lighter thing. So if you say, 'I'm going to Sao Martinho at 9pm', and you end up in Odemira, You know that, 'Well actually ... Hallelujah. I'm always in the right place somehow.' You have this feeling. So I'm not trying to say that the phenomenal life All I say is that it is impermanent. And it is always changing. Nobody can refute it, that it is always changing. Phenomenality is always changing. And that which witnesses the change, but is unaffected by it, is the pure Self. You are that which is changing, But you are more true as the unchanging, with the apparent changeful aspect. This is always changing and growing and evolving. Amazingly, and becoming more deep, against the background of unchanging awareness. It's a paradox. Mind cannot understand that. As long as you have the privilege experiencing in the body and shape and name and so on, you will experience growth, and its beauty, it's a part of the beauty of life. It's just unfathomable, At the same time, you're always the timelessly unchanging. [Q.13] Guruji, can I say something? [Q.12] I want to say that [Q.12] and it's that I don't want to interrupt life. [Q.12] Yes. I can see the feeling here [Q.12] and I can see life around me, [Q.12] and it happened like that, [Mooji] In a way, in the big picture, Because even disharmony It plays everything, you and me, heaven and hell, life and death, everything is played in consciousness. It is arrogance to think that you can make one difference to consciousness. You are the consciousness, If, for a while, and to have fights with people, in some, the consciousness is growing through it, We say that the consciousness grows through that. And if it is because of some intense arrogance it is still a kind of growth, that at some point the suffering and something will have to transcend that state. Because it is compelled within your being at the evolutionary dimension of existence. Just in the same way, you cannot wake up one morning It's just that while in the waking state, and against the background of the sense of being, and that goes on, automatically. And if you hold onto just the sense of being, you'll see that you are urged into movement. And that when you are urged into movement and to control them too much, you find that life becomes more sweet. [Q.12] Yes, that was what I meant. When you have a strong sense of personal identity, you are much more fearful that's the nature of fear, The more you try to suppress, And the more sort of confusion comes. So through that the consciousness learns and at the same time They are not things that are easily explained. We have a life, and most human beings think that we pretty much have got it all sussed, But we don't understand, actually. To understand, you have to forget about you! You have to go beyond you, become totally empty, so that only God's wisdom is inside this body, The person is also a form of consciousness, but as I said before, it's very limited, and inclined towards arrogance and selfishness. It's a state that is not beautiful. But life compels you to go beyond that, When you are hurtful to other beings, until you give up that disharmonious functioning. It's just ... we don't have to learn all of this. Just like I say, That in all the things, you come back to the place and they are perceived by the force of your own conditioning. And this 'you' with conditioning It's a constructed self, it's not the pure Self. And as you begin to see this, you are automatically realigning your own being And that's all that has to happen. The rest is just coming spontaneously, And what joy, because if you had to unlearn, and then learn everything one by one, This is grace, and this is why I feel the more you feel inclined and to say, 'Thank you thanks that the senses are functioning fine, and that I can use my mind in the correct way to try and solve this mystery I think all goes well with you. [Q.4] I was just thinking is actually to bring you back to your Self. [M.] 'The purpose of the inquiry', he says, 'is to bring you back to your Self'. You can say the purpose of the inquiry is to show that you've have never left, actually, except through your own dreaming. That's not to say, 'You are to be blamed!' In fact, all of this life, as we grow, we come to see how great life is. That it caters to not just the taste, but the needs of every living being. That we get what we need, and the great thing about life but just how true you are. That is the greater measuring stick, It's not how long you live, but the depth and the understanding as to your true nature [Questioner 14] Guruji, [Mooji] Yes. [Q.14 in Italian] Thank you, thank you, thank you. [Mooji] Prego. [Q.14] When I listen to the sound of your voice ... [translation] [Mooji] Let her speak also in the mic there. [Q.14] The sound of your voice and directly into my heart, And then the ego ... [translation] [Mooji] Yes. She wants to know if it is ego that she is feeling or what? [Translator clarifies] [Q.14] Ego. Because I have this strong sensation coming from receiving your words, I'm wondering because it's very much into this feeling. [translation] [Mooji] Yes. Yes. [Mooji] Si. I am going to say, Yes, but a good yes. It's a good yes in the sense that because almost everything, while we have this sense of identity, we are still perceiving in the realm of ego. [translation] [Mooji] But I said, It's a good yes, my answer, because to have this kind of response to Truth is what I would call a sattvic response which means that the heart, our own heart and mind by words that point you to the Truth. [translation into Italian] [Mooji] Good. Good. And you understand the term sattvic? [translation] [Mooji] Sattvic meaning within the realm of phenomenality. [translation] [Q.14] I had an experience of non-duality, but this state has not remained stable and it's coming and going. [translation] [Mooji] Yes. [Mooji] Yes. For now! [Mooji] Because what happens, generally, [translation] as the person becomes more refined [translation] they will be experiencing pure awareness, no-mind. [translation] [Mooji] Whereas the state of a sage, they are always in the state of the pure. And they sometimes get flashes of identity. [translation] [Mooji] But the true nature is but necessarily experiencing through duality, [translation] [Q.14] I sense and more tricky. [translation] [Mooji] Yes. The mind can only become tricky [translation] [Q.14 confirms that she understands] [Questioner 15] Guruji, I want a clarification. [Mooji] Maybe you take that. [Q.15] Before you said that when you are in the position you are in the unspeakable. In the pure presence there is still individuality, some individuality. [Mooji] Duality is not an error. Duality is not a mistake. Duality is a necessary tool in order to allow consciousness Experiencing necessitates duality. So there are people or want to believe that there is only non-duality, and, 'There is only non-duality, And you just have to laugh. because even to say there is only non-duality, necessitates that you must believe in duality. Otherwise the statement is not valid. Some people are very much, I say, But 'He'? this 'he' is duality and 'you' is duality. And stop making it like you can be super clean. What it implies, when I say that when one is in a state to observe or to be aware of even the sense of presence, then automatically, meaning the indefinable. But it has no clash with duality. It still continues to function, because supposing basically could not speak anymore. Then who would be there Everybody'd be swimming for themselves. So the fact is that the duality is a way in which consciousness expresses compassion, and love and unity rather than from speculative knowledge. [Q.15] In my experience of inquiring, I feel like I can do something, do more playing with attention And once I am there there is not so much to do. [Mooji] Yes. I find that in the state of presence activities are not determined But actually, your actions become That somehow something wants to happen. Because you're doing something, for instance, so your action made here, you may think, 'I moved this to put there, But your action that the universe wants to make through this body. And there is no independent manager in this body, only a seeming one. It is as I said before. The whole of this universe is a monologue. There is only the Self talking with itself, with the apparent sense of another. And so when it plays as disharmony it intensifies which it wants to do. Then it plays also the sense of unity that attracts itself that is presently playing in one form strongly in the form of duality, it draws it back towards the non-dual Source. So that duality and non-duality, actually, at a certain point and stay as the Self. Everything is useful up to a point. But the best use of them And they are just the flow and the outpourings and the dance of the consciousness itself. Yes, please ... [Questioner 16] Thank you. [Q.16] I feel I understand the sense of 'I am'. [Q.16] And with this I understand also that nothing can bother you, and the other person is also the one, some actions come from the other person you can see that that's not the person. [Mooji] Yes, not just believe that. Sometimes you feel, if you are the consciousness, nothing is really happening to you, And after a while we go into some big talk. What actually happens is that that understanding keeps maturing It grows into a beautiful completeness, where it's not just about the knowledge of it, but you are the actuality of it also, [Q.16] Still, I don't understand yet how, I don't know if the word is correct, If I have a situation that needs inquiry, because you don't reach that I still don't understand, or the mind doesn't understand how to do it. [M.] Actually, I have already put the seed in you And you will find that as time goes on, you may just find that you are inquiring even without any intention to inquire. You find that when it is appropriate, because I don't want to put inquiry that you just get up at 6am and inquire. You will find that as you live in the life, you may find something arises for you, you feel very strongly and you think, And someone can ask you, It may just come like this, It is like putting one thing, and it grows into a thousand roots by itself. Not everything is being done by the person, putting each thing in the right place. Automatically. We don't know how it goes. We don't know how, from one moment, you don't know anything about inquiry, and after a while you find that and guide someone through the inquiry. They ask you, 'How did you learn?' 'I'm not even sure if I learnt, actually.' It just feels like it goes like this. It seems just to come out of itself. How do you ride a bicycle? You make a silly thing out of it. You practice and at a certain point it happens. But when it happens, You start to ride a bicycle, you have bloody knees for three weeks, bumping into things, killing people on the street, then one day suddenly you are, 'Woooo!' Riding! What did you do especially on that day? Nothing! It is also, you are inquiring, looking ... 'What's this? But I don't get it.' Like this, 'Wow! And you feel the space of it. 'This is just a thought. It keeps coming back, but whose thought is it?' And you may find that with this question, you don't want to pick up any other question. You are trying to understand, 'Whose thought is it?' And just turning your attention there has changed and created a new reorientation inside your mind. It cannot be put down like some code It's such an organic ... Just like everything in your life is like this. But something ... this kind of investigation a bit And what is beautiful that I want to encourage, is how universal it is. I'm not trying to say, You are not a type of anything. When something comes back to emptiness, And so in a sense you can see without disrespecting them or grabbing onto them. You automatically see, It's not a belief system. This instrument of self-inquiry It's just a way in which to facilitate Now, if you feel that you want to ... you feel inclined to pray and ask God to help you to merge in the Supreme Being, or to understand, to use the inquiry better, It's all the same one. The importance is just how quick of referring to oneself This you'll outgrow. And the sooner the better, and so much more silent and open and fearless. Self-inquiry is not a practice for life. I'm not telling you to practice for life. It will depend on something. Maybe after a few days in fact, you inquire yourself out of the picture. And that's it. Which is very beautiful. Someone says, 'Hello Janet! What's so and so?' You say, 'Hi, how are you doing?' But you don't know who they're talking about, It's not that you become stupid, but you understand and you see completely the illusion of all of this, at the same time. But it's not some strangeness. It's not strange. Do you want to say something? [Questioner 17] I just want to express Because over and over [Q.17] And now I really see it clearly. [Q.17] In just a few seconds, all these beliefs have just been shattered. And I thank you from the bottom of my heart. [Mooji] I love you too. [laughter] Because it is like this, and bringing it back. Sometimes again the mind builds up and you keep looking and something feels, 'Wow, I thought I did all of that already. I just cleared the whole house empty. And it's full again, of rubbish!' Something goes through a little bit and ... You keep looking again and throw this stuff out, and burn it in the back. It keeps coming back on for a bit, An end of time thing happens, Like the weeds come in your garden, you keep pulling them up, You pull them up again, You don't say, No. You pull them up It's just a habit. And you again recognise the Truth out of habit. Repetition. We repeat it. So ... Yes. Yes. OK. Who? Who? [Questioner 18] It's more than a habit. Sometimes it's very subtle that I notice that there is some very subtle confusion, There is a seeing that's going there [M.] You must look and as you investigate, that you still have some investment This is what is perpetuating these states Because something believes and identifies with it. There's nothing wrong If I want to learn to make picture frames there's nothing wrong with it, if you see that all of it But if you then start to look and think, you start to cultivate a strength inside then naturally, the urge to go beyond Because you already choose, in a way, The thing is that sometimes you make a choice and you forget you've made it. You make a choice, but you keep going to the classes to do it. You keep going to the class, but inside, 'I don't really want to get it'. You keep going and I ask, Why do you go? And if you look, you say, 'Actually, because I like the teacher', It's not a good enough motive. Sometimes we have to see, Because by itself it has no power, without your investment of energy and belief. That's the only way it can go. A belief cannot develop by itself, it has to be somebody's belief. [Mooji] Here. [Questioner 19] I just want to check in with you, I don't really have any idea which is actually kind of nice. I find lots of gratitude coming Moments of immense joy and love and then other moments of fear and embarrassment and then worry and all of those things. And it feels like everything And a lot of gratitude comes from that. [Mooji] I feel it is important and to see what is it And look at them and what is their business here. What is their business here? I have met people and then go back into some invested duality, and then lose or get covered up and then come back to satsang, or something like that. They have become a little bit attached Like, 'Wow, yes, I know that's it! This type of thing. Otherwise, once you've looked a few times, and really looked at something or any reality, then with the pulling away of your interest, that thing diminishes in potency, and after a short time, It doesn't feature anymore or something like this. So if it keeps going on, it must be getting fuel. And then you can look This much is possible. But the aspiration inside, the urge to do it must also be there, in that. So we are good, for the moment? I don't expect, by any means that, 'OK, it's finished, we have done it!' OK? But I hope that somehow you have a sense of who you are when you say 'I'. Like, 'Yes, but the thing is, in my life, Something must stop this and think, And at a certain point you start to see, 'It's nonsense, actually. It's nonsense. It's not something outside saying, 'Stop talking like that, No. But, you start to look and say, That's just another kind of an idea. Is there something that is true?' And these little kind of inquiries begin, and their yielding is so amazing. Just like you add a little bit of yeast, and it makes such a big effect! A little bit of inquiry So I wanted to have this, but just trying to again, opening up the window a little bit, And get more familiar with this, don't be frightened by the inquiry, It is a tool in the pocket of your heart And you keep looking over and over. And gradually, you come to see, 'But wait a minute, things are so simple'. The life can be very simple Simple, but complete. And what can I really lose, apart from delusion? Then will you weep for losing delusions? Sometimes we want to invest in some delusion. This is also an expression of consciousness. It wants to invest some energy into some delusion. Because every part of it, It wants to believe in something and play. It wants to create imaginary things. And of course, this is what consciousness does, one of the expressions of consciousness. But the great expression of consciousness When it begins to self-reflect at what it truly is and how it does not need anymore and it's not able to leave its projections alone And aspiration grows inside. And as it begins to look, with the joy of self-reflection. Because it strips the being from all this clutter. And in this total nakedness, This is the invitation of satsang. So thank you, everybody. [silence] As you move in this, wherever you find yourself, as you move in this and feel the space you feel the space of awareness, and you feel the functioning of perception, of the senses and everything, like everything is just blowing Like this. Like this body is just, sort of, that sensations are just blowing through. Maybe you find that even the body It's just like a space. but you're now beyond the proportion of the body. Somehow, you're just like a space no shape or no size. But there is still and the play of perception of light and sensations come, and something wants to ... You see when the consciousness But immediately you see Somehow you're looking out from this great space. But you don't belong to any particular location. Apart from the location But this 'hereness' is not a pinpoint. This 'hereness' And it is already so. And get used to ... just see that they are also other sensations. And there is no panic. And you'll find that something, to respond to and interact with other beings at the appropriate level. This is a wonderful discovery! That you do not need any technique Because you are life! Everything is spontaneous like this. Whenever the tendency arises to define yourself, you immediately see It's creating a sense of limitation and you have a choice [Sangha friend] It brings such pain! [Mooji] It becomes painful and this is your gift! That every time it starts to feel, 'No!' And this is the changing over, actually, because you see how amazing consciousness is, because it can live with so much contortion. We have contorted the life. Still you're going on. And then see, 'Wait a minute!' And something goes, 'But I'm still me!' What a wonderful discovery. Because it's not saying, You need to be blue. You're a blue person.' 'Oh, I'm a yellow person.' Or whatever. You are no person, actually. But you can be also. You can, momentarily, but it never jumps out of the greater awareness that you are not an object. And don't try to work out ahead of time how that should come across to anybody. You don't. You are going to discover, more and more, this wonderful freedom. The beauty is that You'll find that if you stop trying to be, And it knows how to fluff its feathers. If it wants to, It doesn't know how to do it tomorrow. It just knows ... It just does it now. But we are rehearsing for tomorrow, This is why I say that the ones who are awake, they are the happiest beings, because they've got nothing to do. Still, activities happen, the most beautiful sort. Because when there is nothing to do, it doesn't mean Activities happen as compelled by the vital force, You forget everything! Forget everything! You forget, forget all your attachments. Forget everything, and, 'I'm this', 'I'm a mother', 'I'm a father', 'I've got to sort out something by the next week'. And you just ... Something just ... 'Aha!' Now, can you bear the world saying, 'You're a very irresponsible person'? Yes, it's OK. It's OK. You don't have to go around telling anybody that you are responsible Somehow, everything is as it should be. You may find, after the most beautiful satsang, you leave and go out And something goes, 'But this shouldn't happen! I was feeling so peaceful. I really felt that I was walking with angels. Where did Satan come from?' You say, 'You know what? You can come. You have a big argument. I cannot ... You should be OK to feel any way. This is a feeling instrument. But when we start to give judgements about the price of this the interpreting tendencies You can be totally empty. And even when you forget to be empty, That's another idea arising in emptiness. You are to be empty, then you feel, That's another idea in emptiness. I mean, the whole thing is so beautiful. What to say about it? The whole thing is so beautiful, and also, nothing is wrong with you! Except how you use this thing. The only thing is, the kind of ... and the belief in the conditioning and identity, are going to create some stink bombs which then the world has to suffer. Or enjoy, whatever. [laughter] [Sangha friend] In a way, all is grace. [Mooji] Why only in a way? All is grace! When you see that all is grace ... When you think only something is grace, All is grace. The wise one sees that even when something hits the foot, something does come out of it. But they don't necessarily sit and wait, 'What's going to come out of this?' They just move on. You may not learn your lesson until the next week, one week after the incident. Or maybe never. We don't know. So. [music and singing] [Mooji] Om Sri Sadguru Ramana Ki! Jai! Papaji Ki! Jai! Sahaja Ki! Jai! Om Namah Shivaya. [Sangha] Sri Moojiji Ki! Jai! [Mooji] It is said that it is the Lord himself who called those who are pointed or to hear the things they need to hear in order to bring all back to Himself, the Supreme Lord of the universe. So it is to be taken that Whatever each one's path is, I would rather say that all rivers go to the ocean. But something here is very direct like that. And whatever each one's path is, it can go nowhere without Being, without grace. It's the grace of the Self that has inspired our attraction towards the Truth. As Rumi said, And I feel our journey is a journey home. And a journey of understanding. The journey that brings you into the space. How will you know When you begin to experience more silence and peace. When you feel openness in your heart not judgement towards any being, but feeling more empathy with them, When you feel the joy of contemplation. All these are the signs along the way. But eventually, somehow, where the journey is seen You realise, 'But I've always been here!' But you don't regret the dream. So. OK. So, very good! I have much enjoyed today, sitting together like this and looking into, as I said before, the subject I feel is the most important subject That we can talk about these things, [Sangha friend] Mooji, when you talk about it, just something happens, that's all. [Sangha friend] That's for me no talking. [Mooji] Yes. Yes. The talking has two aspects. One is to communicate the concept into the heart through the intellect of the being. That's one. But it has another aspect, the vibration aspect. The vibration means You don't have to speak the same language. Because this is the language of vibration, of synchronicity, of Beingness. It's the heart language. And so we speak and somehow you simply find that you come to understand but you don't know how. It's not words necessarily. Like this. Yes. Om Namah Shivaya. [Sangha] I love you. Thank you. [music] You don't need to know many things, you just need to know the right thing - the thing you need to know now. You don't need 50 keys to open 1 lock. You need the RIGHT key. You can have a thousand keys, and you'll just be You just need the right key. When you say, 'I am', When you say, 'I', what does it mean? This is the birth of self-inquiry.