where is our goods just only one we need to confirm again here and here and this place the living sample number three three o one has been successfully cultivated as four three three o two please be patient where is the money how do i pay for only one the sedative only works for a moment for safety the goods must be injected with another one before being transported you don't wish any accidents do you match what the time for the other one damn there's a ghost ah ah ah Ah, fuck them , don't hurt him . Life on Earth shows that he is just worried about his movements . Ah , run, damn catching the live . Ah , 3301, go home. Ah , ah, ah, ah, Jingyi, hey, where are you going? Don't worry about me. What's inappropriate ? You must be with the guy from the next class. I'm fine. Just leave me alone. I told you I'm fine. Come on. Don't scare me on purpose. Don't come here. Don't come here . Jingyi Jingyi Jingyi Jingyi Jing Yijingyi Jingyi Jingyi Jingyi Department of Inspection and Investigation The three of us were originally here to do summer ecological research with Lao Song. Now that Jingyi is missing, how can we explain to his parents when we go back? Report. The on-site investigation is completed . The task was successfully completed and abnormal scenery was discovered. It seems that I have to ask him for help. Dad drinks water . Mr. Xue, this is a typical targeted gene drug that I reversely developed through gene editing technology. The main component is micro-nano intelligence. It is designed to effectively repair lesions in small mammals. Editing repairs lesions. The reduction rate can reach more than 99.99%, that is, without any adverse reactions. Well, so I call him a sun-shooting small-scale experimental subject. What time is it? Dad, I'm hungry. Hahaha, wait a minute. Judging from the current 10 test results, no. My Not only will their bodies become larger, but their nerves will also become extremely sensitive. Although they originally had poor hearing, these defects have been made up during the transformation process, which means that all their senses have been enhanced. Several times of these valuable experimental results are due to Dr. Zhou's hard work on the company's Alpha project. I know what you want to say. Only 3301 can emit low-frequency sound waves that 3302 can receive. If 3301 is not in danger, why would he emit stimulation to 3302? Didn't you say that you want to hand over the successfully modified 3301 to the natural scientific research base for care? Please start . People say when will it be used on the human body? Because of the human body , Dad, I am starving to death. There are potato chips on the coffee table. Please eat some first. Since the human body is much larger than a white mouse , do we need to eat it? Sorry, Mr. Xue, let's continue on the sofa . Since the human body is much larger than a white mouse , the nano-smart dose of the drug must also be increased geometrically . Otherwise, we will face problems such as immune rejection and ineffective repair. Next, I I'm going to do experiments on large mammals, so I'll be here today to wait for your good news. What happened to Teacher Song ? Something happened. He went missing . I didn't expect the sedative to lose its effect so quickly. It's probably because of the stimulation of the gunfire. 3301 so the drug is picking up the goods are all finished of course where is the goods fled I just went to the underground laboratory and searched 3302 and couldn't find the head. These two beasts are very good at what the hell are you doing? go to rest the harder you work the better you'll be paid i'm very happy to work fine bastards booster q of course there is no need to share the money i can make by myself i remember there's an old thing The experimental development cost of these two living samples is as high as 30 million US dollars. The company will not pay for Dr. Zhou's pure scientific ideals. It will only pay for the greater interests. For the greater interests, how can I give the profits to those illegal drug dealers? Are you crazy? This is a crime . Dr. Zhou is such a noble person. He forgot that Cass Island is located on the high seas. All the living facilities here are indispensable with the funding of our Fire Technology. No matter how big the matter is, I can take care of it . Don't worry. I just received the news about your ex-husband, Professor Song. The disappearance of the students is probably related to the two escaped living samples. I guess he will not sit idly by but I am a caring and principled person. I heard that your precious daughter has always had Godfather Song to take care of him. This is not allowed for my little friend Song Xiaoting. There is a company here to take care of you and monitor Xiaoting. If you dare to touch a hair of my daughter, I am the chief scientific researcher hired by the company. Please recognize yourself and obey and cooperate with all the company's arrangements . The top priority is to get back what you want. This is the company's highest priority. We won't worry about the secrets, Professor Song. You understand , Xiaoting 's father will be back soon after he goes out, okay? Didn't you promise to take me to eat pizza tonight? Yes, didn't you eat potato chips? You also said you would give them to me tonight. Telling fairy tales, the beauty also said that they are not finished yet. You also said that you will take me to the amusement park. Go and hook up. You two come with me. Tinder technology it has great importance to the protecting of real wild animals through cutting age technology. we help the reproducing of endangered wild animals adherent to the corporate philosophy of belief in nature and gratitude to reward we are committed to use technology to reach back nature and maintain the diversity of sociality. Hey, Wan'er, do you think it's possible that Wan'er is a rhinoceros? How did you write the first ecological research report? We wrote it . Let's see how you did your research on light on the island. How is it possible that Mr. Song, the subject of my research, can be faked in terms of videos? Are you sure that the footprints in the photo are real ? Mr. Song, something really happened to Jin Yi. We don't dare to joke about such a big thing. Did we call the police? We reported it, but If you can't get through, it's better not to be a joke. If I find out that you two are responsible for this, please give me the summer ecological research report. He seems to be Professor Song's daughter. Please ask him to come back to the company . But at this time, there is a landslide with dense vegetation on the mountain. How can a landslide happen for no reason? Don't worry. Come on, Teacher Song, let me change the tire. Let me go and take a look. Mom , there is a dinosaur behind you . Silly boy, where are the dinosaurs? What's going on? Xiaoting , Xiaoting , Xiaoting , Xiaoting . Teacher Song, it must be Xiaoting who slipped into the trunk while we weren't paying attention. Ah, Xiaoting, aren't you afraid? I'm afraid. Have you ever seen a little girl so tall wearing a pair of red leather shoes? Where is she ? Where is she ? Where did you take him ? Where did you take him, useless man? Tell me, tell me, Teacher Song. Teacher Song, you said Teacher Song , Teacher Song, Teacher Song , Teacher Song, Wen, come here and see Teacher Song, you should kiss me this time, right? They still have two people who survived and fought back. The dog chased them. They attacked while fighting . The two of them stopped here for a while, one of them. The person was dragged away , and Xiaoping took the opportunity to continue running forward. Xiaotian met the snake demon Ting and was dragged away by the monster. There was no blood around the cave. Xiaoting, Xiaoting , wait, I'm afraid, don't come here , don't move , run. The monster is so ferocious that I am afraid that the suggested solution has paralyzed the security. Internal technical staff cannot solve it, so we are asked to come forward. Last year, it was reported that with the funding of Huozhong Technology, the island's security system has achieved full automation and intelligent coverage. Except for important positions, the island's police force has all been powered by artificial intelligence. Instead , no wonder no one answered the call to the police. We checked that the virus that had invaded the security system could not be completely removed. The only way to solve the problem was to format and restart the security system host. However, the host was on the top of Pan'an Mountain, so we rushed to the mountain overnight, but nothing happened. Think about how long it will take to restart the host and restore the security system. 24 hours is too long. The potential harm caused by the monster is too great and must be solved as soon as possible. From the monster's footprints, we can see that the monster has four legs, front and rear, small in the back and large in the back. The front paw is long and the third claw is the longest and the rear foot is five fingers long It has strong claws and a monster's walking style. It can crawl on all fours and run on two legs. What kind of animal do you think it is ? Some kind of squamous creature. It's impossible. How could such an animal have a docile nature and attack people ? Is uncle a dinosaur? In fact, he is a good dinosaur. It's not a bad dinosaur. I guess there's a reason why the monster attacks people. At first, the monster just followed our car. It wasn't until my colleague threw something to drive him away that he got angry and killed me. I hugged Xiaobao and hid behind the car, but the strange thing is that he didn't continue to hurt. We assume that monsters attack humans only as a masturbation behavior after being hurt. They have no animalistic nature. Can this prove that the monster is probably a squamous creature? Mr. Song, how can there be such a large squamous creature these days? Why not? Maybe you can see if the monster won't take the initiative to hurt people , will Xiaoting and Jingyi ? The company sent a car to pick me up. I have to restart the host Yu Chun. If there is any new situation in Pan Shan, please contact me at any time. Why block it? A university professor broke up three of our brothers. We encountered a living sample, so why not bring him back? Because he appeared too suddenly and we were unprepared , so not only did he escape, but Song Xiaoting was not caught either . Although my soft-hearted brother is patient. It was very tense. I remember that there was once a little girl who smuggled herself to this island with her dead parents. Because she was a gangster, she couldn't find a regular job and had to go back to her old job and make some tiger-mouthed elephants on the black market . What happened? After being arrested for the first time, I never caught him again. That little girl almost starved to death on the street. He kept muttering, &quot;I want to call you. Do you still remember who fed him in the first place ? I know what to do. You two go first.&quot; Go and have a rest. What about you? I have to extract the armor plate gene for sequencing and comparison. Well, then you have a task. About five o'clock yesterday afternoon a private helicopter crashed near peer six. What time is it now at present? Why not? Call me earlier . I saw you didn't get much rest last night. Don't you want to let you sleep a little longer? component failure was the main cause of the accident nearly twenty three o'clock last night a landslide appeared on the mountain road of pan. The analysis results came out from Judging from the original gene sequence, it is certain that the monster is a lepidopteran , that is, a pangolin . Yes, his gene sequence has obviously been re-edited due to forced human intervention. Not only has his body changed dramatically , but his originally underdeveloped visual and auditory defects have also been restored. Qualitative improvement . When you were injured, before you went camping, my mother always asked me to bring this gene editing tool, which is very effective for wounds. Plus, someone with Pyrotechnics appeared on Pan Mountain last night. Will the pangolin follow you? It turns out he is afraid of you. Ah, my dad used to be quite afraid of my mom. But since my mom left, my dad seems to have changed. He only knows that he doesn't care about my work. Xiaoting is also lost. Song Nan, you are too sloppy as a father . I am still holding a scientific research summit in Wuzhou and I am worried. How about this? I have another student, er , your school girl, who happens to be there too. I work on the island or he can help you. Thank you, Teacher Xue. This is a gift from my mother. It's for you. You should get well soon. From now on, we will be good friends. Believe in nature. Be grateful. I am ashamed . Believe in nature. Be grateful. Give back. You think I am? Are you still alive ? Remember Tu . The whereabouts of these two beasts are unknown. How can we find them? Dr. Zhou is not really not as big as Kaos Island. Finding them is just looking for a needle in a haystack. When technology cannot solve the problem, maybe we can use our emotions. What does it mean? Dr. Zhou, aren't you curious about how I caught these two pangolins last year? Our seeding technology has won so many honorary trophies in the field of biological research , but only one is the most precious. You actually caught me first during the hunt last year. When their child arrived, pangolins only give birth to one child. Parents must be anxious if their child is lost. Sure enough, it didn't take long for them to follow the child's cry and come to understand the art of the world . So I asked someone to record the death of this little pangolin. This time we played the recording with dignity. I don't believe those two beasts couldn't come out with dignity. Do you understand? Thalia Food Court has been installing and selling pangolin meat. The company can arrange for high-power TV advertisements to protect wild animals to include pangolins in the middle. The cub's cry can not only promote the company's image, but also let the brothers be ready at any time . If they go to the street and hurt people, to be honest, I don't just steal the scale gun from them, the more aggressive they become. The higher the company's investment, the more valuable it is. If Dr. Zhu wants to take them home alive, why not come with me later? If Jingyi and Xiaoting don't find us for a day, it means they are still alive. May I ask, are you, Senior Song Nan ? He is the student of Professor Xue , the investigator of Yangtong Island Wildlife Management Bureau. Hello, hello. Please come in. It's not such a coincidence. You are students of Mr. Song. Tinder technology attaches great importance to the protecting of real wild animals through cutting age technology we helped reproducing of real wild animals adhering to the corporate for most people believe in nature and gratitude to the world we are committed to using technology to fit up nature and attend to diversity and prosperity of the nature ecology Is that your baby poaching and trading rare wild animals? The helicopter of an unscrupulous drug dealer crashed on Kaos Island. Teacher Xue is one of the consultants of the Olympus Consortium, which specializes in the field of biotechnology. The main shareholder of Fire Technology on the island is the consortium . This is the first-hand information obtained by Teacher Xue last night. The deceased on the helicopter were a group of unscrupulous drug dealers who were blacklisted by Olympus. There were also signs of fierce exchanges of fire at Pier 6 near the incident. At almost the same time, the entire island's security system was hacked. Can we infer that someone was involved? It was predicted that something was going to happen at Pier 6, so they hacked the security system. Who has the ability to hack the tight security system? Fire Technology supports the island's security system to become automated and intelligent. They know that loopholes in the security system are not uncommon. So who will fight with the lawless people on the island? The conflict between demon merchants and Pyro Technology. Why do they conflict? Because of the mutated pangolin, Pyro Technology has always boasted that it uses technology to protect rare wild animals and maintain ecological diversity , so it has gained the trust and investment of the consortium . But in fact, it was found that they were not only doing genetic work on pangolins secretly, but also secretly doing so. The experiment even sold it to an illegal drug dealer, which caused a conflict and led to a fight. Before a thorough investigation, this is the most reasonable explanation. I heard from Teacher Xue that currently, as long as we find the nest of the mutated pangolin, we may be able to find Xiaoting. Yang Chuan also bothered. Mr. Xue, please be polite and call me Xiaotong. No one wants anything to happen to Xiaoting. I'll try my best and eat some potato chips first. I don't eat potato chips, so eat some. Pangolins come back at night. They seem to go to delicious food. The street is so bad. Sir, why do n't you try some food ? This meat from your family is rare and precious . It can promote blood circulation and remove blood stasis. It can also improve the function. Now there are cars in the butt door. Brother Hao, do you want to pay for a photo together? How much does it cost to take a photo together? I guess it won't cost you money for one night. I'll treat you to some skewers to try . Give me some face. The flip-up armor appeared in the food court. What 's in it? I might use it later. Come on , ah, ah , ah, hey, you stay , run, run , run , run, move quickly, stop, don't shoot, move quickly. Teacher Su is the first to master the weaknesses of human body structure , which is basic knowledge of biology. The second is the Taekwondo Club of the school, which I founded when I was studying. Ah, protein. Pangolinine is a protein-rich food . Come on, Mr. Du. You guys find a place to hide first . You follow me. I'll help you get Chunyu. Open the door. Open the door . Open the door. Open the door. Open the door. Hey, open the door. Open the door . Open the door. Can't open the door. Open the door. Open the door, open the door, open the door . I'm not going in . Xiaoyu, come here. Come out. Get it. Do n't lose it again . I beg you, please listen. I'm actually very happy to be on the island with you. Protect yourself well , Chen Yu, Chen Yu, Xiaobai, what is it for me , help me, Xuejiao, Duda, come and help , you, how are you , okay , okay, ah, ah, ah, I think, I think , thank you , I will take you home, I will take you home, latest news it is reported that a series identified biological attach occurred at the food court at about 70 o'clock this afternoon recently due to the upgrade of the security system the island artificial intelligence police force could not be informed and act in time while the leading company on the island tender technology showed its social responsibility this passed man power immediately to stop this vicious incident next it's our interview with the person in charge of TBT during the special period of upgrading the security system TBT has unshakable responsibilities and obligations to protect the city of Samuel's hands and eyes are very bright. It may not be easy to move to Tinder Technology. Xiaoting's stuffed toy is hanging on the female pangolin. Does that mean Xiaoting is still alive? Do you think whose father is so capable that he can lose his daughter ? Those two mutated pangolins are your masterpiece, Dr. Zhou, right? I originally just wanted them to have stronger expressions and breed more viable offspring. Who do you think you are, the stove owner? We came to the island to buy a house and build an experiment. The lab just wants to use gene editing technology to protect endangered wild animals. Why can't you follow the laws of nature? Human intervention must be forced to strengthen animal genes to support their mutations. This does not respect nature at all and damages the ecology. I also want to protect them and do not want them to be wantonly slaughtered by humans. But I advised you that you didn't even listen to Huozhong Technology's nonsense about protecting and cherishing wild animals, so they deceived you. For your scientific ideals, we got divorced and caused today's situation. Are you satisfied? It was me who reminded you. If you don't create two mutated pangolins, will your third daughter be lost? Hahahaha, Chen Yu's diagnosis results are out. He has a slight concussion, nothing else, but he needs to take a good rest. Thank you. The top priority is to find Xiaoting and Song Nan as soon as possible . Xiaoting, if you make any mistake, I will never forgive you in this life. I have handed over the body of the mutated female pangolin to the party. They will handle it properly. However, the caves on the island have complicated secret passages. It may be that there are more than 200 pangolin nests. The male pangolin is difficult to find. If 3301 will not actively attack people , can we not take too much risk with weapons? According to what I know, their nervous system has become extremely sensitive after gene editing , not to mention that a mutated pangolin that has suffered a series of accidents can be calmed down. The laboratory of Jihuozhong Technology was destroyed . The sedative ingredient you used, Deximetra transparent tablets, is simple and crude and expires in 30 minutes. What is the difference between this and medical ICU sedatives? Professor Song, do you have any better plan ? This is an attack. What type of targeted gene medicine is the main ingredient? Micro nano intelligent precision repair and damage editing team. You have successfully developed it. This is the scientific research result of many years of research. I have long said that gene editing is like a knife. It can harm animals and protect animals. You This is how Mr. Zhou who protects Xiaoting comes to Director Yu. It's convenient for you to say that you cried. Do you miss him very much? I miss him too . By the way, you just said that the mutated pangolin nervous system is sensitive and alienated. Assume that we are based on the original medical sedation machine. Add the micro-nano intelligence in the sun-shooting medical model and re-edit and identify the mechanism , so that the mutated pangolin can sleep for a while and use micro-nano intelligence to reconstruct the gene of mutated neurons to induce apoptosis of mutated nerve cells. At the same time, the expression of OSK transcription factors is induced to stimulate the differentiation and regeneration of normal nerve cells, replace the apoptotic mutated neurons, and accurately repair his central nervous system. This and the risk of attacks that may result. Theoretically, this is true, but the pangolin A tax is actually equivalent to a loss of money, right? The risk is that I Zhu Qian, well, you can keep it for future use. Where did that Commissioner Yang come from? He is also a student of a professor. That's the calculation. When I wake up, I'm still your junior sister, Teacher Zhou. What 's wrong with your senior ? Senior, can't you let go of Dr. Zhou? How could it be possible for Dr. Zhou? I can see that it was Dr. Zhou who was the first to help the senior at the food court . Is there something wrong, Mr. Zhou ? Do you still care about Teacher Song? Why do I care about him? You said sister, please stay. This is a non-trial-breeding imaging system secretly developed by me when I was conducting genetic experiments on pangolins. It is specially used to track and observe their whereabouts and living habits in the wild. 3301 It turns out that it is under the mountain. After they escaped yesterday, Fan Miaoer has been threatening Xiaoting to activate this equipment. I need a chance , but as far as I know, there is a huge cave dug by man a long time ago . Why are they so big? They dug the hole themselves. If it is not specially reinforced, it will easily collapse. Living in a strong artificial cave is the best solution. More importantly, how can we rescue Xiaoting and Zhou Qian from under the nose of 3301 while avoiding being attacked? Let's continue walking inside and I will go nearby. Ambush just in case there 's a fork in the road ahead Go 330 meters to the right and you will reach the nest of 3301. It is strange that pangolins are active at night. Why is he still in the nest in the middle of the night ? If your wife is dead, are you still in the mood to go out and have fun? Hey, this is my last can of milk. Xiaoting, drink it slowly. After drinking it, it will be gone. Teacher Song is from Huzhong Technology. Let's not alarm him first . I want to see if your sword is faster or my bullet is faster. Kill if you want. Cut the nonsense. His life is of no use to you, Professor Zhong. What do you think is more useful? Fair trade. Let him go. You want to get 3301. I will take you, but if I kill him, it will reduce a potential threat and reduce your and my transaction risks . How many times has Senior Commissioner Yang told me? Just call me Xiaotong. Look. Come on, I guessed it right. Dr. Zhou was the lead planted by Huozhong Technology. You brought these people here. Liu Wen , hand over the gun . Senior, what do you mean? Hand it over. The spy of Huozhong Technology is not Dr. Zhou, but you, senior. You are wronged. I, I, have never doubted you until the phone call that Director Yu made to me a few hours ago. Principal Song, Xiaobao, and his father's electric power work boat went out to sea to radiate submarine cables. This morning, they salvaged a large oil drum. Unexpectedly, there was something in the oil drum. It's the body of a young girl. His phone was soaked in water. After we repaired it , we found that the girl's name was Lou Jingyi . She seemed to be classmates with Xiao Chen and Xiao Liu. At first, when Liu Wen and Chen Yu met you in the alley of the beach resort, you were with two workers. Carrying an unknown object to evacuate, so what you took away was not the carcass of a rare wild animal, but a quiet carcass. You are deliberately covering up the facts. Yesterday, I went to investigate Jingyi's whereabouts and encountered a landslide on the way. I encountered Huozhong Technology near the incident site. Although the human- mutated pangolin lives underground in Paine Mountain, it will not actively attack humans. So caused by Pyrotechnics' ambush in advance. But why did Pyrotechnics master my action plan that night ? When we were looking for information that night, only Commissioner Yang had seen it. I am afraid that we will intervene in the investigation, so he is secretly tracking tourism, which is a pillar industry in Khaos. The doctor is worried that the exposure of Jingyi's death will have a great negative impact on the island's tourism and economy. Before you wondered why Dr. Zhou had an abnormal reaction, you said Although Dr. Zhou is your ex-wife , he is from Tinder Technology after all. I am worried that he may be the spy planted by 3 Seconds. After all, the mutated pangolin is the result of Dr. Zhou's experiment. You gave him the secret book of Journey to the West and there was an abnormal reaction to prove it. Lie, you lie, prove that you framed the case thoroughly, diverted the attention , and made the thief guilty . You are not even the commissioner of the Wildlife Management Bureau. How do you want him to explain why he killed Samuel? He offended Olympus. I have the right to take over Fire Technology. Your ambition is not small. Teacher Xue really missed it. You two took him to report the crime first . But it's too dangerous for me to go find Xiaoting. It's too dangerous for you to go alone. It's more dangerous for me to go with you than 3301. This woman is more dangerous. Xiaoting's father, Xiaoting 's father, is Xiaoting there? Did you get hurt after the fall ? Yes , Dad. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Dad, take you home now, okay? Let 's go . Then I'm going home. We will always be good friends. Xiaoting, you go first. Mom, what about you? Will he be okay? No. Something's going to happen. Come on, let's go. Xiaoting, run, run , run! Congratulations to Professor Song. He gave him a shot of stimulant. Let me come . Are you okay? Mom and Dad, Xiaoting . Xiaoting 's surname is Yang. If you dare to touch a hair of his, I, Xiaoting, have a father. Don't be afraid if something comes at me, let him go . I didn't expect it. I get angry easily. I need a sedative to subdue a beast. Why are you standing there dazed ? Please, he is my best friend . Xiaoting 's father, don't come here. Mom, it's okay . Let's go. Mom, are you okay? Mom, it's okay. You beast, let me go. Let me go . Ah, haha. Doesn't the principle of losing love have no effect on him? Run quickly. Car logo, car logo, nine cows, nine cows, nine cows, nine cows, latest news tbt the leading company on the island was suspected of killing and selling precious wild animals at present relevant departments have ordered the company to suspend business and fully involved in the investigating during the upgrade of the security system several vicious incidents were caused rest assured you saved the experiment I will hand in all the information. This time, people from Tinder Technology can't escape . I stayed up all night and took Xiaoting home first . Mom, I'll visit you every day. Hello, Xiaoqian can call you anytime if you need anything. Let 's go, mom. I'll see Xiaoqian's father in the evening. Is it okay to take you to eat pizza today? Yes, yes. Do you want to go to the amusement park in the afternoon ? Think about it. Dad will take you there in the afternoon. Beauty and the Beast still has an ending to finish. Yes, yes. In fact, that The beast who fell in love with the beauty is a kind-hearted prince. Hey, dad , the beast is actually a prince . So is my pangolin friend also a prince? Yes, our earth has given birth to many lives and is the common home of all life. Every ethnic group and species has a kind heart. Prince Pyrotech's Alpha Plan Fails The top management of the Olympus Consortium was very angry. It was time for Professor Xue to launch the Baitar Project. We will be good friends after receiving it . There is no need to bury it. Because of my sorrow, I raised the gun and bullets. The bullets in the head armor carved countless wounds on greed. Tears are hot, my pulse is stubborn and dragging me with all my strength, as if I can't break free from the prison of sex. I'm looking for home. I'm finally exposed . Buy, buy, money can't be exchanged for hurt. Forgetting, I just dream and look into the distance. Buying and selling, money can't be exchanged for hurt. Unexpected difficulties can't stop me, too. Be loved and dare not live up to your love. Give me freedom. I am saying hello to everyone. I am actor Xu Xiaoqiang. I play Professor Xue in this play. The focus of our play is to empower everyone to love animals, cherish animals, care for animals , and see animals with a positive attitude.