Throughout Hypixel's lifetime, there's you've never even heard of. Some of these ranks have either been lost until now. So, today, let's go through EVERY Hypixel Like a goat, I am made. Starting with the quote -- unquote "normal" you a gray name in-game alongside gray chat It's the rank all players get when they common rank on the server. It has every disadvantage you can think of, chat messages to being locked out of exclusive The VIP rank is the cheapest of all purchasable $8. VIP removes the chat cooldown the default to white. The rank has some useful features, such as access to neat commands like /fw which lets The VIP+ rank is the next upgrade, costing Unlike the VIP rank, this rank contains a perks like being able to create guilds on MVP costs $38 and is by far the least worth-it It has nothing special to it, although it ranks. All ranks have improving perks, such as rank-exclusive events, how long you can access replays for MVP is basically VIP+ just with a small increase over double the price. MVP+ costs $54, it gives you a red + color for Bedwars, Skywars and Murder Mystery. Some additional perks include access to track to use epic warp scrolls in Skyblock, allowing the game. MVP++ is a rank, which requires MVP+ to be The rank is purchasable for $10 a month, and also be changed optionally to aqua like MVP Both MVP+ and MVP++'s plus colors can be the default red at level 1 up to the black people ranks in-game, which costs around $500-1000, MVP++ has various different unique perks such nickname, host private games and make public Some other features that come with the rank access to the majority of Hypixel's head for most games, getting speed 2 in the lobbies ranks, having your "gg" chat messages to a variety of in-game emoticons. YOUTUBE Rank is one of the most notorious various fun perks like enabling disco mode or detective in Murder Mystery (optionally), use - with the exception of names like PewDiePie vanish and nick in lobbies and more. YOUTUBE rank contains a variety of requirements, a bit loose - but the general consensus your channel, have at least 30,000 subscribers and at least 100,000 if you're a gaming There's a variety of other rules as-well, for certain exceptions. The Game Master rank, or GM for short, is They serve various different purposes, with in dealing reports, mutes, bans etc. and Quality such things. All Game Masters are able to punish people masters do most of the heavy work when it The rank has some simple requirements like as a part-time job, being 18+, having previous comes to how Minecraft works. The Admin rank is a rank given to Hypixel including Quality Assurance, Support, Builders, Developers, Game Developers, Artists and more. Different admins have different permissions likely being able to do much more than any have permissions to ban and mute players, share which admins have what permissions. NoxyD is a player who has the Admin rank, He is the CEO of Hypixel Studios, which is behind Hytale, separate from Hypixel Inc. It's believed that Noxy has the rank just on Hypixel Studios. The owner rank is given to the 2 owners of and Felipe, also known as "Rezzus". They have all permissions on the server. Moving on from the standard ranks, let's ranks on the server. The HELPER Rank was one of the 3 first Hypixel as in being 16, having at least the VIP rank with a microphone via. Teamspeak. The HELPER's job was to assist the moderation in lobbies and throughout the server. The MOD Rank was the promotion of the HELPER GAME MASTERs we see today. MODs were tasked with various different positions, discord, helping with quality assurance among HELPER and MODs were removed in favor of game their new support website which serves the Unlike HELPERS and MODS, GMs function as a work. Mods who couldn't, or chose not to become 10 years of MVP++ as a special thank you for The Jr. Helper rank was a temporary position on the as 14 could acquire the rank, hence the name, The rank was removed not long after being Helpers were promoted to Helper. The Build Team rank was given to... You guessed it, Hypixel's Build Team. The rank was eventually removed and replaced The Build Team+ rank, surprise surprise, was Team managers. The + color was the default red on the rank It was replaced by Admin as-well, however 2021, they did show that a builder rank still or building server. I know it says "BT" and the rank colors that stood for "Build Team". This also leaves speculation for what potential about. The Sloth rank was given to Simon "hypixel"'s It was eventually removed from the account, times since then, even recently throughout The MCP rank was given to the account "MasterControl". MCP stood for "Master Control Panel". It is speculated the rank and account were they got banned by Hypixel's Watchdog anti-cheat, tool for moderation. The PIG Rank was first given to YouTube Legend event hosted by KEEMSTAR back in 2019. Originally, Techno had to upload weekly to after a while. Minecraft Monday was a weekly content creator few months. After winning the first Minecraft Monday, he got, he'd get another + added to his He ended up winning an additional 3 Minecraft The unique thing about Techno's + colors, any other rank has. Now, since Simon Hypixel was a "tweeting I'm looking for - but he mentioned that Hypixel, and hinted towards something beyond that never happened. The Events rank was given to 2 accounts: "HypixelEvents" I'm not sure what HypixelEvents was, or was used for Hypixel's Karaoke team, which taken away from the account with it. I was curious as to what in specific it was behind Hypixel Karaoke, who explained it was events and community. TommyInnit, a huge creator and comedian today promised by SImon to receive a custom red Cecer, a former Hypixel admin who used to once trolled a Skywars streamer, who was using by sending the chat message "You are now in chat when a staff member changes your rank Because said player was nicked, we can't a real rank change, but knowing how much of just a fake message. The Cringe rank was given to Lego Maestro, On-stream, he had received a bunch of Hypixel players ranks. For a few seconds on-stream, Lego received before it was taken away again. The Mojang rank was given to a select few Searge, Grumm, Marc and Dinnerbone. Interestingly, Minecraft's most well known instead of the Mojang one, but it seems he rank was initially introduced. The apple rank was given to the player "Apple", worked on applications such as Slack &amp; DropBox; Simon to one of his friends. Today, the rank no longer exists. The God rank is a little mysterious, but I've say that an Admin or another was nicked as and the community, which could be true, but logged into Hypixel for the first time before It is said that some admins gave this player would make sense if some staff had nicked They likely had some connection to some of the rank temporarily. The Angus rank was given to the Minecraft of some years. This is a rank I did a lot of digging into, Like at all. Judging off previous ranks, it could either former staff member on the server, but honestly, The MCProHosting rank was given to, from what MCProHosting is a Minecraft server host which - using the now expired code "hypixel" give you access to a few exclusive cosmetics The rank was originally all red, although design which is more well known today. It was the only rank on the server to ever On the topic of working together with Hypixel, a live streaming platform known as Mixer, introduction of the BEAM rank on the server, The rank was given to 2 players who worked of Mixer streams would be able to vote on from the live stream, directly interacting There's only this 1 screenshot of it from I had to find from an internet archive because... Well, Mixer shut down, but I wouldn't be Basically never used as well. The Beta Tester rank was given to players the server's history. It was then removed from the server at one The Retired rank was given to former Hypixel Inc. As I explained earlier in this video, Noxy Admin rank. The SPECIAL rank was first given to the player he was special to him. Chaz responded to the moderator with, &quot;I wish The former Admin AgentKid, probably out of This rank would then be removed not long after, would receive the rank again. After a few days of having the rank, AgentKid developer world, asking a few questions, such removed. By then, his rank was finally removed for Today, Chaz has lost that rank as well and The "Above The Rules" rank was given to period of time. For April Fools in 2015, Hypixel renamed the [WAT] and [WAT+] in reference to a popping MVP++ didn't exist at the time so the rank For April Fools in 2016, Hypixel renamed all to "ADMON" and Staff ranks to "ADIM". For April Fools in 2020, Hypixel renamed all "JER+", "JRY", "JRY+" and "JRY++". YouTube rank was changed to "YERRY", Technoblade's Helper and Mod were changed to "JERRY" was renamed to "SR JERRY". Jerry in Hypixel Skyblock is that one NPC island, and is the most universal Skyblock Speaking of Skyblock; every week, players All mayors have different perks to help the One time, a new mayor candidate called Dante When the curious Skyblock player base decided turned out he was kind of like.. A dictator who took over the game for a few to play. In short, Hypixel eventually had a vote for mayor would be an actual Hypixel player. The top voted players were 2nfg, 56ms, FurryEBoy, Technoblade had won the election, and the 2nfg because he was banned), while Techno the new mayor of Skyblock temporarily. Skyblock aside, I must once again bring up There have been a variety of custom statuses which are internally linked to custom ranks Hypixel player council member status, the editor status and the Hypixel Karaoke team The Hypixel Karaoke team, as I mentioned before has been removed. This is the same with the Hypixel Player Council, who would assist developers with ideas and One notable thing about the secret player to choose their own custom nicks just like Proofreaders are translation managers for editors are editors of the official Hypixel The remaining of these special ranks, as in tag in the Hypixel forums as well. The Hypixel Player council also had the same And that- is all the Hypixel ranks... I did an all-nighter to make this video in made it this far. I've been Alex, love y'all, cya.