We entered Gaza, and what we saw was pure hell. Rubble, broken lives, a reality that few can imagine. In this video we will show you the harsh reality of the Gaza Strip, to understand what it means to live every day in a war zone. Before starting, I inform you that this documentary shot in Gaza has no sponsors, for discretion we preferred to avoid it and it could also be demonetized. This is a unique project, never before created on YouTube Italy, and to continue producing reports of this type, which are free and accessible to all, we need an even stronger community. With your support on Patreon, or even through your channel subscription, we can fund the reporters and editors who make all this possible, exploring and introducing you to the hottest and most current areas of the world every month, bringing you exclusive content of great value. There are only 300 of us on Patreon, but think what we could do with 1000 patrons. In the description you will find the link if you want to support us. Thank you for being part of this journey. This is Yasser, and he's a Palestinian reporter, and what you're seeing was his house in Gaza City, a few days after the Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip began. This here is the sheet with which he was discharged on September 20, 2024 from a camp hospital, after an injury during filming. Filming he was doing for us. At least 43,000 Palestinians have died in the Gaza Strip since October 7, 2023 A third of these are children, and there are nearly 100,000 injured and 1.9 million displaced, out of a total population of 2.2 million people. To date, the level of destruction reached, also highlighted by the terrifying before and after comparisons of cities and rural areas, is frightening. Two-thirds of the infrastructure is unusable, and the United Nations estimates that throughout the Gaza Strip, Israeli attacks have generated 42 million tons of rubble and debris, including razed buildings, unexploded bombs, weapons components and human remains. Nova Lectio, as you know, also exists to investigate uncomfortable realities, and tries to give a voice to those who don't have one. For months we had been looking for a way to enter Gaza, clearly we couldn't do it in person, and we entrusted ourselves to someone who lives in Gaza. About two months ago we contacted Yasser and asked him if he could provide us with footage of the current situation in the Gaza Strip, conduct interviews for us. Yasser accepted, fully aware of the difficulties he would face. It is no coincidence that he has worked for numerous international media, including Business Insider, but now, given these difficulties, he has started a campaign on GoFundMe, find the link in the description, for those who want to help him rebuild his career. We at Nova Lectio also contributed, financing his work in the field, and we are happy to think that in our small way we are helping someone like him get back on his feet. No longer having a home, Yasser had settled in a refugee camp in Deir el Balah, about fifteen kilometers south of Gaza City. Although this city still hosts tens of thousands of displaced Palestinians, in recent months the Israeli army has repeatedly bombed mosques, schools, refugee camps and hospitals, all believed to be Hamas shelters, injuring or killing hundreds of people. Yasser himself was involved in the attacks, and several of his colleagues lost their lives. According to him, they were targeted simply because they were journalists, and therefore dangerous. In the end Yasser managed to send us all the material we needed, with a very slow internet connection. I won't tell you, it was truly absurd it took 30 days to complete the sending. Something that would normally take us 30 minutes. Well, what you are about to see is the naked, raw and unpublished story, ours, but also that of Yasser and the people he interviewed, of what Gaza is today. Hell on earth. The Gaza Strip can be divided into five main areas. The north, Gaza City, Deir al-Bala, Khan Younis and Rafah. The first two, as well as the first to be placed under siege by the Israeli army, are in desperate conditions. According to the UN, the entire population of the north risks dying in the short term. Gaza City is in tatters, and as the New York Times reports, the Israeli Defense Forces are using Palestinians as human shields. Over the months, as Israel bombed the rest of the strip, the vast majority of Palestinians headed south to Rafah. Then when Israeli forces invaded the latter too, in February 2024, the Palestinians moved again towards the center of the strip. Settling in refugee camps such as those of Khan Younis and Deir el-Balah. It is precisely in these two areas that Yasser filmed a moment of daily life, also thanks to the help of Randa, a young Palestinian student who speaks excellent English. Randa spends her days with the children to distract them and act as their teacher or to cook to support what remains of her family but carrying out these tasks is neither obvious nor simple. Approximately 96% of the water available in the Gaza Strip is not drinking water, and the population lives in conditions of serious economic difficulty, with many families in a state of food insecurity. The Gaza Strip is often described as an &quot;open-air prison&quot;. Of course, due to the restrictions on freedom of movement and trade that are imposed by Egypt but also by Israel. Today, Gaza survives almost only thanks to international humanitarian aid, which transports basic necessities by truck, passing the various checkpoints. However, it often happens that the Israeli authorities prevent the passage of trucks, blocking something like 83% of this humanitarian aid that could enter Gaza. The obvious result of this crazy embargo policy is that there is no food for everyone. After 11-12 o'clock we provide food to people this structure distributes food to people of course it is delivered free of charge people take food enough to last a day for lunch or dinner displaced people come to us aware of the food they will take We hand out food on people's plates here people take food in their containers clearly we do not have plastic containers or food packaging we source food products from markets sometimes rice is available, sometimes not sometimes pasta is available, sometimes not so we have to buy according to market prices and availability of markets Without people like Saad Abdeen, it would be impossible for NGOs and associations to distribute food to all these people you see. His centre, in fact, also deals with recovering firewood to be able to cook and when aid is scarce it allows to find other food which in any case is sometimes not even enough It's hard to find things it's hard to find things if these are out of market the same goes for all things that are not available it affects the production of food in our cities for example oil is absent in the market Saad talks about the market because yes, in theory it is still possible to buy food in Gaza. But in the absence of cultivable fields this food is part of inventory from shops or markets or part of humanitarian aid which is taken and resold informally by individuals. Those who sell this food do so to obtain cash which they will then reuse in turn to take and purchase other food items. However, as well you understand, such a market cannot be sustainable And in fact... the fact is that diesel gas run on edible oil To give some examples, before the war a 25 kg bag of flour cost 9 dollars Now it costs 150 The price of powdered milk has increased from 3 to 12 dollars Eggplants from 80 cents per kilo to 5 dollars A kilo of frozen meat from 5 to 41 dollars In Gaza City 25 kg of flour costs 1000 dollars and a kilo of cucumbers 150 dollars sometimes the food we produce is not enough for people Unfortunately, we can't feed everyone It is a problem that we face on a daily basis children become sad and don't eat for a day And they have to wait until the next day to eat The situation is critical not only due to the lack of food but also due to of drinking water and for hygiene Since the beginning of invasion, most of the already precarious water treatment plants in Gaza have been destroyed. Today, almost all the water in the strip is not drinkable and contaminated. To make the situation worse, in August the first case of polio was detected in 25 years with the WHO which has started a vaccination campaign. Israel has allowed the entry of vaccines but many basic medicines such as tachypirin for example are unobtainable. The resistance of the population, however, emerges from people like Raja'e who manages three small desalination plants and supplies from only about a quarter of all the clean water in Gaza. My name is Rajae'e Hussein Abu Mughaseab Before the war we worked with electricity and solar panels After the war there is none of that, there is no electricity water is necessary for people I distribute de-salinated water to people and give them filtered water Thanks to Raja'e's machines, the inhabitants of Khan Younis can fill tanks of water to share with their families. This is a fundamental service for the community which, however, is not sustainable in due to the continuous danger of bombing and also hyperinflation. we moved here because of the war we moved on to Haby City, Hamad, then Al Zawaida we have moved 11 times since the beginning of the conflict each move costs me $5,000 for transportation and maintenance (of instruments) Before the war we paid $8 a liter for gasoline $100 today, and it's not even always available we have no external supports Neither by the government, nor by institutions, nor by any good operator Before the war a cup of water cost 5 shekels Today it costs 60 shekels, I lose money on it But to ensure that its plants work Raja'e also needs electricity and fuel and even in this case the general scarcity of these resources is felt. Before the war I used to pay for electricity 10 shekels Today it costs me 500 shekels from 8 shekels for 1 liter of diesel fuel we went to $100 In fact there is not enough power to cover the energy needs of the entire population And in reality there wasn't even any before October 2023. So much so that many Palestinians had begun to equip themselves with personal solar panels In Gaza, electricity has an intrinsic value that goes beyond simply illuminating a room or making operate a machine Because it allows you to charge mobile phones Thus keeping in touch with friends, relatives, family, displaced people, who knows where And communicating with the outside world When on social media someone justifies certain political crimes by writing phrases like &quot;But the Palestinians didn't complain about being without electricity?&quot; &quot;So how do they use social media?&quot; Here's the answer. They use solar panels to power their devices. If you see comments like this around, respond with this simple reality. Nayef, a man who has set up a charging center where anyone can go to connect their devices, knows it well. My name's Nayef Fathi Al-Zerabi I'm 35 years old and I live in Khan Younis my eldest daughter is 6 years old the second daughter 4 years old and the youngest is 2 years old thanks to God, they're all fine Just like in other cities in Gaza we are not doing well, we woke up in the middle in the middle of the night and on the streets we found tanks we managed to escape After working in the fruit sector I am now dealing with phones I sold all my wife's gold and I bought a table, a device and a battery Day after day thanks God we bought another table, two devices and bigger batteries Nayef is one of the many people who contributes to creating that underground and informal economy which, despite its contradictions, makes up for the lack of a state and allows the Palestinians of Gaza to survive. And be careful, there is nothing romantic about this. The most widespread feelings among the people Yasser interviewed for us are despondency and resignation, the awareness of being unable to do anything to change their conditions. the simplest things are hard to find today at the market they have disappeared I saw a blanket being sold at the market. Impossible, there are no blankets anymore at the market it's a daily routine, we got used to it when you get used to something, you forget about it For some, it is even psychologically good to continue doing the same things that were done before the Israeli invasion. Abdallah, a 23-year-old boy who, among the rubble and iron curtains of Khan Younis, cuts the hair of anyone who asks him, tells us about it . What you see are surreal scenes of life, vestiges of a normality that no longer exists for them. My name's Abdullah al-Furjani I'm from Khan Younis and I'm 23 years old I'm a barber I owned a saloon, whose name was Kafir Aboud it was one of the most beautiful in the area I had a name, thanks God then the war came and I lost everything my house, my saloon, everything went destroyed Even my daily customers, they're all dead for Abdallah, the days pass in the same way until the evening. There is only the noise of the planes flying over the area to break the monotony, hoping that no more bombs will rain from the sky. As I told you, I was encouraged to keep the store open by my friends they told me to keep it open (Yasser): &quot;You supported your friends&quot; Yes, my friends and my neighbours they told me they were comfortable they made a tent for me Of course all the furniture's gone with the destruction, everything's gone and of course I have no money so I had to take used items Then, when Yasser is about to turn off the cameras, Abdallah makes one last sad comment I swear, I'm doing my best but I'm sad, that's what we have that's all what we have, we've got no alternative I force myself to laugh, thinking there's nothing to be sad I don't know why I'm laughing but I force myself but that's what we have now. I don't want to stay here, I want to go I don't want Gaza to disappear I have no money maybe abroad I can have a better life His point of view is more than understandable. The ambulance and the journalists are bombed this boy holds a toy in his hand and the toy has blood stains corpses fly all over the place here's a dead man and his brother keeps walking Gaza is destroyed Our hope is that God removes from us this depression and ends the war of course we hope that war ends and that we can back to the previous life this is the hope of every person who is endowed with conscience and humanity this war is bad for everyone, not only us, but even the other side It's hard to find hope. It is difficult to find hope when the missiles show no sign of stopping, when journalists disappear, when information is deliberately obscured, misrepresented or passed over in silence by the media on TV or other pseudo YouTube channels. When the food trucks don't arrive and when we continue to justify what looks in every way like ethnic cleansing. Because yes, as some say, &quot;they are all terrorists&quot;, right? I'm optimist, God will end this war with a miracle but no one in the world can stop USA and Israel to end this war the world only listens to the language of the powerful And there is no other power in the world but the U.S. and Israel God's willing, Gaza suffered a lot and was destroyed it was God's willing our God guided us, He guided His servants to the fate we find ourselves into now, thanks God We are no one to question Nayef's beliefs but we find it hard to believe that this is the fate that the world's powerful have reserved for the Palestinians of Gaza. On the contrary, their fate is in the hands of a State that claims the right to decide on the lives of others, when and how it wants. Israel's objective is clear. Destroy Hamas and all its enemies. But before this happens, all the resources of the Gaza Strip could run out. And then, in Gaza, there may be no one left when and if the war ends, or if a permanent ceasefire is imposed, someone will have to rebuild. And who will do it? Israel? Who razed Gaza to the ground? Or as Le Mondes reports, the same Israel that wants to make Gaza a buffer zone and colonize the north of the strip? Or will it be those Israeli companies and individuals who have been suggesting for months to &quot;liberate&quot; Gaza from the Palestinians in order to build luxury homes there? To say that time has stopped in the Gaza Strip is wrong, perhaps unfair. To survive there is no other alternative than to always be ready to escape, as Randa did, going south from the north. And this, honestly, is not life. The fact that a terrorist group, which is Hamas, operates in Gaza does not justify the decimation of an entire population. Nor an apartheid like the one imposed and carried out by Israel and which it has imposed not only in the Gaza Strip, but also in the nearby West Bank. And yes, perhaps Israel's actions do not meet the full legal definition of genocide, which the International Criminal Court is investigating, but we might ask then what is genocide? When do we start to recognize it as such? During its progress? Only once done? Or maybe when we finally open our eyes and say &quot;Oh well, that's how it happened, we couldn't have done it any other way.&quot; It happened in Germany, it happened in Bosnia, it happened in Armenia, in Circassia, in many other parts of the world. Call it what you want, but at least don't refer to those 40,000 dead people as collateral damage, because the destruction of Gaza is anything but an accident. Remember: our work is only possible thanks to the support of those who believe in our vision. In a landscape where the same voices and versions often dominate, the contribution of a strong community on Patreon or with the YouTube patrons program is essential to continue disseminating independent content, which can reach authentic voices in the world and escape the bubble media that always repeats the same old things. If you also want to see independent information like us, your support really makes the difference. In the description of this episode you will find the link to our Patreon or even a YouTube subscription. Thank you for being part of this project. This documentary was the most important ever for us and I am extremely proud of it. I would do it again a hundred thousand times. Per aspera.