(tense ominous music) (prompt beeps) (gentle start-up music) (mouse clicking) (static hissing) - Mortis, keeper of the sacred key. - To find the Grail, you (gentle upbeat music) (tense foreboding music) - [Narrator] &quot;Drowned God&quot;. A 1996 point-and-click video game created by a man named Richard Horne, also known as Harry Horse. Stemming from the idea that the scientific origins the game plays like an eerie looking glass into a disturbed mind. The game is, for all intents and purposes, a product of its time, and Containing an esoteric the game effectively bombards you with questions about your origins, connecting them to prominent and secret societies, like the Illuminati. In turn, the end result is but something tells me that At the outset of &quot;Drowned God,&quot; you're greeted with a mysterious chamber and a strange voice explaining Allegedly, the reality that and who it's from is presently one of the game's many mysteries. The voice explains that from a previous life, and your is to unearth a secret with answers about life itself. &quot;Trust too deeply&quot;, the voice warns, &quot;and you'll know the As above, so below. As above, so below. This is the secret of the &quot;Drowned God.&quot; (tense suspenseful music) Something about 1990's PC games And it's eerily pleasant. (gentle suspenseful music) The atmosphere of &quot;Drowned enveloping you within it's The gameplay is rudimentary, at least compared to modern standards, but back then that was mostly expected. The point-and-click game was nothing new, and &quot;Drowned God&quot; was, of &quot;Sanitarium,&quot; &quot;Garage,&quot; they were everywhere. What made it special, though, was the fact that it was so outlandish. It had layers, genuine lore, and a wild mishmash of conspiracies all baked into an eerie To enjoy &quot;Drowned God&quot; meant engross yourself in it, and suspend whatever counter-belief that was baked within your conscience. (gentle ominous music) (gentle music) After the introductory monologue, you're left in a chamber Before you is a terminal, it assigns you a number, a code name, and then presents you with a After observing this, a door opens up leading named Kether and Malachut, that explain that you need to collect for the secret of the Drowned God. Obtaining these involves known as the Cryptowheel, to the regions in which they're kept. The first world is one named Binah, containing aspects of Arthurian legend, and including references to Stonehenge. It takes you through a deserted wasteland before eventually dropping that I can only describe as uncanny. Like the Museum of Anything Goes, (man sighs) but that's a story for another time. (gentle upbeat music) The second, Chesed, showcases a submarine all wrapped up within an Something I particularly enjoyed here were the numerous references a time-traveling invisible that's admittedly pretty damn creepy. An obvious hoax, but still pretty creepy. I'm sure you can see why it fit perfectly into The third, named Din, a maze, and an underground subway system. The characters you encounter don Plague Doctor masks and walk in the most The carnival section, because it was throwing and that sure as hell ain't a bad thing. And the final world, Chokmah, takes you to a structure Everything's super quiet. Super abandoned. Super ominous. (gentle upbeat music continues) Once the game finally draws to a close, and you collect three of to unearth the big secret, you'll find that you're unable to, and are left to choose leading to three different endings. Choosing the first path banishes you to a technological police state with men in black suits surveilling you. The second is much of the into genetic manipulation And the final path? Well, that's my favorite one, because it welcomes you that cheerfully claim- - [Alien] &quot;We are coming, - [Narrator] A bit forward, I'll admit, but that's &quot;Drowned God&quot; for you. Aliens helped create humanity. Because of course they did. (gentle upbeat music) Now, &quot;Drowned God&quot; within and absolutely warrants an It's got all the cornerstones of a dissectable piece of a convoluted story, disturbing characters, and a creepy atmosphere. While that alone personally what you'd be surprised to know is that discussion about the game itself isn't actually why we're here today. The game's creator, Harry and the backstory of his life behind the veil of &quot;Drowned God&quot; is nothing short of unsettling. But why? (computer pings) (keyboard clacking) (gentle mysterious music) Reports had come out nearly a decade after the game's release that Harry Horse had passed away in a Romeo and Juliet-esque Amanda Williamson. The couple allegedly and died in each other's arms, with some outlets describing and &quot;the final expression that was their life together.&quot; While this may initially seem grievous, subsequent discoveries would later reveal that the reality of the Like I said, Harry Horse A mind full of complexity, For the last decade of his life, everything around him was into complication and misfortune. His wife was stricken by an aggressive form of multiple Harry would regularly express for how his life was falling into place. The division and method of discovery between this alleged and the media accounts surrounding it are another curious find as well, as the real details of weren't released until months later. The story everyone was made to believe, this romantic tragedy, In reality, things were much, much darker. Let me take you to the beginning. (gentle start-up music) (gentle ominous music) It's the 9th of May, 1960. A boy is born to a Jo and Derek Horne of Warwickshire, England. They name him Richard, and he would be the For most of his childhood, The family reportedly lived without much conflict, Richard was known to frequently drawing the on his daily walks with his family. All around, by those that as a considerably friendly, with a winning smile. By his teenage years, Richard would become increasingly aware that were at odds with those of his family. For instance, his parents were delighted when he eventually landed a job as a solicitors clerk at a law firm, however this occupation opened his eyes to where his passion truly was. Not in law, but in art. After quitting a short while later, and around the time he turned 18, he'd leave his home for in hopes of sneaking He changed his name from around this time as well, was his method of burying a rift that we'll soon find noteworthy. &quot;If you look like a student, then you basically are one,&quot; Harry claimed was his philosophy and it seemed to have ultimately paid off, as just five years later, he'd release his debut children's book to remarkable success. His method of pulling this off, however, involved a significant amount Allegedly, he had contacted Canongate, posing as an agent, and claiming that they should Needless to say, he ultimately and the rest is history. (lively upbeat music) By utilizing this new found Harry would launch a band It was during this phase of his life that he would meet the woman he'd marry, named Amanda Williamson. She was a self-proclaimed number one fan, and from the beginning, According to a friend, &quot;Harry and, &quot;She was a center Something Harry reputedly needed since according to those close to him, he was prone to sudden outbursts of rage. From coworkers to bandmates, was the fact that Harry would lash out for seemingly no reason, leaving them frequently &quot;I hate fucking dealers, they're the parasites of the art world, profit-margin-obsessed, greedy individuals with no true understanding of art,&quot; he once unloaded onto It was because of this notion that his peers would see however he had his demons, and was undoubtedly unpredictable. (gentle start-up music) (machinery whirring) - The game is about an of the history of mankind. The whole mystery of &quot;Drowned and the position of that form the same constellation the ground layout. It's a puzzle game, is unlocking a gigantic secret. And the game is thought from near ignorance into initiation and a new knowledge, which is genuine. You leave the game significantly and in you heart maybe, than It's about- - [Narrator] Having taken up an interest in conspiracy theories, Harry utilized his forgery to craft a false manuscript, dated 1846, that outlined an alternative He impersonated an 18th century poet named Richard Henry Not to be confused with According to Harry, &quot;Henry in the legend of the Sons of God, and it was exactly the A wild coincidence according to him, but it was one that ultimately serving as the basis for the &quot;Drowned God&quot; storyline. By Halloween night of and was generally well received, selling over 34,000 Described by some as &quot;the most psychedelic adventure it was safe to say that Harry So special that he had to eventually tie the however due to events that sequel would never (metal clacking) Contrary to his success Harry's personal life was crumbling. Amanda was officially diagnosed with an aggressive form leaving her health to rapidly deteriorate, and by the early 2000s, she This downward spiral would carry on for the better part of the next decade, and those close to them could observe Harry's After a myriad of smaller moves and life changes during the pair would adopt a and in 2004, they'd set near Amanda's immediate It was there where Harry As time would pass, his would increase, yet at the same time, his mind had a nagging desire To Harry, the months began to feel longer, he was becoming increasingly it was observed by his peers that his demeanor had reached (gentle foreboding music continues) Catalyzed by the sudden he became indifferent, incalculable, and it resulted in a According to &quot;The Sunday Times,&quot; &quot;He berated a Shetland art gallery for it's pretentious paintings. He punched a hole in a wall at home during a bout with a social worker who was disputing Amanda's His family's relations were and he eventually cut &quot;I'm in a living hell,&quot; And this island that was supposed to be their home of tranquility, more and more like a prison cell. (gentle start-up music) (gentle ominous music) On the 9th of January, 2007, two friends visiting from New Zealand would make a quick stop During their stay, Harry and was firing off claims such as, &quot;It's a wonderful night for a killing.&quot; According to them, Amanda didn't want them to However, against her (tense ominous music) 9:40 am, January 10th. On their way to the airport, the two friends return to the house to retrieve a jacket The front door's open, Instead of being greeted they encounter something Their new dog and their Amanda is seen with over 30 stab wounds and a broken blade stuck within her. Harry's discovered with over 47 wounds on his arms and torso, The pair are lying close There's blood on the floor, and the scene is unlike (tense ominous music continues) According to the media, it's Harry snapped after consuming stabbing his wife over and over until the first knife He grabbed another, and before shifting his and after killing them, he stabbing his own torso and genitals until both Amanda and he bled to death. &quot;The doctor who attended an officer claimed, &quot;it's the (gentle suspenseful music) To police, the scene was dark. They went on record to claim hadn't happened in the Shetland prior to the incident. The area was closed off and the investigation began privately, though, on the outside, word Because Scotland's investigators withholding details and everyone had caught wind however nobody knew exactly why or how. It was because of this notion that the rumors would potentially overdosing since Harry couldn't have pets, and then himself. Could he? And so, during the weeks media outlets ran with it, as an act of love. There were even plans since the families believed that it's what they would've wanted, however, they were It wasn't until days would catch wind of the actual and it's a bitter feeling that With that being said, because the case was closed so suddenly and the investigation reports the quote, unquote, official ruling, the murder by the hand of Richard Horne, has also been the subject of scrutiny. Evidence of this can through numerous articles, and even various blogs that The root of the issue stems a so-called Fatal Accident Having determined that it would be in the public's best interest to not know what officially since the deaths didn't or in police custody, it's left the public largely in the dark. I've been in contact with and while they're well aware of the initial flowery they're left with the belief According to them, they've been &quot;excluded, and to date, everything has led to closed doors.&quot; Allegedly, Amanda's that acquired the full disclosure leaving the sole public to come from them. One of the few official answers that the Hornes were able to obtain was Richard's autopsy report, and the results are highly intriguing. As it turns out, the widely-reported cocktail of drugs that he actually wasn't so, since barbiturates, benzos, opiates, and paracetamol And the same goes for his blood alcohol and urine alcohol levels Aside from elevated levels of the antidepressant amitriptyline, he was otherwise entirely leading the family to further question how he'd be able to pull off on top of self-mutilation. &quot;Were they murdered?&quot;, a &quot;To date, a high court judge amongst others believe so. Someone got away with Only time will tell.&quot; (VHS machine whirring) All right, Nexpo from the future here. The video's done and I'm with a quick addendum. (gentle upbeat music) If I'm being completely honest with you, this video has been difficult to write. The amount of information, and running theories are so abundant that formulating a definitive opinion on what happened that Harry was unpredictable. His peers and family don't deny that. And the painfully frustrating reality is that Amanda did not deserve to die, and especially not the way she did. I think, now in hindsight, the reason why this has is due to a myriad of things. The media, the claims by the Williamsons, the counterclaims by the Hornes, and the lack of an official police report. I'll admit, there's so much that's been left out of this video because if I went through everything, the runtime would be two hours long. With that being said, after I highly encourage you to read further into this bizarre story. It's got peculiarity after peculiarity. For instance, did you did not officially declare until over a year later? For that entire length every claim, theory, retelling, Now, while this notion's suspect, and just firing off the top here, let's say that Harry did a counterpoint to this would be that claim by the authorities, hadn't happened in the Shetland But the media got Harry's sobriety wrong, and he reportedly downed a before committing this crime, right? Well, no. The toxicology So once again, if we're assuming then who would? The island that the couple passed away on has a population of, 907, so it's safe to assume that someone on the island would've known or heard or seen something had an external party committed this. Sensationalism, frustration, confliction. That is the Achilles' heel of (gentle music) The story of Amanda is a metaphorical amalgamation of tension, devolvement, and madness. After leading a life of lies, Harry Horse had found great success however the reflection of ultimately created a character that he grew further and The events that played out the breaking point, of a should've been so much better, yet the circumstances that surrounded them ultimately crumbled into calamity. It's been regarded by many as the perfect catastrophe Killing the ones you love before turning the knife upon yourself is a testament to the burning resentment that was buried within him all along. Well, at least, that's how it And that's the main issue it's one that's wrapped media sensationalism, and (gentle ominous music) Ultimately, cruel distortion has taught us to never take Whether the events that were a gruesome murder-suicide by an unpredictable or were the work of an that got away with homicide, what's undeniable is the notion that the legal system in ultimately leaving us on not only Harry Horse their families, and everyone Thanks so much for I love you all, and good night. (gentle pensive music) (gentle pensive music continues)