2014, YEAR OF CULTURE With financial support of THE MINISTRY CHANNEL ONE RUSSIA STAR MEDIA BABICH-DESIGN THE RUSSIAN MILITARY HISTORICAL SOCIETY PRESENT I remember a dream... and I remember a cloud, a small one that was rushing past in the sky... This is so vivid to me, as if I see it. LERMONTOV Chapter 1. HE WAS A CHILD The people in the large house of the estate were awake for a long time on Maria Mikhailovna Arsenyeva, could not calm her newborn son, The baby was born prematurely. It was weak. Yelizaveta Alekseyevna Arsenyeva, Housewifely lady of the estate, always and everywhere. The grandmother instantly understood so she had to take caring of him She told to the young parents And that she would name him Mikhail. as usually, nobody dared to object Yuri Petrovich, little Michel's father, was with his young wife in the Arsenyevs' After Michel was born, he started leaving either for going hunting His young wife, still weak felt the severance from her husband keenly. She used to write moving love poems, They met at a ball to find a fiance for Maria Mikhailovna. Always staying home, so she fell in love with well-mannered Yuri Yuri Petrovich was, generally speaking, He could hardly bear From birth, Maria Mikhailovna was a rather and frequent absence of her husband One day, Maria Mikhailovna, annoyed and anxious, he lost control This incident ruined the health of weak Yuri Petrovich regretted greatly, The people at the estate remembered young at the bed with little Michel in it for And when the little boy walked along the corridors of masters' and continued humming her quiet song. Another doctor was brought when it was already impossible Thus Michel Lermontov became motherless. He was a child when his dearest one And he remembered incense being burnt And other things... and that his father with his forehead covered And when they said to him To kiss farewell Being a child, Michel could not Several days after his mother's death of which nobody saw any reason to tell him. God only knows what happened but Yuri Petrovich stayed in the Tarkhany Then she left for his estate. I was a young girl Everyone was crying like mad Then she asked to let her grandson to live with her but he was coaxed at last, left his son I wish I could see how he would raise him; he had barely enough money even though he endeavored Crushed by her sorrow, Michel's grandmother ordered to demolish that witnessed the death of her daughter. A church was built on its site and with an attic built near it in where Having lost her daughter, she cherished her only All her strength, Yelizaveta Alekseyevna that she "could not breathe enough of him", The only thing that alarmed her was Every time Yuri Petrovich visited them, the boy was taken Little Michel was always happy He used to immediately jump out as he heard the sound of the cart bells... His grandmother saw this; to retain her beloved grandson by her side. "After my daughter died, and my own grandson in whom I cherish parental affection as of the only subject of and complete consolation Therefore, I hereby leave and convey by and immovable property to my own grandson Mikhaila Yuriyevich Lermontov however, that the said grandson and in my care as long as I live, with no whatsoever, until he attains his majority. and obtain my grandson which, will offend me to the greatest extent, leave and convey all my movable now bequeathed not to my grandson, Mikhailo Yuriyevich, Michel's grandmother never left him He slept in her bedroom and she watched his Born by a weak mother, One day he fell ill worse than usual. Arsenyeva got scared so much and commanded them to pray God At all costs he must not be ill! The Tarkhany hunters are immediately ordered He wants to be out with peasants? The village peasants immediately gather The entertainment does not help: the doctors in warmth, under the feather bed. or boys screaming when birched by Deprived of usual children's entertainments, Imagination became his new toy... As extension of agonizing insomnia, he was getting accustomed to overcome by dreams of his soul... Moscow doctors did know because none of them could establish Misha was melting away In despair, his grandmother a famous French doctor, At first Dr. Levis treats Misha using rye bread and watercress leaves. In addition to his illness, and the granny asks the doctor The doctor asked some time for thinking. But soon he arrived he seemed to know the way to save the boy. The Caucasus! The French doctor did not know for sure But it's the Caucasus! Its winds, mighty mountains, noisy rivers The boy is recovering very quickly. One day Michel notices a girl of nine Will anyone believe me if I say My heart became beating fast I did not have much understanding then; a strong passion: I have never loved like that since then. for agitation was seen on my face: wish to see her and when she came, I did not want to speak about her and would that my heartbeat and trembling voice that was obscure even for me. Her blond hair, swift blue eyes, her ease -- I have never seen anything of the kind No one knew what cured the boy: The one thing was obvious: Chapter 2. AT THE DOOR TO THE HIGH SOCIETY Michel started to write poetry several years after his journey Michel turned from the boy into a young man and entered the Moscow University's His granny moved to Moscow and leased a house Sviatoslav Rayevsky, He is three years older than Lermontov. already and is now studying at the University Michel has infinite trust in him. Young, smart and freedom-loving Rayevsky so vividly describes balls, ladies and gentlemen, all those things he could never learn from But the main thing -- his idol and the idol Rayevsky introduces Lermontov They attend balls each Tuesday. Lermontov He recites poetry, May patronage of Fortune To make your mind resistant to wines Rose cheeks and wines -- Fake wine and coquettes bring poison Yekaterina Sushkova... A society beauty. The attention of all men at all balls She had extraordinarily fine black hair. Once she made that she had To prove that, Sushkova let her hair Young Lermontov was heard I used to meet a clumsy Everyone called him just Michel and I, just like everyone else, I named him my "official-at-large" my gloves for storage, so I promised to suspend him Once Sasha Vereshchagina and I were Lermontov is so much in love with you! Lermontov? I don't know him and, I hear his name for the first time. Just stop you pretending. And never guessed No, Sashie I have never Michel! Michel! Catherine asserts Ah! I know you. And I have known But it is the firs time that I hear Stealing gloves of St. Petersburg's Michel became angry Don't be slow in coming back! Also we used to make fun of his Our mockery would exhaust his patience; Then we made a bet that we would catch That very day we had patties with sawdust So, what do we have here? Patties? The hors is really crazy. Try some more, with cabbage. Oh! With pleasure! Michel! Michel! Michel! Michel! It was a joke! Michel! Michel! I'm sad because I love you very much, now in full bloom, For each bright day, With longing and with tears because you're in a merry state. Michel bears all mockery He is angry and jealous when He writes one poem after another to her. One can't help believing such love, You are unable of dissembling, Thus, for your love did I pray And my best feelings in this way Nothing will bring us close anymore, Though a wonderful I cannot love another woman... You yesterday accepted my declaration Though you didn't understand my passions, I thank you. I thank you for your dedication. you compose such nice impromptus I would just like to give you a piece you should think over and with time those you dedicate your Are you not proud of my verses now? Of course not! You should agree that... you and your poems are You find a strange pleasure indeed that I am nothing but a child for you. You should be ashamed, I am 18 and I have appeared in And what about you? You are just standing and you will cross it not very soon. You are mocking at me again. is silly and ridiculous especially in the last couplet. Meanwhile a new trend The high society tries on new and new The whole society gathers Lermontov finds One night he appears in the costume of The book contained caustic poems It's not a reason concealed afar His behavior provokes diverse response. Some people note while others fear his caustic jibes. In the dwelling of stench and shit But I don't wish to stain my verse From time to time Lermontov not recognizing anything worth of Many people spoke of him One night during another party This 28-th day of January, year 1831. This is my parental guidance and, my behest to you, my dearest son Mikhail. I see you are gifted Do not neglect them and fear above it is a talent for which you will have You have a good heart, so please do not make you will fall into the vice Thank you, my dearest friend, Your father, You've given birth to me, You were persecuted yourself in the world, And were understood by only one of them. That very one was standing Motionless, cold and mute. Without knowing reasons why, Was a cause for him to rejoice. Madmen! They could not realize than to suffer Presumably, Lermontov suffered The death of his father seemed to have Another loss seemed to stop Michel's life. That was a song that used to make me cry. But I am sure that if I heard, It was the song my late mother Unexpectedly to himself, among the numerous people Young, gentle, pure, smart Varvara Aleksandrovna Lopuknina was Everyone called her Varenka's temper -- gentle and loving, Comparing himself with her, unattractive, round-shouldered humpback. That was how he exaggerated his physical A Demon, soul of all the banished, And thoughts of happier days now vanished Not knowing either good or evil, And was he stranger to desires. And things he touched would burn in fire, And very often the young Demon But suddenly he heard a quiet sound And there was a voice. And his forehead grew cold... And could not move his wings. A tear of lead Rolled down Sullen as darkness of moonless night, Enchanted by her play, He must not let love in his heart. One day Lermontov fails to come Then he stops appearing at society parties. His grandmother receives and she asks Rayevsky to help her. The letters from Lopukhina arrive at But instead of the answer, of his poem "The Demon" after a while. ...He must not let love in his heart. Nobody can find Lermontov "Following the instruction by the Head I order to appoint minor Mikhail Lermontov Lermontov is now ranked cadet and shall It turned out that he abandoned university and left for St. Petersburg to study Becoming a military -- this is his goal now. It's high time to start Lermontov finds himself in unusual conditions parades and soldier's rough everyday life. He is inspired adapts quickly and writes about himself: Chapter 3. I AM WARRIOR NOW Lermontov masters Aleksey Stolypin, his friend He is sociable, jovial Stolypin was hussar by birth. As a sign of special trust, Lermontov This was said to be the name of the dog and catch the regiment commander's horse by the tail which quickened Mikhail Glebov, a modest and kind minor was in special repute of Lermontov. No one of his friends, except for Glebov, could calm down Lermontov These young cadets become Lermontov's For instance, he invents a game He gathers his fellows at night the one above covers himself the rider holds On Lermontov's signal, approaches their victim's bed, tears away Cadet Martynov is among Lermontov's pals. Some inexplicable rivalry that manifested becoming distinguished among the cadets They encouraged and inspire one another and this made their friendship Lermontov is a master of fencing He had almost no match in this. I remember we were taught fencing This class was obligatory I preferred sabers and Lermontov who liked them as much as I did. So we would meet for fights attracted numerous audience Why are you so excited, friends? Lermontov liked to torture us in ways Without realizing, the cadets Treading a tightrope, not merely having fun, There was a meeting of a large number of young One of the officers was recounting Michel only dropped a remark: A man who has strength is not able to overcome physical pain... This phrase sounded like a challenge. Then the officer took with his hand before everyone's eyes. Eventually, his hand had burnt and he had high fever for several weeks. O Lord! You have That would be admirable! and poetry drowned in champagne! I want sensational pleasures now, a happiness that could be bought for gold like a snuffbox and it would only seduce It is forbidden Lermontov writes poetry very little but he watches a lot. One day Martynov, who was going out finds his poetry and recites it publicly Gentlemen, follow me! Rude army lifestyle and customs prevail among the cadets. Lermontov as if lets What uhlan's life is without wine? His soul rests at the bottom of the glass Is -- beg your pardon -- not an uhlan. "Folks", Lafa said belching, I'll show you a gate to Paradise!... "Let's go!.." heated up like beasts, Jumped up and darted... Farewell, the happy days... The ground trembles... coming... Her hot breasts heaving... Good people, stop your ears!..." ...So many strange so that I do not know which way to take... I now feel and speak differently and God only knows what My life makes me laugh now... Dearest Virgin, saying my prayer Asking not for salvation in battles, Nor for my soul of a wanderer I wish to entrust an innocent virgin Please, wrap her soul of merits with happiness; Heartwarming youth and tranquil old age And when the moment of the last farewell comes Please sent your fairest angel To sustain the fairest of souls Two years later Lermontov graduates He has been promoted to the rank of cornet His grandmother lavishes to equip her with all surroundings she deemed to be A cook, 2 coachmen, a servant, being all of them were sent to Tsarskoye Selo My friend, I still think I have found another 100 roubles, The grandmother spares no expense. she regularly allocates 10,000 roubles per At that time Lermontov is crazy about Parader, his faithful horse, and there were several more carriages I have read your verse, my friend. and the thing that I liked the most was so popular nowadays..." Chapter 4. A HERO OF OUR TIME Fledged and experienced, Lermontov At one of the balls, he meets HER again... He has reached manhood. His eyes One could not help becoming confused Lermontov knows Sushkova's secret: she is He daringly assumes that she wishes because Lopukhin owns several Lopukhin is coming to St. Petersburg My Lord! If only you wished If only you wished to understand and how frantically some young man But first answer me to one question: if you one -- let's assume he be Lopukhin -- everyone admiring him, being able The other young man is far from being rich, passionate and perceptive. He is on the brink of the precipice because He does not know what reciprocal feelings, And if this poor man dared 'Please, save me. I deify you. You will make Only you can save my soul. What a kiss that was! Even if I lived It seems to me that I feel the touch I could not sleep all night long. and squeezed it. ...most passions begin that way, when we think that a woman loves us True, they prepare the ground, dispose but nevertheless it is the first Lermontov has resolutely So light-heartedly he prevents the wedding of Sushkova The engagement is broken herself has completely changed her You can congratulate me: It was quite difficult but Are you writing something? You are going to be heroine I feel faint!' she gasped... She... but I tightened my embrace I could feel a fiery glow from her. &quot;Either you despise me, she said at last in a voice &quot;Perhaps you wish to mock me, That would be so vile, so low, Lermontov... One rainy evening an unknown messenger A long unsigned letter in 4 pages written in My gracious Yekaterina Aleksandrovna! that you are on the brink of precipice Believe me, he is unworthy of you. There is nothing sacred for him I used to know him before... which, however, did not prevent him from ruining a young lady equal He took her from her family and, after Come to your senses; make sure Believe me, he will never marry you...He will and will mock at you in addition. And this would the best outcome and which is sincerely wished to you: The family investigation that the author of this message Her relatives decide both Yekaterina Aleksandrovna Lermontov is refused in visiting their house. over not understanding what is going on Locked at home as if in the cage, she had no However, the anger of her family calms down Her only wish is to see Lermontov. You are unjust and cruel. I am just he same as I have always been. What do you take vengeance on me for? Don't torture me and say it plain: Have I really any right I am happy with everything I have. For god's sake, resolve my doubts I'm ready to apologize to you but suffering Answer me, calm me down! I have nothing against you. The mill cannot And I don't claim anything. And I don't seem to have ever loved you. Some thought it to have been his revenge for the abasement he was bearing some say Lermontov got frightened. Others explained what happened by his suffering from his plainness Two years later Yekaterina Sushkova a man of modest means and, Lermontov was said to have insisted on being having been refused, nevertheless was And also was said to be crying. Nobody understood He was wrapped up in himself most One day he received He started reading it but suddenly This was the news of the coming Lopukhin, Varenka's brother returned broke and told his sister that Lermontov Varia was unaware of the details made her sure once and for all having left no other choice for her. Breathless with impatience I galloped on... Oh, but to see her for a minute, only one more I prayed, I cursed, I cried, I laughed... Now that I realized she became for me more precious than life, And all the while I rode on, Varenka's destiny Rich landlord Bakhmetiev Once he came to the ball Lopukhina's ball scarf accidentally She had to stop to untangle Bakhmetiev was a superstitious man, so Soon he made a proposal of marriage Varenka accepted it ...He crashed to the ground. but try as I might to get him up, pull as I A scarcely audible groan escaped and a few minutes later he was dead. I was left alone in the steppe, I fell on to the wet grass All my resolution, my spirit was impotent, and had someone seen me at that moment Chapter 5. THE POET'S KILLED Rayevsky comes to St. Petersburg He was transferred to serve Lermontov suggests him to share Rayevsky gladly agrees. They were true friends able of working Lermontov recites his poetry to Rayevsky and Rayevsky persuades Lermontov to submit Lermontov is firmly against -- It ends in Rayevsky stealing to the editor of a major magazine and the Lermontov learns of this. However, the poem is not criticized; it is praised in every manner possible. At that time young people Lermontov and Rayevsky attend one of them, The circle was named After having a modest dinner the young men smoking cigars and talking about the events in free and easy manner. Following trends of the time, they oftener and tsar's rule. the young men do not mind at all being Young Prince Aleksandr Vasilchikov But he hardly always participated Everybody knows that his father is the Chairman Some have suspicious and apprehensive but Lermontov values likes to start arguments Vasilchikov's presence points Lermontov writes a great deal. Despite boiling social he almost invariably prefers solitude. He seems to have no desires at all. he wishes his poems to be read by Pushkin. In the evening of 27 January, 1837, the news of Pushkin's fatal injury The city stirred up. Crowds of people It was impossible to move all classes of St. Petersburg's society residents, What was going on looked like Pushkin died on 29 January at 2.45 pm. Lermontov's poem shook Rayevsky mainly to support Pushkin's family These copies spread They were duplicated in thousand copies. The poem was not only recited but No sooner had St. Petersburg said than talks about his successor The death of Pushkin was Among Lermontov's friends were also Would YOU shoot at Pushkin? When standing at the station. Gentlemen, don't you think Lermontov was infuriated and immediately wrote another 16 lines right there, The "Postscript" -- spread around St. Petersburg It was some young hussar accusing the closest not Pushkin's death itself that became And several more days later a copy of Lermontov's poem titled Lermontov was summoned for interrogation. I was still ill when the news of Pushkin's duel spread. Then, on impulse, I poured out in exaggerated and wrongful words, without understanding that which could be taken by many people This was my first However, if no excuse is possible, my because at that moment my passion I myself have never given it But I cannot renounce them, Searches had been executed under Written by the Cornet and of Distribution Thereof Rayevsky was arrested. An official order was issued soon: Cornet Lermontov shall be transferred retaining his rank, and Guberniya Secretary and then sent to the Olonetsk Guberniya for the distribution of the said verses." for Rayevsky having been involved I did not mention you at first, but then they said that no punishment if I refused to answer questions I recalled my granny... and I could not. I cannot explain what was going on Weak and exhausted by worries, and falls seriously ill the place in Georgia where Lermontov He is alone again. His condition is so serious On his way, strange people literally he is unable to walk himself. Lermontov Chapter 6. A WANDERING COMET His youthful liveliness yielded Here, in the Caucasus, Life unveils to him form a new perspective. There are not only written verses pencil sketches from life. The mountain air seemsto affect him My dearest friend Sviatoslav! I have In Circassian clothes, I used to spend nights in the open air By Jove, I won't promise to explain you want nothing at these moments; you could There are no service duties here... My dearest friend, please remember me that you having been punished Faithfully yours forever, Lermontov. Yelizaveta Alekseyevna has been soliciting She succeeded in a year: by emperor's was transferred to St. Petersburg to serve with the Life Guards Hussar Regiment Wake up, bone-head! Hi, beauty! He is completely absorbed He writes many lyric poems, completes his drama "The Masquerade", as well as several more plays. In a word, the most active period Simuntaleously with Lermontov, Lermontov rushes to see him. He bursts into He kisses him and, with his eyes "Forgive me, forgive me, The high life goes on Lermontov is in surrounding of his friends. He seems to be incredibly happy Varvara Aleksandrovna Lopukhina comes She arrived to stop here for a short Together with her husband and child. The wedding, the forced family life weakened Varvara Aleksandrovna's health. she is pale and slim; and it is her eyes they are as tender She will go abroad but the news of Lermontov's death and she will die at the age of 36. One day Lermontov comes home The friends start asking him: And Lermontov, in joking manner, I had a duel with some French! He chose foils: we stood knee-deep He attached me inertly; I wanted to pierce his hand, Mongo gave us the pistols. The French made a shot, but missed; We reconciled and parted... That's it. These d'Antheses and Barrantes are nothing This story had no consequences Lermontov was attending high society Finally an imprudent young lady Lermontov was summoned I attended the ball at Countess Laval's Mr. Barante began demanding "The Death of the Poet" where, I accuse the whole French I replied that everything told to him was I said that I had no intention His biting words met to which he said that if we were in his country, I replied then that the code of honor is as and that we do not allow offending ourselves Lermontov is punished for this duel He is sent to the frontline of the then waged He is assigned to command a detachment These were demoted officers, all being men of reckless nature. Lermontov replaces their wounded commander Lermontov establishes his rules he refuses all comfortable conditions, he sleeps on the bare ground, and pays no attention to the condition But... he is quite happy Lermontov fights recklessly and experienced native Caucasian warriors. "a wandering comet looking for the most Outward recklessness of his detachment in endless hand-to-hand fighting. Some because Lermontov they fight against the highlanders according Lermontov's horsemen fight remaining There was no single special mission And Lermontov was... I write to you by chance; and really I have already lost the right to. That I remember you? But Gracious God! And certainly you do not care. And you don't need to either know We are no kindred spirits; and I must say But I remember you -- First -- 'cause I've loved you very much Then -- I have paid with torments And then in fruitless repentance And I've killed the last blossom of my life Becoming close with people with caution, And love, and verse -- but it was impossible Like bees the Cossacks scattered First badges -- two and more -- are seen now And out there a murid in the turban, His light-grey horse seething, To fight to death with him?!.. a Cossack In the black cap set out; He's close... a shoot... a smoke... "What? Injured?!.." - "Oh, it's nothing!" But there is all talk and no cider; On cool Caucasian evenings, As a tragic ballet And, yet, I've seen performances The silence was frightful With many hearts beating quickly A sudden volley... So what? Our regiments "Together!" we heard the command. All officers ahead... "Hurrah!.." And silence fell. The daggers bare "The buttstocks!" And for two hours we cut each other As animals, in silence, chest-to-chest. The heat and fight made me weary But the turbid wave I asked my local friend: What is this place's name? &quot;Valerik&quot;, he said, Which in your tongue will mean The ancients Were right indeed One will not see On your young face And please Lord There are enough Is not it better And fall into a heavy sleep Now farewell: If my artless story Even at a least degree. Then forgive it to me as a frolic This was one of decisive battles For the Battle of Valerik Lermontov with a reference to his valor. Lermontov was granted a three-months leave. He is tired of war and submits But suddenly it becomes known that hehas His resignation is rejected. And, as response to his grandmother's an order comes for him to leave St. Petersburg Lermontov has an attack of nerves. He is in rage and fume, running around He comes to his senses by night only. On his way to the Caucasus, Lermontov his mate at the Cadet School, by Lermontov when they studied He persuades Lermontov to delay his arrival for a while on the pretext of having Mongo volunteered to prepare Lermontov doubts and proposes "Look, I'll toss a fifty-copecks piece we go to the regiment; if tails up, The coin comes up tails. The friends start looking for a flat in the there are rooms by their old friend Prince Vasilchikov. Soon the friends are joined He has changed greatly; constantly gloom and taciturn, and was wearing a plain Circassian coat and a white tall astrakhan hat pulled down Martynov commissions in the astrakhan hat and with daggers. He takes from the war things If Lermontov sees the things going on Martynov is absolutely sure that the tactics All his look was a statement of superiority Having participated in several major feels deep respect for the Caucasus Lermontov and Martynov Lermontov wittily makes fun The latter, in his turn, lacks wit to reply Pyatigorsk had a reputation of city Lermontov called him the Caucasian Monaco. The friends have lots of jesting, One night Lermontov saw Martynov at a party, with two daggers on his belt, You're so handsome indeed, Martynov! These words were heard I have asked you many times in the presence of ladies, haven't I? We'll make our peace tomorrow. Never mind. When the party was over Martynov caught up with Lermontov Lermontov gave a smile and asked him: Are you going to challenge Martynov's response was resolute. I might die tomorrow!.. And there will be no person in the world Some think of me in a worse way, Some will say: He was a good guy; Both points are false. But you still live, out of curiosity, It's ridiculous and pity! A black cloud was slowly rising Clouds in the sky, The place for the duel was chosen in haste. As pearly chains The seconds established two stations at and measured 10 more paces Exiled as I have been, constantly hurrying... Long-range large-caliber It was pre-agreed that the duelists or on approaching the stations, but in any case between From native North It was not allowed Clouds in the sky... What drives you there:... Lermontov refused Everyone was sure that the duel after exchanging the bullets, the opponents and go to dine together. Some secret jealousy? Or crimes hang heavy on you or some mutiny? Or your friends' calumny On approaching the point, Clouds in the sky, The only thing that remained But why Lermontov does not shoot? ...you were bored to death The rain showers in the faces With all these passions Ice cold eternally, in steady idleness You have no homeland Lermontov fell down. blood leaking from his left side. kissed him lying on the ground, After a short while the friends leaving Glebov at the place of the duel. The rain drove faster. Faithful Glebov as his friends had not appeared yet, with his coat In the pouring rain, bleeding and alone, Lermontov was lying for four hours at the foot of the Mashuk mountain... Many people came to see Passersby saw Vasilchikov ride Glebov taken to the guardhouse; because no one could find him even Martynov put in prison where he spent one constantly reading aloud the Psalms, At the same time Lermontov's grandmother is selecting a new stud for Lermontov's stable He will turn 27 in October... Varvara Aleksandrovna Lopuknina meets at an Austrian resort and secretly she managed to safe Rayevsky at his estate in Starvropol receives and consults with his wife That would be great indeed THE END OF THE FILM (c)