In most strength Sports men typically Peak seems to be an exception because the strongest and what's even crazier than that is that he's and he's a fellow Norwegian who now lives in so I messaged my strongest friend Jujimufu who I the way to Odd's gym to check out how we would Odd has probably the strongest grip in the world championships, right? That was at Arnold's. At the Series. Right, but you've won so many championships you used to compete in the World's Strongest Man right? I did that three times in my 50's. I think today he's gonna blow us away with his grip strength. It's gonna He's like wine he get's better with age, yeah how old are you now Odd? 73. There you go. And you want to do the nervous system have to be it arm lifting, but the one thing you don't use You grab it and then use your legs, try if you can't help it. You have some massive My goal is just to beat Magnus, else, Magnus already beats me That's already going to be a good But it's cool with this grip stuff that you like about it. Strong man you gonna break yourself This is.. this is about my body weight. 64 kilos.. and you're about..? 70 kg. Now use your legs yes. That look he gave me that was some aggression Magnus. That's easy yeah I always do both hands always do both know if you get hurt or something. Yeah right Now it's probably gonna look really easy Let's see. It better. Oh Jesus Christ! Wow that would be ten.. oh five kg pull yourself in your body and your legs and then you drive it You think it helps to look up? No it should be up before you start. No I can't get this. Juji jumped into an arm lifting contest way back and did really well actually. Yeah it's easy, nice! Jesus Christ that's so easy for you. How much do you guys want to go up? Change 5 with a 10? Yeah that'll work. Oh that's strong, good lift, that was good! Good job! What is your Oh Jesus Christ you make it look What do you think? Yeah, that's an incredible forearm, but we'll see who can lift most haha Wow that is close. No, that's where Let's move it back. Haha he just He just moved it back. Yeah I could that for a long time. Dude, Yeah that's crazy. You haven't done this one before That was easy. You like it? Yeah that actually feels pretty chalk is on the thumb. I chalk up my whole hand anyways. whoa now I feel like I should be in an action movie so in competitions 60 kilos 70 kilo 80 90 70 and Below yeah yes now you're going to be yeah yeah what do you what is your PR on this in the 125 kilo class I said yeah I said oh yeah yeah what's that dude there you go yeah let's see if I can do what oh that's strong video that's the thumbnail right there and uh just is actually how I built a large portion of my like that by pinching them and moving stuff well Magnus you you might beat me on this I you might got me on this one or anything no but that's just shoulder strength my abs you home I'm not a big I don't use a lot of chalk for my thumb and I do between every every attempt and I squeeze it into my into my legs yeah then an angle yeah I try to keep my wrist straight at with your fingers underneath so this is my body very good very good oh that's the best basically also bloody white yeah yeah that looked very means a lot coming from you yeah for your body but anything yeah you'd be right at a top of the food to grip strength competitions before but I've than me so I don't want to show up and look California uh leaves back tonight oh so easy but this is an exercise that you I've been getting stronger every year a couple here in practice here I'll just practice this is a good sport to get into if you're a a little bit older enough so maybe this is but you're lifting a lot with your back so out of it my attempt is to drive it into my goes the best can I go ahead and jump up you yes oh almost you see that slip yeah probably oh wow wow if you could look at it from this like straight down look at this look this I push thumb all right Magnus uh let's go back 85. yeah and then use your legs right if you live if you're you're pressing form you will be able to do again take a break because I know you can do you made a mistake too right so we both yeah all right let me try that other way give me this and just get it everywhere get it your your good deadlift so just get your legs into go that's good man you should buy magnus's Chalk should buy his truck not good Genie chocolate I hundred whatever you want to do whatever right or whatever you can do okay well then let me get you got this yeah so 92 that's only seven kilos the world record so this is actually yeah that's good that's awesome yeah yeah it was still it wasn't a good lift dude yeah deadlifting that's the problem for me so I never to wait way out in front of him that makes it way back from beating the world record it's just oh come on oh no I think I burned it out in is you're right you know it's a good number too [ __ ] yeah that's awesome good job what if every rep gave you another 93 to get a little bit above the world record attempting something that they've never done make them step aside and everyone else handle like don't touch it save your even this even the world record if not today get as close as kilo one kilo more than the current road one watch you man okay you may hear the joke I've weld into that bar okay I I need to angle a little bit more I more or less yeah and and then use your legs I think it's too heavy yeah you've asked yourself in there yeah yeah you get a little tired uh I muscle [ __ ] it's something with the mental it's working to get this juji the groupgenie.com that's how he lifts it what freestyle either way it gets cold on it that's you're bending them like that you want to Freestyle load Go free yourself this I've gotten some nasty tears on my thumb easy it's a pickle jar lift does your PR yeah I'm gonna take it seriously foreign that was freestyle yeah I can't see if I can do this is my PR so pretty close last time too if he uses his like you didn't try this might be a PR for me yeah that was so close man that was close that I don't think you're stronger on me on oh yeah that is true doorknob grip can yeah that's good so you think that's fresher okay you should try doorknob you got a fresh hand yeah yeah I mean other times we've done this though but absolutely so this is 33 no no that's that's it for me okay we good it's good ah nice this is less what for under 90 kilos under 90 kilos should I has 69.5 on this Martinez at 69. that's it 45. oh no I did my thumb I always do that yes oh man look at that thumb though huh you have it's at your skin game now for me though holding style the door knob you want to do this as well you want to get the one inch instead we'll do pounds which puts him above the prior record of is the Thomas inch dumbbell and uh not a lot of in and try it very few people I don't find chalk sabotaging me so sometimes you want the stickiness I do that's what you do okay yeah going to come on Jersey man not today come on you you sure promise now I've done it before foreign which way now you know Jesus doesn't matter to what year probably like in about 20 years ago and I can't had it to show off in the booth at it right that's difficult so I had to go and try be surprised how many uh the world famous men it was a thumb is only good I feel like I'm pretty close but all right we're before I could do it again and if you can't do oh come on it's good okay yeah I can't blame age because oh you're twice as old as me oh Jesus it's so hard no no oh man it makes you look so easy well I think ode Legend Gigi thanks for being my video thank out juji on all social media platforms thank