Antimatter Made Simply What is antimatter? What happens if matter and antimatter interact? How was antimatter discovered? Why don't we usually come across antimatter All these questions and many more come to But, first things first! Let us first define and understand what antimatter Antimatter is opposite to matter, literally. For every sub-atomic particle, such an electron, antiparticle such as an anti-electron, anti-proton, The antiparticle will have the same mass as of its charge and other quantum numbers. Some of these quantum numbers are the lepton the other five members of lepton family, and of the six quarks that make up the baryon Antiparticles are expected to interact with ordinary particles interact with each other. The laws of physics are (almost) symmetric In fact, a Universe made up of antimatter Going into a little bit more detail, the anti-electron and it is positively charged with a lepton The positron has exactly the same mass as The proton is a positively charged sub-atomic a baryon number of one. Its antiparticle, the antiproton, has the charged with a baryon number of minus one the three antiquarks that make up the antiproton). Neutral sub-atomic particles, such neutrons, The antineutron has the same mass and zero baryon number of minus one (again, minus one that make up the antineutron). So what happens when matter and antimatter The answer is fireworks! When a positron interacts with an electron energy photons! So, we are in luck that antimatter is so scarce Otherwise, we would have been burned by X-rays interacted. As a matter fact, if you were to meet your and release the equivalent energy of roughly energy of the world's arsenal of nuclear weapons! Antimatter could sure make for mighty powerful produce macroscopic amounts of antimatter Some modern particle accelerators regularly physics experiments. Now that we know what antimatter is, let us Back in the year 1928, Paul Dirac, one of quantum mechanics, was trying to solve an theory of special relativity to describe the To his surprise, the equation admitted solutions energy going back in time! Any insecure student of physics would have However, Dirac was sure of his math. Instead, he reinterpreted his problematic with positive energy going forward in time. Four years later, an experimental physicist right by actually observing the anti-electron, The discovery of the positron earned Anderson Dirac had already won the Nobel in 1933 for Are you wondering where Anderson's positrons The positrons that Anderson discovered originated that result when very high energy cosmic rays atmosphere. The story of the prediction and subsequent shows how big discoveries in physics are often The device used by Anderson is called a cloud in nuclear physics labs at the time. A particle going through a cloud chamber would Applying a known magnetic field would curve The positron in Anderson's cloud chambers but in the opposite direction. As a matter of fact, these oppositely-curving Anderson, at around the time of Dirac's prediction, pursued the issue further. It was Anderson who persisted and tested and reality of the positron. This is in a way similar to Dirac when he He did not simply brush the solutions aside them in a way that made us discover a completely You can discover other sides of our Universe But, let us continue with the story of antimatter. The reason that antimatter is rare in today's very rare nuclear reactions that produce very The antimatter that we get from this is mostly antineutrons, and antimesons. Mesons are the proton's and neutron's lighter antiquark. Yes, physicists have created and studied antihydrogen. But that was under very difficult laboratory of the antihydrogen atoms so that they don't and annihilate in jet of gamma-rays. Right now you are probably wondering if antimatter allowing The answer is yes! Every time a patient undergoes a so-called is involved. PET is acronym for POSITRON Emission Tomography. The patient is injected with radioactive sugars These radioactive sugars then gradually decay A specialized and highly sophisticated instrument positrons are emanating, thereby giving a Patients who have had PET scans remain radioactive stay away from children and pregnant women, and fetuses. OK, so we now know what antimatter is; we how to produce it here on Earth and how it very special conditions and in very small periods of time because it interacts quickly But what we still don't yet is why all stuff - is predominantly NOT antimatter. This issue is so important in physics that asymmetry problem." Addressing this issue requires that we delve known as particle physics. Full disclosure: The solution to the above as we speak. Nevertheless, we will try to get a very simplified The theoretical framework within which to is three-pronged and was formulated over fifty Our quest begins right at the beginning: the The Big Bang is the instant when our Universe The Big Bang created EQUAL amounts of matter For every electron there was a positron, for Mind you, protons and neutrons formed much They formed a few minutes after the Big Bang, But, we are getting ahead of ourselves here. Let us go back to the Big Bang. During the first fraction of a fraction of an extremely hot soup of particles and antiparticles Particles and antiparticles annihilated each and the energetic photons could interact with pairs, all happening under the watchful eyes The Universe would have remained in this fiery interesting happening had it not been for prong. The Universe is expanding! The expansion of the Universe lead to cooling. The energy of radiation decreased to a point enough to produce particle-antiparticle pairs. The result is that the refueling of the abundance If no other processes had interfered, the each other with time and we would have been and NO matter or antimatter at all! We wouldn't be here to discuss it. The effect of the expansion of the Universe from being replenished. Now, other high energy physics processes must asymmetry, which bring us to the second prong. If you recall, antiparticles have the opposite High energy physics reactions have to conserve baryon number. A quantity is said to be conserved if its the reaction. All the laws of high energy physics require conserved, or so it seems. The very absence of antimatter in the Universe must be violated to some extent under certain asymmetry observed in today's Universe. To what extent? To about one part in one billion! How do we know that? Astrophysicists know that there are roughly Universe. This means that for every billion and ONE out there. The billion particles will annihilate with to a billion photons, with the upshot being ONE particle and a billion photons, the particle However, there is no evidence yet in particle conservation. Moreover, there is no theoretical process the Standard Model, in which the baryon number Evidently, gaining a full understanding the The third prong needed to understand the matter-antimatter The laws of physics, including conservation the signs of the charges, C, of all the particles through a mirror (P: Parity). CP violation occurs when the outcomes of a the charges and taking the mirror image of CP violation is needed to produce more particles Glimpses of CP violation have been observed reactions involving K-mesons (referred to However, the amount of detected violation of the matter-antimatter asymmetry. Naturally, more experiments are still needed! Antimatter has been a source of profound insights We know almost everything about antimatter, Understanding why this is case will definitely This story is currently being written in major CERN in Geneva, Switzerland. With so much effort being put in, it is only asymmetry is answered. If you wish to keep up-date on this and other Stay tuned!