- Welcome to &quot;Without a elimination season. - Are you ready to start? - Rumble! Oklahoma - I have no idea what's gonna happen. - Nope. I'd say that's not I really would like things to stay calm. You can't be freaking out. How do I get flowers on the cookie? - Oh no! - [Ryan] What are those? - No! - Are you outta your mind? - You made a mistake. - I feel so clear on this experience. - I will beat you up in (dramatic music) (bell rings) Watch the entire season right now on 2ndtry.tv (bright music) - [Announcer] Welcome of &quot;Without a Recipe: Kitchen Madness.&quot; - &quot;Without a Recipe,&quot; we're back! - [Announcer] Last week, four chefs baked their and losers brackets. And today we have four new competitors. The top two from today will to face Jared and Marissa, while the bottom chefs will in next week's losers bracket At the end of the season, the top four chefs will but only one will be crowned the first ever &quot;Without a Recipe: - I'm calling it now. This is mine to lose, but only mine to win. That was poetry, son. - [Announcer] On today's episode, they're making Girl Scout Cookies. Will they be Adventureful - But remember the episodes The cookies peed butter. You're making me so mad! - [Ryan] Don't use too much butter. - [Announcer] Or will they - I'm scared. They're brown. I don't want them to look like me. My color. Which, I mean, I love my color and anyone my color is hot, but. - [Announcer] Each chef to make their box of cookies and present it to our panel of judges. - Hey everyone, I'm Rosanna Pansino and I host one of the most And I also have written a few New York Times bestselling cookbooks. And I am an avid baker. - I am Bernadette and I'm a Brownie. Here's my bridging patch, which I earned when I moved up to a Brownie. - Hi, I am Valerie Gordon. I'm the chef owner of Valerie Confections out of Los Angeles. I'm a self-trained and sometimes I make - Wow. - [Keith] So do we. - Let's go! We make everything with So we started as a The big thing that's hard about is making them uniform. You have to think about the packaging. You have to think about the vessel. And if the cookie doesn't it won't get to the customer. And they have a lot of A thin mint cannot change. People want something familiar, predictable, and the tradition. I always advocate for fun and experimentation in the kitchen. So never have fear in the kitchen. Just go for it. You feel like trying something, do it. You try, guy. (bright music) - I won last season but then in the live special I lost. So I went back to the books a two star, and a three I've been in the kitchens, and I have imparted that - I never won and episode I've won &quot;Phoning It In,&quot; but that's because Johnny helped me. So this time I'm rolling solo. And you know what? Hmm? Yolo. - Hi, my name is Joyce and I'm pretty much the You know, my dad did the So I have very little skill. My dad does say I'm good - Hi. Is that a good way to start? This is my first ever episode So in preparation for I watched every single that is available to watch. And I gotta tell you, but I wouldn't eat a (bright music) - Now, Ryan, this is your first time here and I'm a veteran here. - Sure are. Don't follow me. - Got it. - What's that? - Oh, so this is a rice cooker. I did tell the team that and they basically said, &quot;Shut up, Joyce. You are gonna make the rice to yourself.&quot; - [Announcer] On my honor, scouts, in 3, 2, 1, try to bake! - Girl Scouts! Alright. - It's like so hard 'cause I'm like, what am - What did you just say? - I'm like, what am I - What are you supposed to be doing? - Like what am I supposed - My Girl Scout Cookies is Girl Scout Cookie, but where the chocolate and the marshmallows come in, tamarind sauce. Yeah, that's right. I'm gonna make my work and then put some chocolate and make it a Girl Scout Cookie. And I'm gonna win. - I can say mine like that too. I'm going to be making (Ryan speaks Spanish) I am making a Diabolito which is going to look like And who goes on adventures? Pirates. So I wanted to make a So it's going to be a Cuba which is a fried sweet with a little drizzle on top. But since we are making we took the rum out. We're gonna do a little, - Bourbon vanilla bean paste. Was that yours? Sounds delicious. - [Joyce] You know, you - I'm getting bougie, but I'm actually, you know, this is my Michelin season. Today I'm representing my that sits along the beach in California. I have worked my way to I'm also the owner and So today the name of Now I'm doing simple I'm going to try to complicate which is just a shortbread some cinnamon, some orange zest, and some raspberry. Is it weird for little girls to be hawking cookies Suppose they all have fathers, don't they? - [Producer] Mm, probably not. - Genetically. - So I just kind of like One and a half cups of water. I put vanilla bean and I put some sugar. I don't know how that's - Joyce, that's excellent. I love this go get 'em attitude. - Today I'll be making a sweet rice, which is traditionally a Vietnamese dish with mangoes and a coconut So I'm gonna put the rice like in Samoas, like I the cookie part? I am scared, but we're - [Producer] Are you planning - No. I'm here to be a silly, goofy girl and have a silly goofy time. And if I do win, well, that's and there's nothing I can't do. (upbeat music) - [Announcer] The bakers will to make a box of their Girl Scout Cookies. - Hour and a half. Yo, time runs out faster - Yeah, you gotta gather your materials. You can't just be going that you need in front of you. - So today I'm making and what we have is a coconut shortbread instead of a straightforward shortbread. I'm starting with butter. We're going right into the mixer. And essentially we just wanna make sure this is completely soft. - When it comes to stuff it's like they do the wet first and then they do the flour thing later. So I'm just gonna put the - I'm gonna do two sticks and then my cardamom and my - I'm gonna go ahead and because I'm gonna start with the butter. - [Kwesi] You starting with butter? - You started by breaking I'm not following you. - Ryan. Do not. Stop. I'm telling you right now. - [Ryan] I'm not following you. - I'm telling you right now. - I'm not. I'm not. - [Kwesi] It's a bad idea here. - I'm not. - Next up, sugar. I've got my sifted all purpose flour. I'm adding the salt to it. When you add flour or your dry, you always want to do it incrementally so that it evenly distributes - Let's do... Let's start with a half a cup. No, Ryan, don't go big. You can't go back. I learned that on &quot;Without a Recipe.&quot; (Kwesi laughs) - Oh my god. It seems like he was watching Damn. I'm kind of intimidated. - So I made the dry mixture. I put salt, flour, baking powder, and a little bit of And now I'm gonna put it in here. Also, I was a Girl Scout. On my honor I will try to serve God and my country. - Some sugar, milk. Alright, you need some flour. A bit of salt. That tastes so good. - And AP flour. All right, let's do half of this, huh? Gosh, I don't know any of the ratios. That's the one thing I Hey, I'll tell you what I - Yeah. Talk to me, Ryan. - A very attractive man &quot;Without a Recipe&quot; from season one. - Yeah. - He said FEBBS, flour, baking powder, and sugar. That's what goes into a cookie. - You need baking soda in cookies? Did you know tablespoons? And what's the other spoon name again? Tablespoons and um... Shit. Tablespoons and teaspoons. (Ryan laughs) - What are you talking about? - It's too different. - Let's do a tablespoon I find that no matter what I do, I feel like I put in tons of flavor and the the judges are How could that be? - So you said it's your Michelin season. What inspired this? - Well, so I shot a Michelin where I got to work and be in the kitchens and work alongside several Michelin chefs. And I saw a lot of what they do is actually just simple stuff with nice ingredients and patience. And I would say that I haven't (Keith chuckles) - I'm going in with my And lastly, one of my favorite vanilla paste. It's very coconutty. You get those little I think this is gonna make - Pure bourbon vanilla extract. That's genius! - [Kwesi] Oh, I want some of that. - You can. You can have it. And because I can't use I wanted to do some rum flavors. I know that cardamom is a flavor. I'm gonna put a little bit in here. - So I'm gonna put one fourth cup of sweetened coconut milk into this. - [Producer] Are you gonna - I won't add an egg. - I'm gonna add an egg right now. - Should I make it without eggs? - No. I'm gonna give you a tip only 'cause I learned about it. Why do people tell you not - Oh, because of the eggs! So I need it. Thank you! - My grandmother is from Scotland and she gave us a little Sugar, flour, butter, and a pinch of salt. My cookies are always so So I gotta figure out how Maybe there's an egg in there. - I've never really put That's more like a British style biscuit. - This gross, look at this. Look at that. We're gonna need more flour in here. - But one thing I learned also. - Yes? - Wet ingredients. The dry ingredients do separately. You do them separately. - Egg slowly in. - Yeah, you don't wanna over mix it. Why? I learned so much. Because flour when mixed, creates gluten, and if you do too much - If you are adding things like egg, if you're adding protein to it, you can absolutely over mix it. Essentially with a shortbread, until it's very even and combined. And that's it. - It's too wet. - [Joyce] You're really - See, I feel like this for cookies. - Let's give it a nice extra little mix. We don't wanna overdo it, but everything in there - We got pipes. - [Producer] Yeah, we got pipes. - I'm not really good at - No, I know. I saw the show. (Kwesi laughs) I saw you were trying to figure - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Isn't it like watching the - Why? Zach and Keith lived them. - Yeah. - So this is my toasted Something about shortbread is you always wanna Oh see, so satisfying. So if this wasn't cold, I wouldn't be able to handle it like this. It would just be falling apart. - I want see if my mixture and is gonna bleed out. - A good thing. - [Keith] 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. I need two more. - It's kinda good! - It tastes like a sugar cookie to me. - Big purr! - Tastes like vanilla ice cream. - Big purr! Big purr! Big purr! Big purr! - Big purr, everybody. - Shout out to you, dad, for my panic call 30 minutes ago. - You called him 30 minutes ago? - Yeah, I've been talking I'm like, &quot;Dad, please.&quot; - [Keith] All right, - Oh, I gotta still do the reduction too. Wow. There's a lot to do here. Let's get moving. - You always sound so happy. (Ryan laughs) Your cookie is so freaking sexy. - They are pretty, aren't they? Oh, but remember the episodes where the the the cookies peed. The cookies peed butter? - You're making me so mad. - Don't use too much butter. Be careful. Just don't use too much. We'll just use it just enough. We don't want that pee everywhere. So just a little bit. Wow. It's like- - He knows everything. - I feel like I'm in &quot;A where the red string in a way that I didn't know - If you wanna have then you need to make sure or a cookie cutter. - So I'm just circling them, you know. It's in a circular shape. Some don't look circular, You know they're cookies, they're delicious cookies. - Those are going to absolutely 100%. No doubt in my mind. - I'm sweating. Okay, I'm gonna get a second tray. - [Announcer] One hour left. - Come on. Why? Why's not piping anymore? It's stuck. - [Ryan] There's little ice cream scoops. - Oh, shit. I should use a scoop yo. So what I have to do, I have to dissect the bag. - Is it gonna, what is going on? (dramatic music) What is happening? What is this with this distribution? - I'm struggling here. - [Ryan] Why'd you grab the big one? - Big one of what? - [Ryan] There's a little scooper. - Ah, shit. - [Ryan] That's a tiny baby scooper. - Ryan, I'm way down the hill now. - Rachel asked me what It's when you get to - Yeah. - You're like, well this - That's every single episode of the show. - And there's my oil. Let's do canola. These are plantains and and savory. That oil is starting to get nice and hot and let's just put one tester It's testing so good! Look at the bubbles! - [Kwesi] Kwesi, stop - All right, once I get these in the oven, I'm gonna start working on that reduction. - What? What do you know about reduction? - [Ryan] Whoa! What did I say? - Have you vetted Ryan for this show? - I don't know what it means. I just have heard it before. - He's using like big ass - Why are you so mad? - Yo, because we're - [Ryan] Do you like losing? - I lose all the time. (Ryan laughs) - Generally most cookies like this, anywhere from 300 to 350. The big time is really dependent on the proportion of the cookie. This is a pretty small cookie. We're probably gonna do - These look horrendous, I'm gonna do the other oven. The fast one. How much time do I have? - [Producer] 40. - The fast one. Go in here girls. (bell rings) Mommy loves you. Mommy cares about you and you're gonna be fucking delicious. - Kwesi, you should use an inside oven. The outside oven is dangerous. - Honestly, I don't know - Why? - Because I watch the show. They almost always revert. They like put 'em in there and they go, &quot;Oh, nothing's happening. Maybe I should go to the outside oven.&quot; And they're like, &quot;Oh, we And they get scared of - One thing about baking, - [Producer] No, no, that's set dec. - This is set dec. (Ryan laughs) - These, I honestly, Look at that! They kind of already I'm a little worried what - You wanna make sure If it's a room temperature dough, it'll immediately start to spread. - Let's take a look. Nope, nope. I'd say that's not exactly Who would've thought? (clock ticks) Hmm. I think that wasn't exactly So that means there's too much butter. Give them a glance. - [Joyce] Oh, big purr. - We're gonna put some more - Yeah. I love a see-through cookie. It's like a crepe. - Okay, I'm definitely feeling that the first batch came out is caramel. - Alright, so what do I do now? Getting ready for my tamarind concoction. Okay, I need tamarinds. What do I do? What do I do? - [Producer] Kwesi, - Oh, shit. Oh shit! Oh no! Oh no! - [Ryan] What are those? - No, no! No! - Kwesi, they're peeing! They're peeing like I said! - How did it happen? I'm just gonna leave it Let 'em cookie up. Oh shit. I'm having a nervous Okay, Kwesi. - [Ryan] Breathe. - You can do hard things. You can do hard things. You can do hard things. How do we make this better? It's gonna get solid eventually. I need to focus on something else while that's doing what it's doing. - Hey Kwesi? - I'm gonna say one thing I learned from the wedding cake episode when Eugene and Marissa were together in here. - Talk to me. - Is that Marissa was starting to flail and things were going wrong. - [Kwesi] Yeah. - And Eugene told her it's gonna be okay. Have a backup plan. Simplify. You got this. - You are a fucking sweetheart. - [Ryan] I believe in you. - Damn, man. - Okay, we're gonna put these in and hope for a better result. Now we keep working on this dough in case that one melts too. That's the plan. This is sort of an evolving dough. It's like a sourdough. This is the mother. We've already saw one child that failed. That child can't go to college. We're putting all of that child's savings into the other account while we work on a third child. (Joyce laughs) - So now I'm going to be working because the rice is finished. There we go. She made rice. She's an adult. (bright music) It is a little hard. Keith? - [Joyce] Taste my rice. - It's a little hard. - It's a little hard. Should I put more water in it? - Uh huh. - [Joyce] Yeah. - It's definitely not done. - Definitely not done. Kinda like eating teeth. - [Announcer] 30 minutes. - I think I'm going outside. Everything about this oven is hot. Okay. Hey Siri, set a timer for 10 minutes. - Inside of my bowl is flour, sugar. If I mix it right now, it's Egg is gonna make it stick together. But Ryan didn't you put any egg in his? He didn't. - I put two eggs. - Fuck. - Did you not put eggs in yours? - No. - I told you FEBBS. Remember FEBBS? - Aw shit. What does FEBBS mean again? - Flour, eggs, butter, and sugar. - I love you so much, man. You're so fucking good. (Ryan laughs) - We're making ourselves We'll see how it goes. They're not melting yet, so that's good. We're three minutes in and they still have regained their shape. Regained? Retained. (Keith exhales) - Now this is a cookie. - Hey-o! That's a fucking cookie. That's a fucking cookie! This is, oh that is so fucking sexy! I need 12. I need 12, stat. This is my redemption season. Oh my gosh. Come on, Kwesi. - So I am right now cutting little ribbons of this failed cookie and maybe I can kind of create layered on top of the cookie. It tastes sweet and if I can use it then I'll not only not be a - They're not doing anything. - They're not doing anything? - They're puffing up. Should I squish 'em down? - [Producer] Or do you just - Oh. - How much time we got, chef? - 25 minutes. - Damn it. Hot stuff behind you - Okay, thank you behind. (Kwesi groans) - Maybe I should go to the &quot;Oh, we gotta go to the outside oven&quot; and then they get scared of it and then they do it anyway. - Okay. I gotta remember, I have cookies in here. - Okay, I'm gonna start and lime juice into its own thing. Now, I've never made a reduction. - Oh I need butter! Butter makes it stick together. - Oh my gosh. Is this right? I wanna add more sugar to it because I want it to be but I think I've done this all wrong. I don't know what I'm making here. - Caramel, essentially all and you're cooking it to a temperature where you create a caramelization. And what I'm doing is very and moving sugar into molten sugar. - Why isn't this doing anything? Do something. Don't just bubble. Reduce! This is not doing anything. This is an absolute failure so far and I'm hoping something I thought like when you're making caramel, it's just a lot of melted sugar. And Coca-Cola has so much sugar. So I thought that the steam would take all the Coca-Cola out of it, leaving only a syrupy caramel consistency. - We can see just a little starting to happen. It's kind of like barbecue where you know, you can't rush that brisket. If you only have like say 21 minutes, don't make caramel or You know what I mean? Don't stress yourself out about it. - [Announcer] 21 minutes left. - I don't need to use this. This is, I mean, it doesn't matter. I'm not gonna use this Coca-Cola. All right, we're trying to and melting some butter into this pan. I think I'm making porridge. I think I'm making like 'cause one of this is right. - I have luscious molten caramel. This is just sugar. It's at a gorgeous amber stage. Taken only about seven It's been no great I'm going to add boiled cream to it and it will create like that will boil up and it'll get really big and really dramatic and exciting. If you recook that, you If you want a caramel Let it cool down a little. Pour that all over your - Right now in this pan and melted butter. And it is starting to brown a little bit, but it's, it needs some more liquid. So I'm gonna try just a little bit of oil, a little bit of Coca-Cola. Just maybe that'll give Oh, look at this. It's separating with the oil, but it looks like the color of caramel. - No, that's not how you make it. That's not how you make caramel. That's not how you make caramel. - He doesn't know. (bright music) - I can smell my cookies. Delightful. These absolutely look finished. I'm excited to eat one. Do we see this? Do we see that nice tan And we've got a slightly I'm touching them. There's a crispness to them. This is very satisfying. - Just about 10 minutes. That's much better. Those are cookies. - That's cooking. I need to go check on my cookies. Children, I'm coming. Mommy's coming. Oh god. They smell cooked. Oh my gosh. Oh my God. Okay. It's not burnt. Oh my God. Okay. I think they're done. They look like they're about They're brown. You know, I don't want My color, which, I mean, I love my color and anyone - Do you guys have any That's sort of what I'm trying because that's what they went with. Any stamp? No? I'm being told no. We have no stamps of That's interesting. I thought that would be a Well let's cut Joyce a mango. - [Producer] Are you doing that for Joyce? - Yeah. I didn't have anything While I'm thinking, I - He's so kind to me. - How do you want these mango? - I want it like cubed. - Yes. (Kwesi groans) - Alright, the top is cooking. I'm just gonna take one. - What's that? That's a cookie? - Yeah, it's a work in progress. The color I have right. It's really good. - Do you think it's good 'cause your face is saying it's not good. - No, it's good. - [Ryan] Oh yeah? - You wanna taste it? It's fucking fire. Damn, come on, Kwesi. - Yeah, it's a little like corn bread. - That's what I was going for. - It's a little bit like cornbread. Ha! Ha! Oh my gosh. (triumphant music) I think I did something. Huh? Hello? What are you? - [Kwesi] That's how you make caramel? - Honestly, this caramel, looks incredible. (audience applauds) I think I did it. - So I'm gonna use coconut milk, vanilla, a little bit of corn starch that goes on top of the rice. I'm just want this to be super thick 'cause I'm going to douse it in the rice and I want it to be super smooth. And I'm going to drop the And once the rice is a little bit softer, I'm going to construct my cookie. Guys, I am sweating like to the whole congregation. - Tamarind paste. Tamarind is actually really good for if you're constipated, actually. If you're getting it fresh, it kind of tastes like nothing. (bouncy music) It's very tart. Ah. - Ooh. Oh, that is. Oh. Oh, that is tart. You gave me so much. Did you have that much? - [Kwesi] Mhm. - Did you? Should I dip the tamarind Ah! Should I dip the marshmallows - [Producer] How is that - I have no idea what's gonna happen. - I am piping chocolate onto the cookies and I'm doing sort of a fun zigzag design. And the best way to capture this, as you can see on the piping, So that way you always I love this caramel. Gentle salt. There's a lot of redeeming These are absolutely my take It's just very basic It's delicious with chocolate and caramel. Absolutely nothing's wrong in the world when you eat one of these. - [Announcer] 14 minutes. - 14. - 14. - You know what, it's softer. It is. Is it the softest? No. Would I get roasted by my parents? Of course. But we got 14 minutes. I gotta start constructing the cookie. - It needs a little flower. Do you have any flowers? These are a lot bigger These are flowers from outside. - [Joyce] Very pretty. - Pull 'em apart? That's not my vision. I wrote little flowers. These are normal flowers. I get these outside my house. Everybody knows fancy Michelin food has little flowers on it, so I've gotta figure out little so they have little tiny flowers on them. I'm right under the air conditioner. How am I supposed to work like this. I don't know how these How am I gonna get the flowers on? - [Joyce] Okay. - I want get the flowers on my cookie! (alarm blares) How am I supposed to get them on? Candy melts! Joyce! Candy melts! - Ooh! Can I eat one? - Yes. - I love chocolate. - I'm thinking, 'cause these cookies I might make them into the and I'm gonna pour this caramel sauce that honestly came out so caramelly. - Okay, what do you do? How do you make this better? Put this on top like that. - [Keith] Are you making a - Yeah, that's a s'more. S'more. So like a chocolate and tamarind. You wanna taste the tamarind? (Kwesi laughs) - So tart. - So I'm trying to, how do I s'more? - You can just make this, boil some water, mix this into it, turn it into a simple syrup and just drizzle into your cookies so they become sweet. - Now, in one of the episodes, Jared was making inedible food and Keith was brought into (glass clatters) So you know things are going great when Keith comes in! - It's okay. Where's the pots? How much time you got chef? - Eight minutes. - I realize I'm putting something very wet on top of my cookies. I probably put way too Now I'm gonna put the rice and then I'm gonna finish it - It's already melted. It's already melted. It already melted too fast. I think I'm just gonna to apply the white chocolate. - [Joyce] White chocolate - We're using it today as glue. Put the marshmallow on it and then scorch all of them on each one. - Shit. Come on. That's just burning. - It's not the chocolate It's just the marshmallows. - I don't go camping. I don't know this shit. - Next plan. Okay. - Five minutes. Five minutes. Okay, stay focused. I saw Monique taught me this. - [Ryan] Monique? - I got you, Kwesi. - [Kwesi] 12 cookies. - I'm just gonna focus on - [Kwesi] It's okay. - Do you want me to put this tamarind into your chocolate, Kwesi? - Sure. That makes sense. Chocolate is chocolate. There's chocolate in it. - [Keith] We're getting there. - We getting there. Oh shit, the graham cracker. What I'm gonna do with the graham cracker? - What are you doing? Get out of here. - Get some graham cracker in there. It's in the s'more. Put some graham cracker in there. - [Announcer] Three minutes. - Wow. I have made caramel strands This is like the Madam - I gotta do like all at once. Ah, Rachel, I'm so overwhelmed. - [Keith] What's happening - I don't know, Keith. - [Keith] Where's the fire? What are you gonna do with it? - It's gonna burn some shit. - [Keith] Where? Like how? Not in your hands! - [Announcer] One minute. - Um, I think I'm finished. Keith, my love, do you need anything? - Well, I'm just sort of putting - [Joyce] you're putting a petal on each? - And you need just put these little guys on any white chocolate - [Joyce] Yeah. - Oh, but the the little ones, Joyce. Joyce! The little ones! - Sorry, chef. Sorry, chef. - Instead of making them sandwiches, I think maybe just make them open faced. - Yeah. - And maybe you could put them on there. - Yeah. - [Keith] But this will help - Keith is amazing. - [Producers] Ten, nine, - This actually looks pretty good. - [Producers] Three, two, one. Hands up! - Woo! (Kwesi yells) - Hands up! - Get some electrolytes in yourself. That's some happy time. - You did a great job, buddy. (gentle music) - Welcome to the second episode of &quot;Without a Recipe: Kitchen Madness.&quot; Today we're gonna be taste, creativity. And is it a Girl Scout Cookie? - [Valerie] So Girl Scout Cookies, the big thing of course is the box. It's all about the packaging. We've gotta go in the sleeve and then we go in the box and then we go in the case. - I just wanna see the nostalgia. I just wanna see those classic designs. I wanna see them all be just like you'd see in the box. I want it to be a little crunchy. - I just hope it doesn't taste bad. - [Valerie] Yeah, same. Yeah. - Well, you're in luck. - You're in a lot of luck. I think actually the flavors today are gonna be pretty okay. I don't know about everything else. - I think we all did a great job. Tried our best. - Judges, as you know, of my restaurant Father's Choice. Today I have chosen a cookie It was very favored by the It is called The Cookie. It is a take on the Trefoil Today I have made a orange with a little bit of a powdered, freeze dried raspberry dusting, a little bit of edible flower, and the tiniest scooch of an orange rind. (warm music) - Oh wait, you also made those own little custom designed box. - Well, the art team did that, but I will take credit for it. - Oh wait, here's the ingredients. Okay, it has... - [Rosanna] Edible flowers, Cinnamon, cardamon, orange. - Raspberry powder, father's love. - And father's love. - [Valerie] It's gorgeous. - Ready? Alright, pull that out. - Ooh. Impressive chef. - They fit. I'm impressed. - Thank you. - [Valerie] The visual is good. - I wanted to go off of because those are my favorite ones. - It smells like gingerbread. - [Rosanna] Yeah. Yeah. For sure. - It is very gingerbready. This is very holiday. This is impressive. - Keith, they're all like similar in size. They all fit in the box. - Yeah. Oh, we're missing some flowers. - Oh darn! - [Valerie] Don't take that one. - Not perfect, I guess. - You know, sometimes the - Uh huh. - [Keith] Sometimes it happens. - Oh, it's true. He's not lying. - Oh, I even like how they feel. I know that's weird, but I like how they feel. - Sounds like anything? - [Bernadette] I want try it. - Can we try it? - Let's try. Ready? - One, two, three! - I dunno. - Little punchy, a little - A little hard but I like it. - And I kind of like the crunchiness little golden brown around the edges. - Yeah, I can definitely - I can taste all of the ingredients. - I can definitely - That's huge! - Wow. I can imagine myself selling them, straight to market! - Should I just leave? - I love spices. I have to say I am a sucker for all the Christmas spices. - I find it extremely tough. Extremely tough. - Right? That's what, that was my culinary education as well. It was very tough. - Something that I crave in where it's sort of like I find that very satisfying. Flavor wise, I wish we could have removed the dehydrated raspberry. The raspberry with the spice, with the rose, with the cardamom, that's a lot going on - As a Michelin chef- - [Valerie] Yes, I'm sorry sir. - My job is to challenge the customer and to provide you with just one bite of what. - But I do really like it. - [Keith] You know? - [Valerie] Yeah. - The cinnamon tastes a which I personally love. - Lastly, judges, is - No. I would not identify this - Well... - [Rosanna] This doesn't bode well. - Get ready for the rest of 'em. (all laugh) - I feel like this is because of the myriad of flavors. - Ah, it's too delicious - There's too many - Too delicious. - And I do think every Girl Scout Cookie, all of them have identifiable - And you know how she said I found a lot with no flowers on them. - The only thing is that like, they're not like cookie cutter uniform. - Once again, I think you right now because the road ahead is bumpy. - We'll circle back and - Often my food has been So if your complaints are honestly, that's a personal victory. (judges applaud) - [Kwesi] You said it, Keith. - Thank you judges. - So well. - [Rosanna] Thank you, Keith. (bright music) - Judges. Hi, I'm Kwesi James. Now when you see these Think about yourself and think of a nice thing you wanna say. It's supposed to be a s'more Have you had a s'more tamarind sauce? - No. - What is tamarind sauce? - Think of like a bean, but tart. Something like that. Right? - You know beans? Think of a bean. But beans are vegetables. Tamarind's a fruit. (bright music) The cookie is called a tamarind - Oh wow. - Nice job with the boxes. - Cheers. Cheers. - I know! Look at you camping and - Can we take a second Because this is a dynamic list. - Okay, yeah. - Talk to me. - Butter, brown sugar. Ooh, yum. Flour, baking soda. You added baking soda. Good job. - Yay! - Garlic. - [Bernadette] Soy sauce. Wait, soy sauce? - Rachel saved me for myself and told me, do you really And I said, Rachel, let's cut it so you won't be tasting any garlic. - Okay. Okay. Yes. But what you would - Go. - Okay. A for effort, hon. He scorched the marshmallow. My goodness. This is quite a bite. - I'm so happy that you're happy. - [Rosanna] Look at that! They're like toasted. - Is that tamarind sauce - This is going something that I didn't know it was gonna go, but yes, that is tamarind - Why didn't you put a cookie on top? - That's such a great idea. You know what? Something about Keith, right? Keith does too much with his cookie. And I knew that. - Kwesi, I helped. - Why are you bringing him into this? - Keith helped me with my cookie. I forgot. - I totally forgot. - You forgot? - My bad. - Throw him under the bus. - I made like two of those ingredients. - Is the bottom a graham cracker or no? - Yeah, the bottom is a tall bread. - It's a tall bread? - Yeah. I don't like shortbread. (cymbals crash) - Okay, two, one. All at once? - Oh. - Soft. - It's soft and it's very dry. - But the tamarind kind I like it. I'm going for a second. - That's the best judge we've ever had. - Kwesi, it's so thick and it's so dry, it just dries out my throat. Like you need water to get it down. - Kwesi likes dry things. - And I'm glad you only did a thin coat because this is really flavorful. - I don't think I need I feel so clear on this experience. (Keith laughs) - I don't know why, but - [Joyce] They know it's good. They know it's good. - [Valerie] You can have mine, honey. - I'm happy that this experience came out to Bernadette's liking because it seems like she's - Yes. I'm so happy for Tamarind is so profound that that comes out on its own. And it's sort of like that I just have a lot of - Oh Bernadette, question for you. Could you sell these cookies? You seem to enjoy it so much. - I maybe could sell them. I don't think they would go down as much as the Raspberry Rally, but I wouldn't go like or Samoas or something. - As a popup. It doesn't have to be a full season thing. - That's a lot marshmallows. - Yeah. I'll just taste some of Keith's. - Cookie tastes fantastic to me. - That's gross. - It tastes like nothing and everything. - It's the worst chocolate - [Valerie] Wow. - Judges, is this a Girl Scout Cookie? - No, this is not a Girl Scout Cookie. - No. It's not a Girl Scout Cookie, but it's a cookie at least. - It's something. It is. It is. (bright music) - Hi, my name is Joyce. I am a regular person. I'm not a chef. I'm not a Kwesi. I'm not a pirate. And today I'm going to be I actually got inspired when I had Thai sweet rice with mango. So I decided to kind of make with my cookie. I would say the ingredients confidence, feminism, womanhood. (bright music) - [Rosanna] Is she a (Ryan laughs) - We've got coconut sweet rice. Yum. Chopped mango cubes. Is it dehydrated mango or fresh mango? - Fresh. - Wow. Alright. Then we've got sesame seeds. A little confusion and some bad B energy. Oh my God. That's hysterical. It says, &quot;Product may (all laugh) - Wow. - That is beautiful. - This is adorable! Look at how cute! - [Bernadette] All of I congratulate you on that. - What did you do with the fresh mango? How did you cook that? - So I cooked it with coconut and I just mixed it over the and then I put cornstarch on it to preserve it for a day or two. - And what is the base made out of? - The base is made out of sugar cookie. I know it doesn't look I know it's more brownie consistency. - [Valerie] Oh, okay. - I put it in little muffin tins because I was so nervous - [Bernadette] Smells good. - Look at you. - Should we eat it? - Please. - My god. Oh, moist. - The cooking's good. - [Valerie] Girl. Wow. - Oh, I want more mango. I love it. I want more mango. I have a lot of rice, but no, I need a little bit more mango. - I like it. - Me too. It's nice and sweet. Oh, this is really sweet. - Yeah, I destroyed it with sugar. - Is it moist? Is it, does it have- - There's a lot of textural complexity happening here for sure. - [Bernadette] Its really good. - Different than what - [Rosanna] The rice is harder - It's so hard being so good. - I'd say the one issue here is the rice. Like the rice is, it needs - [Joyce] Yes. - A plus for creativity. A plus for energy. I wanna reverse on the cook. - [Joyce] Okay. - So I want the sugar and then the rice is rather undercooked. - I made the mistake while cooking, not using enough water. Check. - It's pretty good though. - Yeah. - The flavors work together. - I think I could sell this. - [Keith] Okay. Okay. - Well unfortunately - I was also told that mine could be sold. - Well, hold. Okay, - So is it a Girl Scout Cookie? - Maybe. - I'm saying yes. I think it's a special - Are you outta your mind? Are you outta your mind? - Oh, you made a mistake. - [Keith] Are you outta your mind? - I can't believe it. You think this undercooked - Oh boy. - You think that can stand up to the temperatures outside the grocery store? - I would not describe them But I do think they're a bad I'll take that. - You let these out for Santa, he'd be like, &quot;That's not a cookie.&quot; - Santa would be like, &quot;I love this multicultural sweet treat.&quot; (bright music) - Judges. Hello, I'm Ryan Garcia and I'm sure you're wondering been dressed as a pirate this entire time? - Yes I am. - Why? Well, please join me on an adventure. We meet a Cuban pirate, Diabolito. He wants his Cuba libre, a He calls to his first mate, &quot;Bring me my Cuba libre.&quot; The rum is gone. Why is the rum gone? It's because we're making - Okay! - The Diabolito. (dramatic music) (Rosanna laughs) - [Bernadette] That's so cute! - Coca-Cola, canola oil. Werther's Original Soft Caramel. Smart to just use a - Right. It would've been smarter. I forgot and I made my own caramel. Go on. - Since you're an incredible how would you reduce Coca-Cola? - I would reduce Coca-Cola by putting in a pot - For a long time? - Yep. - Low flame. - Low flame so it doesn't burn. And then you would get a very - Didn't work for me. - Oh, these look uniform. This is a generous cookie. - Do you know what a platano maduro is? - No. - It's a deep fried sweet plantain. - [Valerie] Oh! - [Ryan] And so the Adventureful has the caramel thing in the middle. - Yes. - [Ryan] I replaced that and then drizzle the caramel on top. - That's moist. Feel it. - Is it really? Oh yeah. Especially the top. So yeah, just be careful. - You might wanna call that wet. I think we've gone beyond moist. Wow. What an aroma. - Describe. What's the smell like? - [Ryan] Tell me more. - [Valerie] Everything. - [Bernadette] It smells - Oh, it is like a snicker doodle. The first thing that hits - Do you think those - Yes. - Do they look more like Adventurefuls than Joyce's look like Samoas? - [Bernadette] Yes. - Okay, good. Just wanna get that on the record. - I will beat you up in front of this little girl. - The flavors here, I'm a little nervous. - Wonderful. You can do it. - [Bernadette] Go! - Yeah, it crunches. Something's burnt. Something's burnt. - Hmm. - Visually, I think this - We love to hear that. Let me take a bite off the side. - But taste is important. - I have to say this is, I There is so much going on here. - Oh yeah. - And it really is. It's almost like things in my mouth right now. Like a pirate battle. Just like a pirate battle. - There's substantial I think the Coca-Cola was very burned. And so there's like a bitterness that's really at top palate right now. - Yes. It's really bitter. You are absolutely correct. - So there's just so much - It's that burnt taste because I like elements Like I love caramel drizzle. I love putting like a fruit into a cookie. I think it's just too many things. - Would you be able to sell these? - Maybe. - Would it be harder or easier than some of - Definitely harder than yours, but probably easier than yours. - [Ryan] Kinda like a - That gives us a little preview of the ranking here, I think. - Is it a Girl Scout Cookie? - Presentation wise, you did a great job. However. - However. - This flavors. - Within this experience. - Right. This is a full mini series. - Adventure. take it away from Girl Scout world. - Right. - Now that we've been through the gamut and you decided that was in fact Girl Scout Cookie, I just wanna revisit. - [Valerie] Yeah. - Was mine not a Girl Scout Cookie? - You had a Girl Scout Cookie. - I did? - [Valerie] Absolutely. - Thank you so much. (suspenseful music) - Chefs, I so admire all of you. Such brave souls coming into without recipes, and Fourth place was, wow. I will never forget it. That was a bite that is and truly when you think about food. So to our dear loving, loving I say to you, excellent creativity, way to express your But unfortunately the Number four is the s'more. - You know what? - I'm so sorry, Kwesi. - I'll take it on the shin. (all laugh) (all applaud) (Joyce cheers) (suspenseful music) - So in third place, these cookies we really but they weren't uniform, there was technical and they just weren't playing well. So in third place, congratulations Ryan! - Hey, bronze medal, baby! (all applaud) Thank you Judges. I totally agree with your judging. - Keith, I really like the and Joy, I also really like the smell and the flavoring also, - Okay. So are you ready? Okay, we're gonna announce it. So the winner first place of &quot;Without a Recipe&quot; today is- - Keith! (all cheer) (all applaud) - This means the world to me. This is even greater than that I got and earned myself. Joyce, though I'm very proud of you. First timer on the show at all. - First timer! I was a Girl Scout for many years, so it just feels like a big win for me. - [Keith] Well, next week Kwesi and Ryan will head to face Zach and Ash, But Joyce and I will go to make bao with Marissa. And somehow Jared is also a winner. And somehow Jared is also a winner. We'll see you next week. Next time on Without a Recipe Pot Pies Good baby God it's so bad! This is like, essentially raw It's becoming a cement paste Everything about being in the kitchen makes me stressed [Zach and Ryan] Bad idea! Bad idea! Bad idea! [Ryan] Don't do it! Good idea You can watch the entire season of Without a Recipe right now on 2ndtry.tv