Master, I need another bowl. Hey What's the matter, master? Fubao You were born poor. There is nothing missing in your five elements. Just short of money, you see, since you got here. There are fewer and fewer pilgrims in our Taoist temple. Look at our grandparents again. What has he become now? Master Hey Fubao, do you want to go down the mountain? I want to have another bowl. Go down the mountain and make money. If you go on like this, Your master, it's time for me to eat and sleep. Hey Fubao This jade dress is for the teacher when he found you. You just carry it with you. You took him with you this time when you came down the mountain. There may be some special chance. Here, take it. Accumulate merit well after going down the mountain. When Grandpa returns to the golden body, Your poor life will take a turn for the better. Master, don't worry. I must earn a lot of money to support my master and Taoist temple. good Go Old lady. Old lady. Go and call an ambulance Heart pulse disorder Risk of sudden cardiac arrest Hey, what are you feeding the old lady, Huxindan? Grandma's heart is out of order. If you don't protect it in time, you won't be able to wait for an ambulance. Go away. What kind of heart protector? If the rescue is delayed, It's good to have you. Let's go. Well, Grandma is all right. Old lady. You wake up It was that little girl who just saved me. Pass it on Search throughout the city, those who provide useful clues, he Jia Reward 5 million Old lady. The little Taoist priest is in the direction of Haicheng city. If we drive down the road, we should be able to find someone. Go to Haicheng District Master, can you help me see if my boyfriend is the right one for me? Wow Exactly. And you're the only girlfriend in your boyfriend. I'm going to marry you. His family. I like you, too. He did say I was his first girlfriend. Hey That's because your boyfriend likes men. His family knows that. Just waiting to trick you into getting married. This is ah Now they're dating at your house. What? Female donor master I've been married for years and haven't been able to get pregnant. Is there any way to save? This Of course there is a cure. This is simple. Take my rune back and drink it like this. No 998. Don't want 698 today. Yeah 298 is fine. Okay. But, little sister, you're not sick. Your husband is infertile. Just find someone else. What? Where'd you get that kid? Which Taoist temple did you slip down? Does anyone care? I'm not sneaking around. It was Master Pingzhen who told me to come down the mountain. You, you are really a flat apprentice. Yes, you know my master. I almost became your brother. But at your level, Master will not accept you. I can hear you. I haven't had enough to eat today. Forget it. Close the stall. Ah, close the stall. Today, for Pingzhen's sake, I'll take you to dinner. But we have to agree on the premise. We had enough to eat. You can't come back to my booth. Why is there only steamed bread? What are you talking about? you ruined my stall. I didn't make any money, did I? It would be nice to have steamed bread. You're still picky. Let me tell you something. Nowadays, people like to hear nice things. To be honest, you can't make money. You know what? no. The master said to be honest. I can't listen. Hey, I... That's all I have left. Your master also said to respect the old and love the young. Here let me, ah, ah The little benefactor finally found you. Do you remember me Grandma, are you all right? Yeah, thanks to you. This is 20 million in cash. And I thank you for saving my life. Ha. The old lady doesn't seem to be lying. How did 20 million become a few yuan? You come here, I'll ask you. What do you lack in the five elements? Lack of money, for example, I was born poor. So poor that I can't keep it. Will be saved into a blessing. Accumulate When I save enough blessings, I can change my life. The old lady is like this, as you can see. The child has a bitter fate. You and I can only eat steamed bread every day. I think you are also full of children and grandchildren. How about this? He just asked you. You are predestined with him. Please take him away. Ah, that's great. You can't. My life is special. The five elements are short of money You can't involve grandma. The whole Haicheng No one is richer than us in the he family. Go home with Grandma. Is Grandma's family really rich? Aren't you afraid I'll get involved? Rest assured Grandma's family is short of a granddaughter who can spend money. Let's go. Ha ha. It's all a doomed opportunity. Hey How do you shine a nail? It seems that Fukui has to continue to work hard. Grandma, can you eat all these? Of course not. Grandma will ask the kitchen to make it for you. Yeah, thanks, Grandma. Good Fubao Let's eat. Ha ha. Son, I found my little benefactor. The child has no father or mother It's pathetic. We don't happen to have a girl. I adopted it for you. From now on, he will be your daughter. Dad I have a daughter You don't want to bring everyone home. What if it's someone else? Grandma never found it. I can see that the child has absolutely no bad intentions. Besides, Fubao saved my life. One tree is excellent. Maybe you can show him your legs. Forget it. I've been looking for famous doctors all these years. Everyone said it was incurable. In the past two years, a little doctor was infatuated with jujube. But living in seclusion in the mountains, no one knows where it is. It's all right, son. Keep your chin up Whether it's grandma or little magic doctor, they will find it. Nannan Dad will find you. Is Fubao full? I'm full, Grandma. Am I eating a little too much? ha. Is it too much? Fubao Do you want a father? What's a dad? Dad is the one who makes you eat every meal. Okay, I want a dad. Ha ha. Okay. Okay. Come on. Put the young lady Take it to Jingchuan. Yes, ma'am. When Fubao saw him, he hugged his leg and called his father. Bye, Grandma. Okay. Bye. Ha ha. Slow down. Daddy Who are you I'm Fubao. Grandma said that from today on, You're my dad. Get up. I'm not your father. Yeah. Son, have you seen Fubao? Isn't that cute? Mom, you just bring him back to me. Oh, I have a bad heart. Going to the resort to recuperate. Anyway, the Fubao adoption procedures have been completed. He's your daughter now. I You're my dad now, right? Say it again I'm not your father. Okay, Dad. Dad What? I want to sleep with my brother. No, you sleep in the children's room. Fubao has never had a father since he was a child. A child without a father is like grass. Every time I see other children being coaxed to sleep by their father In telling bedtime stories Fubao thought it would be nice if he had a father. All right Go to bed But don't tell bedtime stories. Yeah. If Nana were still here, Will you act coquettish and behave like this? Wow Good morning, Dad. Have breakfast. Dad Grandma said you could fill up the Fortune meal. Is it true Has this child been abused before? You can't even have enough to eat. Yeah, thanks, Dad. Huh Grandma was right. I think I can have a full meal. It's not that you can't afford it at home. Just got sent out, right? Dad was so smart last time. Dad, why are you so lazy? You don't even stand up and walk. I'm sick. Sick But dad's leg is not sick. What do children know? I can see it. Dad's leg was shrouded in anger. That's why I can't stand up. It's not a real disease. What can you see? Dad, you forgot I'm a Taoist priest. Can see things that ordinary people can't. Don't talk too much at a young age. Now it's a materialistic society. Don't do this. It's a mess. Daddy, where are you going to work? I'm going with Daddy, Daddy. Go and change. Ah, okay. Daddy, give me a minute. I'll be quick. A lot of bad spirits. Just like the one on Daddy Land. Looks like Daddy's been targeted. I have a meeting. You stay here. What if you're hungry? Just call the front desk. Don't run around, you hear me? good Why is this door weird? This is a change of pregnant women. It's all murderous here. Then the source is also nearby. No, we can't let something happen to Daddy in the storm's meal ticket. There was a car accident. I checked with the last office. The president is not good. The young lady is gone. What? It seems that this is the center of the eight diagrams array. The whole company is in a bad mood. It's the opposite here. There will be a steady stream of good luck. Where? Year after year Don't act coquettish. Did I ever tell you Don't run around. Fubao didn't run around. Fubao found the source of the murderous spirit on his father's leg. Dad, you've been tricked into gossip. What eight diagrams array? To put it more popularly, it is to turn to luck. Transfer other people's good fortune to one person. The location I just went to is the source. As long as you crack the array. Dad's leg will get better. Children from every family. Don't be ridiculous. I can't cure my father by looking for a famous doctor all over my leg. I'm not talking nonsense. Can use this kind of stitching Must be related to Dad by blood And the whole building lives in his office. It is shrouded in the spirit of Ritzer. If Dad doesn't believe me, Just come with me. I will cure Daddy's leg. He Lianwen and I are indeed cousins. How does he know? Can Fubao really cure my leg? Why are you here? Because there is a lot of Rizze here. Daddy, you're about to find out. Whether it will be transferred or not, I will. I'm not turning. The sky turns back to heaven and earth I'll try it. Schoolbag into I'll get on the gun. Sure enough, what was I expecting? There's nothing that so many famous doctors can do with my leg. I'm counting on a kid. Dad, don't worry. The murderous spirit has not been broken yet. Zibao only uses the sharp spirit of this pen. Let Daddy stand up for the time being. It is not suitable to stay here for a long time Dad better get out of here soon. Why can't you save him? I thought you said it was the luckiest place. Because the luck is stolen. If you smoke too much, you will be eaten back. So This is what we did later. Not necessarily. The eight diagrams array is very complicated. With great fanfare, he transferred all his good luck to one place. That guy will be lucky for a while. When it's over, it will be eaten back thousands of times. No one would think that. Unless Unless he doesn't know it. And then I was taken advantage of. It's so complicated, Daddy. Get out of here. I'm going to use this spirit to study. When it's over, let's go home and pay attention. Safe. Mm-hmm. Where did the nosy little doll come from? You are a member of Sima's army. How did you get in here? Come on in. I was right here. It was you who were stupid and didn't notice. We must do this well today. Installed Run out How are you Dad, I'm fine. Ha, now that you found out, Then I'll send you to die with me. Who doesn't want to hurt my dad? Fubao DANGER Golden light appears Protect the real person Be as urgent as the law Hoop spell No way Heaven and earth are natural Bad luck and dispersion The chest will dissipate. Be as urgent as the law Fubao, are you all right? Dad, I'm fine. Take good care of you Speed Speed Somebody call an ambulance. Are you awake? is there anything wrong with you? Dad, I'm fine. It really doesn't hurt anymore. Have the doctor check it again. Miss Ye is in good health. It was excessive energy consumption just now. Plus a coma caused by blood loss. Okay, I get it. Daddy's eight diagrams array has been cracked. Yeah, Daddy. People who do bad things will soon be exasperated. Be beset with bad luck Who told you to always be in front of me? Do you know how dangerous it is? Fubao has no relatives. Dad and Grandma are after Fubao came down the mountain. The person who is the best to Fubao Fubao should protect his father and grandmother. Anyway, it won't happen again. I'm an adult. I can protect myself. Can also be protected. It can also protect you. So Daddy likes tutoring, right? Who would like your little bald naughty boy? Does Daddy really not like Fubao? Like it I knew Daddy didn't mean it. Hey A bowl of blessings Jewelry, my granddaughter. Are you all right Grandma, I'm fine. I just got a little hurt. I'm glad it's okay. I'm glad it's okay. Grandma was scared to death. Mom. Aren't you at the resort? It's because of you, the president of the group. Can't even take care of a child. It's only been one day. So I sent my precious granddaughter to the hospital. This is really my negligence. Grandma doesn't care about dad's business. Dad's already done a great job. It's the bad guys who want to hurt dad and retribution. It's only been one day. Fubao is partial to his father. Don't look at Grandma anymore. Forget it. I'm a bad old woman. I'd better go. Anyway, Fubao doesn't care. Grandma, you're not a bad old woman. Grandma is the prettiest in the world. The most magnanimous and kind grandma Ha ha Grandma who can still make Fubao have enough to eat. You little elf. Ha, do you want to go back to the old house with Grandma? Forget it, Grandma. I'm going with Dad. Help Dad punish the bad guys. And fix dad's leg. Fubao can cure Jingchuan's leg. Yeah Is it true what Jingchuan Fubao said? You have a mole on your leg. Mom, that's what kids say. There is nothing that so many famous doctors can do with my leg. What's more, Fubao is a five-year-old child. Yeah I'm too greedy. Grandma, don't underestimate me. It can cure dad's leg. Yes, we, Fubao, are not ordinary children. Grandma trusts you. Ha ha. That's right. Ji family is going to hold a charity auction in Haicheng. I heard they were going to take out Master Yukong's favorite unicorn statue It is said to keep it at home. It can protect the peace of the house. Sheltered grandchildren, mother. You are the only one who knows these things. If you don't believe it, even if you compensate Fubao, I saved your life. Grandma, what's the auction? Is it fun? Fubao wants to go? Go to Fubao. Ha. Why do you always feel weird today? What a fucking chair. Who moved it? WTF Who moved the quilt? Who's faking this fucking pig's foot? Who is it? come out here. You're lawless. Isn't this the general manager of Jingsheng Group? Who is the little girl next to her? Her daughter? Oh, no. Hasn't he's little granddaughter been missing for years? Cousin, I know you're a private girl. But you look like this. You can't just find someone to replace Nannan. It's personal Don't bother outsiders. Cousin, it's a little hurtful for you to talk like that. How can I be an outsider? Uncle, how long has it been since you brushed your teeth? My mouth stinks. I can't breathe. What are you talking about, dingo? Enough He Liangwen, if you still want to participate in the auction, Just go back to your seat. Who moved the stupid chair? That guy just now. He got up. Fool It seems that it has been eaten back. This kid is the beginning. It will be even worse in the future. Let's leave him alone. The auction is about to begin. Sit tight. Dad He Jingchuan retired too early. When I take away your organs, Whether it's Inoue Group or Crane. Will accept my move. Welcome to join us. The charity auction held by the Ji family There are three lots in this auction. One of them is suffering from There are also two mysterious lots in Qilin Lane, which has attracted everyone's attention. And the proceeds of all the auctions today Will all be donated to the Hope House charity. I now announce that The auction officially begins. This round of auction is the true love of Master Yukong. Kylin term Many friends come specially for him. Legend has it that all evil unicorns can be suppressed. Bidding starts at 8 million. This is what Mom called the unicorn item. 8.5 million I'll give you 9 million. 20 million Oh, my God. 20 million directly doubled. This is the treasure of Master Yukong who has opened the light. It's more than 20 million. 20.5 million 25 million His brother, this unicorn seems to protect future generations. Your family's original children are guaranteed. And speaking of you, it's completely broken. It's no use if you want him Why don't you leave him to me? On this ability I'm still not as good as my cousin. Illegitimate children run everywhere before they get married. Well, that's what I can do. Cousin You'll never be able to experience my happiness in your life. Yeah, since you're so capable. Why do I have to give you Qilin Lane? The auction is for the highest bidder. Cousin You can't afford tens of millions of dollars. How could that be? I'll give you 25.5 million. This evil is worth more than 20 million. Eat a Taoist temple that can feed several masters. No, you can't let Dad waste money. Dad, don't shoot this. What's wrong? The heart is good. But this is a burial object. Yin qi is too heavy. Not only can you not town the house, It can also damage people's life. How do you know I can see? It's like being angry. They all have colors. Wait a minute, Dad. I do. Uncle, you only add a little bit every time you yell. Is there not enough money? If there is no money, I don't need your money. My dad can buy it. If you really like it, You can come to my house later. Who says I can't afford it? I'm just doing it for the sake of my relatives. I'll increase the price less. Since you say so. Don't blame me for being rude. I'm not. I believe you can take something from my father. I'll give you 30 million. 35 million is worthy of a member of the he family. All the moves are so generous. Yeah, casually increase the price by 5 million. 45 million Uncle, don't you have enough money? Do you need my father to borrow it? Even if it doesn't make a sound. I want to be sick, too. you guys are rich, right? Well, then I'll let you spend enough. 80 million Who are you? The uncle spoke ill of you. Uncle, I can't believe you're so rich. Then give it to you. 80 million at a time 80 million twice 80 million three times Deal Congratulations to the two gentlemen on getting the Kylin item in the town house. How dare you fool me? Uncle, you offered such a high price. My father saw that you really liked it, so he gave it to you. Why are you still angry? Yeah The manager may not be trying to drive up prices. Actually, you don't want it. So this is a malicious auction, right? Do you still want this unicorn item? It's not going to be in debt, is it? I didn't I came down today for the unicorn. I was just so happy. Then I'll thank you for being a father. You are welcome Master Ono, what are you laughing at? He Liang Wen Fubao is my child of the he family. You make rude remarks again. I'll kick you out of Jingsheng Group. The general manager assigned it to someone else. He Qichao, let me tell you. The uncles of Jingsheng Group will not agree. Jingsheng Group is not up to you. Really? then try it. Mr. he Lanwen, please come to the stage. What Ha ha ha ha You did it. Who told him to bully Daddy? Don't listen to him. Daddy's leg is going to get better. We don't have to be like him. Yeah. There are two last items in today's auction. It is not quite the same as the previous public auction. Both of these pieces need to be photographed before they can be opened. A treasure. What can't be opened until it's filmed? Then isn't this like opening a blind box? Yeah, who knows what's in it? Distinguished guests Don't be impatient. These two boxes They all come from The Drum Tower of the Wu Family that has sunk to the bottom The Drum Tower of Wu Family It was once the richest place in the country. Hasn't that place been silent for a hundred years? How can you still get something out? Yes, what about these two boxes? I just found it. Out of the protection of the lot We didn't open his rights. Only the buyer who photographed him can open Fubao. Since we didn't buy this Kylin box, Then let's go to the mall again. Pick the one you like. Dad, let's take a picture of that box. Are you sure about that wooden box? That's the wooden box. You can see what's in there. No, perspective takes a lot of effort. Then why are we filming him? Because he's very unusual. Normal wooden boxes have been soaked for a hundred years. It's all rotten. But he's still fine. Although you can't see it. May feel the aura in it. Too much is spilling over. Ha ha ha Sure enough, the children picked up can't get on the table. I can't believe you want a shabby wooden box. Well, in that case, I'll take this gold box. I want you to take a good look at it. What is the really good thing? First, this wooden box. Bidding starts at 1 million. Even if it was a hundred years ago. It should be rotten by now. What's good? Dare to bid 1 million It is. Who would put a treasure in a wooden box? But the gold box next to it Maybe we can come up with something good. I'll give you 10 million for this box. Did I hear that right, 10 million? I don't even want this crappy box. I can't believe the bid is 10 million. Is he crazy? Ha ha Cousin, even if the he family is not short of money. You can't give 10 million either. Buy a shabby wooden box to play with. It's not rotten wood. It's much better than your stupid series. It's 10 million. My family gives more than that pocket money to the children. Fubao likes it. No matter whether the contents of the box are good or bad I will be in the name of Fubao. Donate another 30% to charity If there is no higher bid. 10 million The Drum Tower wooden gun was handed over to Mr. he Jingchuan. Deal Congratulations to Mr. he Jingchuan on photographing the wooden box of the Drum Tower in 10 million. Mr. he. Would you please have this box carried away? Wait Don't take this box away yet. The gold box hasn't been auctioned yet. After a while, the auction is over. Let's see what's in there, baby. Do you think so? Yeah, we're all Yanzi's guests. Have the right to know what today's lot is. I agree that lots are usually open to the public. Yeah, you can still know the result of betting on stone. We also have the right to know about these boxes. Yeah, after all, This box has been photographed by Mr. he Jingchuan. It depends on Mr. he's wishes. Right? my grandma gave it to you. Would you like to open it and show it to everyone? Of course you can. Our family Hongbao said yes. Okay, thank you, Mr. he and young lady. Ladies and gentlemen, we will open the box after the auction. Next up for auction. Bids for gold boxes start at 5 million If this box is pure gold, The bare box is more than 5 million. I'll give you 5.5 million. I'll give you 6 million. 20 million I don't want this gold box. Don't be so boring. Boring The gold box is lifeless. It's not funny, brother. don't worry. I won't let you lose money. It doesn't matter what it comes out. It's 10 million. Don't dislike his father. Fubao must be able to produce good things. Congratulations to Mr. he Liangwei on his 20 million shot of the Golden Box of the Drum Tower. I photographed the gold box. Open the box later. Don't get slapped in the face. I've already photographed the host's golden box. Can we open the two boxes now? Of course you can. I just learned that the distinguished guests have a need to open the box. So We specially invited Master Lin, an expert in the field of forensics. I will introduce it today. And identify the treasures that can be opened in these two boxes. Yes Then please take a picture of the two distinguished guests on stage and open the box. Please go up. Well, my uncle has never opened a box like this. Yeah It's for you. Go ahead. thank you, Dad. Wooden box 10 million Gold box 20 million The price is too high. It sure is How many rare treasures have to be in it to get back to the capital? I think this gold box is more reliable. The wooden box looks almost rotten. I think so. 10 million to buy rotten wood He Jia really loves her adopted daughter. Kid, if you drive rags in a while, Don't cry for your father. You were ragged at that time. Haha, I advise you to open the box before Quickly ask he Jingchuan to ask the master to back down a little bit. It won't take a while to make people laugh off their teeth. Let's try to open the box. Well, don't say I bully kids then. Then please open the box in front of you. Ha ha ha ha Wow Oh, my God. There is actually some junk in this gold box. What a musty smell. 2000 million shots of this junk. It's a good thing I didn't follow any more. at that time There are a lot of gold and silver jewelry in this wooden box. Now I made a lot of money. Yeah, who would have thought this shabby wooden box I can't believe you drive so much gold, silver and jewelry. No way I spent 20 million Why did you buy a bunch of these junk? Daddy, I told you. I'm sure you'll see a lot of babies. Feng Mingbao is true to his word. this Fengming glazed calf What kind of glass? Isn't this a broken glass? This is not glass. This is a wine glass made of rare glass. Rumors are shining in the moonlight It can make a crisp sound of the Phoenix. That's why it's called Fengming glaze. In the past, the old man only read it in books. I didn't expect to see plants in my lifetime. These were the most honorable women at that time. To deserve it. Hey Hey Jiuxuan alchemy furnace Ha ha ha This is a legend. A stove that can exert the properties of herbs to the extreme. Isn't this an unparalleled treasure? It's just a legend. This is a small medicine stove with exquisite workmanship How can there be so many magical functions? It should be the world. In order to increase the interest of du Zhuan It is unexpectedly a real excellent alchemy furnace. Dad's legs and Grandma's heart can be used. Ha ha ha East China Sea night-luminescent pearl Ha ha ha Jade jade Ruyi It's good. It's valuable. Um, the blue seal necklace, a Phoenix mountain. Oh, my God, this gold alone is more than 10 million. More than that, look at the craftsmanship on that gold ware. Inlaid jewelry tourmaline It's all lost. It can't be calculated according to the price of gold. I heard that there are private buyers who like to collect these. If you sell these things together, you can't sell them for hundreds of millions of dollars. Boss he is really lucky. I can't believe you chose such a big treasure box. These two boxes should come from the Drum Tower of Wu family. Alas, if Lin is right. It should be the dowry of the daughter of the landlord. Dowry I heard that during that period Women's dowries are buried in the same coffin. Are these all burial objects? What did I think it was? It turns out that they are all buried with them. It's not buried with it. According to ancient books, There was a great drought in the Drum Tower of the Wu family a hundred years ago. This resident. All evacuated. You said there were no graves. Where did you get any funerary objects? This box should have been dropped on the way to move. I think this unicorn is buried with him. Old man Cheng, what are you talking about? He was Master Yukong's favorite Kylin craftsman. It has been turned on. Master Yukong I do. This unicorn statue. He really carved it with his own hands. And he really likes it. That's enough. Because he likes it very much. So, ah, they were buried together until they died. It's exactly what Fubao said. Can he really see? This Qilin Lane Unexpectedly, they are buried with them. Don't say to sell it at home. It doesn't have to be someone. Even if someone wants to buy it, It's not worth 80 million. Oh, my God. This he Liangwen spent 100 million on a pile of junk. Yeah Boss he can make a net profit with just one wooden box here. No way. Absolutely not. Master, take a look at it for me. There must be a baby in here. Is it right? I'll help you find it. Look These must be ancient books and antiques handed down from generation to generation Right I'm just here to check the treasure. I'm not here to make treasure. There is nothing of value in this box Look These wooden dishes and chopsticks Are all badly damaged. And it's not worth repairing. let me put it another way Is worthless. Where's my 20 million? master I remember. Look, look at this bracelet. Is he a precious antique lighted by eminent monks? Look at that With all due respect, This is the most common grass Bodhi. Also known as grass beads And you see? It's all damaged. It's only worth a few dozen yuan at most. What about this box? Ah, this box is gold. This box should be worth some money. Oh, this box is gilded. The total price does not exceed 10,000 yuan. It's over. I... I spend 100 million here. Bought a pile of garbage and went back. My dad knew it would kill me. Sister, that nine-string alchemy stove must be put away. Alchemy furnace Isn't that a rumor? Not a rumor. With that alchemy furnace The time of making pills can be reduced by at least half. But the effect is 10 times that of ordinary pills. It'll cure Dad. Her legs and grandma's heart. Give us A long illness is difficult to cure. Especially when Daddy's legs were ruined by the bad guys. It will take a long time to cure. But with this alchemy furnace The time can be reduced by at least half It doesn't matter whether it works or not. Keep it as long as Fubao likes it. Brother, don't worry. What Fubao likes must be useful. Hello, Mr. he. I am very interested in what is in the box. I wonder if you can sell me the whole box. I am willing to give 300 million What? Bought it for 10 million. Sell for 300 million How many times has it gone up? What did you just say? This broken box is worth 300 million. 300 million and more than zero. No, my kid bought all these. Without his permission. I'm not qualified to handle it. What's up Dad, all I want is that alchemy stove. Sell the rest. Although Fubao doesn't know how much 300 million is. But it must be a lot of money. Grandma go, Daddy. Fubao has had many full meals. Don't do anything else. Then leave another Feng Ming glass. Give it to Grandma Grandma seems to like to collect these. Okay, it's up to you. That's like my kid said. Leave Jiuquan alchemy furnace and Fengming glass You give me a price for the rest. I'll have my assistant find you later. Er, thank Mr. he and the young lady for their love. President Ji is in the private room upstairs as the organizer. Do you want to go up and say hello? We have a project behind us. If we can reach a cooperation with Ji Get twice the result with half the effort Ji never cooperates with Haicheng companies. But what if they change their minds? Ji sounds like a gentle person. But he has his own principles in his bones. It doesn't mean that change can be changed. But I really should say hello to Mr. Ji. Go to Rich Let's go and say hello to Mr. Ji. I'll take you to dinner. Boss Ji, long time no see. It's been a long time. See, whose kid is this? He's my daughter, Fubao. Hello, Uncle Ji Hello, Fubao. Oh, I'm so sorry. There's something urgent at home. I have to go first. I didn't stay early today. I'll buy you dinner later when I have a chance. Uncle Ji, don't go home. Go to the hospital first. Your wife and children are in danger. What did you say When Uncle Ji first came in Your upper eyelids suddenly turn black. This is a sign of a recent disaster. Oh, I just let it go. The divination shows that your wife and children are in danger. The direction points to the hospital. Not at home. I'm sorry. General Manager Ji Fubao usually likes these garrulous things. Children's words are not bogey You don't care. Kids are still interested in these things. But Fubao's calculation is wrong. Uncle, he is really old. But no kids. No kids? Yeah, it's just young. It wasn't born. this Uncle Fubao not only doesn't have children now. It may not happen again in this lifetime. Earlier, the hospital found out that I was infertile. I'm sorry, Mr. Ji. Okay, apologize quickly. Is my love a child's kindness, too? But Uncle Ji Your wife is pregnant. Fubao, stop messing around. Let's go. Ah, adults are really difficult to communicate. Uncle Ji, did someone just tell you The woman who lives in your house fell into the river. Still in a coma. I told you to hurry back. How do you know I've never told anyone. It was told me under the light. Uncle, what's your relationship with the woman in the family? The light shows that she is not your wife. How could she be my wife? His name is Li Manman. My grandfather died. The orphan left by a close friend We grew up together. He has nowhere to go. So I stayed at my house all the time. You have a wife. And let other women come back to your house. I regard her as my own sister. I think he feels sorry for me. What's happening now is that you My wife also fell into the river. He was still pushed down by his own sister. But Ah Ying can swim. Manman is the one who won't. Hexagram image display Now the bad aunt is fine. On the contrary, your wife is more dangerous. Now the bad aunt pretends to be sick to see you. Said your wife pushed her down. If you don't believe me, You can call home now and find out. Hello Brother Ji, don't blame Sister Ah Ying. She pushed me just because she didn't like me living here. But I can't swim. Now I'm so scared. Can you come back and stay with me? I can't believe it's exactly what he said. Brother Chicken Go to the doctor if you are sick. And Since Ying doesn't like you living in our house, Then you can move out tomorrow. Boss Ji, although I shouldn't meddle in your family affairs, But I think this kind of situation You'd better go to the hospital first. That was Lyman on the phone just now. It's exactly what Fubao said. General Manager Ji Without Fubao's intervention, Who do you pick My wife. No matter what other people say Must be my wife's most important. What Fu Bao said is true. My wife is really pregnant. The doctor said that if he came a little later, You can't keep the baby. Fortunately, it was delivered in time. Congratulations, Mr. Qi. This time, thanks to the blessing. If it wasn't for the reminder of blessings, The baby might be gone. Federal Uncle Earth I'm glad, too Boss he is so lucky. If I had such a smart one, A lovely daughter would be fine. Uncle Ji's wish will come true. What's in my aunt's belly is a little sister. This is the fetal chamber. Just keep it close. It works very well. Really? that's great. I dreamed of having a daughter. Thank you for the blessing. Guys, just a moment. Jewelry, this 10 million in cash is for you. Thank you for helping your uncle so much. Thanks, Uncle Kim. Boss, you want something. Boss Hou, I heard that Jinsheng Group There is a project that wants to cooperate with us in technology. This is the contract. After you read it, No problem We'll sign right away. Boss Ji, this is What about me? Really never cooperate with other companies in Haizheng. But I am relieved to cooperate with Boss he. after all To cultivate such an excellent and intelligent child. Absolutely good. Then it's a pleasant cooperation. I hope that we can coorperate happily Grandma Bao said today that you are a Taoist priest. You change other people's cause and effect like this. Will it get hurt? Generally speaking, no. Master said to punish the bad guys To save good people is to accumulate blessings. The more you do, the better Don't do anything against the way of heaven. It won't be eaten back. Reverse phagocytosis If it is eaten back. If you are light, you are in a coma. If you are heavy, you will lose your heart and soul. Then how can it be considered a violation of the way of heaven? It's hard to explain. It's okay to change your life against heaven. Once there was an uncle who secretly used forbidden magic to renew the life of a young man. Be eaten back in the middle Later, the uncle became an idiot. But dad, don't worry. Bao wouldn't do such a thing. Let's take a look at the gifts lent to us by our uncle. Yeah It's always too stingy this season. Didn't you say 10 million? Why is it only one dollar? Ah, the money was taken away by my ancestors again. Now there's only three yuan left in my pocket. I can't even afford bowl noodles. Wait, Vice President. Why do you only have 3 yuan? Grandma didn't give you 20 million before? Because I was born poor. The five elements are short of money Can't keep money. All the money given to me will be taken away by my ancestors. I need to accumulate more merit. Let the ancestor return to the golden body. My poor life took a turn for the better. In the name of Fubao Donate another 50 million to charity Dad, this is useless money. I need to earn it myself. But dad, don't worry. I'm gonna blow up dad's legs. Work hard to make money The part-time worker gets rid of this life style which is short of money. Hey You're back. Mom, what are you doing here? I'm here to tell you that you've found a doctor for your leg. It's the little doctor before. Yes The master of the little doctor is a very capable Taoist. The Taoist said that the little doctor could not find anyone during the recent trip. So I asked the Taoist to come down and treat you. Fubao can also cure Daddy's leg. Ha ha ha ha Okay. Fubao also give Jingchuanji a try. Fubao is at the auction this time. Did you buy something you like? Grandma, we photographed a wooden box. This is Fengming colored glass. Specially brought it back for Grandma. Is it I looked at Grandma's room before. Collect a lot of such shiny beautiful things. Grandma, do you like it? I like grandma. I love it. Thank you, my good granddaughter. This is Grandma's favorite gift. It's better to have granddaughter. Fubao is Grandma's sweet little cotton-padded jacket. Because grandma is also the best grandma in the world. All right, all right, all right. Ha! I almost forgot Dad's leg. We have to try the alchemy furnace today. Daddy, Grandma. I'm going to my room first. Slow down. If grandma were here, As warm and lovely as Fubao. Whether we can find Grandma or not, Fubao are all my daughters. Fubao, what can I do for a teacher? Master Fubao has done good deeds and accumulated virtue in the past two days. And made a lot of money. Will the spirit of my ancestor be divided now? Me, too. I just saw it. Fubao such a short time Let the ancestor restore a golden arm. It seems that Grandpa has all the golden bodies. Being a teacher is not far away. Come on, Fubao. Keep trying Master, grandpa, rest assured. I will try my best to save blessings. How are you doing after Fukuo went down the mountain? Have you found any clues to your biological parents? No biological parents were found. But I found a new father and grandmother. They let Fubao eat every meal. And take Fubao out to play. They're all very nice people. Good. Good. Fubao will live a few days. I have to go down the mountain, too. Someone paid me a lot of money to see him. After seeing the doctor. As a teacher, I will take the time to see you. What master is coming? Then I'll take the master to see the new family. OK, we'll be in touch then. Now I have to get ready. I'll see you later. Yeah. Then I should pay close attention to the alchemy. It just so happens that Dad and Grandma As long as master comes You can see a healthy family. Master will be happy for me. Huh Fubao Fubao Oops, it's been three days. He never came out of the room to pass Fubao's mother. Don't worry. Fubao Fubao It's Dad and Grandma. Open the door. Fubao, open the door. You haven't eaten in days. Fubao, is anything going to happen? Fubao Fubao Fu Bao's mother Get out of the way. I'll try to open it. good We have an appointment. Dad, Grandma, what are you doing here? Fubao, you scared grandma to death. You haven't left the room for three days. We thought something happened to you. Hey, has it been three days? Yeah Ha ha I'm too focused on ammo. Didn't notice the time. Grandma, this is Huxin Dan. Daddy, this is Huasha pill. It can divert the evil spirit from your body. If the anger drifts away, you can pick it up thoroughly. Huxin Dan was sick before Grandma. Did Fubao take the pills? Yeah, it's an enhanced version. This nine-spin alchemy furnace The effect can be brought into full play. The effect is better than ever before. Grandma needs to keep eating for a while. It won't happen again. Really Hey, hey. The spirit is really unobstructed. I feel that what is blocked in my heart is gone. Try the police, too. Mom, it's not a snack. How can you try casually? Besides, Fubao is a child. Why are you fooling around with him? Why is it just fooling around? I was saved by Fubao when I was sick. Anyway, I do. Besides, the truth can't hurt. What if? Well, Shubao never talks big. Okay, I'll eat. What about It's a little hot. This is the waist. It's starting to work. Daddy, get up and try. Oh, that's great. Stand up. Officer, your legs can stand up. Youth, you're all right. Come on. Can the nurse stand up already? It's okay. I'm just tired. The legs of grandma and brother were soaked day by day. It's not so easy to resolve. Except for taking medicine. We also need the beneficiaries of the eight diagrams array. That bad guy named he Liangwen When he is completely eaten back. Dad's leg can get better completely. Reverse phagocytosis How long will that take? Probably 2011 Even for a year. As long as it can be cured. No, it's a month. A month Well, it's been a little long. After all, it is a matrix of gossip. It's still very powerful. It's gonna take a little time. Oh, Fubao. You are really the lucky star of our family. Oh, Grandma loves you. Ha ha ha ha Old man, didn't you say The disabled contract of he Jingchuan Did you transfer it to me? You know how unlucky I've been lately. What do I lose what I buy? Recently, I found out Those bastards are not mine. I have raised a son for several years for nothing. I fucking... The gossip array in your office has been found. Otherwise, at the auction Why is he Jingchuan targeting you? What? He Jingchuan is difficult to deal with. Now he has another little girl who knows how to do it. You go back first. I'll figure it out. He Liangwen is a fool who is useless. Then let him be a stepping stone to the big boss. Dad, why did you bring Fubao to the ancestral house? To worship our ancestors, of course. Write Fubao in the genealogy It can make him a legitimate member of the he family. I know you're not keen on this. And I don't expect you to remember. Is it true that Mom is thoughtful? By the way, your brother will be here today. Dad's eldest brother is with he Liangwen. Like that? It's different. he's my father's own brother's son. He helped the company a lot. Ever since I got sick, He's been trying to figure it out for me. He's a very nice person. Yeah, he's like Fubao. Very interested in Taoism Come on, Fubao. First, I went with Grandma to meet the ancestors of the he family. A-choo It's so cold. Why is it windy as soon as you come in? Fubao, this is the old house of the he family. Do you like it Yeah, it's very stylish. The he family attaches great importance to the ancestral house. I also hired a fengshui master to adjust it. Whether it is facing the position is the best. Feng shui is perfect. Abnormal It seems to be done on purpose for others to see. Yin qi is still so heavy. There must be something wrong. It's better not to drag your brother and grandmother into this. I'll sneak out later to find out why. What happened to Fubao? It's all right, Grandma. let's go in first. good Snow-capped mountains and Jingchuan There you are, big brother. Wenshan This is Jingchuan's extravagant daughter. It's Fubao, right? She's so cute. Yes, Fubao. This is what we told you about your big uncle. He also knows something about Taoism. This ancestral house is the fengshui he asked people to see. Haha. It's all for the whole family. Hello, big uncle. Does the eldest uncle know how to watch feng shui? Know something about it. The ancestral mansion is because I formed a Taoist friend. Ask him to do me a favor to see him. Sit Although this big uncle looks very cute. But when I get close, it feels so chilly. This little horn looks familiar. Don't blame me for being cruel. He Jiafan can't be selfish. I can only be the heir to the he family. No, the little lady is gone. Is it him? Something so familiar. I heard that Igawa's leg has not improved. I can't help you with anything else. I asked someone to find a pair of stone cranes. It means health and longevity. I hope Igawa's leg will recover soon. Thank you, Big Brother. Thank you for your trouble Yeah But there are a lot of subdivisions on this leg. Is it already there? If you don't look carefully, you really don't find it. This must have been frozen in transit. But the broken stone statues are at home. Not only can't struggle. It can also be counterproductive. Make sick people sicker. As the saying goes, is it true, uncle? I don't understand that either. I didn't protect it carefully. I almost did something bad with good intentions. So I'll have my servant take him back now. It's okay, Wenshan. You have a good heart, too. Haha. The broken-leg crane is still in a bad mood. If this is Daddy's leg. I'm afraid I'll never get better. To be this creature. I don't know if the eldest uncle did it unintentionally or on purpose. Be sure to tell Dad when he's gone. Dad, they should be asleep already. Start work This tree breaks all the games. Turn the good moral into reverse. What a wonderful event. But you're unlucky to meet me. The gods from all sides protect my house. The enchantment is blown away quickly. It's done. brother Too hard. Fubao, where is this kid? Fubao Oh, Fubao. Fubao Fubao Help, Fubao. Somebody give a shout. Fubao mom Fubao It's really you. The little bastard I threw away five years ago Unexpectedly returned to the he family alive. And broke my formation. But it looks like you haven't met yet. Why does Fubao get hurt at home? Fubao was originally the only grandchild of the he family. It's supposed to be taken care of. It's all my uncle. The little lady is all right. Everything's fine. It's just what? What seems to be the problem The young lady is a rare panda blood type. Allergic to both penicillin and mango These are exactly the same as the missing Miss Nannan. What did you say As like as two peas Fubao is five years old, isn't he? Or an orphan. No. What a coincidence, isn't it? Do an appraisal with Jingchuan DNA as soon as possible It's Mom. You mean Fubao may be Dan Dan. Otherwise, it wouldn't be such a coincidence. Pay Bao I'm sorry I worried Dad. It's okay. Why did you suddenly fall down? It's my own physical overdraft. Ah! Jade wear Where's my jade suit? sit down. Nannan also has a piece. The Huo family handed down the jade dress Is the rich woman really Nannan? What kind of jade dress is given by the master before going down the mountain? It's just from the master. Am I thinking too much? Maybe it fell into the yard. I asked the servant to find it. As long as Fubao wakes up. Oh, it scared grandma to death. Grandma, what happened to you? Look very unhappy. It's Fubao that worries you. No, no, no. It's not Fubao's problem. Yes, just now the chief doctor said he was going to see the little doctor. I won't be able to see Jingchuan's illness in a short period of time. It's all right, Grandma. I can't cure this leg for a while. Not this time, just next time. Yes It's gonna be all right. There is an old Taoist priest at the door of the old lady. He said he knew the young lady and the old Taoist priest. Is it the master? Master. Ouch. My little fortune. Come on, let the master take a good look. Not bad, and a little fat. But you look a little haggard. Is it excessive consumption of Reiki? How can this not be uncomfortable? It's just that I just accidentally tried too hard. Alas, the Dharma will pay attention to it next time. Let the master sell well. Everything else is good. Master, take a look. This is my new dad. This is my new grandma. Poor Road Dharma Ping Is really the master of this child. Thank you two for taking care of little Fubao. What did the Taoist chief say? It is our blessing to adopt Fubao. Chief Taoist, are you here to take Fubao away? Hey, no, no, no. Mr. he, don't be nervous. I'm not here to take Fubao. I just stopped by to see something else. Watch Xiao Fubao. I'll leave in a minute. Ah, master. You have to leave so soon. Fubao, you have a new family now. I don't have to bother here. Don't bother at all Daoist Fubao thinks of you so much. If it's convenient for you. You can stay here for a few days. Yeah, it just so happens that your master and apprentice catch up. The anger is not over here. After all, it is a family elected by Buddha Bao. Stay and give them a hand before leaving. Then I'll stay here a few more days. Thank you for your trouble. No trouble. I'll have the servant clean up the guest room right away. Haha. Uh, can I see your son's leg? The chief Taoist will also see a doctor. Know a little bit This Taoist priest is looking for his apprentice. The chief doctor also said that he had gone to find his apprentice. Is this Taoist master a divine doctor? Er, may I ask the prefect what problem he can see? Master, how's my treatment? Fu Bao, you're doing great. Now the bad spirits are dissipating. If you want this bad spirit to dissipate completely, Except for continuing to take the medicine. What's left is a matter of time. Fubao, your current medical skills. It's a complete start. As a teacher, I don't have to add anything. Madam Just do what Fubao says. Ah, that's right. Well, thank you, Chief. It seems that the Taoist is not proficient in medicine. He is also the chief of Pingzhen Taoism. If the master of the divine doctor That Fubao is the little magic doctor. How could it be such a coincidence? I'm thinking too much. Daddy, Grandma. I need to talk to the master. Let's go. Hey. Hey, guys. Let me identify it first. Boss he's wife. The paternity test report came out. There is a mother and daughter at the door of Mrs. he. Claiming to be Boss he's wife and Miss Nana. What did you say All these years Countless people posing as an an want to be the only daughter of the he family. Let them in first. Ask Dr. Lin to give the girl a paternity test. Yes Boss he's wife. This is the child I gave birth to. Six years ago, the night of Jinhua Hotel When I got back, I found out I was pregnant. After giving birth to a baby girl I have no money and no job. So I left her at the door of he's house. That's what I had to do. Since I decided to leave her at the he family, Then why did you take her away without telling everyone? Nana is my own daughter. Send her to the he family and my dorm room. Nan an wanted to take her back. But Nana is the only companion in the he family. Would never allow me to take her away. I'll just have to sneak her away. Why bring her back now? It's Nannan He found that all children of the same age were taken care of by their fathers. He often comes home and asks me for my father. I blame myself, too. He knows who his father is. But deprived him of his right to fatherly love. So it's all for the kids. Yes we Countless people have tried to impersonate my daughter over the years. What evidence do you have? This is when I took Nana. She was wearing it. I think it's from you. This jade dress is exactly the same as the one on you. Indeed, I am faster than Nannan. I know the concerns of your family. I think my mother is expensive. No I just want Nannan to know He is also a child with a father. If it wasn't for Nannan, No matter what kind of richest family you are. I would never step in. Nannan is my own daughter. I have a right to know where he's going. Even if you are his real mother. You can't take him away without permission. Oh, Jinchuan. Keep your voice down. You're scaring the kid. Son, what's your name? Old lady, her name is he Zhiya. Nickname or Nannan Nannan, how old are you? I'm five and a half years old. Boss he's wife. Paternity test report. The identification results show that Miss he Zhiya is indeed the biological daughter of General Manager he. But the young lady's test report shows Not in person of Boss he. You're really grandma. Dad, come here. Dad, Grandma. Just come back. Just come back. Ha. Finally found you. Father and grandmother Is there anything delicious in the evening? Do you have any guests at home? Fubao, they are not guests. They are Fubao. This is the granddaughter of the he family who has been separated for five years. Call Grandma. This is Fubao who saved my life before. Hit it off with Jingchuan After we adopted him, Nai Nai called him sister. Hello, Fubao. I'm Nana's mother. From now on, Nai Nai and I will live together in the he family. You will call me mom, just like Nai Nai. I wish Fubao called you Auntie. You don't have to call anything else. Ah, good. Nannan Call your sister. Hello sister, you and Fubao will be sisters in the future. You two need to get along. Hello, sister Nannan. We will play together in the future. Father and grandmother Yeah Grandma, this is a custom-made safety lock. I hope our grandmother will have a safe and smooth life for the rest of her life. To be the favorite little princess of our family. Ha I was a little allergic to Grandma's face yesterday. I bought this for Grandma. Professional skin care team for children In the future, his skin care products will be customized by them. It's really troublesome Nannan, thank Grandma and Dad. Thank you, Grandma. Thanks Dad Ha. Uh-huh. Ouch. Father and grandmother Little sister. What do you call me? Ah, Fubao. Fubao is here. Grandma and Jingchuan prepared some welcome gifts for my daughter. Jingchuan is too meticulous I even saw such a small allergy on Nannan's face. In the end, the real father is more careful, isn't it, Fubao? Ye Wanfu, right? The golden day of this rich family It's time for us girls to come. Ah! Fubao, did I say something wrong? mm-hmm. A welcome gift. Fubao is also prepared for sister Nannan. This is my favorite sleeping bell. Can drive away all the bad things in the dream. It's a birthday gift from my master. Now give it to Nannan. Sister, thank you, sister. Fubao is so sweet. But Nannan's ears are sensitive. Can't hear the bell. But thank you, Fubao. All right, Nannan's been here so long. It's time to take a nap. Dad will take you to take a nap. Dad, I want to hear bedtime stories. Okay, what does Nannan want to hear? Dad told you everything. Go, go. Listen to the bedtime story. Grandma, have you eaten yet? Su Bao is so hungry. Oops. I'm sorry, Fubao. Grandma shouted hungry. We'll have dinner. Afraid to disturb your alchemy. I didn't call you. It's okay. You don't have to wait for Fubao every time. Okay, Fubao, sit down and eat first. I'll ask my aunt to give you some more food. Yeah. Okay. Wow, it's Fubao's favorite cupcake. It's Grandma. Remember that this is specially made to your taste. Ha ha. Eat. This is Fubao's exclusive cupcake. Nannan can't rob her sister. Give the cake back to your sister. No Nannan wants to eat, too. What Nannan has eaten can't be given to anyone else. You're a kid. What did mom tell you? I didn't say it. I just want to eat. Grandma can eat if she wants to. Sister Fubao just got back. Curious about everything. Shouldn't you, as a sister, give way to your sister? I Yes, Fubao. Grandma can't eat these every day like you. You let your sister Can I have the kitchen make it for you next time? It's okay. The schoolbag is not very hungry. I'll go for a stroll first. I'll be right back. I'm just asking you. Dad, you're still yelling at me. Ah, what do I have? This is my favorite sleeping bell. It's a production gift from my master. Now give it to sister Nannan. Nannan, shall we sleep? good A little bell from Fu Bao Why is it broken? This is my favorite little magic tool. If my sister doesn't like it, you can give it back to me. Why did you break her? I don't know anymore. Why did you throw it at me? I'm sorry, Fubao, Nannan's ears. I can't hear these voices. Must have broken it accidentally. Auntie, I'll apologize to you, okay? But this little bell is made of hard material. How could it fall like this? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Fubao I didn't know this bell was so important to you. If I knew. I won't let Nannan take him. I told you it wasn't. That's enough, Fubao. Nannan didn't do it on purpose. And you know he has an ear problem. And gave him a little bell. It's still aggressive. All made South South cry. Fubao, as a sister, Don't let sister Zhihao care about these trifles. Fu Baoping is really good at it. Master went out to tell gossip. Be an old slave Don't worry about him. What happened last night was your father's fault. He was too anxious to see his grandmother crying. We Fubao are not as knowledgeable as he is. Fubao didn't eat anything last night. I asked the kitchen to make your favorite pasta this morning. Why don't you go eat with Grandma? Okay, let's go. Oh, eat more. Baby, come on. Have some eggs. Ha. So much Can you finish eating? Fubao can eat. It doesn't matter if you can't finish it. Grandma looks happy. Ha ha. Eat. Come on, eat slowly. Do you like it? I really envy that I like girls. Sister Fubao Envy Yeah, we girls. This is the first time I have had such a big meal. Unlike Fubao. I think I'm used to it. No, when Fubao was in the Taoist temple, Eat big white steamed bread at every meal But Fubao can eat a dozen. Ha, ha. That's right. Fubao grew up in Taoist temples from an early age. Was recently adopted. You don't have to feel unbalanced for Dan. They are both my daughters. That's right We will try our best to make up for those who owe Dan in the past few years. But Fubao is also my precious granddaughter. We will all be treated equally. of course I didn't expect this treasure. It's so important in the heart of the he family. It's all like this, and it's still maintained. He needs to find a chance to start somewhere else. Jingchuan don't just eat and have some soup. Just let meat do this kind of thing. Okay, I get it. Nannan, eat more. Shizukawa It's you. Shizukawa we Qingchuan we Jinchuan We did it before. And I gave you a daughter. How could you do this to me? Sorry I was drugged before. Out of one's mind Actually, we just met. Is that too fast? But we'll be husband and wife after that. Sorry It will take me a while to get used to it. And you saw it. My leg is not ready yet. It takes a long time to rest Somebody. Send Miss Shen out. Miss Shen Please. I'm so thirsty after eating too much. The method you said won't work. He Jingchuan doesn't like this at all. She doesn't want any woman who comes to the door. I just want to protect that rich treasure. That dead girl has been treating he Jingchuan's leg. When he recovers, there's nothing we can do about it. Who's he talking to? What are you going to do to daddy? Who's there? Who's there? This Aunt Shen is not simple. What are they gonna do to Dad? He's dad's wife. In case it's a misunderstanding. I'd better observe first. All right, Dad, don't be in such a hurry. It's okay to have a little rest. Isn't it important that you do rehabilitation training? I can walk a little longer. Boss he. There are several urgent matters for you to deal with in the company. Assistant brother Hey, little sister. Good morning. Boss he, you can stand up. Yeah Next week. I can completely get out of my wheelchair and go to the company. What's the emergency for you to come to my house? Well, you've been working from home lately. There is an important meeting next week. The partner asks you to attend. It's a contract. Take a look. Okay, send me the time of the meeting. Boss he Liangwen has left the company. He brought it up himself. It is not that he Liangwen went abroad to gamble not long ago. Be set up by someone Lost all his assets. And owed a huge amount of debt. He can't stand the blow. He's crazy. It's said that he yells when he sees people in the street. He is the person in charge of Jingsheng Group So he wasn't taken to a mental hospital. It's not too late. He ran about in the street Be knocked down by a car Causing paralysis of the lower body. I guess I have to spend the rest of my life in bed. Okay, I get it. Fubao, this is what you call a complete counterattack. Yes, the bad guys have been eaten back. Plus Huashang pills The legs of my brother and sister are getting better soon. He Jingchuan's leg can never be cured. That girl has some skills. The Huasha pill she made is very effective. I have hedging herbs here. You put it in he Jingchuan's food. Not only make Huashu pills ineffective And they will fight each other. To be counterproductive. Huasha pill I don't want you all to be angry. Mom, I'm hungry. Nana Come on. Nana, take this to Dad. Remember to watch him finish it. good Nannan's favorite soup Dad drinks, too. Good dad. Drink. Thank you, Nannan. Grandma can't drink. It's okay, Grandma. Don't cry. Fubao What's going on? This soup should not be poisoned. Sister Why did you beat Grandma's knife? Grandma doesn't have a family. Why is Nannan crying? My sister said the soup was poisonous. But Nannan didn't. Nannan doesn't cry. The soup is not poisonous Nannan won't poison Dad. But this soup This is Nannan's favorite soup. Specially asked me to cook it and share it with you. How could it be toxic? I can prove it. Now you believe it, right? Fubao, I know my daughter just got back. You may not be able to accept it at the moment. But anyway, Daughter-in-law also cares about her. Dad, how could you slander her? Poisoned and knocked her over. Wow My daughter told me yesterday She has a sister now. I'm so happy. He wants me to put what he likes Share it all with you. But you are he Bao. What's going on? This soup contains ginseng and Angelica sinensis. For ordinary people, Syphilis will also have a nourishing effect. But, Dad, you can't drink it. Why There is a clay stove in the Huasha pill I gave to my sister. Pinellia ternata and Bletilla striata These herbs are all the same as those in the soup. Not only will it lose its efficacy after drinking it. It also makes Daddy's chest stuffy and short of breath. Enter a brief state of shock But what's in the bowl of Huaxia? We have no idea. Even if there is something in the soup, How would Nannan and I know? Nannan just wants to put what she likes Share it with Dad. What's wrong with that? All right, scenery. I know you did it for my own good. But Nannan is still young. He doesn't know anything. You just rushed in. Scared my sister. But I Fubao Grandma Fubao and Aunt Shen are also kind. Come on, go upstairs and play with Grandma. Go Ah Good apprentice, I'm back. I know what's going on. Who bullied us, Fubao? No one was bullied. Master Why do I feel weird about Grandma and Aunt Shen? But I don't feel murderous in them. It's so strange The malice in the heart of a silly apprentice But it's not as easy for you to find out. Well, the master is saying something he doesn't understand again. Since the mother and daughter came back, I found you moping all the time. Fubao, think about it. He Zhiya is, after all, the daughter of he Jingchuan. After you got here, It will naturally take away some of his love. And his own daughter's identity. They don't like you. It's only natural. But Fubao didn't do anything. Even if you don't do anything, As long as you stay in the he family. Is an obstacle. Alas, if you're not happy here, The master will take you right away. Anyway, he Jingchuan, his leg is getting better now. There is no need for murder. Spend more money I still want to stay here. When Daddy's legs are cured, It's up to you. Dad, grandma and sister, what about them? They went to the mall. Go buy something for Nannan. Pay Bao You just ate a little tonight. Are you in a bad mood? Yes Yeah, a little bit. I'm sorry, Fu Bao. Dan Dan just got back these two days. Dad ignored your feelings. It's Dad's fault. Dandan has done something wrong in the past two days. I apologize to you on his behalf. Dan Dan and his mother I've suffered a lot outside these years. I always have a debt in my heart Want to make up as much as possible. I know Good morning. I'm so happy. Yeah, because I slept well last night. Haha. Fubao, come and sit with Grandma. Dad, where did you get this? This one. This is Nannan. They passed the Taoist Temple yesterday. The eight-character handstring that I wore by hand. The ladder cannot be taken. There's a lot of bad spirits on it. It will affect your legs. Neither this nor that. Dad, it's not your dad. Fubao This eight-character hand string Grandma saw her wear it with her own eyes. There should be no problem. Did you read it wrong? Fubao I don't know why you dislike Nannan so much. You don't feel good about what we give to Igawa. Yesterday was chicken soup. Today it's a handstring again. If I had known Nannan was so unpopular. I won't bring her back. I didn't Nannan is not like you. Nannan is an ordinary little girl. She couldn't have hurt me on purpose. Fubao grew up in Taoist temples He may be sensitive to these things. Don't worry about it. That's a handstring. This handstring was made by Dan Dan himself. I'll wear it. All right, all right. Just eat like this. Fubao, let's eat. What is it, Grandma? Sister, I'm not your sister. My mom says I don't have a sister. This is my house. Why are you Stay in our house and refuse to leave. I hate you You don't have a father Insist on seizing my father and grandmother Speak please My jade dress. Why is my jade dress on you? This is not your jade dress. This is my jade dress. Why are you so shameless? Everyone else wants something. Ah! Ah! Is grandma okay? Grandma, what's going on? Sister, you're chasing me. Grandma, it hurts. My sister, she stole my jade dress. The jade dress is mine. My sister has already robbed it. Dad and Grandma Lian Yupai robbed me. Even if Nannan did something, You wouldn't push her downstairs, would you? Ye Wenfu, how dare you hurt your sister? You disappoint me so much. Master Why are you so depressed? I want to go back. You've made up your mind. Yeah They don't believe me anymore. Hey Stupid kid Then let's go back. Anyway, my ancestor's golden body has been half molded. Even if we don't hang upside down. The master can also take you to set up a stall on the street. Those who offer sacrifices to scattered palaces by being Japanese visitors good let's go let's go Since Jingchuan found out that there is nothing wrong with Grandma. I'm going to check on Fubao. She should be scared, too. Yeah Fortunately, there is nothing wrong with Nannan. No matter what Fubao says. It's gone too far. You tell Nannan to go to bed first. He looks a little tired. I still have some things to take care of. Nandan did fall by stepping on his own. I can't believe I didn't believe Fubao in the first place. He must be very sad. Guochuan Fubao, they're gone. What? Take a look. This is the letter left behind. Take a look. Grandma of heaven and earth When you read this letter, I've already left. Fubao likes his father and grandmother very much. The first love in the world This is the first time that Fubao has had a full meal. For the first time, Dad and Grandma Fubao is very happy. When my sister came, Fubao is just as happy. But then It seems that everyone is unhappy because of Fubao. Was Fubao doesn't like this. So I decided to go away for a while. Dad and Grandma Remember to take your medicine on time. Fubao will come back to see you. It's my fault. Since Nannan came back, My center of gravity is inclined to Nannan. Ignored Fubao's mood. And suspected him together. It's also my fault. I obviously brought Fubao back. But even a bowl of basic water is not flat. Let grandma and Fubao have been wronged. Fubao is born short of money. You're going to suffer out there. Yeah, I can't. I'm going to bring him back. Apologize to him well. Okay, I'll come with you. Jinchuan How are you? Somebody, Jinchuan. Jingchuan, you're awake. Nannan, come on. Dad's awake, Dad. Dad Where's Fu Bao? Someone has been sent to look for it. It should be in the city center. How are you feeling? I can't seem to move my legs. The doctor said you were in a hurry. Maybe I'll be all right tomorrow. This may be the price of my distrust of bliss. I must find him myself. Tell him I'm sorry. Okay, we're gonna find it. The top priority is your leg. I tried to contact the former doctor. But there has been no news. Ma Jingchuan I prayed for Nannan before. Volunteered in the Taoist temple for a period of time. I have a little friendship with the chief doctor. Really Qingqing, can you get in touch? Mom, don't worry. I will definitely find the magical doctor to see Jinchuan. Okay, okay. Sorry to bother you We're all family. What's the trouble to talk about? Then I'll take Nannan back first. Go upstairs and play. Finally drove that dead girl away. Little girl film And trying to get in the way of my work. Who is it? What are you doing here? Mrs. he looks very happy. I thought we agreed not to see each other for a while. What if they find out? Don't panic I'm here to help you. Hasn't that little Taoist priest been driven away by you? You put this down to the scope of he Jingchuan every day. He Jingchuan finished playing in less than a week. It's too obvious. If found out, Before the little Taoist priest finds out, We have to get rid of it. And he is the daughter of he Jingchuan. Once discovered, I wouldn't be the first heir. I really can't afford to wait Do you want our girl Change to another man for a lifetime. Dad? I know Mom, have you heard from Fubao? Not yet, little Fubao may have been hurt by us. There's not a clue. And you've been in a coma for longer and longer. Mom's a little worried about you. It's okay, Mom. The doctor didn't say anything, either. Maybe. I'm just too tired. Qingchuan has eaten. The shell just came from Auntie. Do it yourself. Go inside. How's the divine doctor's contact going? Mom, don't worry. But he has promised to come to see Jingchuan next week. If he Jingchuan is still alive next week Okay, just get in touch. Just get in touch. Go You don't want to be found out about our whereabouts. But on the other hand, you set up a stall near your father's company. Fubao doesn't want to be found. But Fubao has a little brother. All right I knew you couldn't let it go. Oh, right. Why is there no sign of he Jingchuan? Doesn't the president have to go to work? It shouldn't be. Before, my brother came to the company every day with a leg injury. Oops. I'd better go to sleep. I heard about it for a long time. And it is said that the will has been made. This Jingsheng Group and the he family. Maybe it's going to be the owner. Why? wasn't everything fine when I left? Excuse me, you guys. Is it true that he Jingchuan is dying? Yeah It has already spread in a hubbub. I heard that the he family is about to change their heirs. Follow what you say everywhere. Come on. Go. Can't figure it out. How can it not be worked out? Fubao The more hasty you calculate. The more likely it is to make mistakes. Emptiness at two o'clock is nothing. This is a monster. How can this melon be dead? no way Oh Little Fubao, you're crazy. This dead melon is a foregone conclusion. You intervened forcefully That is to change one's fate against heaven. Violate the way of heaven That will be damned by God. Have you forgotten what happened to your little uncle? It's not all my life. Oh, enjoy the blessing. Dad! dad! dad! Why is there such a bad spirit in a few years? There's a strong one there. Blessed reward Dad, I don't love you. Something's wrong. I don't care about life or death. Eat my twilight eggs. You have to come back. You're dreaming, right? Why do I hear Fubao screaming? Fubao Lairen Doctor. Doctor. Isn't he Jingchuan, a rich woman, dying? It must be this haunted dead girl. We can't just fall short. We need to operate immediately. What are you doing here? Do you know What? Now not only is he Jingchuan awake. Ye Wanfu is back. If he Jia knew Ye Wanfu is his own daughter. And did you drop the paternity test? What do you think Hejia will do with you, a traitor? You threatened me to do this. Do you think the he family will let you go if you say that? I see Young lady. Don't blame me. It's the Wonder Bureau. They made me do it. You're going to kill yourself to find them. Don't call me. Don't call me. Boss he Dr. Lin, I wish my family treated you well. Why are you hurting me? It wasn't me. They forced me. Boss he, give me a break. Is that him? Ah! That's him He told me to kill the young lady. Boss he, you spared me. Boss he, please give me a break. Boss he When did you know? When you were sneaking around to take Lan Lan. You want to take my daughter again? After all, who told you to do this? Let me tell you something. You know the means of the he family. That's him Changed the paternity test of Miss Fubao and he Zhiya. I don't want to do this. Boss he, please give me a break. You spared me. What? Paternity test for change Fubao You mean Fubao is my own daughter? Yes, it is. Boss he, you spared me. What's going on? I confirmed it myself. Fubao is my own daughter. Then you are Fubao's real mother. Frustrated and unable to read How can you bear it? I wasn't the one you slept with that night. What? I was with you that night. Obviously, I met first. He is the one who is pregnant with the child of the he family. That idiot told me everything. Including yours. It's a pity that he has a bad life. Who ever thought This stupid woman was smart before she died. Secretly sent the child to your doorstep. you You're disgusting. I'm disgusting. The first time I saw Ye Wanfu I knew she was that idiot's daughter. And you Is that you deserve it. because of envy because of envy You're gonna get our family killed. So what? I worked so hard to climb up. Got nothing. Did nothing. You get everything. I'm jealous. So I'm going to replace him as hostess of the he family. Is it What do you mean? Poison and exasperate You did it all by yourself. So what if it is? Even Dr. Lin in the he family was bribed by you. You really think I'm stupid. Don't say anything. Your parents in the countryside don't know about you. His teachers and classmates If I knew he had a sister like you, These things have nothing to do with them. Don't hurt the State of Wu. Or you can be honest with me. I treat you lightly. Or let the whole city target your family. He Jingchuan is a man of his word. He family Mom and Dad three two I said I said Eldest brother Why For the sake of splendor, of course. Go all out to reach the sky I can't believe it. The good brother in your mind has long hated your guts. He thinks It was you who occupied the position of heir to his family. I dreamed of killing you. He found you. Yes He was also the one who drugged the hotel that night. He found it difficult to die in a hall. I found it. He said that as long as I did something for him, He will pay my debts. And make me the hostess of the he family. I dream of being superior to others. So I promised him. I'll say anything. Please Please let my family go. Take him down for custody. And catch the back way to kill. Within one day, I have to see the great man. Fubao Dad hurt you because of these outsiders. It's Dad, damn it. This woman should never have been. This son of a bitch runs too fast. Chief Taoist, look at Fubao. Fubao hasn't woken up yet. You need to save him. Fu Bao can see the hexagram of Nian death. He forcibly changed his life against heaven This is the way of Heaven to punish. Fortunately, heaven and earth are kind. Finally saved him a life. We haven't met yet. I haven't apologized to him yet. Taoist, you are his master. You must save him. I see Maybe this is an opportunity. Everything is not absolutely impossible. It's just that Fubao is going to get through this. There is a price to pay. What's the price? Even my life would be fine. I need this jade dress on you. And the blood of the loved ones who are blessed. And the yang water of a loved one. What do you mean What am I supposed to do? Exactly. Is to reward your relatives with blessings for 20 years of longevity In exchange for his life. My wife can. I know everything. Fubao is my own daughter. It's a good thing he Wenshan has been arrested. This Tianshan Mountain It almost separated me from my son and granddaughter. Daoist Take my life. My old bones are alive without blessings. It's no fun for me to live. I can give the rest of my life to Fu Ma. All because of me To let Fubao suffer from these innocent disasters. Let's go to Yuanbao's noodles. To ward off these disasters for him. Body golden light Photocopying martial arts Wrap up heaven and earth Raise a group of students Be as urgent as the law What-- what's going on? That's good. Why is the blessing still not awake? Not that fast. That's the price of replacement. The way of Heaven is not so easy to destroy. Your father and daughter are lucky enough to be among the misfortunes. When will he wake up? That's all I can do. Later, it depends on the self-consciousness of Hang Fubao. Fubao Oh, Fubao. My granddaughter. You're awake, Grandma. Dad I'm all right. Fubao, I'm sorry about this part. Time is when I ignore you. Misunderstood you and made you hurt. Not only do you not blame me, And paid so much. It's me, asshole. The one lying here should be my sister. It's okay. I wanted to. Grandma, where are they? He's not Nannan. You're Dad's Nannan. The jade dress is not for he Ziya. He Wenshan stole it. What? that spooky big uncle? Right He Liangwen and Yin Daochang were instigated by him. Now they're all locked up in mental hospitals. It's karma when a dog bites a dog. Wait, Daddy. You mean I'm your own daughter? Then Aunt Shen got them. They were also sent by he Wenshan to set me up. He Zhiya is the daughter of he Wenshan. It's all because I'm blind. Mistook Yu for a pearl Almost killed my own daughter. Hey, it's okay. Dad, I'm still here. I can find my father and grandmother as soon as I can go down the mountain. This is also our chance. Yeah, Fubao's right. This is an opportunity for our family. It's the one that went around in a circle. The person I'm looking for is right next to me. Ha ha ha It's a good thing the family was reunited. How's it going, Dad? I feel like I can really run two laps. Oh, that's great. Although the divine doctor and the little doctor were not found. But it's enough if we have blessings in our family. Who is the divine doctor you just mentioned? It's the presiding director of Lingyun Taoist Temple. It is said that there is a very powerful little doctor apprentice. Ling Yun Dao view Isn't that our Taoist temple? Preside over the presiding director Isn't that you? Master. What? You said Fubao is a muddy temple. Before you, someone asked me to go down the mountain to see a doctor to treat my leg. Wait a minute. See if this is yours. Oops. It's me. Ha. Then you are the chief doctor. Fubao You're a little magic doctor. Teacher There are two false names. Haha, it turns out that one of us The person you are looking for is Fubao. Ha ha. Really. It's not that the whole family doesn't enter the same door. Ha Fubao You are really the lucky star of our family. Cough Rich, don't blame the teacher for sweeping your tricks. May I remind you Because you go against heaven. Be retaliated. Our grandparents are not in high spirits now. Ah, we have to start all over again. But Your daddy changed your destiny. It can be redeemed by accumulating merit. Shifu didn't lie to me. The poor road never lies to others. Come on, Daddy, hurry up. Ha ha ha Wait, Fengbao.