Hey, I'm using the Solos Airgo 3 smart literally from morning till night. After making several German it's about time for the first proper review. Specifically, on all of YouTube. I couldn't find glasses or addressing issues. So, However, since German is my native and accent-free I used various AIs to translate this Video directly. I'm curious about your opinion on talk about my opinion on the Solos Airgo 3. Firstly, I have to say that the glasses do some for me, was only half-baked. And But let's start with the designs. and I personally went with the &quot;ARGON&quot; design relatively thin for smart glasses. It suits my mainly because of the input method on the side. Ray-Ban and turning it into a large touchpad, here. Apart from being quite fiddly to hit and the these somewhat ruin the illusion of Please remove these buttons Also, these colored stripes on almost every strip everywhere, which is supposed But glasses are also accessories to some around. If I like to wear green a lot, I So, I specifically chose a design where I thought they had completely avoided it here. least it's not a standout color. this video, provide us with color Now let's briefly talk about modularity, serve a purpose too. The temples of the all the tech and the battery are housed cable in the glasses, the parts connect ensures that moisture stays out and makes Solving it this way means there's no microphone tech is exclusively in the temples. But to offer more designs, keep costs down, Especially when the next generation is modularity is continued and only the tech in the pair of glasses with new features, you could just because as it stands, unfortunately, the And with that, let's move on to the features Starting with the biggest one: ChatGPT. Not only do you have to actively switch it on your switch to a completely different mode, starting to unusable if you want to have it running in the making noise until the switch is turned off again in the glasses, you'll have to take out your phone app on the phone that you have to start to talk ChatGPT app and even have more control. So, the But even if it were better integrated, phones than with my iPhone, but even Having an artificial intelligence in everyday questions about the Eiffel Tower or social topics. know you. And the only AIs that are really good Only my phone knows who I really am, knows where my car. My phone knows who my wife is and my my alarm. ChatGPT has no clue about any of that. even trigger shortcuts without extensions. the background, can quickly give wrong results. as a smart assistant and doesn't However, the glasses are well-equipped when it Solos doesn't talk about it, they have compared to, for example, Ray-Ban Meta. With a double tap somewhere on the frame, the you can use the best digital assistant for your later this year, and Google has been bringing So, you're definitely more future-proof with that So, thumbs up for that. It was sometimes takes 1-2 seconds Moving on to the next feature The Whisper Mode. Here, notifications Unfortunately, this doesn't reliably work with maybe one out of 8 notifications will be read English text. German or other words, or even and very annoying and hard to understand. in German with ChatGPT on the glasses, but Maybe it looks better with other phones in other Let's move on to the translation tool. A ChatGPT. If it's activated, the mode switches and there's constant background noise. need it. And what does that look like then? language, you take out your phone, start the Wait 10 seconds until it's ready, then select the person opposite to repeat while holding It's much faster and easier to just use the automatically detects the languages Equally bad for me were Solos' own drinking send notifications to drink. Unfortunately, even though I have deactivated the feature I still only get the notifications So, for me, this drinking reminder shouldn't are enough other apps for that, which better to focus on being able to read Another feature. Here I have to say that I hardly used tracker from Xiaomi as a smartwatch. it doesn't make sense even if I mean, we don't have a heart rate simply detects based on movement how So, exactly what my phone Only my phone is right on my leg and really on the probably quietest part of the entire body. count steps much less accurately So, this feature is standardly turned off for me. So, we're done with all the bells and in here. But the smart glasses are really to know that with smart glasses, It's simply about having easy access to a smart speaker with you all the time. For spontaneous gaming, and so on. The sound now comes nicely You have true stereo sound and don't have to it doesn't replace headphones... but it does is how good the sound really is. this point is still a bit bigger. The battery lasts all day without any problems everyday audio output now through the glasses together, and that was never a problem in terms if the battery wears out a bit in the future, In the evening, you charge it with the included battery. Just a small and sturdy folding You can only charge the Ray-Ban Meta with to take the bulky case of a glasses on So, Solos comes with a simple magnetic cable And if you ever forget the cable, you can and connect it via USB-C. What's missing now is a wear detection, off when you put them on. Currently, it your head for long enough and back on when So, finally, let's talk about the speaker. I had impressed. Good balanced sound. It sounds as it hand, sound worse than $5 headphones from Wish. heard such bad sound in a long time. And be much better than the predecessor. unpleasant. Not only are some frequencies There's a hearing test you can do with it that far worse than if I manually remove the mids and I would have liked to have even more extreme not possible, which is why I'm still dissatisfied I rarely listen to music with the glasses. and it's not so extremely negative then. right above my ears is still greater than And that even though I'm very picky So often I play videos on my phone and then the fridge while cooking. But no matter where Compared to taking the phone speaker, I'm So, I think it's great to hear every even if the next generation should It's time for the conclusion There was a lot of criticism. But a smart good integration into the phone operating system, that is already pretty good with Solos. So, if definitely consider Solos. Especially for everyday use. If you're not in a hurry, And now a few serious words Solos, you make cool glasses. Stick to that, ditch the speakers. You're on the right track, and your a lot better than the big player with the Ray-Ban ditch a lot of things... otherwise, people will because of all the advertising promises and