(jazz drum music) - Let me explain something My Uncle Cecil suffered from seizures, he was crippled, and he was also retarded. Now, calm the fuck down and let me tell you why I use the word &quot;retarded.&quot; He was born in 1932. There was no special needs back then. He was fucking retarded, okay? (audience laughing) So Atlanta, I'm gonna with me on this one, okay? (audience laughing) So my uncle would have two or My granddaddy got tired of that shit, so he came up with this good idea. He thought if he bought my it would calm down the amount of seizures that he would have during the week. Come on, y'all, don't cock (audience laughing) He need love too. (audience laughing) - [Woman] Yes! - So every Saturday, no lie, it was me and my sister's chores. We had to go in there (audience groans) Shut the fuck up. This is my (audience laughing and applauding) We would walk in the room, ya'll, and the prostitute would with a whole Jackson (audience laughing) Open your mind and you (audience laughing) &quot;How you doing today, Miss Betty? We're about to get him ready for you.&quot; (audience laughing) My uncle would be over smiling like a motherfucker. (audience laughing) We'd walk up to him, he 'cause at any time this nigga would have $50 worth of nickels in his pocket. (audience laughing) We would take them pants off, y'all, and no lie, they would hit the floor, sound like he working on a chain gang. (audience laughing) And no lie, No lie, my uncle's dick would pop out. He had the biggest uncircumcised dick I ever seen in my life. (audience laughing) That he could not control. (audience laughing) And a lot of times, that extra skin would hit me (audience laughing) We'd be like, &quot;Hold on, Uncle (audience laughing) So we would walk him over to the bed, because he was crippled, right? And by him being crippled, to me, he looked like he walked like a kangaroo. (audience laughing) This story is not gonna (audience laughing) And we would throw him in the bed, on top of the prostitute, y'all, because, you know, he like regular people can. 'Cause if he do, he gonna look like Free (audience laughing) So me and my sister would while he laid on top of the prostitute, we would grab him by his ankles and we would yank his legs apart. And no lie, y'all, the dick would go straight But since he was retarded, we had to motivate him, right? So we started screaming, &quot;Kangaroo that pussy, Uncle Cecil!&quot; (audience laughing and applauding) He'd get about three, four pumps in, we'd go tell Granddaddy, &quot;Granddaddy, he's back Can we get our 50 cents, so (audience laughing) But I gotta keep it real to y'all, that shit did not help my (audience laughing) He still had two, three seizures a week, and my granddaddy would get to screaming, &quot;Goddammit, Cecil's Somebody go get a spoon But not my good spoon, And make sure you set two 'cause when he gets through shaking, he gonna be thirsty as hell.&quot; And I remember sitting there &quot;They are killing this fuckin' man. He shouldn't have this much (audience laughing) - I have two teenage boys. So I feel really bad for them. You know? Prime jerk-off time. You know? And all of a sudden, (audience laughs) trying to be fun mom, make up Uh, they hate my guts. You know? Constantly kicking in the door, (audience laughs) What y'all doing? Wrap it up. We about to go watch That's me. (laughs) &quot;Guess who bought (audience laughs) They hate my guts. (laughs) Found out a lot about them, my youngest son got a dick now. I didn't know that. (audience laughs) I didn't know, I didn't They say you blink and you miss it. It's true. I didn't know he had a dick. I was sitting on the edge of my bed and he ran by, from the bathroom to, I guess he forgot his towel or whatever. I was like, &quot;What the fuck was that?&quot; Like (audience laughs) It blew my mind. &quot;That's a dick. What?&quot; (audience laughs) What? That's a dick that need a job. (audience laughs) Okay? Can't be walking around with That's disrespectful. (Janelle laughs) He used to have a &quot;pee-pee.&quot; (audience laughs) You know? Last time I saw it, it was a pee-pee. You change the diaper. You play rhythm guitar on the pee-pee. Ding, ding-a-ding, ding-a-ding (audience laughs) No other parents in here? That's the best part about having a baby boy. Ding, ding-a-ding on the pee-pee. Sometimes you do the door (audience laughs) (Janelle laughs) I'm proud of him, is all Proud of him. Big ole' dick, like his mama. (audience laughs) He out here. That's my baby! (audience applauds) That's my baby. (laughs) Caught my oldest son watching porn, which, I was like &quot;This is Who the fuck wants to (audience laughs) he's watching porn, and, like I said, he's a teenager, so, I didn't wanna weird him out about it. Give him a complex. I'm sex positive. You know? (Man whoops) It's not just for white women. You know what I mean? (audience laughs) I freed a nipple or two in my day. You know what I mean? So I didn't wanna weird him out. I think I handled it well. What I did was, I was &quot;I saw that.&quot; And I kept it moving. (audience laughs) Cool mom. That's how I played it. Cool mom, right? &quot;I saw that.&quot; (audience laughs) Kept it moving. Right? And then I came back and I said, &quot;Could you watch Black people? Like, what the fuck are you doing?&quot; (audience laughs) I wouldn't even have if not for the alabaster skin If he was watching niggas, he wouldn't be in trouble right (audience laughs) Matter of fact, let me 'cause this is a Black porn household. You are fucking up my legacy right now.&quot; (audience applauds) The fuck you think this is?&quot; When I think about my kids Uh. I don't care if they're gay or straight. I don't care about that stuff. I just don't want no weirdo, you know? I don't want no weirdo, and I think that's what happens when kids get on the Internet and they see things too early, and when their brain, the synapses is synapsing. (audience laughs) And then you got a weirdo. God forbid he becomes You know what I mean? Like, what? I ain't trying to kink-shame, You know what I mean? Have you ever been with a foot dude? &quot;Ooh, let me get in them toes.&quot; &quot;Sir! (audience laughs) If you don't go under a bridge?&quot; Can you stop it? Oh, my God.&quot; You don't even? I let them suck it, but I judge the whole (audience laughs) (Janelle sighs) (laughs) Not my son. (audience laughs) - Ladies, you know you're very sexy. Men wanna have sex with you. And you make us work for it, which I get. Bunch of people were trying I'd have some questions. (audience laughs) You gotta earn it, fellas. I feel like the vagina is You gotta be accepted. (audience laughs) And much like a university, easier to get in if you (audience laughs) &quot;How'd that guy get in? He &quot;Well, he's an athlete.&quot; (audience laughs and applauds) Yeah. Very similar to university. Some are very prestigious. &quot;Wow, you got in there? That's Your other friend's like, You're like, &quot;Well, the whole (audience laughs) &quot;And you only got in (audience laughs) Ladies, you're so much You guys can be a little Ladies, you guys pick a sexual A lot of questions, like the NBA draft. &quot;How old is he? Where'd he go to college? How tall is he?&quot; Men, we pick a sexual partner &quot;I'll take you, you, you&quot; (audience laughs) &quot;You're out of shape, but (audience laughs) One of my friends, she's gorgeous, she could have any guy she wants. She's always making these big statements. I heard her say once, she goes, &quot;I'd never have I was like, &quot;Really?&quot; She was like, &quot;Oh, yeah. I found out he was a Republican, I was like, &quot;Man, if I I would change my political party.&quot; (audience laughs) What the hell do I care, right? It's not like it's gonna come up, she's not gonna be on top &quot;Climate change is a hoax.&quot; (audience laughs) I will say this though, if I have sex with a Republican lady, I'm wearing a condom, 'cause if anything happens, (audience laughs) All right. Abortion jokes coming at ya. I don't know where you I don't know which side you're on. I look at abortion the same way I look at reclining my I know it'll piss a lot of people off, but if I got the option, I'm taking it. (audience laughs and applauds) Right? People say, I say, &quot;I lean back.&quot; (audience laughs) Oh, yeah. Yeah. But, you know, men are horny. We're horny, fellas. It sucks. Sucks how horny we are. It's not fun. Then women always go, &quot;We're Come on. (audience laughs) Come on, ladies. You don't know what it's like. You don't know what it's like to go to a family reunion and go, &quot;I would do it.&quot; (audience exclaims and laughs) It's a sickness. Clouds our judgment, That's why every great has been thought up after an orgasm. It's the only time he can think straight. A guy's like (groans) &quot;Air fryer.&quot; (audience laughs) Yeah. Yeah. I got into a fight She's like, &quot;We're I was like, &quot;Would you have sex with me?&quot; And she was like, &quot;No.&quot; I was like, &quot;Well, I'd have sex with you. I guess that settles it.&quot; (audience laughs) She said, &quot;That's different. I'm like, &quot;Yeah. I'm not (audience laughs) What does that have to do with anything? Obviously, ladies, you guys get horny too, but you gotta hide it. You can't let that out. You'd You can't let that out. You gotta hide it, but you do My girlfriend, very emotional. Said she's cried every I said, &quot;Wow, are you okay?&quot; She goes, &quot;Yeah, just something I do. Every day, I get all worked up, I go hide, and ruin a box of tissues.&quot; I said, &quot;Huh! We actually (audience laughs) She was like, &quot;Oh, yeah. If I don't knock it out, I can't function in society.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Whoa, you and me both, sister.&quot; (audience laughs) She was like, &quot;Sometimes, I I'm like, &quot;I do the movie thing too.&quot; (audience laughs) I was like, &quot;You just watch She's like, &quot;What?&quot; I'm like, &quot;Nah!&quot; (audience laughs) It's just how we're wired. Ladies, you guys get men, we get horny at weird times. Every woman's been at work, like, &quot;I don't know why I'm crying right now.&quot; Every guy's been to a funeral, &quot;I don't know why I'm hard.&quot; (audience laughs) It's that damn open casket. (audience laughs) But thank God, ladies. Thank God, ladies! You guys can find things sexy, that have nothing to do with sex. Thank God for that. Ladies, you guys can find things sexy that have nothing to do with sex. I think you have to, You gotta dig deeper. If a guy gets naked in front (straining) &quot;Remember he's a good driver.&quot; (audience laughs) You guys find things sexy. First time I took my girlfriend out, I planned the whole thing out, dinner, drinks, movie, ice cream. She was like, &quot;Wow, you planned Ah? Planning. (audience laughs) Planning? Said a funny joke. &quot;Good sense of humor. That's a turn-on.&quot; Ah? Paid for the whole thing with cash? &quot;Got some money. That's sexy.&quot; But all those things in We were making out, I take out a condom. She goes, &quot;Whoa! Little I was like, &quot;Oh, yeah. (audience laughs) I thought you liked that? Now it's weird. Oh, yeah. She likes funny. &quot;You call that a clit?&quot; (mock laughs) (audience laughs) Clearly hilarious. All of a Now she's getting dressed, she's leaving. I was like, &quot;Oh yeah! She likes money. Here. This is for your time.&quot; Here you are. Fascinating ladies. - I've been interviewing kids, for a TV show that I'm doing. The stuff I've learned. Fuck me! Do you know 40% of the when they lose their (audience gasps) Yes. That is the correct response. (audience laughs) Who is that confident (audience laughs) &quot;Sarah, just lie there, you're gonna be here for quite a while. Camera one, are you focused? Camera two, are you ready? Vision. Sound. Okay, everybody. Let's make a motion picture. (audience laughs) (blows) I've cum.&quot; (audience laughs and applauds) It's an awful idea. If you'd filmed me, it &quot;Am I doing it right? Is it going well? Thank you so much for this opportunity. (audience laughs) I'm having a lovely day out, I really am. (sneezes) Fucking pollen count. (audience laughs) I'm too big, aren't I? I'm too big. I don't want to hurt you. That's the last thing I want to do. I don't want, I'm not in. (audience laughs) I didn't realize. Turn off the cameras. I didn't realize.&quot; (audience laughs) Filming it, man. It's 'cause we learn through porn, and kids are trying to emulate porn stars. It's fucked. We're obsessed with porn in this country. I saw a teenage boy the other day, watching porn on the train. He wasn't touching himself. Who the fuck watches porn for the stories? (audience laughs) &quot;Aww! I knew they was gonna get together. (audience laughs) It's like Ross and Rachel, innit?&quot; (audience laughs) And it gets weirder. 32% of boys, I found this out. I was reading about it in the papers. When they lose their virginity, they cum on the girl's face, 'cause they think that's It isn't, you fucking mongrels! (audience laughs) You better cherish her, not make her look like she's (audience laughs) Don't copy porn. I didn't lose my virginity (audience laughs) And I can feel you looking at me, and there's probably thinking, &quot;Well, you've That's quite a hideous image.&quot; (audience laughs) There may be some people in this room that have come as a family. And it's gonna be a fairly (audience laughs) Boy in the back, &quot;I'd I've never spaffed on any girl's face. (audience laughs) I didn't even know what spaffing was, until he started going on about it.&quot; (audience laughs) - I accepted it the same I feel like, you know when and you're like, &quot;Oh, And it's like, sorry you so someday you have to (audience laughs) the touchstones of a woman's life. (audience laughs) You might get to vote and go but then it's back to (audience laughs) And then more information Like, okay, if you do a good job at it, you're rewarded at the end (audience laughs) Hold on, before the liquid, you will know it's about to come, because he's going to turn into a demon (audience laughs) Yeah, that's a key part He's going to shape-shift. (audience laughing) No one warned me about that. I'm here to. If someone hasn't had sex before, I'm here to tell you before he comes, about five seconds before he comes, he turns, every man turns into Vincent D'Onofrio's You know the (grunts) That's every man is on his way to that. (audience applauds) It's just like a (grunts) Like a roach crawling (audience laughs) Ugh. And you're like, &quot;The I don't know any liquids.&quot; All I know about that comes out of a guy is pee at this point. I'm like, &quot;Is it pee?&quot; They're like, &quot;You wish. Oh God, again. So naive, 'pee'. It's much more viscous Pee has the consistency whereas semen, it's more (audience laughs) It's what it is. I know it's gross, but when you like, these are facts and, (audience laughs) when you spell it out like that, aren't you, girls, aren't you just like... Like, we're so strong. Like, we can do anything. Yes. I can't believe we do it. I couldn't believe about that liquid. I was just like, &quot;That is awful. Where does it come from?&quot; And then you find out that rests beneath the noodle, the grossest part of a guy's body, that's covered in hair and every... The balls! It's so gross. The liquid's so gross, the male body has found a way to store it outside of the body, because it's like, &quot;I don't (audience laughs) (sighs) It's just a, for the liquid, that's (audience laughing) And then, it drains into your head. I just... It just kept getting worse. (audience laughs) A vagina should taste like a vagina. (audience cheering) Exactly. Don't let celebrities Listen, I'm not going to say (audience laughs) Let's not muck around. That first licky-woo? (audience laughs) It's bracing. Innit? (gibbering) (audience laughs) You turn into a lava lamp. (audience laughs) But before you know it, you (audience laughs) Initially, you're licking timidly, like a deer by a river. (audience laughs) Before you know it, you're like a mommy cow (audience laughs) The point I'm making taste buds evolve. You know what it's like, nobody likes an olive when they're a kid. (audience laughs) (spits) &quot;This grape is bad.&quot; Before you know it, &quot;More Because what's heroic, when Feel that silence! (audience laughs) &quot;I didn't come to a comedy (audience laughs) But you're under no pressure. You don't see blokes going, &quot;D'ya want me to put 'Cause Matt Damon's got a &quot;No, don't worry, love. You (audience laughs) I've got me own method (audience laughs) My mother told me, and her Happy birthday to you (audience applauds and cheers) Happy birthday We live in an era of idiocy. We live in the era of anal Botox. (audience laughs) How would you know what your You don't see 'em out and about. (audience laughs) You're not down the shops, &quot;Ooh, that's a nice one, innit?&quot; (audience laughs) &quot;It's ever so sprightly.&quot; (audience laughs) How did that become a thing? I was imagining some husband, just 50, just getting out of the shower, and his wife's just, &quot;Oh.&quot; (audience laughs) (laughs) &quot;Oh, Brian.&quot; (audience laughs) &quot;What is it, love?&quot; &quot;Oh, Brian. It's your anus. (audience laughs) It puts years on ya, that thing does.&quot; (audience laughs) - One night, they were uh, about 3:30 a.m. Which I did not realize was And- (audience laughs) my husband pulled up all the way up to his little beard. I put on my T-shirt nightgown with the long slit, that I got in 1994 from the Minneapolis St. Paul Airport with the moose on it. (audience laughs) And we went on over there and said, &quot;Hey. You guys, we don't have jobs, but come on.&quot; (audience laughs) &quot;Oh, so sorry. You know, so sorry about Hey, come on, you guys. Let's shut it down! We're waking up the whole neighborhood. Hey, so sorry about this, you know? Normally, you know, we're just like you guys, you know? We're total nerds.&quot; (audience laughs) &quot;Wait, nobody said anything about nerds.&quot; &quot;Yeah, but it's our senior year, so we're just really &quot;Oh, we get it. Yeah, Scott's 52 and I'm 46. This year we're gonna do (audience laughing ) So if you hear any, 'Yelps!' It's just pleasure. (audience laughs) We're just trying to enjoy our house. (audience laughs) (audience applauds and cheers) We have a lot of sex. A lot of fudging and wedging and lotions and potions and unguents and poultices, jams and jellies. (audience laughs) Custards, mustards, sauces, souses, and foam soups, smoothing milks. Hustle, bustle, hustle, Hammer, anvil, hammer, (audience laughing)