[Dr. D'Agostino]: But I think where ketones preserve performance resilience in extreme factors that need to come into play. When including monitoring people really need Some people put, you know, they eat a ketogenic plate. And the caloric density of the ketogenic So typically, you know, we have auto feedback full, but for some people they don't work well. So they do need to count calories at least initially. So they have some [Dr. Patrick]: Hey, everyone. I'm who is an associate professor at He's also a research scientist at the His research lab focuses on metabolic ketone supplements among others. I'm super excited six and a half years or so, it's been quite since then, keto, as it's called, for sure, in in popularity. I feel like with that explosion become a little bit more of a brand in the popular And so I'm excited to have you here us a refresher about the science of ketone supplements, and all those things. And the years who's been practicing ketogenic maybe we can kind of just start with [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. I think that gets lost commoditized, so to speak, and commercialized a ketogenic diet is unique from a dietary therapy know of that is defined by an objective biomarker. blood, in your urine, and also in your breath, If you are not in a state of hyperketonemia, ketogenic diet. And what most people don't higher levels of ketones that are therapeutically neurological disorder, seizures, and increase the fat...drop the carbohydrates really consume a really high-fat diet. And that's And a clinical diet is probably not a clinical ketogenic diet. But there are is a classical ketogenic diet, which is 90% fat all the way on the other end of the spectrum, Atkins, or low glycemic index therapy or LGIT. It's personally kind of what I follow, and that produces a mild state of ketosis. I but it's far different than the classical epilepsy. But they both have, you know, [Dr. Patrick]: Can you give us an what is defined as being in either mild ketosis being in a state of ketosis from a ketogenic other ways. Obviously, we've had a lot of [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. So, a ketogenic diet right? And I think of it as almost like insulin suppress the hormone insulin, you deplete liver of fatty acids. And it's the oxidation of of fatty acids that accelerates production acetoacetate and beta-hydroxybutyrate. So that's and you can mimic that state of fasting with a fat with a level of carbohydrate really. So in many ways, it mimics fasting a little bit...suppression of the And then that diet is used classically for In extreme cases, they use a five to one ketogenic 3 to 1, 2 to 1, and then modified Atkins, which is index diet. So what that would mean as far as to macros and I had 200 grams of protein, 150 grams grams of protein compared to a combination of 150 sorry, and 50 grams of carbohydrates. So that 150 grams of protein, and 50 grams of carbs, You know, that's how it's constructed in the not percentages. So, that's a one-to-one ketogenic right, 200 grams of fat and 150 grams of more loose version of the ketogenic elevated ketones. Whereas a 4 to 1 ketogenic diet 90 grams of protein and 10 grams of carbohydrates, Interestingly, the research over the years have and we're getting a better appreciation for that is not so protein-restricted and not something like a low glycemic index diet, it can still have an anti-seizure effect and still So that's kind of interesting to me because get really high ketones to achieve a therapeutic many benefits from low ketones. But you're also pathways that are, you know, therapeutic in different pathways. I don't know if I There's variations of the ketogenic diet, guess it's longer than that. I think in 2008, Dr. Dr. John Freeman, the late John Freeman, and ketogenic diet for adult epilepsy. And then it was back in 2007 or '08, I think around that time. diet even used clinically. And then when people that could be anything. I mean, typically, it could be a carnivore diet. And we can talk about But clinically, what you have is a five to one, three to one, two to one, and then a modified And all of them are therapeutic in one variety of different neurological disorders, are more efficacious for others, it depends on the family, there's a lot to be considered [Dr. Patrick]: For a person who has not done good starting point? Like, you know, would you more like four or five to one? You know, because, I'm going to be doing another ketogenic diet measured, it was very challenging for me, even to get into ketosis and to really stay in it. And can talk about, you know, biomarkers and be considered a mild state of ketosis if you're [Dr. D'Agostino]: So, very good question. if you are using the ketogenic diet to manage or a brain disorder like epilepsy, right, you diet and be under the supervision of a registered what they use in epilepsy. And there used to be and that actually helps facilitate metabolic from being primarily a glucose oxidizer to that with fasting. But then you have...most So, in our clinical trial that we're they tend to be a little bit on the heavier they're using it to optimize their metabolic them into a ketogenic diet over four to six And what we have found or my colleague has found, Clinic and has a wellness program, that compliance results are better. If you take someone who's standard, you know, American diet, and you drop then 50 at about the four to six-week point, and subjective and objective, you know, biomarkers, anxiety using the GAD-7 test, the If you were to abruptly start the ketogenic diet, more likely to get things like sleep disruption, you get a quick spike in LDL. This can occur if in the context of not calorie restricting. When mitigates many of the things that are negatively is a lot easier if you calorie-restrict with a For a lifestyle, I would recommend, if you're into it and titrate it over time if you're I follow what would be considered a very would be more along the lines of a low know, 10% to some days 20% of my diet is vegetables, right, essentially non-glycemic The carbohydrates that make up my ketogenic third to almost half of it is fiber and has very variability or reduce it in that it delay gastric absorption. So, the actually get into circulation in a protracted And so fat and fiber together are really important classically that's accepted or considered. But as appreciation for the types of fats that are in the improve digestion and protein assimilation, which is to be appreciated. So there was a and it came into the conversation about 10 years of a lot of these dietary interventions, low fiber as a part of improving the diversity [Dr. Patrick]: You've just answered you know, being on a modified ketogenic diet that include more fiber, you know, your thoughts interesting to hear you say that because, you you are making butyrate in the gut when you're microbiome inside your gut. And that is fueling When I was doing the ketogenic diet, I did more because it is so difficult. Like things I I would snack on some macadamias. And after a too much, the ratios of the protein in the...&quot; I found that I was basically just doing a lot of But I also found that when I would add, like, a difference for me. Like, for example, cooked because you're cooking it, it's like a it is. And so, like, a little serving of a bit. And so I noticed the cooks...if you know, it wouldn't totally take me out of higher level. So, you know, I would go from [Dr. D'Agostino]: So you were cooking your so the cell walls intact, but the heat ruptures the cell wall. So you make even if it's green leafy vegetables. So that's in the context of a ketogenic diet, it that are raw, the glycemic impact is essentially you know, it does make it proportionately much but it also makes the carbohydrates accessible similar to like juicing or a smoothie or something got the fiber and stuff in with it too. So, that's [Dr. Patrick]: Greater. [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. But volume. But example of a salad on a modified ketogenic you know, fatty fish like salmon, leafy romaine lettuce and stuff, and extra virgin with MCT oil, so a combination of extra virgin Nuts are great, but I don't go too walnuts. So you have fatty fish, a little bit dressing that's made, you know, with MCT would fit in well with a ketogenic diet. So getting polyunsaturated fats and MCTs, which are disrupt the gut microbiome in ways that other nutrition that would be no effect on a continuous be like nothing, and your ketones would likely because of the MCTs that are in it too. So that's [Dr. Patrick]: So most of your are eaten raw for the most part. [Dr. D'Agostino]: We do broccoli a lot and but I don't make it to the point where it's cauliflower, broccoli, asparagus. I always have a you wear a continuous glucose monitor, you can will impact the glycemic response. And if by eating foods in a certain order, a certain So, you need to continually have a suppression of So, if you're in a state of fasting ketosis or bit of insulin, you'll see your ketones go down, the reduction in insulin plays a it dramatically increases glycolysis, GLUT transporters to the membrane and Exogenous ketones can actually increase about the different variations of that and why But, you know, taking a big hit of protein out of ketosis because you're going to get the and branched-chain amino acids too can increase fat and fiber with the meal especially up front, [Dr. Patrick]: Right. That's an [Dr. D'Agostino]: And you learn these things ketogenic diet. I went right into the classical &quot;The Ketogenic Diet for Pediatric Epilepsy&quot; and Other Neurological Disorders,&quot; same author, from Johns Hopkins, and the team there. They ketogenic diets and then adjusting it to the to be important in the world of epilepsy. So, it the ketogenic diet at this time is really epilepsy type 1 deficiency syndrome, PDH deficiency, there are inborn errors of metabolism that are you know, carnitine transferase activity, CPT1, too. So it could be deadly. A ketogenic diet you know, transferase deficiency. So that's [Dr. Patrick]: You bring up an interesting I'm interested in a few of those aspects, so maybe aren't as rare. So, for example, a quarter of the population has one of those polymorphism respond to ketogenic briefly about people that sort of race into carbohydrate restriction and how it can elevate I'd love to talk about like what biomarkers do you favorably or unfavorably responding to a ketogenic many times would you do it before you sort of give types of fat? You mentioned the types [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. I think it's important. A you know, just from a standard diet... If you're not using it for epilepsy or another down and track and monitor along the way. or by two-thirds or whatever, and then at the and look at your glucose response, check So APOE4, you know, that's about one I get this question a lot, and I don't think it's it's an unnatural diet and it's not healthy and who researched the ketogenic diet who published trenches using this diet as a medical therapy the ketogenic diet. So with that said, you know, years, 20, and even I had some correspondence cardiovascular parameters too, their heart health with inborn errors of metabolism that need to for like three decades, and they're still So I think that's a good example that the diet that a long time ago in these patients that are on But I think it's important extremely high fat is probably not ideal. So you and just restrict carbohydrates. I think lots of phytonutrients. We know the data on no arguing. And people argue against fiber, but I for the microbiome, for the phytonutrients, the of appreciation for micronutrients and ketogenic deficiency, which led to cardiomyopathy, have literally...I think one or two where people of selenium deficiency associated with the you supplement appropriately, but you don't ketogenic diet appropriately with the right But for APOE...and getting back to your APOE. So a and I think of carbohydrates moderate protein, and then fats. monounsaturated fatty acids as opposed Medium-chain triglycerides are probably using a product that is caprylic triglyceride, by Accera. It was a product that was designed energy substrate that would be given. And the mild cognitive impairment were associated with But they did not see the correlation people Although I think a larger study probably But I think the take-home message is that a diet fat is probably not ideal for APOE4 patients, and could probably be ideal. There was a case that...I'm familiar with the wife of the patient on a ketogenic diet and then later on ketone quite well in this diet for a long time. but he did much better with ketone supplementation behavioral parameters too. So I think that I'm very cautious in speculating and giving I am a professor and I'm professing that I think low-carb/ketogenic diet with supplementation MCT oils. The fatty acids comprising the diet fats and not so much heavy saturated fats, not a good thing to chronically maintain a [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah. So maybe more avocados, more good type of polyunsaturated fatty acid. I mean, try again. And we'll talk a little bit ketogenic diets. I don't have epilepsy, standard American diet either. There are so many and having the ketone bodies elevated, you know, I think possibly beneficial With the supplemented ketones that you keep having a diet you follow, which is more of with supplemented ketones, it's another really Can you talk a little bit about, for supplemental ketones? There's different types of salts, and then even MCT oils or powders. So, [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. I think the question short circuit the state...? You know, why would that produces ketosis, i.e., the ketogenic diet? the reasons are kind of obvious, and just throw happen physiologically? There are people who are that was the motivation behind developing and you know, articles and studies on exogenous and not all types of exogenous ketones are applicable to different disorders, right? Some whereas some are more responsive to ketone salts When I first got into this research in 2008 or who remain to be icons in this field. So, Dr. acknowledge him as being a pioneer in developing know, and the rationale for using them and writing to pursue this path. Dr. Henry Bruning Grabber I mean, they're all sort of friends and I was really focused on the ketogenic diet. But and you're trying to sell this approach as enhance warfighter performance, resilience, is still looked upon as something that is very a ketogenic diet in a pill? And essentially, that So the ketogenic diet, it was my understanding adaptations over time that would change brain neuropharmacology that would then have, you By changing your systems physiology, you're your brain metabolism. So your brain is switching to using glucose and ketones. It never switches the homeostatic mechanisms that maintain your pretty much stays normal, but insulin The effects of the ketogenic diet are...and sorry, it's a long-winded version, but I want I was educated on the role of ketones as a as a drug-like mediator of the ketogenic diet. and they not only serve as alternative energy but then they have signaling effects that mediate being in a state of therapeutic ketosis. activating various ketone receptors, GPR109A I was really interested in the oxidative So we measured like superoxide anion production showed that mitochondrial ROS production goes down So there was all these things that were So, undoubtedly, there's things that happen and very beneficial that don't happen with And then later, as we develop ketone we saw that if we administer these things we saw remarkable anti-seizure effects, the brain neuropharmacology, meaning that the glutamate via an enzyme called glutamic acid ubiquitous neurotransmitter in the system in our that activates the AMPA receptors and NMDA to GABA through glutamic acid decarboxylase is And I've even measured my own neurotransmitters than what would be expected, my GABA to glutamate We did an animal model of Angelman to...we knew from case reports that the seizures had an animal model of Angelman syndrome, standard diet and saw an increase in GAD65 And then that resulted in what we saw, increase effects. And the increasing GABAergic tone likely And many anti-seizure drugs like Vigabatrin the ketogenic diet works through many different So we're sort of interested in it replicate and mimic many of the effects perspective, neuroprotective with to animals at least on a standard diet. The pre-clinical animal model data was not from our lab, from other investigators, you trials that are ongoing right now. If you just just type in ketone supplement, I think you get at ketone supplements. And just a few years of other people instead of us looking at this idea But I think of exogenous ketones are in some ways found in nature, some But they do elevate a bioidentical ketone in many ways, they're not so much like right? So you can take...creatine is found We can take exogenous creatine, and it has not And I think we're getting an appreciation I look at ketones as being kind of the next for the research. I think there's like 700 or more the efficacy and the positive effect, whereas but it's expanding very rapidly. It's very nascent many other labs, you know, outside of our lab But I became so interested in this idea direction away from drugs to look at diet [Dr. Patrick]: No, it's fantastic, so much in different contexts, these different types varying effects or be used for different ketone...you know, beta-hydroxybutyrate levels in taking a ketone ester versus a ketone salt? How beta-hydroxybutyrate levels is how transient? different...? And the formulations as well. Like [Dr. D'Agostino]: So, you can get an elevation depending on the formulation and depending upon if stomach or taken it with food or combined, for salt, right? If you take ketone salts and you the fat delays gastric absorption and pushes the And this is important. You get a little bit slower a significant sustainment of hyperketonemia So a very rapid spike in ketones So, if you consume a ketone ester at a large increase in beta-hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate rate of change, the relative rate of if you have a very rapid, you know, relative skeletal muscle protein synthesis, but if the metabolic machinery associated with skeletal ketones can produce a counter-regulatory and then that can shut down your So, the way to go about doing it is to formulate rise in ketones and sustains that for a period So the way to do that simply is to take...the beta-hydroxybutyrate that's bound to electrolyte magnesium in that formulation, so balanced supplements that are on the market. So, LMNT is these things. So, the higher sodium, you know, calcium, magnesium. And then the electrolytes in a little bit. So salt does that. And if you The salts can actually delay gastric If you take a beta-hydroxybutyrate ester, to beta-hydroxybutyrate. When you consume that, so it spikes your glucose or your ketones actually, that comes down pretty low. And you had so down into hypoglycemic ranges with a of like a pure ketone ester, Yeah. So, in the beginning, I thought it was for me at least...I measure insulin quite often in take a ketone supplement and it boosts you 1 to then the elevation of insulin is almost that we're using. But if you were to consume four, and five range, then that produces eating...you know, drinking like 2 to 4 ounces right? So, for me, it goes from like 3 to 6 levels. And it's equivalent to maybe eating get that amount. Whereas if you consume, you know, and you consume it like 10 grams of pure BHB, and [Dr. Patrick]: Is that a full packet of Ketostart? [Dr. D'Agostino]: It's kind of like dosed in a way. So I usually [Dr. Patrick]: Which is I'm [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yep. So, consuming a full so I feel the effect. But I've actually consumed but one packet, no. And the bump in insulin the mineral load is delaying, you know, the So I think that that's really important because for the anti-seizure effects. So we think that a of the scenario of the anti-seizure effect of a pretty strong anti-seizure effect. And that studies as the ketogenic diet in a drug, so you consume this drug and it's and if you go higher than that, then it becomes but it inhibits the glycolytic pathway in a way So when we increase insulin, insulin stimulates a negative thing in the context of maybe cancer or therapeutically managing. There's the ketogenic mutually exclusive. But I actually think they're together. So, if you follow a more liberal version or modified ketogenic diet or low glycemic index diet, and then supplement ketones on top of that, optimized ketogenic diet for a lifestyle. This trials. But I think it would also be optimal 2 diabetes, and also for weight loss. So the So the ketones are alternative energy substrate, and it actually experiences low glucose, it's not signaling that you need to eat. There have been cases where you could fatal...otherwise fatal. But if your ketones are So that's a remarkable example of the effects energy metabolism, and that has real-world And if you go on a diet, you inadvertently need to for one thing, and you have to achieve to lose weight and to some extent, sustain that to a more eucaloric ketogenic diet or eucaloric low insulin, and you're going to get that's where ketones shine. They really shine in deficit because you have a better fuel flow to the low-calorie diet that's producing a state of that's going to be a painful [Dr. Patrick]: Right. [Dr. D'Agostino]: Not fun. [Dr. Patrick]: No. And it's funny. Like, my ketogenic diet. Like I said, I was doing a lot to do. I mean, you do feel...I felt satiated. and I did want to kind of ask you about the for ketone esters, but there's also monoester, I mean, if you're just kind of wanting to elevate I prefer... I've tried all these different types a huge fan of the really quick spike and then my glucose levels get so low, and then when the [Dr. D'Agostino]: So you have, yeah, and you might also be kicking yourself out The 1,3-butanediol beta-hydroxybutyrate monoester, that was developed by...in part by Dr. Richard that we actually...you know, I became interested I didn't lose enthusiasm because I knew there was We worked on a couple different molecules. And we had the monoester. 1,3-butanediol-acetoacetate And then we could do more of a transesterification reaction where you just add more ketones, So it's 1,3-butanediol, which gets metabolized beta-hydroxybutyrate. That molecule with a And, you know, both of these things, the they taste like gas. But they have at least in the context of the the ketone diester, and we used that in our in this case, high-pressure oxygen, but we then it had a very strong anti-seizure neuroprotective other ketone, it didn't really have [Dr. Patrick]: GABA. Is there like a [Dr. D'Agostino]: That's an interesting, you of stood out was elevating acetoacetate seemed to work... It was brought to my attention by people One of them was Dr. John Rowe. He and acetoacetate saying, you know, there's acetone too having an anti-seizure diester elevates beta-hydroxybutyrate and So we did blood work. We measured blood, And there's kind of like a nice...there's and beta-hydroxybutyrate from the 1,3-butanediol, increase in the latency to seizure, which and we published that. And then later, we actually little bit of a boost, you know. The MCT seemed to of ketosis. So that has been the ester that we But then we started tinkering with the ketone with MCT. So, ketone salts alone or mixed with glycemic regulation, anti-anxiety effects. You maybe not as strong as the ketone esters, which I personally would not... I have access to these I would not be consuming them day in I don't think it's good to spike glucose really favorable to throw a lot of energy in the you do get a metabolic acidosis that you can... you know, our pH levels and blood gases and things typically when the ketones get above about 3 So, I'm of the opinion personally and keeping exogenous ketones within like an elevation unless you're managing like a very serious form of deficiency syndrome or some other inborn error favorable because you have a decrease in like in the case of glucose [Dr. Patrick]: It sounds like though... For my own personal anecdote when you know, at first, it was like, &quot;Oh, maybe more above 3 millimolar.&quot; You know, I got like 3.5 with [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. Monoester. [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah, that formulation. Like you know, there's people that might be doing that like that could potentially be a dangerous in that range where there could be a pH you know, no one's going to [Dr. D'Agostino]: I don't think we know, and diabetes, if you have Alzheimer's disease, you the dose too. So, I think from my perspective, electrolytes that my body can use the 1,3-butanediol is also a consideration, so it uses the alcohol, the dehydrogenase playing around with these things over time if I consume that at a certain dose my liver enzymes are elevated. They're up into that upper range of normal consuming, That's the amount that's needed to sustain I feel intuitively that it's probably better it's just ionically bound to a monovalent which our body tend to deplete anyway when you're LMNT. But once we got the ketone formulation the same electrolytes that are bound to ketones. supplement to add to a low-carb [Dr. Patrick]: How often do you do...? Is this a daily electrolyte sort [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. And I just use maybe like like creatine, acetyl-L-carnitine, and a couple I think are really beneficial with the ketogenic you're on a ketogenic diet, you're oxidizing so and we see this like in kids that are on...so The selenium, some studies may show but I think that's more of the type [Dr. Patrick]: I mean, a standard [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah, multivitamin, but I you know, a lot of eggs and sardines and fish and and some things that may be depleted in other bit of ketone salts in the morning, and then like I'll do the other two-thirds of a packet, [Dr. Patrick]: Any other supplements that [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. You know, from listening because that's really important kind of aspect. more electrolytes, but I 3 and 8&quot;. And also BiOptimizers makes which is like magnesium in like five I've measured my blood levels of magnesium, I take vitamin D, which was actually low even 4,000 to 8,000 IUs a day. And I got a blood which was really confusing. So I got another that I was on a low end of normal. So I got But then I ran out of that, and I was using maker. I think it was Mindbodygreen. I got another vitamin D test after and I stayed I was using a well-known vitamin D formulation, taking 8,000 IUs a day, and I was still getting a lot of sun exposure. So this was [Dr. Patrick:]: It could have [Dr. D'Agostino]: I was thinking about that. Yeah. [Dr. Patrick]: ...you know, because there you know, in some cases, two to three times you up to like a normal level of But the other would be that there's been a variety just randomly take different vitamin D supplements in grocery stores, that the actual concentration that you'll often get a supplement that says IU. And it's really a big problem, honestly. So it brands. Maybe third-party sites have tested Labdoor does one, and then ConsumerLab, concentration of whatever active ingredient, in you know, readily available supplements. [Dr. D'Agostino]: It really shocked me because, you know, working on the farm, on...I'm pushing like the upper limit [Dr. Patrick]: You have enough magnesium [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah, get a ton. Yeah. [Dr. Patrick]: Have you done a genetic test? [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. I did So I have all the raw data, [Dr. Patrick]: [crosstalk 01:01:16] because we do and, you know, there's several that There's several steps in vitamin D3 [Dr. D'Agostino]: I actually [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah, vitamin D3 converting is the major circulating form which is what you're There's SNPs that affect that. And I've know, I looked at the data, but have had to take like up to 30,000 [Dr. D'Agostino]: And explain [Dr. Patrick]: I don't know [Dr. D'Agostino]: Okay. Yeah. I asked my doctor [Dr. Patrick]: ...I'm not terribly because you're getting it from like I know there's been a couple of studies over the mechanism and I don't know if it's known preliminary data, and I haven't checked back, I Supplementation with vitamin D2 seemed to in muscle. So I was kind of like, &quot;That's kind of concerning.&quot; And I know a lot you know, they want something that's plant-based, [Dr. D'Agostino]: Oh, really? [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah, they produce vitamin D3. [Dr. D'Agostino]: You can eat it. You can boil [Dr. Patrick]: You can eat it. Yeah. There are a vitamin D3 for vegetarians [Dr. D'Agostino]: In skin wise, if you have this was a big...if I get a cut, I form keloids I was thinking that there's something, you know, like an over-production of melanin, but I have like in forming keloids. So I'm thinking there's [Dr. Patrick]: That's interesting. [Dr. D'Agostino]: I mean, I tan if I'm outside. I dark. Yeah. There have like to supplement and and to be outside all the time and to have low we need to get you on a vitamin D supplement.&quot; I And I got it and it was, like, low like super, IUs of vitamin D2 is the prescription, and three I was on the upper range of normal slightly to normal, but I was supplementing...I [Dr. Patrick]: And you've been able to [Dr. D'Agostino]: I think it's like [Dr. Patrick]: Maybe it was the... Yeah. my [inaudible 01:04:30] SNP. But then [Dr. D'Agostino]: Is there anything have that would use...would deplete I researched it but really couldn't find [Dr. Patrick]: There's some being in a state of like inflammation and, [Dr. D'Agostino]: My hs-CRP is, like, usually you know, micronutrient status is really good. [Dr. Patrick]: I think it mostly comes forming the 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 and then also thing about doing, like, a weekly dose versus really, really high, so if you're doing like to have that huge variation in the concentration It seems to be absorbed a little bit better how negligible that is in terms of what you're the big elephant in the room. So, super [Dr. D'Agostino]: Sure, the answer. [Dr. Patrick]: We're talking about acetoacetate and you kind of already sort of answered some of these two...I'm calling them ketones. I beta-hydroxybutyrate's ketone body, you don't So that's one. Acetoacetate seems to really be [Dr. D'Agostino]: Distinct effects of the two. [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah. [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. There are. Well, we know as far as activating, you know, histone something called beta- hydroxybutyrylation, can directly interact with the histone it has become the theme of my Ph.D. students which is a rare genetic disease, where the at Johns Hopkins demonstrated that the ketogenic associated with this Kabuki syndrome, which is So we want to see if we can recapitulate an...and metabolite to alter epigenetic effects. So, there's ketone induced epigenetic maybe acetoacetate, but we don't know. at least in muscular dystrophy in regards and it does it through an ERK-MEK cyclin D, mechanism that was kind of new to me. using...showing that acetoacetate I was going to go down the path, and acetoacetate [Dr. Patrick]: Let's talk about that. [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. The research that of them and shown that it works in a model of an enhancement, as I said, proliferation or muscle undoubtedly has anti-catabolic effects. And studies, if we IV administer beta-hydroxybutyrate, preservation of branched-chain amino acids like So alanine is like your main gluconeogenic amino high cortisol, high gluconeogenesis, glucagon, alanine as a gluconeogenic amino acid. It elevating ketones seems to reduce that. That [Dr. Patrick]: What are your thoughts the anti-catabolic effects of ketones in various or even, you know, with respect to humans that people that are physically active, are older and are battling sarcopenia, you know, everyone has...they have different protein How can ketogenic diets or supplements sort of...? Can they have [Dr. D'Agostino]: I think so, and I think biased because I've always been super interested like that. But muscle mass is probably the focusing on building as much muscle as possible muscle with time. So, ketogenic diets are size and strength as possible, right? But I do while improving metabolic parameters like I do think the ideal strategy in the context under that sort of condition, right? And it So, I think the elevation of ketones one of the of fasting, right? So with limited glucose we start liberating fatty acids for fuel, and provide energy flow to the brain, which has very ketones, we would liberate a lot of alanine and muscle, and we would quickly waste away and die. fatty acids as a water-soluble fat molecule that becomes our safeguard to catabolic processes that And we are sort of wasting away in or in the context of intermittent fasting. So a calorie deficit like I said, but also when we're provide an anti-catabolic effect. But from our preventing age-related sarcopenia, skeletal I think that's important. And providing in the context of a disease phenotype or function is there, but the So with cachexia, for example, you have a high to be called cachexin I think as inflammatory anti-inflammatory pathways that can mitigate the we did a study with lipopolysaccharide, LPS. So sarcopenia with time. And in that model too, the some of the anti-inflammatory...inhibiting [Dr. Patrick]: Do you think that...? People of ketosis because they're on a ketogenic you know, a supplement, ketone salt. Do chronic elevation or the constant constituent little bumps throughout the [Dr. D'Agostino]: That's a good question. So I probably not natural or not ideal for most people responsive to chronic ketosis like epilepsy and in relative changes. So, even with intermittent maybe I just had some ketone supplements but fasting probably two, maybe three times a week I feel that I lose some of the benefits I can't get enough calories. I end up eating the body works good. You know, relative you get a lot more...I personally get a lot if I use it more intermittently, you know, So I think the same is true with ketosis. And this idea that... I actually gave it a lot came out, you know, with this idea of the just a one week or five day and that can have long-lasting metabolic weeks to even a month or more after you do that as different metabolic biomarkers. So I think chronic unless you're doing...you're trying to get your maintain that weight loss over time, and you've But I think there's so many different factors that a ketogenic diet, including monitoring. People Some people put...you know, they eat a ketogenic plate. And the caloric density of the ketogenic So, typically, you know, we have auto feedback full, but for some people, they don't work macronutrients and track at least initially so eating. I know, until I started tracking calories, So I thought I was eating more like 3,000, but [Dr. Patrick]: I want to talk about these since we're talking about muscle and the also sort of interested in exercise performance exercise if you are either on a ketogenic diet at or cyclical form of it, whatever it you know, like how being in ketosis affects, you [Dr. D'Agostino]: I get asked that question So, in animal models, when you put them on studies we did published at the Alzheimer's we didn't see a big robust effect on amyloid-b after the pathology kicks in in these mouse I think Dr. Veach and Dr. Mark Mattson, maybe the ketogenic intervention. But in our study, tau or amyloid, but the mice like ran faster. They and it was like remarkable. And I remember one Alzheimer's researcher was like, &quot;Yeah, So that was an MCT supplemented ketogenic diet. So performance, you know, in animal models, we to make sense of it. So my general opinion...my effect on exercise performance in the context of performance, my ideas about that have been we're giving ketone supplements to some CrossFit it could be potentially a placebo effect. Since people, I think there's maybe something more. ketone salts with caffeine are a pretty powerful probably a performance-enhancing supplement, the But I think where ketone shine is using exogenous resilience in extreme environments. So that's in So, of course, when you're not having a seizure preserved in the context of extreme hyperoxia like oxygen, that's going to be advantageous. But on So a lot of people who are mountain climbing, if we put athletes on a treadmill or bike in that the performance-enhancing effects of glucose you know, interesting. Whereas it's also shown environments of pyruvate dehydrogenase. There bottleneck in the metabolic pathway associated And you would think that hypoxia...you know, you have increase in glycolysis and transporters you know, exercise performance under hypoxia, Whereas there seems to be...and it was reviews and also serving on grant committees good rationale for the use of ketones for and that could be very strategic and beneficial you know, setting or altitude, you know, setting. My general feeling is that ketones have a small there's only a few things that actually are We have creatine monohydrate typically. You know, beta-alanine kind of works but, you know, there's just a pretty short list I do think that with time as we understand dosing in certain settings that ketones will be added top tier list. But I do think it would be in [Dr. Patrick]: What about swimmers or surfers? [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. I think be beneficial from the context of like just, you know, the stress of being out, or when we're exercising too, we're overproducing response to the muscle too. So there could be a real benefit of ketones are not...I'm talking question is in the response to an acute setting [Dr. Patrick]: Or be on a ketogenic diet. Yeah. [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. So, where I think was talking that they would be added to the as an adaptive response. So when we exercise, you know, there's inflammation reactive oxygen ketones chronically over time, I think it will exercise over time, so suppressing inflammation or or augment adaptive responses to exercise over but the science is not there yet. But science is done. I'm aware of a couple human clinical trials [Dr. Patrick]: And what about like doing a sprint? You know, because you do need... If you're work hard enough to produce energy, you need boluses of ketone ester, you drop your glucose, [Dr. D'Agostino]: That's a good point. So, one of inhibits the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. So, we're limiting glucose availability but also especially, that inhibits glycolytic enzymes gets internalized into the cell if...you know, I think if you follow a ketogenic diet where you in, you can keep that PDH from being reduced. I've restriction could decrease the production and the with Alzheimer's disease too. So, with Alzheimer's impaired glucose metabolism. So if you glucose hypometabolism in the brain scan. Ketones In the context of, you know, athletes, you're kind the glycolytic pathway, but your muscles and your for a source of energy, the brain, not so much, then you're feeding ketones to the brain. So But I do think that it gets overblown. I restriction will decrease PDH, and then with maximum exertion anaerobic. It's really that you have to train under those conditions. a ketogenic diet or low carb and then train and to put your body into that state of ketosis and to make it possible for your body to perform insulin suppression and low glucose availability. come to benefit you come game time or performance back in in small amounts. So this is So, train low when your glucose is low and and that will induce metabolic adaptations, i.e., in the context of the actual event where in or mix fuels. Really, you want to be able to beta-hydroxybutyrate, ketone bodies, One of the things that I used to take when alpha-L-polylactate, which is like lactate as an postdoctoral fellow was actually using lactate for tinkering around with that in a hippocampal brain that, and somehow I just got steered towards lactate thing because, yeah, I think there's a comprehensive multi-fuel delivery system for the and kind of stigmatized and criticized, [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah. Really, good info, Dom. You the years about training in a fasted state versus you know, you go for a run or something, that, can be blunted somewhat. And, of course, a lot of like some toast with jam, you know, where... And there is like sort of a cut-off where if than an hour, you're going to have performance these studies were done using a more modified those mitochondrial adaptations that are being carbohydrate fuel intake prior to exercise, [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. I think it comes down the whole thing going back to autophagy and like, that if we're in a state where like AMP kinase is that whole pathway is low, when you exercise but it will optimize the adaptations that could when it comes time to... You might want to train and then tinker around with different fuel sources your performance, you know. That's why we need There's, you know, training to force adaptations which is going to be a little bit if we want to force that...you know, But one thing you don't want to do is actually supplement approach just prior to...you know, &quot;Oh, I want to start slamming, you know, MCTs you want to experiment with it very methodically, the health benefits are really important then...not only the health benefits, but I in regard to...maybe not so much for powerlifting but I think for aerobic performance and actually benefiting at the level of the skeletal [Dr. Patrick]: So speaking of the nervous system, ketogenic diets really shine. What has thoroughly evidence that you've talked about with the effects disorders but also some of the preclinical studies Verdin, and I know John Ramsey also did some of Dr. Verdin's study, midlife, they started a thoughts on why...he said the reason they did I found to be interesting because I've always [Dr. D'Agostino]: A lot of [Dr. Patrick]: Yes. Let's get into that. and you know much more about the details of these health span was improved. So their median lifespan maximum lifespan I guess wasn't affected. But the you know, that these...the older mice And when he said that, I mean, I [Dr. D'Agostino]: Things are magnified in rodents. So I'll say [Dr. Patrick]: Yes. So my question is, do you [Dr. D'Agostino]: Rodent model studies mechanistically, not always predictive. Some of of rodents that will overeat ketogenic diets. Like it and said, &quot;This is not gonna work. They're blown up.&quot; There's like this is obesogenic, you diet research that detractors of ketogenic diet causes all these bad things.&quot; But that's a what Dr. Verdin used and Ramsey...so they did and they probably did it better than I could tools and everything, and they did it in a very And the results were to be expected. You know, So my understanding is that they did the cyclic them to gain weight, which could negate. So, I but the C57BL/6 mice will eat a ton of the Whereas other...depending upon the strain. And cancer research, and they tend to... It corrects them a standard diet, ad libitum, they just gain they will lose weight and everything improves. So of like athlete mice, I think, where the other as active. But what we found... I have to we did a little bit of calorie restriction...our 5 or 6 grams of food into it every day, and then they essentially fast for 23 hours. [Dr. Patrick]: [crosstalk 01:34:30]. [Dr. D'Agostino]: So it's kind of more like... and then, you know, sometimes if you house them each other because they're kind of hungry. But is that a mild amount of calorie restriction makes know, they're thinking faster. They are really and I think that goes back to human evolution experience food scarcity and limited food that enhanced our cognition and even exercise right? So the same thing I think is I have to look at the weights of the mice, but producing that energy deficit. But you just get to suppressing age-related chronic diseases seems to unmask this probably because, they overeat, and it just basically fuels early-onset age-related chronic diseases and And I think in their studies maybe with both a suppression of spontaneous tumors too. We're very interested in actually taking animal you know, various genes that will kick on at melanoma model where you subject to UV radiation. suppress that? People don't do these studies prevention research. I feel like these are the put a variety of different rodent strains under tumors, and you feed them, you know, a low carb feasibly maintain and do. And you see if you could they did in this experiment, and they showed, like ability relative. The older mice learned better [Dr. Patrick]: I know in John Ramsey's publication. Dr. Verdin mentioned also in the they had a time-restricted feeding aspect proportions of very specific proportions. when the people...the scientists were going So they had this sort of dietary restriction libitum. They were cyclic. They were going on the pronounced, like you mentioned, the combination seems to be like secret sauce in a And again, like you said, you know, the animal what's going to be, you know, occurring in humans, It got me very interested in it and, you know, sides of my family, Parkinson's and Alzheimer's. lifestyle... And I also have genetic factors there any sort of lifestyle factors that can mitigate things that you can do in your lifestyle that can cyclical maybe, you know, because it is for me [Dr. D'Agostino]: That's where intermittent don't have to tinker around with their... I mean, like eliminating processed sugar, carbs, things quite a bit. But there are some people that I know are just some people who are not going this is just not going to happen. But eating for...that's like a good introduction. Once you good you feel in this mild state of ketosis. And point to where you start manipulating your [Dr. Patrick]: So what happened with me totally lot of time-restricted eating and started to I'm just so much sharper and my anxiety was a while I was not eating. So I decided to experiment as you mentioned earlier in this podcast, one of totally subjective, was my anxiety level was so of an...I mean, I've got some anxiety, you [Dr. D'Agostino]: High performers like pretty much [crosstalk 01:40:17] personality. Yeah, sure. And then you leverage that [Dr. Patrick]: I felt like with the anxiety. And then, you know, it's what else in the brain is it affecting, you know, it does sort of limit cognition in a way. It can [Dr. D'Agostino]: And you did this back like in doing it. Like before big talks, I would chew beta-blocker. I like needed this when I was like realized as I think I got into my postdoc fasting at first and then just carb, I was especially when I kind of dieted and brought my feel like super calm.&quot; It's like, &quot;I can't even [Dr. Patrick]: Well, I didn't do a ketogenic diet. [Dr. D'Agostino] ...like a [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah. Well, I didn't do the last summer. But caloric restriction, I used to So I was kind of like...I was getting in [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. Exercising ketosis. [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah. I mean, I was running...this in grad school. I was running like 10 miles times a week. So I was running [inaudible too where it was like I changed my menstrual because I was very active. I was doing a lot I really did. That was actually a long time time-restricted eating when I had Sachin that's when I really got hardcore about trying following that really, you know, obsessively six or seven years? That's really helped. do want to sort of incorporate that into my... it. I really want to and I want to, you know, [Dr. D'Agostino]: And do them together. [Dr. D'Agostino]: So you're still [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah. And do them [Dr. D'Agostino]: That's the key. Like but low carb intermittent fasting, so just a has more benefits than chronic ketosis, eating healthy person. And maybe even therapeutically for that have epilepsy and they're following ketogenic take the same diet, same calories, and then do the world of epilepsy, but when they take their seizures and they implement time-restricted And I think the people in the trenches know this. realize, &quot;Hey, well, if you can do this.&quot; It's not intuitively just because of the information on intermittent fasting. You know, Mark Mattson I first stumbled upon his stuff in grad school. showing people. I was like, &quot;Look at this. Why so important.&quot; I haven't read his book yet, but [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah, he does. Yeah, we have... [Dr. D'Agostino]: He inspired me. I think that's it was looking at the calorie and then that led me to ketones. But sparked my fire, and then that led [Dr. Patrick]: I asked Mark this question when to you in reverse. And that is...you've what do you think the overlap between being on is with intermittent fasting, whether changes with beta-hydroxybutyrate being an autophagy's one that I'm [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. Two things in my mind, you know, activation of AMP kinase, IGF-1, mTOR, but also the ketones as a drug-like mediator on a drug-like mediator for all these different activating epigenetic effects, and things Mattson's work actually showed that many of the with beta-hydroxybutyrate-induced growth factor see there's the hormonal effects of intermittent and then the hyperketonemia that's associated then have their own effects through that's two main things, but there's a whole...it's I've given talks to pharmaceutical companies let's key in on the mechanisms that we can sort is like a dozen or more mechanisms, and there's synergy. And I think that becomes the reason why you have drugs work through a GABAergic mechanism, You have a variety of anti-epileptic drugs combinations of them used in high dose and then patients are put on a ketogenic diet through a mechanism independent of what we And that becomes...you know, the complexity right? And to key in on something that's The etiology of epilepsy is largely unknown, and different types of epilepsy, whether it's like different metabolic disorders, absence seizures. these different seizure types probably because [Dr. Patrick]: What do you for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders [Dr. D'Agostino]: I think there are different I think the etiology of Alzheimer's is complex, Dr. Bredesen talks about like in his book. And I the ketogenic diet where, I don't know, you would FTG-PET scan. And if you see, you know, there's then a metabolic intervention may be But I can tell you just by communicating the ketogenic diet works remarkably well for I don't think it's ever hurt or decreased anything that I'm aware of. I get biased feedback but, you know, I've seen it not work too. Dr. Mary me in the beginning. I actually brought her to gave a lecture. She used to lecture for some of would bring her husband, Steve. So I don't know on the use of beta-hydroxybutyrate ester as a And I witnessed that her husband...she had many five or six years just from an outsider looking extra with her husband to spend because of it was just coconut oil, and then she realized and then found the patent by Accera, caprylic triglycerides. So she went out and bought about the ketone ester and the ketogenic diet and When 2009 she was a guest speaker in my class shaking with Parkinson's disease-like symptoms, of MCT and coconut oil. And when he consumed stopped and he became animated and was commenting I realized that he was not really...it wasn't the it elevated MCTs in his blood, which but produce a state of hyperketonemia, and that he became more animated. And that was... Being in contact with her and seeing this and and Mini-Mental Status Exam or State Exam convinced me to go in that direction for a metabolic phenotype, but he was also APOE4 because we talked about, you know, different In the study of Accera in AC-1202, the APOE4 to hyperketonemia, but he's APOE4...and he and then that motivated me. Actually, the first at the Alzheimer's Center. And then I developed did not want to look at the diet per se. So we [Dr. Patrick]: It seems like, you know, in disorders like Parkinson's disease, I mean, standard care of treatment, you know, like terrible side effects with time. And if there alternative in some way or something, that it you could. I mean, ketogenic diets are so widely these other brain disorders? Is there any movement of whether or not ketosis is going to be [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. It's so much opposed to a ketogenic diet for a...randomized a ketogenic diet, right? But with a supplement, I think those studies are happening, and we ketogenic diet altering brain metabolism, brain on that this is going to be important for many So, that's why we got steered towards, you know... cancer, but the data was so compelling that we another track in my research, you know, that we're to go in that direction. And we really do need these things to people, the ketogenic diets or But there's groups of people know, there's a group that I'm involved in and they are looking at dietary interventions that could be depression, that could be bipolar. umbrella of a psychiatric disorder. So there's a clinical trials, but the data is not there yet [Dr. Patrick]: I mean, people are out there ketone supplements that you can buy on Amazon. families out there that are wanting to Talking to their physician about them but I mean, they're doing it, they're trying them. the different types of tremors, essential tremor, migraines. And she did do the ketogenic diet with did. But I also have given her ketone supplements, even tried to...was wanting to try the ketogenic carbohydrates. But it, I mean, noticeably stops which is her legs when she stands still, but And this is totally anecdotal. So I'd love to supplement. Ester has worked for her and ketone takes away her migraine, which is phenomenal medicine that she used to take. But she gets [Dr. D'Agostino]: Oh, yeah, good yeah, I get, I mean, a lot of I'm a researcher, I go in the other direction and [Dr. Patrick]: Totally. [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah, I mean, that's just not so excited. I want to cut and paste things and people even send blood work or test results or because I know the power of placebo, I know the stopping of tremors and becoming animated was not really know that he was...what he was taking, But in regards to migraines, a Ph.D. student by together, which kind of highlighted many of the person who had crushing migraines and discovered supplements could recapitulate that and actually And it was likely just like the ketogenic diet mechanisms, so by probably increased Some people get migraines because of like an vasoconstriction. And we know that the ketogenic And from our metabolomic data, adenosine, I was like many fold higher really hot on our metabolomics data. I was like, adenosine as a very powerful vasodilator So, when you fast or even when you go blood flow to the brain can increase by 30%. and probably through this adenosinergic there's probably dramatic effects neurotransmitter systems, energy systems. And I don't like to go to anecdotal evidence but I like herpes simplex or shingles or different and the first sign that they get is like a full-body inflammation, and then they or something like that. And they'll ketone esters or ketone salts. Actually, they've like, &quot;Okay, please, give me...you know, recommendations or not recommendations. I've been inflammatory cascade, and the feedback has been you know, an episode from...you know, And the same thing happens. They get crushing the virus is starting to shed, and it produces, inflammation contributes to neuroinflammation, usually you get the cascade kind of after of different people, and people get headaches for Alzheimer's where you're going to get...you know, And I probably should mention that people are using, ketone salts, where I think I've taken some of these because, you and there are supplements out there, and then I just get like a headache...almost after that. That's a very reliable sign that if you're getting headaches from supplements, so I know there's listeners out there listening that you're taking. And it could be the purity, potency, tolerability, gut issues. If to a headache. But I am firmly of the opinion that for headaches. So ketogenic diets, fasting, and [Dr. Patrick]: The other area that kind of is we mentioned it earlier, and it is autoimmune disease. And I know there's been Maybe there's been more since then. So I haven't diets actually helping with autoimmune disease. intermittent fasting, fasting-mimicking diets again, might be some overlap with ketosis helping with a variety of types of autoimmune not going to say ketogenic diets are It seems like a promising area [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. There's a couple... I there's a couple studies on MS and other, of disorders. And I'm not an immunologist. I mean, immune factors like cytokines and chemokines and dietary interventions...nutritional interventions And in some cases, a hypersensitive increased intestinal permeability. So intestinal and that intestinal hyper-reactivity will always impairing...you know, exacerbating an autoimmune working through that way too and maybe suppressing IL-1beta, TNF alpha, things like that. So, the immune system in ways that makes it hyper-vigilant right? The ketogenic diet enhances the anti-cancer [Dr. Patrick]: Oh, really? [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. So, a did research with a glioblastoma cell immune regulation, you know, with a dietary And also I think it needs to be appreciated the standard of care, but I think the standard is a much more synergistic approach. So, when it's stimulating autophagy and it's So you're actually like breaking down...you have And it's not really talked about. I always think it's killing cancer cells, and then you're and then that's stimulating the immune system. is carcinogenic, it's bad, but it's also attack the cancer cell. In the context of a if it's calorie restricting, is stimulating cells and actually stimulating autophagy sort death. And it makes the tumor more sensitive more tumor die off and you're also protecting the immune system in a way that's actually So what I'm saying here is probably you know from tumor biology that, you know, when you know, through any means, you can have this kill the patient if you do it too abruptly, adamant in advocating a more gradual approach, metabolic drugs, and also hyperbaric oxygen But it needs to be acknowledged and recognized stimulating the immune system, and it works which makes the immune system more and attack the cancer cells. So, there's a you know, I know the Moffitt Cancer Center, which therapies and using ketogenic diets to enhance A paper just came out in a pretty high-impact it showed that PD-L1 inhibitors were greatly diet. And even metabolic drugs like the PI3 kinase but they have a counter-regulatory effect at they can target tumor metabolism, but there's of insulin suppression with a ketogenic diet, PI3 kinase inhibitors. So Dr. Lou Cantley is been in contact with a few of the patients And they're using a ketogenic diet to enhance, [Dr. Patrick]: I know glioma. to seem to be responsible [crosstalk [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. That was my first interest and I saw some...I saw, like, cancer cells got me very interested in cancer, it was that. And a dye that was looking at superoxide the mitochondria. So what I would see really quick. We were doing optical sections and I can see that superoxide production was we hit it with oxygen. And then I would see cells would rupture. So they're exploding. So cells were taking that oxygen, and because the put out proportionally more superoxide you know, hydrogen peroxide and more reactive that damages membrane lipids and then you get and I was like, &quot;This is very interesting.&quot; know why it was happening but later found an altered metabolism. Like some people say the metabolism for its own benefit to redirect anabolic production of...you know, for the And other people like Warburg said it was damaged so the sugar cell consumes more glucose. But it very interested in cancer in ways to target substrates. So, that actually was the precursor using hyperbaric oxygen, and then under different feeding them glucose and ketones. And then I and the cancer cells would die. And then I it would decrease proliferation. So this is like...it got the wheels turning, and I was like, So I had a few different med students replicate that gave me some confidence. And then a who's hosting Metabolic Health Summit with... research among other things. And then she which was ketogenic diet and hyperbaric oxygen was a synergistic combination. So, the modified and we put like a large percentage of the fat. Maybe 40% was MCTs and then we also At the time, I was very interested in MUFAs researchers were using. I was like, &quot;Well, instead of like 10%, you know, protein. We And then we replaced the fats with essentially in there too. And then that became the diet we then we use this diet for our cancer research. And you know, was it because we were using, you know, a diet high in like, you know, omega-3 oils which I think was a little bit beneficial. But and this diet especially with the MCTs gave us [Dr. Patrick]: Wow, super-interesting. What different types of cancer, and I know we were the potential for some types of cancer at least some ketones and use them in a positive way to [Dr. D'Agostino]: There's no doubt they do. heterogeneous than we'd sort of like to believe. I why we have all these different cancer therapies. the ketogenic diet. But when I think of I don't think of it as...I don't think of the therapeutic efficacy of the ketogenic diet is insulin pathway, limiting glucose availability, this because, if we put exogenous ketones into a that have metastatic cancer. So we've published what was happening was when you put the ketones little bit less, and it's also lowering blood So it may not be... And then the reviewers calorie restriction group.&quot; So we took a and we saw an increase in survival, survival from adding the ketones to the So to get back to your question, aggressive, you know, solid tumors, endometrial lung cancer, you know, are responsive. metabolic derangement are probably responsive, glycolytic. So they're more likely to cancer to study because you get seizures treatments are so limited. Like glioblastoma we you want to use something. A dietary approach can augment the many different factors that could make But there are different mutations. There's one which changes the tumor metabolism in a way that as fuel. Some cancers may respond to ketones in like the brain tumor cells that we've studied in cell line at least that has BRAF V600E mutation, I use acetoacetate as potentially an energy source there's a variety of different cancer cells molecule, but maybe even for energy too. But aggressive have reverted back to a glycolytic on fermentable fuels, and that includes And cancer cells that are more glycolytic and to the hypoxia of expanding tumor mass. So, as a blood flow and oxygen to the tumor. So it the mitochondria. So it causes the tumor to phosphorylation pathway. So, literally, this core of expanding tumor biomass would not be able mitochondrial energy, you know, event. So in that ideal fuel for tumors, and in our model systems, run...in the absence of glucose, tumor cells glucose when we add ketones, there seems to that could be due to a ketone-induced decrease So there's a lot of potential I think for using and then maybe some potential as using exogenous microenvironment and also to influence essentially [Dr. Patrick]: And also as you Verdin, and John Ramsey's co-published there's a possible preventative, you know, to animal research, there being a reduction promising to study, you know, as cancer incidents. You know, it's always easier [Dr. D'Agostino]: Exactly. Yeah. [Dr. Patrick]: So, you know, that's also really [Dr. D'Agostino]: I mean, those results growth through probably IGF-1 and mTOR and and many other, you know, biomarkers But if we take these ketogenic diets and optimize fiber in and we add...then it becomes difficult to there's some synergy in optimizing a phytonutrients that we know have anti-carcinogenic you know, there's groups at the Cancer Institute handful of these phytonutrients, and they effects. So we should be incorporating these [Dr. Patrick]: Which brings us to the all meat, the carnivore... There's a lot of people that and they need to graduate somehow to another [Dr. D'Agostino]: Well, I'm not sure towards kindergarten. There's no doubt that a and I think it's therapeutic in some ways. It actually felt pretty good on it subjectively, but almost doubled on it. And then my triglycerides of a concern for me. Like if you have...the fat if you have an inborn error metabolism like a telltale sign is like an elevation of like, you know, a lot of...a cascade of different as well as you should be. Whereas we know that the carnitine, you know, transferase and actually For me personally, I felt good...I felt fine, And when I went back to just adding more fish and maybe it was a fiber, maybe it was phytonutrients, especially my triglycerides came back down again. meat that you're eating, the amount of food that and creating a calorie deficit while you're doing think it's something that would be sustainable or is for a number of people that I know. But I have no science. I'm not aware of any science for treating anything. Although I've been in greatly from it. So I'm not going to criticize [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah. Again, as you mentioned, caloric restricting themselves? Are they just I mean, there's so many factors. And [Dr. D'Agostino]: And the lack of fiber. [Dr. Patrick]: Lack of fiber and, you [Dr. D'Agostino]: Which kind of brings it it's obvious that we could do well off you know, is fiber necessary? I don't think I think excluding it all together is not doing our in...there's just so much good data on fiber that [Dr. Patrick]: What do you think the butyrate from fiber like what in someone with a no fiber diet? Like the butyrate [Dr. D'Agostino]: It is. Yeah. And [Dr. Patrick]: It is. [Dr. D'Agostino]: I don't know. I do know that if microbiome and intestinal permeability, it would Mine trended...it actually went up like from 0.1 think humans are omnivores, and they're incredibly dietary diversity might be a good thing. But like in Africa or other areas where they and it could be like some cornmeal or and they do perfectly well. They survive, staggeringly remarkable that we have the metabolic You know, the question is what is optimal? Should And I think that could be beneficial at different things that we can eat and we're yeah. I am kind of a little bit neutral on the but I think it's sub-optimal as a ketogenic diet. [Dr. Patrick]: And as you mentioned, there's there's [crosstalk 02:22:49], all the time by many things. But there's been done on...I mean, published and [Dr. D'Agostino]: But there are people they've corrected, you know, various...everything superhigh achievers. You have Shawn Baker, and he's just eating nothing but don't know. I haven't seen his blood work, but do think that if you're eating a carnivore diet which I kind of did because I added just a few a lot of my blood work. But if you eat a carnivore be therapeutic and potentially helpful. So it all matter. I think they most certainly do, and I of the ketogenic diet community, they said you know, the calories don't matter if you [Dr. Patrick]: You mentioned having cyclically. Like how many times a you know, is it something [Dr. D'Agostino]: My normal pattern is to have or less fast through. Midday I'll have like a past 2. And then I eat, we eat dinner typically a little bit later if I'm working late, sometimes of my calories between the 6 and 9 p.m. I know you know, 11. But I get the bulk of my calories five or sixish. A lot of my protein too. But in I've been eating waffles and making waffles. that are really, really good. So I've been [Dr. Patrick]: What about your exercise routine? [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. I try to do some form pretty...we live on a farm, so farm work occupies doing...and that's good outdoor activity, getting you know, usually like twice a day. And then I but sometimes I try to get four times a week if I And I think when you're traveling and you're A lot of...chin-ups are probably like one of my [Dr. Patrick]: And then you're [Dr. D'Agostino]: Hot tub sauna and just hyperthermia in general. So I did showed that I can...getting the hot tub to about about 102 within about 15 minutes. And I really after I do this, I then measure...well, I've comes down and it seems to be...I'm like my blood like 97 over 60 or something or 58 or something. higher end of systolic especially like 130, 140. I systolic pressure, always ran a little bit at the time. But the one thing that has really not changing anything and just doing what [Dr. Patrick]: That's awesome. [Dr. D'Agostino]: ...brought it down 5% five times a day blood pressure would love to have a continuous blood But my continuous glucose monitor with the gives information, and I can do like a comparison you know, cold. I can mark it, time mark it and [Dr. Patrick]: What's the best way to measure [Dr. D'Agostino]: Good question. Yeah. [Dr. Patrick]: Best versus also most they're both kind of important. [Dr. D'Agostino]: Again, but it depends. So that's my answer to a The clinicians that are managing epilepsy and they're not going to change from urine, and the kid's finger too, right? So I did blood. [Dr. Patrick]: What is that? [Dr. D'Agostino]: It's your glucose over ketones fasting, it takes me about 72 days...72 hours to Fasting for 72 hours gets my glucose ketone index millimolar and my ketones come up to 3 millimolar. Although I haven't measured LC3 and it's my belief that achieving and sustaining a induce and perhaps maximize autophagy. No seven days, but then at five days and seven days, things I don't like. So, for me, three days is ketone index of one. And then my breath acetone is probably your best ketone to measure if of the acetone you're blowing off essentially and it's reading like 40, it's like you're just Breath acetone is great because with or 3 millimolar and just walk around the house or below one. That's because your body is And if you have a calorie deficit, you have right? Whereas my breath acetone seems to be more And it's also easier. So if you're blowing that's a lot of money in strips and a lot of Biosense device. And I don't know. I've blown cost-prohibitive from a ketone monitoring associated with that. And it has a pretty cool I think they collaborate with Zero Fasting. So can show you if you're doing a fasting and using but now it's broken into more mainstream. So it's device...medical device for measuring ketones. And I became interested in acetone because acetone does. So, I recommend it to parents want their fingers pricked and the urine to answer your question, I think both blood the ketogenic diet, it may be good to just you're not. It's like semi-quantitative. And Like the Keto-Mojo device is probably one of the for people who are doing fasting and for people [Dr. Patrick]: What about using blood [Dr. D'Agostino]: That's like super interesting. and I brought this up as a continuous ketone system. And now you have the ketone device now, which does like glucose, ketones, is like the ultimate device to look at dietary be...the trace should be completely flat, and if a ketogenic diet. I guess if they're under stress a blip, but generally speaking like a CGM trace adhering to a ketogenic diet. So these things the community also feels that this needs to be [Dr. Patrick]: Is there like a level Like would you...if you were to [Dr. D'Agostino]: Of what? [Dr. Patrick]: Of blood glucose level to like... [Dr. D'Agostino]: For a ketogenic diet? [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah. To say, like, &quot;I'm probably [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. Well, I could show you woke up this morning, I spiked 40 milligrams per So my CGM trace typically looks like...oh, and maybe it's all over the place, but it's going wouldn't go off negative during everything. But that's what your CGM trace should look like [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah. I need to get a new one. [Dr. D'Agostino]: So I'm 74. Yeah. I had a big...I only had maybe like four So it could be that, it could be the [Dr. Patrick]: Oh, yeah, totally. That was the I started wearing it when my son was like multiple times to breastfeed. I mean, so my and my blood glucose was just...it was just the nights when I was like waking up multiple like, one of the biggest things I learned [Dr. D'Agostino]: Where were your So mine spiked to almost like 130 or 140, and But that just could be due to the time change that I get. I mean, I feel fine now. Okay. [Dr. Patrick]: I can't recall. It's been too many like that. It was above 120, you know, like you know, like this is pretty, you know, High-intensity training. I was doing a lot pretty intense spin. That would help. So if that night after the spin, it was way better. exercise totally helped negate some of the I don't know what exactly was happening that was also a learning. I learned so much from months because I have to...I think I'm going to [Dr. D'Agostino]: Levels is great. [Dr. Patrick]: Now I'm like, &quot;Okay, [Dr. D'Agostino]: I'm not going to mention the and I just wore it. Well, they're in beta now. of coaching you, and you also have the option nutritionist. So I guess that's good for people. so many features built in. Where I exercise, that you exercised.&quot; It learns my body. Even if I sort of dawn effect. And I just take a picture email the next day of the picture of my food, and things like that. So it's so easy. I guess if you had someone prescribe it to you and inference. As long as I engage with the app and the email the next day, and that tells me what And it also gives me a weekly thing. So all I and it sends me like a daily report and also a And there's so many features. I don't I use like 10% of the features and it's very right now with CGM. And people have app all day. But you can engage with it as much as or three minutes per day is enough to really be [Dr. Patrick]: Just wearing the CGM without even having to do all the app stuff I should be eating and portion sizes and [Dr. D'Agostino]: What were [Dr. Patrick]: The cooked spinach was the one a low glycemic.&quot; But what you said makes And then another really big surprise was like like I was traveling on part of this, you know, like order food that was like this is keto and &quot;This is not keto at all.&quot; I'm like, &quot;It's track down the ingredients, and it's like sugar. but you actually have added sugar in it.&quot; Other gummy chewables that didn't have any just went through the roof, and I'm like, [Dr. D'Agostino]: Same thing. I it shot me off the chart. And all the [Dr. Patrick]: Anything that's keto. [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. The only bar that So it's like the brick is 90 grams of fat and hardly any carbohydrates and it's 1000 calorie you know, bar. There's a bunch of bars out [Dr. Patrick]: I mean, if you [Dr. D'Agostino]: Yeah. I know, everywhere. [Dr. Patrick]: ...like keto everything. when you turn around the back and you that like one of these things that was, like, this was doing keto and like ordered it on Instacart. sugar in this. This is not keto. Like, how dare takes us back to the beginning where very much become trendy and it's almost like essence of ketosis has been lost somewhat. So, all this. I want to talk even longer, Thank you so much, Dom. We're going to have I want to talk to you about all sorts of things. your research, they want to follow you, they want blogs, you know, all those things. Where's the [Dr.D'Agostino]: Yeah. Thanks for so ketonutrition.org, and we have a blog this podcast comes out, we'll put it in the information that I don't post anywhere else subscribe to your newsletter which I did, and Metabolic Health Summit which will be happening clinicians, you know, basic scientists, and influencers. It's an amazing event in Santa for that. Yeah. Most of the information that we I personally do not have any &quot;Dom, what's your ketone product?&quot; I don't have different companies and it's on the website. The Keto Brick is my go-to keto bar. I get Keto Brainz is a coffee creamer that I use, got it's also got C8. So, these are three basis. Not a huge supplement guy, but these are [Dr. Patrick]: And you're also on Twitter? [Dr. D'Agostino]: On Twitter. Yeah. If you search but on Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, I our publications, and others in the space. So which you put out amazing information, platform to give my information [Dr. Patrick]: Oh, my pleasure. Dom. I'm looking forward to more [Dr. D'Agostino]: Thank you.