The greatest crime ever committed by football chance if he played nowadays...It's easy do that today"... well, in the future the light... Your kids will hear you tell them about the "uh... in La Liga anyone could do that... He'd struggle to put up 10 goals in the But well... you tell me, do you think that in 2050 he would struggle? Personally, I have no doubt he would be as And the same applies to Pele... if he had been up there with him fighting for every a freak of nature that people's admiration War in Nigeria, created a new holiday in Congo, the Argentinians to clap for him... when they just a mere compliment... he is simply, without one who came before all... the king of kings, cause the entire landscape to change in a So now that he is gone, I beg you... if you please watch this video till the end... This is the story of Pele how became the His real name was Edson, people only began the name of a famous goalkeeper, Bile... fights with the kids who called him that all the nickname sounded too childish... but no it stuck... If it's already hard not to fall in love it was even harder for Pele whose dad was If you asked anyone who saw his dad play, in fact, if you asked Pele he would tell "to me, the best player in the world"... Still they didn't have much... things got really bad really easily... one paying him... so Pele, hearing that they began shining shoes for a few pennies... I guess you're expecting a story about how by giving all that he could on the pitch, Pele was always oddly optimistic about Brazil. To him, as a little kid with no way of seeing most beautiful and he never wanted to go anywhere But the thing is at that age, Pele was already he represented was so dominant, that they week, winning matches by absurd margins, like star everything single time, drawing huge being forbidden by the league from playing This led him to move on to playing futsal they insisted on repeatedly benching him because his age and the lack of minutes he still went At this point the offers came left right and her little boy and insisted he should leave However one of his coaches, Waldemar Brito, "the greatest player to ever live" that kid to Santos and eventually she gave in... The moment he arrived at Santos, it was like him and as he said himself "he gripped my I would want him by my side"... soon enough At times it seemed Pele proved that destiny They tried putting him in the b squad, after then he scored 13 goals in his first 13 matches to play him with the grown ups, at the very and to make sure one of the dozens of teams for his signature, couldn't take him away... In his very first game, he scored... In his first tournament, despite once again the top scorer... 1 month later, the newspapers were demanding after that he was debuting for Brazil... he player for 10 months... With this call up, his place in the starting proof, which allowed him to finish the year with 17 goals... Here's where I need to start a little tangent... of the Paulista had scored 16 goals, the most 39... on his second season for Santos, around scored 58, obviously making Santos state champions Immediately becoming a legend and attracting earlier, he was shining shoes on the street... And if any of this was already incredibly which took him from being one of the most him by far without a shadow of a doubt, the All of it had happened so suddenly that as would be played, Pele was leaving Brazil In fact, the federation almost decided against perform some tests and concluded he was not of such high stakes... that he was too childish all, however according to his teammate Zagallo it made him absurdly confident, which obviously in a world cup... but then he justified that Regardless, at first, both him and Garrincha until the third match against the Soviet Union, go through, that the players supposedly cornered not only made Pele the youngest ever player to assist one of the goals that put Brazil There Pele would be even more decisive, scoring acrobatic effort that was considered by some goal of the tournament... But if scoring a single world cup goal at then Pele pulled off the impossible... going head to head with Just Fontaine, who record with 13 goals that very same year... pulling off a hat trick to leave the french spot in the final... Ironically, the final would be exactly against make matters worse would score first... and when Brazil lost the world cup final in their his dad that day... "Don't worry, soon I will win the world Even though Pele was not the one to score third, lifting the ball over a defender and as the match ended 5-2, giving Brazil the Pele had by far been the revelation of the player in the tournament, only rated below But his naivety persevered... according to himself, as they flew home, he the goals he scored... well little did he know, everyone in the entire in Brazil, he was welcomed like a hero... most loved man in brazil, as someone once every girl wanted Pele to be their boyfriend, Pele was the image of Brazil, he was football's and in the blink of an eye, he had become Back at Santos, everything changed as well.. exactly the biggest, only 1 trophy in their however that one trophy had come exactly in the timing seemed too perfect, it was like greatest ever player... as they once said together". Regardless, the next year they actually failed quite clearly the best team in the world, the likes of Barcelona 5 to 1 and impressing Pele a standing ovation, leading Santiago to arrange his signing as a replacement for that Santos even agreed on a price, Real never It was also that year that Pele scored the over two defenders and then the goalkeeper and though this particular goal wasn't recorded, it. To everyone who saw it, it was the most beautiful By 1961, Pele would experience the most prolific By then, Pele was so feared and respected beat Santos 2 to 1, it was seen as such an anthem where they mentioned the fact they Regardless, nothing marked that year more transfer saga that saw Inter, Milan and Juventus 600 million lira for the player, around 350 what anyone had paid for any player in history on offering even more money if needed, but much, who already found this value to be close have been the greatest increase to the transfer However, at the time, Janio Quadros was the wasn't very popular, he had literally outlawed And well, he feared that if he allowed Pele at the eyes of the brazilian population, so laws and declared Pele, a living breathing not only it would be illegal to sell him to from leaving the country without the permission Regardless, at that point, Pele didn't did not just claim they were the best team European Champions Benfica in the Intercontinental 5 himself, in what was one of the most dominant that year as his absolute peak... setting time high... And at first it all went well, a goal and set the tone and then the second match against went for a long range shot and was then seen Nowadays maybe we wouldn't be so worried, spray him with painkillers, rest him till in 1962, you were not even allowed to make Pele was forced to endure the pain and play more, once the final whistle was heard it out of the world cup.... which was quite simply as he had to sit and watch from the stands world champions once again... Still, Pele had always been an optimist and those world cups had taken brazil from a country to a roaring nation who never hesitated to seemed great... until the military took over the country... starting one of the darkest eras in the country's The events of the world cup, added to this, pressure of the brazilian population for the world cup weighed down on Pele and very soon to fade... he was not that same bright eyed went into a slump, never really getting the and even tho he was 21 and even though it mark... you would get the feeling he wasn't However that obviously did not mean he wasn't the best on the planet... Despite missing out on the Paulista, Santos title, with Pele scoring 4 out of the 5 semi another in the final vs Boca, before also again, despite being out injured for the second the title from AC Milan's grasp... By 1965, Santos had completely established it for a 5th consecutive time, however, their being humiliated, conceding 10 goals in 2 led the newspapers to began mocking them, were more concerned with traveling than actually In a way, this added to the fact the 1966 to fire up Pele to go on one of the most year with 96 goals, at one point getting so about how they had beaten Santos in the absence scoring a career record of 8 goals in a single a completely different team, Pele made it an opposition player say "I thought we came Do I need to say it? Pele scored 6 goals in a single half... With performances of this level, he leapfrogged mark at only 25 years of age... Once again in the form of his life, it seemed once more and still disturbed by what happened motivated, he was obsessed, he felt he had the birthplace of football, a record third have been the perfect time to call it quits... though he was only 25... But, unfortunately, as soon as the tournament only talked about one thing... Pele had forced football to adapt, players if the defenders couldn't get the ball off ball... there are literally reports of him In the first game he went down and down again free kick, with Garrincha also scoring in it would be the last time the two greats would losing a single one of the 40 matches they Regardless, after that first match Pele was came next and though he was brought back for they were well aware of how other teams had they had to hit pele until he was out, it what they did... and with Eusebio left unchallenged, one of the saddest days in Pele's career, his greatest rivals... However things would get much more shocking, no luck at the world cup, it's the second I've decided I won't play another one It was already odd that he considered retiring going out so miserably was 10 times more disappointing... From here on out if the constant touring already it completely separated him from it... It seemed almost at times that he was avoiding Regardless, his African tour brought us some In Congo he was escorted to the match in a was the pope.... Once there, the Congolese national team was the match 3 different times and when they to the floor in euphoria and that moment became to this day it is national holiday... In the same vein, they also played in Nigeria, still everyone was so excited to see him play, stepped inside the country... It got crazy to the point, that some of his while they were there, they did not hear a off, they could hear them in the distance the moment Pele arrived, it restarted the Still, at that point, all around, everywhere, always away from Brazil, Pele heard the news the other, the dictatorship in Brazil had even he wasn't safe in there anymore, barely It was expected that his retirement would Pele hit a special mark... 999 goals... one it was the perfect time to quit... why wouldn't it'd be so easy to just say goodbye... 14 minutes into the game, Pele went down penalty spot... you could see the amazement goal number 1000... even the rival fans were convinced he'd score that his team had already course he scored... everyone invaded the pitch, wasn't about the game anymore, it was about it was the greatest achievement in football... a moment that defined a generation... Pele was the king of football, the man who In the midst of all of this, no matter how how much he resented the possibility of playing him to play... knowing what they were capable it... understandable or not, his unwillingness stain in his legacy... regardless, as he said government always wanted me around, but I so much pressure... I didn't like being Pele any more..." If this was already a lot to deal with, before the news began circulating that a group of in the same way Di Stefano had been kidnapped From that moment on there was not a single Some even say that for a while they used a And has Pele hoped that at least the football their first match by conceding to Czechoslovakia...but rushing th e defense and you could see something to score the first through a free kick, then to go in front and finally he also added an game without much hope, the brazilians saw beat world champions England in the second Jairzinho to score the winner, the mood changed To finish off the group stage, Pele dominated a free kick at first and then a striker's Suddenly, Brazil seemed now completely revitalized demolition jobs, with Rivellino, Tostao, with Pele also pulling off one of his most around the goalkeeper though he would then But if by then it could be argued that Pele final it was different... the match was against Italy, they had won and it was 100% definitely Pele's last for the outcome that on his way there... on refusing to tell anyone why... As the anthem played in the stadium, he looked him, it seemed disaster was coming...but instead 18 minutes in, Pele had already scored... of all time... with Jairzinho holding him However, ever since the first world war, the opened the scoring had lost every single time the worst was coming... Regardless, it was then that Gerson pulled Brazil in front which was then followed by to settle the result at 4 to 1, demolishing feat that was never again repeated... The same applies to Pele's 6 assists in managed... But still, despite all of that, when asked cup... his answer was "the relief"... From there on out, things began to fade away, Santos over some contractual disputes... Domestically his numbers dropped massively truly retiring from the national team that that... That moment, well... it should've been the last, but as Pele he had his accountants run an audit and he as he thought, after a series of investments of that time, Pele was to come back from go on one last journey, trying to secure his His destination was the New York Cosmos, playing What a duo... It's been claimed Pele was paid 5 million the highest paid basketball player in the Pele completely took over a country that that's how much of a superstar he was... following his every move, that's more than induction as the new United States president Over his 3 years there, Cosmos averaged an rest of the clubs and it all culminated in carried them to the league title... He won until the very last second, scored asking the crowd in the stadium to repeat Love, love, love...