At last, the West is at peace again. Bad men and killings are in the past. I always hated, my oh! Shoshena is dying. Anyone who wants to help him go to hell in the abandoned Pueblo de San Jose. Anyone who hates Shoshena. I'll be dying. Forgive me, Shoshena. I hate violence, Very good, Jaguar. Who are you calling Jaguar? That isn't my name, friend. You must be the fellow they call Shoshena. You think that I'm the Jaguar. I don't think, I know you are. When a fella hears he knows his time is near. Hi Jaguar, your timepiece is well-known. Yes, I guess. -The others. They're just a bunch They've been on the list I simply sacked out Greed works wonders. No one wants to share a reward, but a man like you isn't quite that dumb. I'm impressed the way you stood back Five thousand dollars worth of patience. Are you saying and the reward's all of mine? First, I have to ask you to do me a favor. I might have guessed Do you know what this is for? Listening to brains. No. Okay, I asked a stupid question. I need a man who's good with a pistol. I'd say you're that man, Jaguar. Come with me and I'll make you rich. I'll give you an answer later. I've got a lot of things to do. We're close to Chedron, For that favor, how many men If we're lucky, not a one. There's a safe in Chedron is fatter than a pregnant hippopotamus. What's that, potterhippopos? It's not important. Just think of all that money we'll rob. The only trouble is, That's why I need someone I did have a sidekick once, Hey, is anyone home? I'll go take a look. Hey, wait a minute, what do you mean? -Come on. What do you mean? I'm just riding in. No, you got it all wrong. Don't do that. What's happening in this place? It's a thief, Daddy, What egg? I'm hungry, and the hen didn't mind. Mister, you better get out Take it easy, pappy, You're right, it could, Put that rifle away, We're riding on. Come on, Jaguar, Can't you leave us alone, mister? -What do you want here? Which way is Chedron? Half an hour to the south. Thanks. Another couple of hired guns for Decovan. I'll go spread the word. They're trying to beat us by scaring us, but they can't scare us. Now I'm beginning What do you want? The last time I came here, -Put it down. I am here to straighten out Get the hell out of here. It all depends on you Get away, you pig! I'm just being social today. Next time will be different. Don't forget now, Do you hear? We've got trouble, Sheriff. Lohsman will try and unite the settlers. They say I got a hold of their land rights Well, was it illegal? Of course not. Do you know what desperation does? It turns men dangerous. Then that's your problem, Sheriff, to keep them in line. About the only thing that worries me That bastard Lohsman, doesn't want George as a son-in-law. I have to change his mind. He doesn't trust you. He's convinced it's a plan The old idiot? Beatrice is a girl and I think she'd make a good daughter. You better go, I'd like to be alone. I've got a lot of important things I guess there's the sheriff. Your money is waiting for you in there, Just words, it's easy to say. -You're right, it's easy. How come your other sidekick got caught? Because he refused good advice. He wouldn't keep his gun loaded. -Well now, would you take a look at that? She's purr if you stroked her, Rip your eyes out! You keep your hands away, you rat, I'm just trying to be gentleman, No offense intended, I assure you. Thief. Good morning, Bob, I hope you've got it all. I can't supply you I'm sorry to say, miss. Only food stuffs. -Why can't you? -The sheriff? -Good morning, George. Why don't we pull this job tonight? We would if I knew it was the right day. Once a month ranchers ride in The next morning, before sunup, What makes you think It's safe, you idiot. -How much cash do you think's in it? I'll take a percentage, right? Miss, sorry I can't give you Yes, why don't you see Bye, Ms. Beatrice. She's quite nice considering. Yes, and she's mad about me. She's always hanging around here. Poor little girl. Though you deserve a lot better. Crazy about you, huh? Somebody told her to hide her feelings to show you up Who the hell are you? The lone ranger? How do you know my name? All right, you runny mouth, smart ass, Did you hear him, Jaguar? Why don't you just plug him in the back? You want me to turn around. You think I'm real stupid, don't you? Come on now, pull your gun. Give me a minute. Jaguar? Jaguar? Have you got the time? It is 12:30, let's eat. It's too early. I can't see! What were you doing out there, sleeping? Sorry about the flour and the ruckus, Not a cent. I want to pay you just for the pleasure, You better go easy though, should Decovan hear Who is this Decovan? He's the banker here Did you hear that, partner? We have a business deal How babies are made and raised. Interesting. Yes, it's Ms. Beatrice's, -I'll drop it off to her. Come on, fearless. No. Here. I didn't realize you had to pay for it. Ingrid, are you sure Sure, I'm sure, Mrs. Swanson saw the whole thing Do you want to see me, Father? Tell me what happened Nothing special. I just had a talk with a stranger, Yes, so who beat you up, -Who told you that? The whole town's busting Since the day you married my father, George! There were two of them, Pa. The one behind me was Jaguar. I could do nothing about it. If that was Jaguar there, You could've done plenty, Only one of the strangers was involved, Here, George, One thing should never happen to a man. That's lose his dignity. As you are incapable I'll tell O'Connor to do it. -Father, you don't know what. Didn't you hear me, George? Tonight's the night we hit the bank. -It depends. Because we haven't come -I'll be happy with 40. -Thirty-five. Thirty. -You are going to have 20. Well done, Beatrice. That smells good, my girl. Nothing like a good cup of coffee I sure wish you were right. Do you know what I like about you, Smith? Your optimism. I hope this is going to work. Let me read it to you. It says that we as mortgage holders but only on one condition, that a three-week notice to grant a six-month extension, provided all previous payments -There, what do you think? All we got to do is sign a request I think he's leading us You all heard that hogwash. We can request but it doesn't mean Why shouldn't he though? Holding those papers for six months means The interest isn't important to him. He's already got more money He's land-hungry and wants our ranches. He brought in hired killers and now he's got our mortgage contracts. That's all he wants, our land! Take it easy, Rush. The trouble is that we're ranchers. We can push a plow, You're right. We aren't gunfighters. Why don't we hire some gunfighters? Come on, drink it all. Howdy? You are still around. What do you want? I came by to give you this book. You left it in the store this morning. Thief! That's chicken I prepared Hey. You might've killed me, Ms. Beatrice. You always put that much value You, pig it out! Well, take your book. By the way, I'm glad to say that I know Good. Go and try it with your fat sidekick. He's not my type, really. He won't shave in the evening. I heard your cattle were drinking If that happens again, Rush, Is that so? You can tell Decovan that all of us here are coming into town Well, well. Look at who's become a part Tell me now, stranger, what message Rush is right. Are you going to offer me any? Yes or no? Help yourself. Now get out of here. You're trespassing. O'Connor! As ramrod, I hold you responsible. I let you hire the men The sheriff has a warrant out for him. They'll have him in jail tonight. No one will make an idiot out of me, That's so, well, I disagree. One man's testimony is hardly enough, You know that story so why should it be considered enough even if you do own the sheriff? Better watch what you're saying, mister. Why don't you hear We will at the trial. When will you hold the trial, Sheriff? When Decovan thinks his son I might say that both my husband and we both feel the responsibility I wish I'd had the place in the occasion Jim, put him in the cell at the end. Is this a private discussion, What do you want, Rush? Just doing my duty. I want to testify that this man Anderson, Clark, They were there too. Good day, Sheriff. All right. Sign at the bottom. You know Decovan You should tell your daughter My daughter isn't for sale, It won't be a Decovan. Hard-headed old mule. -Calm down, dear. It's not really his fault. You heard what the sheriff said. Three against one I need a top gunslinger. I already know who, Shoshena. That was very clever of you, partner. Everything is planned and you go What does she want, huh? I'll tell you Wait for me in the saloon. You are a gentleman, sir. By the way, Why don't you go over to the bank, Nothing can give me more pleasure but I'm afraid I can't. See, the sheriff has ordered me -I could get that order changed easily. Yes, I believe you, I'm really sorry. I must say I'll be sorry to see you go. Yes. -Two whiskeys. -Make that three. Well, you see how things are. We need a couple of men Don't look at us, we're not interested. Hear me out. We can pay a couple of thousand. Make it five. Too much, we aren't rich. Of course, the others are meanwhile. Don't bother. We couldn't accept, That business! Well, think about it. If you change your mind, -So long. Watch my back. Barkeep, give me another whiskey. No. Clean this one up first, mister. Okay, I'm not proud. Stop. No, no. Use your tongue. Lick it up, mister. Did you hear that, Jaguar? My watch. Hold it! What the hell's going on? All right, now, how did this mess start? I spilled my drink. -I'm not here to joke. I know nothing, Sheriff. Naturally, nobody knows nothing. I already told you, I don't like your kind in my town Jaguar. Come on, let's go. Jaguar? Excuse my friend, Jaguar? Come on now, Jaguar, Vamos. Thanks for all your help. Just a moment, when you're at work, right? What's more is, He's a gunfighter. Very funny. Damn combination. Going around and in circles. Right in bad luck. -What'd you say? I can't hear you. We're right in bad luck. Do you want to make me deaf, you idiot? It's just the last number If you ask me, I'd put some sticks Imbecile. What'd you say? You're an imbecile. Decovan's gunmen are still out there. I'm not surprised, They've got three rifles Two bullets will be enough. One for you and one for me. -Two bullets? Eureka! We've just about done it. A sight for sore eyes. You fat, idiotic, useless, dumb, Yes, I know. No noise, you're right. In that case, don't make any noise or when I twist your stupid head off No noise. I'm quiet. -We can try to open it again, can't we? You're right, we better go, it's 5:30. I saw nothing. -You didn't deem value dreaming. Well, what do you make of it, Sheriff? I don't know but it's strange It makes me think they were amateurs. Hardly. I had three men on guard all night We are entirely surrounded by idiots. I only hired one idiot, but you've got 20 or 30 on your team. A month goes quickly. All we have to do is wait for the ranchers -Then the night after they do, we go in. Tell me though, So you can close -That could have happened to anybody. You've lost your share in this venture. Thirty days will go by Yes, but how's a man We better pawn some -What'll they give us for this? I'd rather sell my horse. Ride your watch. How about that proposition of Rush's? What'd you say we look into that? Yes, it's very well out there. That's 2,000 dollars. Just do us a favor Eggs, what do you mean? Chicken eggs, dumb-dumb. Full house. Aces on nines. -Do you always win? -Aren't you going to eat your dinner? Darn if I can make you out. You've done nothing but worry since the minute you came here. That's how I stay alive. I'm sorry about that. -What was that? I'm going outside. Raise you two. What have you got? Two pair. I'm sorry. It isn't possible. How did you do it? This has been going on all evening. Keep trying, your luck will change. -Really? What? This game is called &quot;I wish I wasn't here.&quot; What do you know, something went wrong. Let's try this one again. No. It still isn't right. Kind of fun, isn't it? It would be if we changed places. Yes? You're still spunky, aren't you? You son of a... I'm getting dizzy. Stop! You want to play no more. -Say you're sorry. He's polite, isn't he? Now get your butt out of here, You see, I'm not concerned What took you so long? My horse is afraid of the dark, stupid. Let's go. -Where's Betty? Come to daddy. -Evening, Betty. Hey, what is it? Put me down. You violent, let go of me! More trouble, huh? You can't face parking up like this. I'll remember this. Dad bring coyote. I'm going to report you This is a violation of our constitution. You tell him, Gramps. You pups are guilty of depriving Simmer down, I didn't mean it's the dollar I want, If it's a matter of getting but you're relaxing, How did your little job turn out? Thirty. -Your share is not much. The sight of ill-gotten gains Not me, it doesn't. If you're looking Hey, here's to those. -Two of the best. Do you want to drink down here I'll leave it up to you, Jaguar. -You're called Jaguar, really? Boy, if I ever have kids, Not for me. I think this calls -What do you say? Come on, naughty. It's time to celebrate in private. Come on, join us. -Who is it? Mrs. Decovan, Open up. We'll leave the squirt alone. I think business needs. Yes, I'd much prefer that too, It took so long, Well, come on. The key. Don't make me out of fool to my father. He'll know. The best thing would be to move Should anyone take the bank, all they'll get their hands on Damn good idea. The best thing would be to move Should anyone take the bank, all they'll get their hands on Damn good idea. What about me handling this transfer? That much money has a habit It's fine with me. I'll invite you for dinner, -Okay? -Goodnight. There's no reason to panic, How social? This evening, some of your hired nannies and I thought I'd return the visit. That social. -Was my boy there? Not that I recall. However, I feel that any illness that Lohsman a Decovan could catch too. Right, Jaguar? -I'm just watching your back. Yes, in person, Decovan. Now it appears seeing you isn't nearly as hard Wait. How much is Lohsman paying you guys? -A couple of thousand. I'll just offer you double that. Well, you're offering Grab it. However, to the wrong men. You don't know what you just threw away. -Yes, 4,000 dollars. Seventy-four thousand dollars. Sheriff! Just go in and tell him it's a deal, For all heck, it was his proposition. Yes, but I refused the first time. Changing our minds We've got to work it so the buzzard The Samsons do spell trouble. They cutting a path They've taken three banks since Monday. I think I'll swear in No, they're unstoppable, I'm only warning you, take whatever precautions Yes, I'll give it plenty of thought. I'm not the kind who favors rushing things Hey, be careful, Sanesan, will you stop? Beatrice, why are you in such a state? Please, Shoshena, my father They're out for blood. Can't you do something to stop it? The acquisition Law and order are hell, We don't deny it, but the Bank of Dallas was willing In a pig's eye, Rush, he wants our land You idiots can't win, I'll ruin you and send you to prison, What are we waiting for, -Let's stick them up. The first one to move Put down your guns. Come on, you heard me. Dammit, whose side are you on? Decovan has the law on his side and I just happen to like Does that answer your question? I guess my first impression I know a good chicken thief. A two-bit gun would sell To hell with it! I'm much obliged, Shoshena. You should be since me I believe I offered you Well, I'll improve on that. I'll pay you boys six to work for me. Deal? Yes, that's what I call a fair deal, Deal. An advance. Yes, with 20% for you. What is 20% of 74,000? -I just heard now that you were leaving. I gave back the cash to your father. Well, I guess I was wrong. I never thought anyone could buy you. I'm sorry. Every man has his price, miss. It's one of the facts of life. You've hurt her feelings. Bad feelings do no good, They'll be here a few days till we know So don't give them any trouble. They got sparks. -Did we get a bunk with him? Don't worry, they won't hurt you. Do we sleep together? Hell no. You snore fit to wake the dead. -All right, I can manage it. Double the guard at the bank, O'Connor. Charlie and Annie can take it from now, Sure thing, I'll do it right away. I guess the study window Would you pour us Now the Samson gang can attack the bank I know you don't like to use your fist but it's useful sometimes without making a lot of noise. You don't know No. I think it's time you began learning. -Come on, put your hands up. Of course not, I'll not hurt you, Now, put on a real fighting face, Jaguar. That face wouldn't frighten Now defend yourself! No, wait a minute, Now you see that? Hit it, come on! You amaze me. Am I interrupting anything? Shoshena, would you mind coming with me? I wouldn't mind at all. Now listen, Jaguar, I want you to time how long it takes Yes. Don't burn the table. Where are we going? It's surprise, Crazy. This is my room in here, and naturally, my husband's as well. This one is your room, what do you think? I like it. Tell me though, In case one night I can't sleep, I know I can go next door What if your husband wakes up? He always drinks a glass so you needn't worry. I never realized When I'm distracted, I can put my sleeping pill I'm betting that how easy you can be distracted Who told you about O'Connor? Male intuition. I can't stand this loneliness, There's nothing here. Your friend, O'Connor, Is that's what you mean? Have you ever thought of eloping? One of these nights, we must discuss it. Why not tonight? How about midnight? I am very happy you've decided Talking about work, we're on duty soon, I'm glad to see you so conscientious. I must apologize but your expert services I must say, One who's been granted his last wish. Jaguar, don't be bashful, It might be the last meal you'll get. I feel like puking now. Do you know the gang? -Yes, he worked for them. What I've heard is, all five what's her name, Belle Starr. A bunch of real bastards, I like your sense of humor. There used to be six of them, but the eldest brother -He was the roughest of the lot. What, don't tell me You met him, Jaguar, you killed him. -Is that so? He's modest, that's all. Now this watch here is quite famous. It originally belonged Jaguar took it off the body. Anyhow, the rest of them and kill him Jaguar here just laughs at them. In fact, seeing as you say that way they'll have a chance Over my dead body. Come on. &quot;I am at the bank It's the money. Mortgages. Give me the dynamite. The candle. When will it explode? Three hours, you can check if you like. -Is that watch of yours working? You're so sensitive about it. It won't wake him up. -Relax. The pill, in his milk. It worked. Are you sure I'm sure. I spent two weeks sheltering in here I was snug as a bug, and that snow was bad, There was a northeast wind Okay, I believe you, Snow up to your butt. Listen, Shoshena, We got the money, If we leave now, they'll know we did it. -They won't if we leave afterward? When that charge of dynamite blows, As long as we're there, However, if we run for the border, and they'll come after us. If you say so, Will you recognize him, Aaron? The thing with Shoshena, Keep your hands off it. It looks like -Why, we're almost there? Stagbert, but don't you understand? This money is out of the bank, When do we meet the rest of the boys? They'll join up with us just before sunup. Do you all remember Mama's commandments? &quot;Never kill for only a little gain &quot;Show only the respect &quot;Money corrupts folks, May Mama be with us always, amen. -We'll be on vacation for one month. We're to make an effort to behave -It's okay by me. This will make the boys happy. You think so, huh? Whoever drew next, relief is on. Jaguar is still waiting at the bank. Seventy-four thousand dollars. I've been robbed. You, O'Connor, Nobody would've got past your men We were here Then how did they manage it? They wired up the dynamite Then after the explosion, and just walked out? How do you know Because I left my valise here -I have an idea. It's possible and then exploded the dynamite later Sheer stupidity, How'd they have opened it I put the pill Let's pull out here together. Are you telling me you want to do it? I understood it was involuntary I wasn't distracted, and I don't like people Beautiful, big house in Dallas, Theater and horse racing. The world's a beautiful thing. -It's quite a bargain. Jaguar? Jaguar? Jaguar? Where the hell is he? Jaguar? Hey! Jaguar! Wake up! How did the bottle get there? Come on, for Pete's sake, let's go. Someone robbed the bank. On your feet. If this is your idea of a joke, you better have a hell -Where have you hidden the valise? If you know what's good for you, Just give me a straight answer. Now where's that valise? It's where I said. Take a look, Jack. Are you trying to make a monkey out of me? Why don't you go to hell? You wake me up You ask me where my valise is. Well, I told you, You know I could help you Seventy-four thousand dollars. You'll stop laughing soon enough. All right, let's go. All right, what's the matter, A man who gets too excited Seventy-four thousand dollars. That deserves a certain amount Move. Why go through all this pain? What are you waiting for, a miracle? Listen. I'll make a deal with you, Shoshena. We'll split the money between us equally. There are seven of us here. That'll give us Go to hell. Jaguar and I are ready I won't tell you, never. Is he right, Sure. -You know what's said in the old country? It's better to have the egg today Double yolk you mean, huh? The egg's worth Goose that laid a golden egg. I cook no goose. No more yolks, I mean jokes. You aren't thinking Tell him where it is, -You wouldn't kill me now, would you? Right here. When you're heading toward Dallas, Are you sure, No, it's a canyon. Shit. Just a second. There, that's better. Where was I? -Holy cow! When a ship's sinking, the rats. You're just wasting your time. I've swallowed but now I'm all through. All because we found one Sure, how'd you guess? Just call it intuition. His time will come. Shoshena is no one's fool, Well, good luck, George. I have to admit, I had you all wrong. You're almost a genius. How did you manage that letting that rope loose and bags of grains falling? -I only look stupid. I do use my brain sometimes I spent eight whole years Good man, you learned everything Ross. Ricky. Joel. They're like that, looks like Why don't you look? Go on. Guess what? Jackass, dumbbell, the perfect, The spot where nobody would ever find it. You idiot! I'm sorry, sir. Wait a minute, we haven't been beaten yet. -Never say die. It's a sure bet they've gone Go on, start helping yourself. Make sure what you take Yes, sir. They have no idea that whoever hid -Come on, shake a leg, move it, let's go! -Hurry up, I said. Rest in peace. The Samsons are here in town I want some of the hands to mount up and ride out of town. The others are to stay here, Those brothers will go down in history. Time's come, my friend, for us -Get ready. Let me tell you, when Jaguar gets ready No bullet's in it. Maybe you could lend me a couple? How do you like that? I swear you left them on purpose Thanks. Have you ever noticed if you get it That's very clever. All right, let's get near the inn. Here rides the answer to all your prayers. He's got the valise. Hey, you. -Who, me? Put down the valise and step aside. -What should I answer, brothers? Drop your guns in the name of the law. -As Mama always said fools rush in. -Kind of fun, isn't it? Don't get yourself killed now, Why would I do that, Four, what if we move out? I'm not even mad at me anyhow, I'm a nice guy. -For God's sake, can you shut up? -I'm a nice guy. There isn't any doubt now. Now, look, you will be all right. You are a real Decovan. Do you have any idea It is? It's because That is, the only two left Oops. I've got to see a man about a dog. For Pete's sake, can't you wait? -Go over against the wall there. Catch. Caught. -Dagobert? -Balthazar? Horus? -Horus? -Aaron? -Then the valise? He is talking about me. Are you sure it was him? Yes, I recognize him Yes, really? Well, you know how it is Check the time. It stopped. Jaguar? I'll hang you with your own guts. Hell no, let me hang him first, They split up looks like. You better use that gun Where are you going? -Aaron? Dagobert? Balthazar? Dagobert, Balthazar? Shoshena? I've been hit. I can't move. The valise is in the blacksmith. Take it and get out here. It's a trick, It's a trick. It's me, Jaguar, you can come out now. -Dagobert? Two against one, let's make a deal. -If you want to join them. I want to send him to his mama There's the valise, go pick it up. What kind of a deal? Only one thing is wrong. I don't know where he is, but if you can find him, you can have him. Your family is holding a reunion Hey, Jaguar, the show's over. I'll be right down, Shoshena. Nimble as a jaguar. How many did you get? All right, let's go find us a drink. We should ride out soon Hey, there's no one here. Serve ourselves then. Let's drink and get out of here. -That's your bottle. Okay. Twenty percent is, let me see, It's 14,800 to be exact. We just came in but we've just seen his body -Yes, the town's like a cemetery, right? Do you mind, I'm having a whiskey -Get their belts. What is it that we've done You arrived in this town -You joined up with that dog, Decovan. What's all this talk for? We came here to hang them. Thanks, Beatrice. Shoshena, this isn't fair. Why don't you volunteer to go first? Seventeen half-inch collar, oh Lord! Wait a moment, how much money What in the hell do you care? Wasting our time won't help you. How much is it? Thirty thousand dollars. -In this valise. Not that cash. Right here, there's enough cash and more. However, you better understand one thing. It's stolen money. Now I realize that I'm tempting all of you and all of you have to live Perhaps I should tell you He's a man you can't buy, for let's say ten dollars, or double that amount or even triple it. What if he was offered, or to make doubly certain, or 30. It really doesn't matter. It really doesn't matter There you are, honest men, 74,000 dollars. Final offer. Why are you all standing like that? Take it. -From local. These are the local ones, these men here. We are lucky to get away. You gave them my 20% as well. Twenty percent of a noose around your neck Yes, where are we heading to? I don't know but we can find safes Wait a second, I have to tell you, I knew that right from the beginning. Hell, you aren't even a pussy cat. Well, I don't know how to hit a man. I'm not a gunfighter or anything. I don't see I can be of any use to you. Right, you're not, but this watch here of yours is, this here is, this is my real honest-to-God partner.