You've heard how effective EMDR is for trauma, Almost sounds like magic. And yet maybe you've also heard from some worse, particularly if they had complex PTSD. Now, how horrible would it be to go for therapy By the end of this video, you will know whether EMDR can help and what you can do about it. Now, if you're new to my channel, my name I'm a psychotherapist who specializes in anxiety I started this channel to bring more people and trauma. And if you support the work that I'm doing, Give me a like on this video and comment below So, can EMDR help complex PTSD? Does it make things worse? Does it make things better? Have you heard things about EMDR that feel Well, stay tuned. So first I will briefly review what PTSD is Second, I have a few tough questions for you to moving forward with this process. And third I'll explain the best practices who has complex PTSD. And lastly, I'll mention a few things that So, what is post-traumatic stress disorder, Well, PTSD is a cluster of symptoms that can something am I going to come back to a little to talk about the definition of trauma when you might have it and the cluster of symptoms I'm going to show you a slide - here are intrusion in cognition, which are thoughts and negative And generally, when people talk about complex symptoms. So posttraumatic stress disorder can be diagnosed And then there also are other diagnoses of So generally dissociation is a key piece of So, dissociation can be depersonalization, or one's thoughts, feeling as if we're in or feeling a sense of time moving very slowly. And then there is also the category of derealization real, the world around you is a dream is very So those are dissociative symptoms that can will be considered complex PTSD. And then there are also dissociative experiences For example, dissociative identity disorder multiple personality disorder where somebody parts. And I also want to say about dissociation So, there are some dissociative experiences people have the once in a while, for example, out, you're not paying attention. That's a little bit dissociative, but generally, rather than a disorder. And then dissociative symptoms go all the multiple personality disorder, which would And I also just want to throw in here that are treatable conditions. These are not your fault and these are not it's because something wrong happened to you. And that's very important to understand what response to it. Factors that contribute to complex PTSD include and physical abuse, sexual abuse as a child And then the warning signs in terms of the symptoms - extreme swings in mood, extreme numb. Almost the opposite of the extreme swings of being numb. And here is where I'd like to come back to DSM five. The DSM five is the guideline of how people It's published by the American psychiatric psychologists come up with their diagnoses. And in the DSM five the definition of trauma, to actual or threatened death, serious injury the traumatic event or witnessing in person that the event occurred to a close family or extreme exposure to aversive details of So, for example, if you are a psychotherapist policeman, you might get what we call vicarious However, missing from this definition is one stress disorder almost more than anything And that is childhood neglect. So, I will have clients who have complex post-traumatic hit me when I was a kid. I was never sexually abused. Because neglect is actually almost like an Ongoing situations of neglect as a child really, relationship to the world. Children need the love and caring attention So, with pure neglect, you may not be given but in my experience, it would apply. So the second thing I said I would talk about really necessary if you are considering moving important to be really honest with yourself honest with the therapist and the things to self-harming behaviors? Two, are you drinking too much, taking opiates, And benzodiazepines are very commonly prescribed they can be very addictive. Are you suffering from bulimia or Anorexia Trauma treatment will be very complicated safe and that's any trauma treatment, whether because it's very important to be able to safety. And if you're not living in an emotionally very difficult to do. So, if you have answered yes to any of those You and your therapist can focus on changing programs can be very, very helpful. Eating disorder programs, domestic violence that can help all of these things, but they of EMDR. As I mentioned in my video. How does EMDR work? EMDR is a comprehensive technique. It is not just the bilateral stimulation, attention. So there really are many other elements of and with complex post-traumatic stress disorder. So in addition to talking about those tough should do two things with you prior to beginning And one of those is to make sure that you This is a visualization exercise which EMDR the client can visualize being somewhere safe that go with it. And I actually have a small mini-course that If you're interested, you can access that The other thing that EMDR protocol says to is a dissociative evaluation is really to So your therapist should be speaking with have and how severe they are and how you guys So, some of the best EMDR protocols for someone include the following positive reinforcement Your therapists can work with you on positive you've had in your life and really reinforce So that's a very important stabilization phase Working with relaxation techniques, again Those are things you can do with your therapist. And there are also things you can do on your Emotional regulation techniques, learning we call it up-regulate when you need to sort when you need to calm down. Because we learn best when we are within an So if our normal mood is like this, that's When we get too anxious, excited, hyper, we're And when we get too depressed, when we are So our brains are not going to be able to memories into a more adaptive memory mode So working on techniques to be able to regulate And establishing a safe and secure relationship is very important. Other protocols that an EMDR therapist can degree of dissociation. And this is something that would be great about it. So some therapists will use a technique where you now? Like this would be like, I'm here, I'm 100% And here. Like, no, I'm disappearing. And sometimes I can tell when a client is I really can't tell so on these or pause to whoa, they're beginning to sort of disappear And then we can use some grounding techniques. Grounding techniques are really important the moment. So there are other EMDR protocols that often called the conference room parts work moving I could go on and on about this stuff, but with complex post-traumatic stress disorder If a therapist and a client moved too quickly dissociative symptoms and complex post-traumatic and incredibly difficult for the client. In which case often the client will drop out might really sort of decline in terms of their So with dissociative symptoms, you want to So what steps can you take? One is to find an EMDR therapist with experience and association. Next is to be willing to stay the path, be This will not be a super-fast course of treatment. Know that in between sessions you may feel with your therapist and come up with tools sessions. When you're in the middle of processing something, and having trust in your therapist is key. If you don't trust your therapist, it probably Now again, people with complex posttraumatic like they can trust anyone. So there is really a discretion that you'll therapist trustworthy? Are my feelings of not trusting this therapist just don't feel comfortable with this therapist So that's an important piece for you to figure Therapists can't help you if you hide information not tell me something for long, long periods It's part of that building trust, but that And when that happens, I don't fully have about which directions we take or what advice to heal and to feel better. So I truly hope that this video has helped EMDR can work for complex post-traumatic stress And if you have any questions about this at Or you can go to my website and then email Please share this video with a friend if you helpful for them. And please give me a like and comment below. And I look forward to seeing you the next