We are the best possible citizens DACA has been used to string us along. DACA is a temporary and partial status. You can't achieve legal status with DACA. And that's your entire purpose These immigrants in the U.S. are known as DREAMers. They are the children of undocumented grown up in the United States. And for decades, In 2012, they got DACA. The Obama-era DACA program but it protected them from deportation legally in the U.S.. And many thought it would later Many of them, are no closer to citizenship Because it's not a full integration That's why my love for America has really turned into anger. And over the last few years, several times in U.S. courts. Meaning DACA recipients are at risk I can't wait anymore. I am breaking free from here If you're not wanted in a place, I think that's you know, It's my 37th birthday and my brother's 31st birthday, and we are coming together as a family to celebrate. We are throwing a barbecue. Just a small celebration. Just the family. We come from Colombia. We came to Miami in 1998. My parents are undocumented. As far as DACA, Montse is my girlfriend. We have been together for eight years. She's my best friend. She also has DACA. And she's a DREAMer as well. I wouldn't leave without her. We've been together for now almost nine More adulting. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm also excited The more kind of common story of DREAMers in their late thirties, early forties, with their lives, who are anxious The thought of leaving the United States In 2001, We met a group of young people who, were innocent in the decision despite their undocumented status, presidents, great contributors They were the embodiment And their movement was centered a piece of legislation that would For the past 23 years, Act have been proposed in Congress, Despite an overwhelming majority President Obama's they ever got to a DREAM Act. DACA is inarguably the most successful of immigrant integration Yet the limitations of DACA are as salient as the benefits. In 2017, saying it was an act of executive But in 2020, the Supreme Court ruled That kept DACA but it closed the program Thank God it didn't go through, and once This sparked a years-long battle have questioned This uncertainty has drawn bright lines around their lives and it has compelled them to perhaps What might lie ahead for them? What might be possibilities for them outside the United States? If the very little that we have achieved right now is going to be taken away, Nobody really lives that way. DACA has been used to, like, We can't move past a certain point. I can't wait till I'm 37 to potentially start my life. When it comes to self deportation. It's not so negative. It's not someone kicking you out anymore. It's you saying, "I'm kicking myself out. I'm leaving on my own terms." As of right now. My target country is Germany. So it's more than just picking a country It's their laws and their customs. If it comes to Germany, I would need to learn the language. To be able to be accepted into Germany, you need to have a level of a little bit I myself, I think back to when I became fluent in English because when I came to this country, I, "Hello, How are you? Fine, thank you. And you?" You know, that's it. Nothing fluent or native, so it's going to be the same process It's just going to come. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because these are all things go from ideas, abstract ideas that don't exist, Leaving your family, leaving a country that has been my home, um, for years into a different culture, It's not, it's, it's not something simple. It's not something that it is it does feel like it's closer to us now. It is a little scary, enough to go through it, figure it out Obviously, You know, he's very, "Okay, Once we learn the language, And once we get certified, and then we're going to, you know, talk to our families." And I'm more like, We're going to be good. So I signed up for college because I want to get my nursing degree. I don't really have a career, because I couldn't go for certain kinds of careers because if I wanted to, for example, I need to be a citizen, And I still have to pay out of state, So it's twice So it made no sense for me to pursue it. Getting a degree that's going to show them that I am not coming in coming to make the country Since DACA started, it has been about And with every renewal You're proving that you are a law-abiding citizen, I mean, to me it's like, okay, I am following the laws, I am working, I am a student, What else? And I know he needs to continue While, for me it's more like, no, I am already being a good citizen. They need to be repaying me So I have to find a place that will So it's ultimately stepping into where I'll be free. So I just got my work permit in the mail. This is what I need in order to be able to work and get all the benefits It might not matter to the average person, but it makes all the difference to me. So the process of waiting for it to arrive and applying for it and everything, it's every two years and it's just as stressful as the last. But once I get it, it's So it's a good day today. Now to the new push In 2022, president Biden but a texas federal court ruled that It's like, okay, They're playing with us again. When is when is this going to end? The ruling is expected which would make it the third time that the nation's highest court hears They are very loud about not wanting us It's kind of confirmation for for me Hey Kim, good morning. uh. um. The thing is that He fell from a ladder and he hit his head and he broke his left wrist. But he's fine. He's doing well. He okay. They stitched him up and then. And he had surgery for his wrist yesterday My mom is with him. It's part of the reality that, you know, when I'm not here and I can't come back, no matter the emergency, Right now, I'm here and I'm able to bring them food or whatever they need or, you know, to do my job and school But if I'm not here, I don't have anyone, else that they can rely on. Because I know that that's I feel like we have had this conversation, about what it would be like Or maybe I changed my mind and he's the one that's ready to go. It would be hard. I, I know the kind of life if it doesn't happen with Sebastian, It does bring tears to my eyes that that would drift us apart. But I know the kind of life So if it ever came to that, I think we would just talk to each other And and that would be that, you know. But I am also a DACA recipient As soon as I boarded the plane to leave the United States, and the feeling of honestly having failed because I was abandoning my family, I was giving up the American dream. And when I stepped off the plane and I met the border officer I felt physically lighter. And I can only say I ever made in my life. I did get the freedom and I want that for every DREAMer in the United States. I got to visit my home in Mexico again. I'm still in school. I have a job that I like. I have health insurance. I can go to the doctor when I'm sick. And here, I could work without any worry about having to renew And I realized maybe I had been taught by something that was abusing me and taking advantage of my labor To the people who are in the early stages of self-deporting. I would love to say that it's going to be easy, but it is not. It is going to be the hardest thing It's going to be painful to leave family. It's going to be painful to leave home. And I know that you wanted to be American. I did too, But go out there because I am 100% sure that you will attain excellence anywhere you go. I feel that overall, we both feel So we're both on the same page on the Hey Kim, not much of an update, but I made a, I made a German friend through Facebook and he's very cool. He's he--we have a lot in common. Like Montse And so here is Danny. So that's Danny having a beer We talk at least once a week. It's absolutely important for me to have a friend Interestingly so that this then begins that parents and grandparents had to go through before