- [Narrator] You know that a message takes more than Well, it's hard to imagine today, but before the mid-19th century, sending news across the ocean could take weeks to arrive. Then, thanks to an incredible, yet mostly forgotten that gap was shrunk from weeks to seconds. A feat that kicked off the global age of instant communication that For most of human history, the only way to send a was to have it delivered in person. Which was limited by how The invention of the electric telegraph in the 1830s sparked a revolution. It allowed messages to be sent across wires as electrical pulses which could be translated into letters and words. Within a decade of its invention, thousands of miles of between major cities businesses, individuals, and the press. But there was still an How to send a signal thousands of miles across the vast Atlantic Ocean linking Europe and the Americas? In 1854, an ambitious, entrepreneur named Cyrus West Field was presented with a business opportunity, to connect a telegraph to Newfoundland which of news by ship from Field pushed the idea even further. What if the line could be extended all the way to Ireland, and then unto London which at the time was the hub of the global economy? Sensing that his project could Field was undaunted by He raised money from a including the British which also provided the necessary ships for laying the cable in exchange for top priority communication rights on the future telegraph line. Field also recruited some of the top engineers and scientists of his time to develop a cable durable enough to carry a signal thousands of Laying out the actual in the rough waters of the North Atlantic was no easy feat either, and in fact, the first two attempts failed when the cable snapped and sunk in the journey wasting investor money, dashing hopes, and causing widespread public Some of the criticisms were philosophical and eerily relevant today. Would instant access to information really makes us any happier or better off? Nevertheless, in August 1858, after over a year of disappointments, the two massive cable-laying ships successfully reached their destinations in Newfoundland and Ireland. Completing the connection that Field and others had prophesied. Once the line had been tested, an official message of goodwill was exchanged between Queen Victoria and U.S. President James Buchanan. Public celebrations erupted in sieges throughout the U.S. and of a new era of unification between the Old World and the new. It's hard to overstate how influential the so-called Electric Union was to the rapidly globalizing It meant that everything from stock and commodity prices, to a could now be shared immediately. It's no surprise that was widely heralded at human achievement in history, and Field himself became Although the first cable only functioned for a few months before going dead, it proved that a link was indeed possible. Within a decade, more reliable and sophisticated undersea cables were laid Throughout the 20th century, and technology continued to evolve as telephones eventually and the digital data eventually While the original only transmit a few today's fiber optic of terabytes of data in just seconds, and there are a lot of them, stretching close to and more cable was laid in almost two decades. Instead of brave entrepreneurs, now most new cables are being such as Amazon, Facebook, which collectively own or lease more than half of the undersea bandwidth. And although it seems that we live in a mostly wireless world, undersea cable still carry 99% of data traffic that crosses the oceans. So the next time you chat with someone on the other side of the world, keep in mind that it all by a visionary entrepreneur and his team, pulling off what was once that the genius of man ever contemplated.