You know, I'm one of these adults that actually still loves I loved them way back in the '80s and I still love them. And these days, I build LEGO with my kids And the reason that my love for LEGO has remained evergreen is, quite simply, that LEGO is a system with almost no barrier to entry. And I'm not only a LEGO dad, I'm also the CEO of GitHub. And if you don't know GitHub, you can think of it as the home of coding. It's where all the software developers, the chief nerds of our society, collaborate together. And it's part of our mission for every developer to build But in contrast to LEGO, the process of building software This all started to change when ChatGPT came along in late 2022. Now we live in a world where intelligent as much as we understand them. All because of language. And this will forever change Up until now, in order to create software, you had to be a professional You had to understand, speak sometimes nonsensical language Modern code still looks Here's an example. This, from the early 1940s, is the world's first computer called Plankalkul. It set the foundation for the modern And as you can see, it's a few numbers, some bubbles and some big-ass brackets. Not much humanity here, right? Flash forward about 20 years to the programming language called COBOL. COBOL was invented during but it remains an important language for many of our largest Wall Street, your savings account, all run on this today. And we see some familiar words here. But structurally, I think this doesn't Flash forward another 30 years to 1991, and we saw the birth of Python, one of the most popular In 80 years, we went to blips of English, and yet, we got nowhere near as close But then came June 2020, and we got early access then called GPT-3. It was COVID, we were all on lockdown, I remember we were We fed random programming exercises and like magic, it solved 93 percent of them We at GitHub recognized we had something and we quickly turned around called GitHub Copilot: an AI assistant that predicts for software developers. Copilot is now the most adopted The age of programming But the possibilities of the breakthrough went further than just Because the large language models are trained on a vast library they understand and interpret every major human language. They seem to get us. We have struck a new fusion between the language With Copilot, any person can now with a single written prompt. Goodbye to the bubbles This is the most profound since the genesis of software Today, there are over 100 million That's about one percent you know, plus-minus. I think that number is about to explode. And I want to show you why, We started it all with the original and it literally just predicted You can think of the editor as, you know, And when you have a doc open, what do I actually want to do? And I mentioned LEGO. So let's build a 3D So what developers do, you know, And so I typed in the JavaScript file, create a function to create a LEGO brick. And you can see here this gray text, This is coming from So now I can just press And I get another suggestion, Maybe we do that later. Or I can just do: function And here again you see ghost text And if I like what I'm seeing here, so I get into a mode I can just accept this. Developers love that, right? Because instead of writing ten lines or copy and pasting them they get them right in their editor. They can stay in the flow. Now what the OG Copilot didn't offer me I cannot ask questions, I cannot, you know, Last year we launched and you can think about it So I can open this up here in the sidebar. And now I can tell it to create with a 3D LEGO brick for me. Now you know, similar to ChatGPT, and it gives me not only some code but it actually gives me an explanation. You know, it starts writing code, you can see the comments It uses an open-source library And so you can kind of see here and people that want to learn development. And it ends, you know, Now I can go here, inspect that code, and I can actually push that button But I want to show you And you might have already seen I can use that to speak to Copilot. And I want to ask it, in German, that is on the left side in the editor. (Speaking German) Can you explain to me And now Copilot responds again, but it responds in German to me, right? So it says, if I loosely translate, &quot;Yes, of course, this JavaScript named 'drawLEGOBrick.'" So you get the idea here. A six-year-old in Berlin, can now explore coding or even having a technical background. (Laughter) I mean, you know. (Applause) Now what you also see how you put that all together, right? There's a lot of technical stuff here. I have code. I have I have to figure out so I can share with my friends. But here is my LEGO brick now. This is what it looks like if I've done all these steps you can see now it's a nicely I can actually use my mouse These are the anti-studs here, the studs, There's nice lighting effects. I can even zoom into this Now I don't want to do all this I just want to channel my creativity And so for the first time ever on stage, I'm going to show you a new product that does exactly that. So here is my workspace. And you can already see I can just see a task, And so now I have my LEGO brick, I want to now expand Stack the bricks in the shape And I can do that also in German But for now, let's stick with English. I can save my task. And now what happens is that Copilot and then describes what it proposes to me. Basically, it reframes my ask And so you can see here, you know, Some file names, of course, It's all describing it in English. I can actually go into this and edit it and can make changes to this line, or I can go down here and add another item if I feel like the plan I can go a step further and now an agent runs and figures out how do I need or, you know, do I need to add so you know it wants to add and call the "createLEGOHouse" afterwards. Looks good to me, so let's implement this. And now Copilot uses my task, my plan to write code for me. You can see here two files are queued, the public/legoBrick.js file and boom, there's already I didn't have to touch code, I didn't have to even know what code is. Now I see here now it imports and has written, you know, lots of code So you want to see what that looks like, So here's a button so I can do this. And now the bricks fall from the sky And you know, (Applause) Yes, thank you. This is all live, this is the power of streaming with natural language. Now one last thing. Thank you, Copilot, you have always to be nice to the AI. (Laughter) (Applause) Now, what you just saw were Three leaps that are more progress to the accessibility than we have made in the last 100. Remember how I said that one percent Now you can see how this will change. Copilot Workspace may still be but soon enough these kind of developer Because, going forward, every person, will also have the power to speak machine. Any human language is now the only skill that you need to start This will lead to a globalized groundswell and it will reshape the geography And because of this, I think by 2030, maybe even sooner, we will have more than one billion Think about that: 10 percent of the world's population but will also be able to create software just [as] if they were riding a bicycle. This will generate a new renaissance Now anyone here in this room a website, an application, a cool computer game, an amazing song, maybe even a cure for something. For example, last year, I built an app that tracks all the flights Now I know what you're thinking. What a freaking nerd, right? And yeah, it's true, And with the help of AI, now I can do this in English or in German before I even finish a glass of wine. And soon enough, this will be The floodgates of nerditude (Laughter) (Applause) Now this doesn't mean that everyone will become or even that they should. The profession of a professional is not going anywhere. There will always be demand the largest software systems in the world. We are adding millions of lines to ever more complex systems, and we are barely keeping up Like any infrastructure we need real experts The point here is not It's that anyone can. All because the most powerful any human language, is now fused to the language of a machine. And very soon, building software will be as stacking a LEGO. (Speaking German) Thank you very much. (Applause) Bilawal Sidhu: Gosh, I've got to say, makes GitHub sound more like YouTube Just super exciting. Got to ask you one question, perhaps the elephant in the room. Amazing talk. So you said the developer You also said, &quot;We've had three Fast forwarding a little bit, do you think humans will still or will these AI systems and maintain software? TD: You know, the way is that we called it Copilot for a reason. We need a pilot. We need a pilot that is creative, It's kind of like a LEGO set. You need to take this big problem into small building blocks. And for that, you need a systems thinker. You need a human that can figure out, Am I building an iPhone app? Am I building a cool computer game? Am I building the next Facebook? Those are very different systems. Now these building blocks, Today it's, you know, maybe a whole file, in the future, it might be So I get more work taken off my shoulders. But I'm still there, you know, And as I mentioned, you know, we're still So we have lots of work to do. BS: Absolutely. So we will be in charge at a higher level of abstraction. Thomas Dohmke, everybody, thank you. TD: Thank you so much.