I'm a LEGO animator, and in this animate impossible LEGO animations. From twisting minifigures to flying are definitely gonna be impossible. Anyway, let's begin animating. Running at the speed So, time to make When something moves at a blurred look in camera. Traditional animators have been to recreate that in animations. To do this with LEGO, we can This technique was actually make some characters move You put the brick blur behind like it's moving at super speed. I've used this technique several characters like Sonic the Hedgehog. You can also use it for the Flash. I built a couple of different The faster you want the figure I animated the figure running compare it with the faster one. And here's the one The minifigure runs across the I'd say that's quite fast. Another way to animate super figures in the same frame. So I got a bunch of You just replace the brick basically do the same job. Now I can make the figure at impossible speeds. But you know what isn't impossible? Hitting that subscribe button. I'm sorry. Let's move on. Separating two 2x2 plates is pretty much impossible. I have ruined many fingernails these pieces over the years. But there's a simple solution. Introducing the brick separator. The perfect tool for separating But one of them is not You actually need two to ruin your pieces. Place the brick separators and then press them together, Now, my plan is to animate this might ask, why not just film it? Well, I wanna add a twist which can't be done by filming. Now both of my hands will be on earth do I press the shutter Easy, with my feet. So I started animating and tiring to hold your hands still So I got these supports my life a little bit easier. Now for the twist in the animation. Once I managed to separate the held up with these long clear And when they fall back down, making the animation loop around. The perfect loop Well, now it does. This animation was incredibly You could even say it But I must say it was worth Next I want to animate a Now teleportation is a very sci-fi movies where you move from And it's unfortunately not possible But I can animate it You start with the figure a picture and then move the take a picture and oh wait. That was it? Well, that was easy. Too easy. And a little boring. So, let's do another version I'll add some wiggle to the But, I can still improve it. Teleportation in movies often want to recreate that with LEGO. But I can't just add the because that would be cheating. So I'm gonna try to with real LEGO pieces. To do this, I'm gonna take body parts in a way that makes smaller by switching the figure pieces until it disappears. And then just do the reverse where Now we have a teleportation But there's one thing missing. The teleporter. So I built this simple and animated the figure I think that'll do it for Moving on. One of my favorite things in the the characters can build stuff. Unfortunately, it's impossible for can't actually move in real life. So next up, I wanna animate a like a true master builder. And since I want a minifigure build super speed techniques from earlier the YouTube logo out of LEGO. I drew some bricks on the base multiple minifigures and the give the figure the illusion think it turned out really nice. The average person Meanwhile, the average LEGO So I animated the Now that's not very high. So, another superpower I want But how do you animate a LEGO You can't just stick it in the Thanks to gravity, You need to hold it I like to use some LEGO bricks. And then stick the figure and between each frame, I'll to make the tower taller. Once I'm done animating the I'll make a tutorial on sure you're subscribed. I also made an animation of the and I used this very satisfying to hold up the figure in the air. Here's the animation. Front flips and back I know they aren't impossible. There are many that can do definitely impossible. But what I can do instead doing a sick flip. It's done just like the figure spins in the air. That turned out pretty good. Let's see if he can do Not bad. Next up, I want to And flying is of course If you have an airplane. But this figure doesn't. So I'm gonna animate the LEGO by making it fly on its own. Just like Superman. And we can use the same the jumping animations to Here's the rig I used to It's made up of these ball flexibility in the animation. Anyway, here's the animation. That turned out surprisingly animating flying just yet. If I pop out the arms of a this, I can make the minifigure So, I made this silly little flying away like a bird. Now for my favorite animations Trick shots can seem insane precision and luck. So I chose a few trick shots First of all, the I got this LEGO bottle piece and then animated the flip. I then wanted to animate one of So I got this 1x1 stud to built this tiny course for it. I then animated the ball bouncing Next, I animated a And since I didn't have a LEGO using the plastic ring found below And I must say, it fits perfectly. This throw took a really long Here it is. I've seen some cool archery So I wanted to do that as well. I found this LEGO bow and arrow pieces as balloons for targets. Then I animated the arrow balloons in a single shot. By the way, I used LEGO flower effect of the balloons. Here's the animation. Moving on from trick shots. LEGO minifigures can do something and that is detaching body parts. So LEGO minifigures can just pop up And it looks really funny animated. Also, if I rotate the legs 180 walking, I end up with a question. Is this minifigure walking Let me know in the comments. One of my favorite animations minifigure animation. So I wanted to take this a step and then twisting it. And LEGO figures are solid and not But you can use jumper plates build, so I'm gonna use this I got a whole bunch of 1x2 colors as the minifigure, and Now I have this figure that's that I can twist like this to So, I animated the animation out really, really good. Enjoy! Cutting LEGO in half with a but I can do it, and have done By switching a LEGO piece I can make cutting LEGO look And I actually made a bunch of LEGO videos, which you should definitely Anyway, that's all the impossible Feel free to comment ideas Thanks for watching!