My mom was a pediatric nurse and and so she didn't have anybody to, like, She would just like, bring me, you know, to work with her, There was a lot of kids there and then they would eventually die over And that was my life. And and all the other nurses were like, psych that like, So they'd always give me jobs to do my main job was delivering which breaks my mind now. Like, now, in order to touch blood a space suit, you know, They just like, and they just handed me a hot bag of blood My parents were born the same year next door They grew up knowing each other when they were like 14 and their their relationship you know, just weeping all the time like a sadder version of Cupid, that would just deflect off of every woman You understand? You think being ghosted is bad? Try not getting a response and over again. What do you think has to happen in a person's life to make them want to buy eyelashes for their car? Like who hurt you? Did a car hurt you? Yeah. It'll never hurt me again. Who is the audience for this? Is it for the driver's amusement? Do they walk up to their car still a face? Sometimes and then just some guy like her friend's boyfriend. I don't know this man. I don't want to talk to this man, but he's at the table It's a lot like trying to get two dogs My wife, she's like, Ryan, Ryan? Ryan. That's Andrew, Andrew's also a man, Yeah. He's a good boy. He's a good boy. You're a good He got on my high school days. There's something wrong with the water. I want to be really, really confident tonight. I wish I had the confidence He just crosses the road You know, these guys, Not even care about cars. They'll get a car, a smack. You know these guys, I got a little head and a big ass walking across the highway in peak hour, often accompanied by a weird mate. Come on, boy. I know like that. I'm not like you. I'm really insecure. I've actually never I've still never. I've actually never crossed the road ever in my life. I've still never. I live on top of this building. I've never been across Anzac Parade. I long to go. I want to go to Sydney Boys High School, I want to go to the Sydney Girls I just want to see what everyone's up to. Is that wrong? Is it illegal This is exciting. I saw a woman wearing a T-shirt Wow. How about that? Sam Campbell rules. But then I looked underneath it said, Rule I don't want him going anywhere near Rule three Capture him. Put him in a good high rules theocracy. This is a vicious industry. I'm not well liked on the comedy scene. They don't like me. They hate my guts. Well, they resent my faith. I've heard them talking about me. Yeah, These comedians think they saw I know what they're saying. here he comes. The God Bonura. I beg your pardon? What does that even mean? God, you think I'm bothering God? If I'm bothering him so much, upon the cross to forgive my everything? I don't think I'm bothered him. I think he loves me unconditionally. All of these good God is really good. He likes me. All day I've been practicing my routines. I try out all my stuff on my guinea pig on the cage, give it to a beautiful But my guinea pig only likes My guinea pig like to talk topical gags. I think it's because I line his cage So does renovations on the opera House. Got anything on that one? Some in the animals drink up guinea pig drinks down from a sort of long metal tease. Will we ever understand the world of rodents? Remember that mouse, Scientists go the mouse. They grow a human ear on its back. Get this. That mouse just turned 15. It wants to get the ear pierced. It wants to get a whooping, But Tamara, she's a bad influence. That's why they put a bit of a human Sometimes I put an entire human What about these jockeys? Have you seen them? Do the jockeys undermine them? A lot of jockeys come to my shows. They don't get any recognition. The horses steal all of the limelight. It's got to be frustrating. At the end of the race, Razzle Dazzle you here and Gavin. Come on. I was involved. Hey, who's that little fellow Don't worry about him. He's not important. I like your shirt. What is that? It was a jumper. What is that? Is it shirt as a hoodie? I was going to say none of it's. What's it, Vetements? is that Vetements? Is that of course, with the vitamin and a a veteran, real veterans probably like to have vitamins. After all I've been through, It's a good thing we've got to de-stigmatize crowd What? I'm trying to talk to this lady. You think I like a stupid fucking hoodie? Like the last hoodie? I never say I hate I'm going to kill you. If I could, I'd kill everyone here. I've got a grenade in my rucksack. You don't want to turn up to heaven You want to walk out with a crazy. So, Peter, we've got a party of 150. I don't know if you can tell, but I went to get a kick out this week. I needed a spare key I went down to the shopping center kiosk. A friend of mine is coming I was like, I've got to get this key card. I need this key. I took my key off the key ring. I wanted to have it ready. I accidentally left I went down there. I didn't have the key. I said, I'm sorry. I forgot the key. This key cut out, It was remarkable. He said, Just describe it to me. I said, Well, it's very much in your classic style. Beginning at the tip of the key. It goes up, down, Much going on up, down, up, down. I see any loose, up, down, up, down. Strong finish. He made this key. It was amazing. I mean, it didn't work, but the fact that he gave it a crack, it's tough being a key cutter. It's not easy. Cotton keys. You can't make an honest You can't feed a family, cutting keys. Go to a careers adviser Of course, I know it's not going to happen sets, watches, do custom engravings Yeah. What? A lot of Swiss army knives with a narrow team That's why I've been thinking which is a slightly different thing. I know it's tough to people My mum and I go, I don't know. He just passed through an empty can at me. I'm hesitant, I'm hesitant. The last time I got a haircut, I didn't enjoy it. I one of these unfaithful barbers. My barber had something of a wandering on. He's cut my hair. He says, Son, I said, I'm putting together He said, Yeah, right. What about you? He's totally agog in the haircut, That's not allowed. That's not appropriate at all to make this guy this year who goes this weekend. Yeah, I'm going out on the golf course. My gosh. Says golf. I can't believe you like. I myself am an avid golfer. I start talking all about golf. I said, excuse me, I exist. What do you play playing up? You know, go diagonal. You go down there, you're not a bishop, you're a rock. I didn't know you could feel while someone is And they wouldn't from the floor. So give me some of that thought. And I said, I said, That's broader. I got yellow to show recently. This guy goes, Hey, buddy, I was like, Whoa, easy there, big fella. And look, you know, I'm not one of those guys. That's totally cool. But if you are, just shut up. You're not a hero. Just ruining a show. Just be offended. You just feel it, right? Yeah. Don't share. We don't care. Just feel. Yeah, we all have thoughts. I might want to sleep I just hold it in and I'll say, Yeah, Or so obsessed with words We've got to focus on words. You know, like in the seventies, Like you want to show you're brave 12 busses on a motorcycle. Now I see a guy buying an off color I'm like, That guy's fucking fearless. yeah. Wow. Yeah. People take things so seriously. I guess they got to show you their personality by yelling at you I don't know. Like, I'm just saying words in a certain order People like, try to figure me out, It's all jokes. I told an abortion joke recently She was like, I've had an abortion. I was like, Whoa, hey, sorry, I think what you did was much worse. But, you know, either way, I'll see you at home And again, all jokes. I love abortions. I paid for two last week. You remember? Yeah. It's all jokes. Friend of mine. She loves that joke. And I was like, People don't like it. She's like, No, no, I get rid of this. I don't know. You got to keep it. I was like, my God, It's like, I was like, She's like, Every joke is up. Ethical, but I don't want to upset anybody, jeez, I don't want to upset. That's not my intention. You know, I'm upsetting people on accident This guy had on my coffee This guy goes, Ooh, don't say Chief. It's offensive to Native Americans. I was like, How is that offensive? He goes, Whoa, don't say how I got to. How do we get here? Weird times. Weird times have taken words away. You know, I get it. You know, words hurt people. I get it. You know, But here's the thing. Prohibition. That's why I feel like every now and then, we should all go This is where we're going all go to say You got no hate in your heart. But if you can't say there, You go down some creaky stairs, The guy's like, Get in. And ah, it's like the nineties again. No, because offensive words are like alcohol. Sure you can abuse it. Sure you can hurt people It's a good time. Yeah. Just don't do it at work. Don't around kids, but go home, midget rat. I don't know. Say, little people, No doors. But of course I get it. I just, you know, find it funny. I get it. But here's the problem. We forget that We're all animals. We're all seeing the same thing. Now, what's in their brain? This is a filter Like no one sees a hot girl Look at that independent yeah, We're sick men and women. We're gross. But look where it's all gotten us. Then. I feel like the whole country's pent up Right now. We got white supremacist protests, You're allowed to be hateful in America And if you're like, I hate Mexican people, I was like, my God, But if you're like, I hate people. I was like, Fucking right. And that worse people are angry now, man. I had one of those White Lives I freaked out But that was class. I don't know. Just be a good person. Just be nice to people, you know? Yeah, like, a lot of it doesn't add up. I can't keep track of all the rules. Like transgender. What do you think? It's okay. That's how I feel. You want to go for a man Well, go labia. What's the beef? Look, it's weird to hate someone But it's also weird to love someone Shouldn't you like them based on who Content of the character. I love Caitlyn Jenner. Why she sucks. She's against gay marriage. Reign over person. What's the good part? And they go, Well, they have hard lives. All right, Well, sort of midgets. Yeah. Why don't you talk about Where's that hashtag? Who's got. Hold on a minute. How to get around. Hard And look, I'm not anti-trans, I just don't get why we help one group, It's just kind of trendy. And people say, Well, you're been a roller coaster. at least trans Ever seen how tall a toilet is? Well, imagine Weird. No help, no support. And you know what's great about midgets? I got a couple midget friends. You never see a midget complaining. Never. Every other group complains. Never midget, never see it on the news. Sit at a desk, legs, dang never every other group complains. I see women in news. We have a glass ceiling midgets holy shit. I'm trying to fuck with this counter, Interesting. See? I guess I'm too open minded because I Why don't we stop at sexual? I support transition. A personality transition of opinion. I like Kevin Hart. Some offensive tweets from years ago while I've transitioned. I used to have sex with 16 now I don't. I'm different. Well, years ago, Well, years ago, she won the men's relay. People change. Why do you support that? Another. it just tells me if I ever get in trouble because you got to kiss my ass. Hey, Mark, That was Mark Margaret. I don't know. I support Kevin Hart Now. I'd like to talk about race. I'm a straight white, and I'm coming out of the closet, I don't know if we have a closet. We have more of a wine cellar. But sometimes, admittedly, I only see things from For example, without my significant partner, which is what Twitter makes me call my girlfriend. Now. And I needed somebody And I know what you're thinking. That's a straight white problem. But if you're a straight why, without your intimate partner, who do you ask? Another straight white? The answer is no, because we don't help each other. Do you ask the straight whites wife? Now you got to fight the straight white for a jealous group. Can't ask a kid. I think I've seen ruin that for all of us. What I asked I'm like, She goes, Sunblock. Michael is racist. I go, How so? She goes, This is a product, Michael, I couldn't wrap my straight, white, brown. I couldn't help. I couldn't wrap my straight white brain around it. And then she goes and and you could tell the level of racism by the SPF, SPF five is a little bit racist. SPF 40 is Nazi strength sugars. Give me one reason I should rub this One reason I got melanoma. That was her name, Melanoma. Jenkins Yeah, but I am against discrimination Okay. I was on the beach in Aruba. Same joke. And there's these children So I examine it very carefully And then I kicked it over with tears in their eyes. They're like, Sir, why? And I was like, Because you do not have This is a castle of discrimination, you little pieces of trash. And I told that joke to an audience and they actually gave it you guys have a But to be honest, guys with what's going on today, I just kind of I kind of do Like I have a white friend And I actually agree with that So. So I go, Yeah, I agree. He goes, It doesn't apply to you, Mike, I go, It does apply to me. If the test is racist and I'm not I go, What did you get on the SATs? He goes, 1580. I missed one question. I go, Good job, Hitler. Now I'd like to talk about God. I am Catholic. Anybody or for the rest of you guys who are going to hell when you're Catholic, what you do is you go to church, But I'm a very competitive Catholic, my candle, So I don't want God getting confused and the ones that are very important. I think even if you're an atheist, you have You know, I think he was great You know, all he did was, you know, and just like, multiply loaves of bread I mean, the guy was a walking and he did not deserve his death, And you know The guys who are crucified next to Jesus. They were criminals. They were horse thieves. And not going to stand up here that stealing a horse It's not but it's not crucifixion is wrong. Even for Roman times. That's a bit harsh. That's why in the Bible the Romans. People were writing in. Dear Romans, how about you stop crucifying people You ever hear of community service Romans or house arrest? Now the story goes there. A bitter horse thief And we're all supposed to be like and ask for forgiveness. But I actually understand the bitter horse The bitter horse thief being crucified with Jesus, who has a huge So Jesus got all the headlines and Jesus got all the merch. Let's face it, I've never been wearing a cross and has someone come to me and go, Was that the horse thief? Yes. Now, Matt, have you been to Israel? Not yet. Well, Did I learn Hebrew? No, I didn't. But I looked at it a lot. And the language of Hebrew is repeatedly trying to draw a footstool over and over again. It just looked like footstool. Have a footstool, a one leg of a footstool flipped over, footstool one half a footstool one leg of a footstool I just wish you guys a happy Easter and Deborah, I think Jesus had a bad lawyer because it was after his trial, you know, and he's waiting for the verdict I have some good news Which would you like first? And Jesus goes, I'm about the good news, And the lawyer goes, They've decided on crucifixion. And Jesus goes, That's the good news. What's the bad news? Lawyer goes, and the union has a contract to perform the crucifixion, with the state So when Jesus goes, Why are you telling me this? The lawyer? Because they want to pay you to carry the cross. You know, Jesus goes to the lawyer. He goes, Who are these people? They're doing this to me. And the lawyer goes there, the Romans. But later they will become Italians. And if it matters in the future, you are really super into your birthday and they're going to put nativity scenes on their front lawn. they'll flip out and Jesus goes, Italians, Well, Everybody in their ethnicity, all the men and their ethnicity of hair All their women have mustaches. All their kids live with their parents And when they do move out, Has, as I often tell them, it's He's another thing that starts and there's this shame attached to it. As somebody there's shame attached to it. We get her periods, shame, And here's another thing And I'm not going to bloody feel ashamed It's a taboo subject. I'm not supposed to mention it, Because I'm a bloody maverick. Okay. Okay. Right. Here's Okay? As we hit our forties, fifties as we hit and out of the blue, Okay, We've got ourselves a little dirty. Now, listen, it's not. It's not even a bit Yeah. Wouldn't it be great Because you look just like Brian. Blessed. Wouldn't that be great? Here, Are we doing this? I think, sweetheart. I know, baby Lisa. Yes, please. You could be any witness I started doing comedy in Ohio My friends and I. You're always a broke person as a comedian Well, my one friend told me about this television and the other court and it doesn't go on anybody's record. So we started and then just split the I was a witness on Judge Alex. My team won, and I'm glad we won Man, I'm just glad we got this money. I needed the money so bad about it. I was like three frozen hamburgers I can't afford to buy toothpaste. Sorry. You could be any plaintiff I was on Judge Joe Brown. As a plaintiff. You can be any defendant Alex Again, as a defendant, I went a few years later, he's my middle And this one I played a promoter. I was supposed to promote my friend's and I kind of just blew him And when I got to court, I really didn't Judge Alex was not impressed with me. To me, I just things are things. Communication was failed. Communication was failed. I agree. What does that even mean? It's I don't know. I just think And I don't understand How much we do you smoke right? you could be any journalist This is a company called Monet. There are multilevel where the only people who make money at the top of the pyramid. Everyone else just ends up Actually, in addition they're also been known Yeah, they have like skin products So I emailed them from a newspaper sign. My name is Jackie Jones. I emailed them a meme I made of their CEO. I photoshopped in bold and said, you should try our hair products They wrote back and said it's absolutely So I said, okay, we'll make note that However, we do have something And I said, We can share that They're like, Yes, we absolutely want to So I was like, okay, yes, I've relied on that So. So after this email, the next email and they sent me a multi page I mentioned Vin Diesel like six times, and they said that you can tell it's They said if Jackie or the Colorado Times publishes this, And then they gave me a deadline And then I said they said, or want to address this issue further, or have your attorney do so. So I had my attorney do so I wrote them and said, On January 28, 2021, I'm reaching out to inform you against Jackie, either Colorado and Times, I'll respond by Photoshopping everyone at executive board. These photos will be posted by a simple Google search and addition. I'll get in touch if they'd be interested That list includes, Charles Barkley. Samuel Jackson, Dwayne The Rock Johnson, and the Dalai Lama. You have until Friday, Mountain Standard Time to read this email. That time has already passed. If you have any questions further, Sincerely, Jackie Jones. Jones, Jones and Jones You mess with Jones, you get the Jones. So I shared and then they sent me a link to a Zoom all the people at the top of the pyramid So I joined as Trey Angle, and it got a little awkward in there. And I see Angle. Hey, I'm Trey. And they removed Trey from the meeting, so I tried rejoining. I changed my name really quick So I was able to say You get the Jones, you could be anything. You know, it's crazy. I've been doing comedy actually I started doing Then I started pretending And I've always wanted to be That was the thing So by pretending eventually I think I did become the thing And that's because all of you are here. yeah. Thank you. You validated me. I made it. I made it. I don't know. I just, you know, you know how, You know, there's, like, a million sperm that one egg competing to see Yeah, I am amazed. Amazed that. Yours one. Yeah. My biggest regrets stemmed from alcohol. When I was in college, with deli meat. Yeah, you know you're white trash when your cocktails involve ham. Do you ever look at a cockpit? It's a panic room. It's just a chamber. It's a chamber of anxiety And they know. They know all the buttons, They know what to do. The windshield, If a pilot sees something wrong out We're already dead. Like that. Nobody's going to get on a plane You all right? If something's going wrong out there, We're just straight up fucked up. They it to be getting error. No, they're like every switch like, I will not die. We won't die here. Won't die If I do that better not die here's the big old good luck. Clever. We need that. Don't do shit. I didn't do this. Thank God. Don't die. And here we go. Not dying. And then we all just hung over. Shuffling off the landing was a I feel like we know each other well enough to tell you But if you thought this was the product of a happy home, you need to readjust your expectations before they finish the process When I was about 15, 16 years old. And I was very surprised because I always Shit, I heard my parents were splitting up the family's doing better than I thought. You two can get divorced, I see how it is. This is everything. My mother. I've got a lot easier Because I was the oldest So I'd be the one mediating the fights And after they split up, So I got to be like a diplomat just relaying messages Hey, Russia, can you not call America That's But when they were together at home, They fight all the time. And I have to get involved as young as, I step in and listen to them fighting, and if it got too loud, and look through the keyhole And if I saw a hand getting raised, I just just rush in there like Come on, guys, let's have a nice, clean All right? No closed fists, no uncut males. Open hand only. Will Smith rules in this house for some decorum. This is silly. I always. I always took my mother's side now. But mostly we are. We had a much easier relationship because my dad, I think any anger, I was the only other guy in the house. So you took an army? It really upset me all the time. It still does. You know, I'm not. I have a little bit more empathy for it You know, he was around my like a bit He had three kids. He's I feel like a grown man doesn't hit a kid half his size because everything is Well, people do strange things If I'm having a terrible week is minding their own business, I'll just check if the coast is clear It's a sort of my dominance over nature, you know, and it wasn't all very well. My grandmother always lived with us, I would run through the house and hide behind her and wait from behind his own mother. I thought they were powerful. And a part of me is happy that I had I feel like anyone that ever amounted to that made them feel very special. And that was my grandma and something And that was my dad. I don't think we would have ever heard of Michael Jackson if his dad, Because you know who Joe Jackson was. Nice to. Tito And half of you are wondering who the fuck Tito is. That's my point. Exactly. It got a lot easier after I hit puberty, though, I feel like any son Dad remembers That she feels amazing. You do you feel like you're in You just block massive. And then a thought crosses your mind And then you remember that he still pays and you let him go do. I was like, shit, Wu-Tang is right. Cash does rule everything around me. This is very irritating having some money and financial Like if I could get a job and get away from this You know, I can't where I came from. That's where I want that amnesia money. I want that I that Priti Patel money. When I turn my Strange thing to clap for, but. All right. No, really, Those people say they have principles, If I'm being completely honest, And so you throw me a few grand, refugee boats myself. Like, not kidding. You rock motherfuckers. These are my white people. I Got here first. Finders keepers. I told you not to clap. This is the first place I went to medical school in Malaysia. I went to medical school I've always been very passionate Why else would you do this Yeah, I learned that at a very young age Growing up in Sri Lanka, you learn at You know, I aim low. I remember when I was a kid, what I thought was dumb the time I told And they looked at me and said, As far as you're a cook. And that sounds very harsh in a way, protecting me. I really do. And just to reiterate their point, my dad sat me down which I thought was He was like, No, really, really. Watch this. This this film takes place in Paris, just like you're going to be And who got the job? You just like a French rodent. All right. This is where you stand. So why did you get it? Because you knew the owner's son. This is what you're up against. This is an important lesson I feel like some people's parents and tell them that the special And it'll all work out. And that's just not true. That's how people leave the house thinking and are disappointed a musician, barista, a deejay, deejay and that's not everyone I had a few people in my class would say things like, You shouldn't worry about employment. You should just just go with the flow, and the universe will provide and do that. I say that the universe is a very strange I don't know. I think that's a strange relationship. It sounds like I envy them, though. I wish I grew up with money. So I had this sort of level of confidence shit with enough charisma I want to do things that I want to do things like be vegan, because Carlos lives a very important not so much a family is his. You know, that say things like, No money wants this some shit that that only someone that has always had Because if you've been broke, you know money solves literally all of it wrong. 100% of them as I went to medical school. It's a very strange situation. It was Newcastle University in the UK twinning campus in Malaysia and the banners were First world Education at a third world price. And I was like, This, this was meant to be. There's a lot of things in life you should try to get as much bang A medical education, not one of them. No. I went there and really felt like the students and the teachers included. Just to confirm, His name was Dr. Adi Bogus. You can do this after the show We googled his name just to see what the what the qualification, how legitimate And his qualifications But the first thing that showed up saying that he was on the run for swindling sugarcane farmers. this is some low level crime bullshit. He passed away recently of a heart attack. I was very surprised because diabetes and I it was a weird to illustrate. I like it. It made sense that a scumbag medicine though at the time it's good people that become doctors Good people do things and nursing even, and doctors are just the most competitive assholes in every school This is professional sports for virgins. That's what it is. I went to this. It was in Malaysia. Malaysia was a very interesting place It was a very conservative country, It's not great to begin with. You know, I met the bravest people I met gay Malaysians because it's illegal So legal for them just to be who they are, which is the most gangster shit I had friends who walked around I don't commit crimes, I am a crime. So that's an intense individual. That's a lot to deal I had a friend whose name was Aussie, so Malaysia is on the border so every weekend he would take a three or four hour bus ride into Singapore have a relationship, It was amazing the confidence on this guy across their lives. There's love. There's a risk It was amazing when he was so confident. Even if he got caught, They would make a sitcom about his life I watched the photo of him. Women. I wouldn't fare nearly as well My only hope of surviving in that environment would be to get help Just go around saying things like, Now my brother, this has a 4 hours on a bus to get some gigolo. I must say that must have been some truly on the other side I don't have one hour on a train I'm not I'm not being modest. I'm just aware of how averagely endowed I you know, my deck is like a You know, he's he tries real hard. He's got strong fundamentals. And most importantly, not That is your one dick He was So now that he was away from home, completely out of context. I think just because he felt free to do like we'd be having dinner together he'd just randomly say something like, because they're little dicks, And that was Like, is it homophobic? If I think that's racist, How does this work exactly? Is, you know, I felt bad for him even at home. He couldn't be himself. Even his parents weren't And that's one thing I did get. I feel like I got lucky with with my They were very liberal people, that we grew up in. My mother I remember when I was like 14 years old, in the car together waiting And she just started asking me like, Hey, that I don't really see you hanging out And I was just like, I have nothing to tell you, because I played the flute All right? but she. She could tell you. She was like, Yo, yo, if there's anything, there's You know, even if you, you know, if you know what, what do you want from me? Leave me alone. This is. She was very understanding of when I didn't continue doing medicine, But I found another job Now, because I'm very committed Apparently a lot of the family was very upset had a doctor to brag But my mother was real nice about it, for free medical advice because this woman and is fine most of the time, it would be a good idea to ask her son because boundaries. What are those? You know, is the subtext of which Hasan, I want to stop fucking again. I need you to help me do this safely. Listen, if this is what progress I want nothing to do with it. Well, I just want a lawyer. I went into doctor work mode in my head Just took a full medical history from her. And she has a family history So my mother's on the clinic. Oil people. It's definitely breaking But also that's from paying customers this is public domain. Education is important. You know, I'm educated. I got a degree in journalism and very I did. I did. Yes. I was a yeah, I was and I came out a busboy. If I would have gone to grad school, I am I think I could have come. And I'm college educated, I have done some really dumb stuff This summer I started the summer off dumb. I can't top it. Here's what happened. I was at my brother's house it was like a barbecue there he his And I walked outside and there was some bug and I started spraying myself She goes, What are you doing? Like, I'm putting bug spray on Kelly. She goes, No, I'm like, I'll pay for my part of the bug spray KELLY She goes, That's not bug She goes, That's the fogger. I'm like, What's the fogger? If you It's this thing where, like, one person puts on a hazmat suit, they spray the bath lawn with the fogger, I put it on my face, So I have six months to live. The good news is No bugs have come anywhere near me. Working. Hired me. I just go to people's houses now I killed a cat. I didn't mean to it. It jumped in my lap. I didn't. I don't know how I'm going to top that Maybe eat a sitter. Nella Candle. Here's the thing. I should have known before I sprayed myself, spray and I was like, Can it look to spout looks to why? It looks it looks like an airborne at that point. I should have read the label, it's probably like a half airborne, half at an outdoor sporting event, Shea, Cher Jr As the dumbest thing I've done now. The dumbest thing I said. I was in my friend's house and there's just painting in the bathroom. And in the bottom left hand 23 slash 100. That means that's the 23rd print that they made of that painting The people at the party had to tell me and I said, Hey, I don't know why the teacher gave that guy I want to give him like a 98. I mean, yeah, sure, the sun is off center, for something like that. I'm going to be talking about race, when I came on stage. But over the last couple of years, people If if you bring up the issue of race you have people like Laurence Fox maybe if we start talking about it, Well, does that ever work for any social, And when you've ever have, if you went to a doctor was like, And he said, Ignore that shit. He would say, I'm not going to the doctor. Please also notice people always say, here we go, you liberals always whining. First of all, I'm not liberal. I will kick your mom in the face if you're racist. Second of all, if you're a liberal Like, what do you think about the nature You can't describe me in that way, Individual white and cold as fuck and ten feet. It's a period of, well, climates and black Could it be further from the truth? Well, mainly when I try to talk where race is concerned, You must have a chip on your shoulder. And I thought a lot about this chip And in this world of body positivity and our flaws, as a black man in a racist society. Keeps me alert. Keith Miller and I must share this lovely So I hope you're ready for some lovely No, I'm Yes, I could call them home truths, but that tends to put people off You know why? Because normally you go on a website we're going to put a piece of code So we combine all of your browsing activity and sell your data you know, keep that for ourselves That's kind of invasive. No, thank you. So instead you go on websites We go, Yes, yes, gimme some cookies. Now. So I wanted to brace you for that because I get called an angry person I don't think I'm angry all the time. This situations Now, I know it's a comedy show and I don't tell you what happen. I was attacked last week and you don't expect to be attacked in the place There I was around the corner and she lives in a leafy suburb. I did not expect this to happen, but And before I could think I've got a warm, wet And I thought, But there we were. A pigeon showed me how this had happened to anybody else. Yeah, it's not a nice thing to happen. But was it made worse when somebody went? Don't worry, That's good luck. I'm sorry. When these species there's nothing lucky about shit. In fact, she's the opposite of luck. When you're lucky, you go shit. Now we can test this theory. Anyone ever bought a lottery ticket Yeah. Hoping to be lucky. Yeah, but you didn't wanna be a bum But nothing lucky about shit. Nothing lucky about being a shotgun. Now I want to make sure words, shit and shit, because those carry Because if someone says to you, you'd be like, You can just say it, go into the toilet. Anyway, that's fine. I hope you've wash your hands. But if someone says, there's a feeling there's still that. Now you go buy a new rug and get some new friends. So anyway, this pigeons shit on me. I was pissed off. I decided to declare war on this pigeon But then I thought, What a hypocrite. You can't blame an entire group for the actions of an individual. I'm not Liam Neeson So can't do that. So I thought the best thing to do and think about myself as a pigeon and when I thought about, you know what, pigeons have a rough time in our society, some of you might remember that pigeons You know, when people licorice still and they would exchange messages between allies I say defeat, making a move to America. But the point is that pigeons helped out. Now pigeons live like war veterans. They got limbs missing, Their homeless congregating under bridges is tough when you're a pigeon. Not only that, when you're a pigeon, citizen to your white counterpart. The doves. Did you even know that and they get all the good songs, When doves cry, Black people like this one And speaking from personal experience, to the infrastructure of a society your efforts, sometimes you got to do Maybe that's why that pigeon shot me. And then when he went back to the Black Birds rallies, they had a conversation about it because I asked him would a black birds One of the more radical birds takes no one else is doing bird Pan-Africanist Shut up. So anyway, Falconets comes offstage I'm a shit on them. And so they stop eating our eggs. They're one of the more moderate He he's like, Sometimes when you go to the park, And he's like, They also take bread crumbs And that and they fucking eye, even the fact that we call pigeons which is a derogatory term Because when it comes to rats, there's I'm not saying your life is perfect, You get to work in a lab, free exercise in a maze. When you're a black rat. What? You get blame for the plague. Or if you're a brown rat, you go do youth work in a sewer, That's not part of life. It doesn't just happen on land either. This shit is taking place in the sea too. Some of you will be familiar known in documentaries as the Blackfish, as a killer whale or these fish in the sea black one is called a killer. Is that fair? Why can't they be called sea pandas under saying that killer whales look more like pandas than sea lions But think about how we revere King of the Savannah Plains, There's no sea lion King Massive. The first time a kid was told how disappointing that would have been. Marine biologist comes home. He's like, Hey, their son and I as I should have been, We finally discovered a new species, Dad, are you fucking serious? You guys have discovered I don't really care for my fault for not being there. I guess. But yes, son, that's what happens. So let me get down to the lab. And he's like, Behold, son, Kids like, what the fuck is this? It's a sea lion, son. It's an auto with a fucking wax. You could see better. Don't you get tired? Disappointed me, motherfucker. Meanwhile, the biggest killer in the sea gets to enjoy the name Great White Shark And its whiteness If you ask me out here, just take it over. So when David Amber is on Blue Planet, the great white shark has been one of history's greatest hunters But we want to know what's its secret? Why no British? Now you can tell me, guys. Did that seem kind of angry? Yeah. Yeah, a little bit. Well, that's fine. Somebody say. Yeah. Somebody say no. Well, I'll put that down to the fact in our community get to explore It's not just from zero There's a sliding scale. Also, just because we raise our voices, if you let nothing else today in the same way in that sometimes when we do it, also sometimes for people to pay attention to your needs. And finally, black people and white women Yeah, so now you have that understanding. Let me give an idea of the sliding scale. We all get angry sometimes. I like, don't go from 0 to 10. So like one for me would be like, you know, or you look in and you stop your toll like someone is trying to kill me Because once he had a Buzz Lightyear on the floor. I stepped on it and I was so angry. I was like, I wish this was Toy Story because I fucking kill you. But right. Show you halfway up the scale. I have a condition called Misophonia. It means certain sounds make me very And I'm telling you this Me slab living with a housemate would make so much noise when he was eaten I would fantasize about slit his throat Now, be honest with me, guys. Does that seem kind of dramatic? Some say yes. Some say no. To those of you that say yeah. Who the fuck chew soup? My housemate. That's fucking who? Yeah. Now, I wanted to give an idea and I'm imagining some of you like. Well, based on what he's saying, But you'd be incorrect. Most people of color can tell you It's become part of the atmosphere. It's something you have to consider You got to think about how it's going to affect you as a person of color So I would say, no, racism is not a tent. For me, it's more like eight or nine. Ten for me would be people and those people are still out there and brown people to try to find work The point is, thank you, black people. I thought that's great. But the point is that, you know, can we still deny the existence of racism in a world where there are two men who between both those guys have written So if a blind man can see it, Something like that. Mike Brown Presidential Primary. Can't play the piano So I know that the conversation about privilege is a hard one to have We are told you go to work for everything, be a pot is rat race and for you to win You've all got the same 24 hours, right to go out there and do some work. So if it's going to ease this conversation now on stage prepared to discuss Would you like that? Yeah, well, it don't fuckin exist. Howdy. Yes. Shady cuz. Funny. Did you see that shit? Sorry. I set you up this. I also got into watching this show along has been a bit like that You fuck? Yeah. Yeah. If you don't know what alone It's. It's also on ad alone. It's the best show. It's Alone is a show and they drop them Could be the Canadian Arctic. It could be a swamp in Arkansas, And and then they have to, like, survive building their own huts A mate. It's it is it's basically But for people with outstanding warrants it's for criminals like the Hideaways It's awesome. My favorite part about this show is that Our contestants must live And they're right. Who? Boy, Yeah, it's exactly like primitive, man. If primitive man were given allotment of camera equipment Ten survival items of their choosing with a panic button that summons a boat that whisks them away But from that, it is the Paleolithic period out there. Just those my new little details. I love these shows like I've got so I've I've watched all of like I love shows but I've realized it's because I'm a nature cook. Like the would shoot, like, cause there is nothing I love more than to sit in the corner of a room as Mother Nature fucks I love to watch it. I just sit there and I'm like, Mother Nature. Yeah, he's got a cut on his finger. He got this morning chopping wood. Yeah, I bet that's going and I bet he's got a fever right now. Does he now drop a blizzard on his ass? Mommy fucking on. Love this shit. It makes me so fucking. It makes me so happy. It's just so good. I love. I just think it is so funny like this child like level of delusion to believe There are 7 billion of us on the planet, 330 million Americans. We cannot agree on everything And you think we can go back to the most You're crazy. I love when people say they're paleo Whenever Buddy is like, go on with paleo. I'm like, I know what you mean. You mean you don't want to eat tomatoes That's what you that's all you need. Paleo people are like, all they mean is Galileo Paleo. I do it. That's the craziest. The Paleolithic period was like 2 It extended over There were so many different Take it as I get to eat meat That's basically what it means. Do you know now was mating ritual That was such a difficult thing to do. Big game was very difficult to come by. Most people just foraged for everything. That's why I just once We went paleo whole family Like, they're like, Great So you're having bison No, no, no, no. Most of my protein is coming from spiders and I'm getting a fair amount of my greens that grow up as dandelions I'm not going to lie to you. I've got a urinary tract infection and seven of our first ten It's not easy, I'll tell you that. It's not easy. It's a sacrifice. That's why I'm three feet seven inches Fucking dumb ass is where this tall cousin born, born, did this and not the band. That would be sweet. God, if the band Korn was responsible for our development. But you know what of us to do it. My buddy is always trying to get me He's like, Dude, you want to come take What? You don't want to know. All right, But I thought you said Yeah, I meant I want to read more, Okay? But I don't want to fight raccoons Are you fucking crazy? Look at me. I'm an indoor girl. This is what it looks. I'm American. Without my Pontiac G6 and my condominium, I am just an unpeeled banana, just loudly stomping through the woods Like, you'd be amazed at how quickly They're going to eat me first. I'm already in the posture of a corn dog. Look at me. I'm an upright walking stick of meat. I'm stepping the lead It's that's why I love shows. Don't put Americans on survival shows where the Faberge eggs We are the most delicate, That's why I love this show. Because I love seeing the hubris they're always like, I ain't afraid of no bears or no wolves. See, we've all seen too many movies We've seen The Revenant We've seen movies. We think you're going to get eaten It's not in the wild. It's the little shit that kills you. And that's what I realized from the show. Like I watched an episode of Alone took a man for everything and was fucking worth. And it was the greatest fucking thing It was so good. This big, gruff he wakes up in the morning, he opens up my God. All my blueberries I harvested are gone. What the fuck? And he looks out the door and there's this covered in blueberries and shit, And he's like, What the fuck? And so next day this guy gets up and he's like, Fuck it, It happened. My shame trials. my God. What? He looks out in there stuff full of mushrooms And so he's like, This thing is So the guy makes a trap and he hangs and he goes to bed and the trap is still set But in the hardest he noticed that the mouse just chewed all of the fat off of the and did not trip the trap. And this man went full PTA Mom. It was amazing. His voice got shrill. He was like, this is in the order of things. You're a mouse, You stay outside I humanely trap you and I put you outside That's the way it works. And this mouse was sitting out there like, big city mouse. Sam, I came out here to do two things. That's fuck and chew the fat stuff. And my wife didn't want to fuck this more. So it looks like you're up to bat. You paint your disappointment and that guy just leaned on a log He started crying. He started crying. It was so good. The mouse actually looked like but the mouse was like, come on, man, I didn't do you that bad. Last guy, They dropped off out here. I ate his entire King James Bible It took me two fucking weeks throughout. I didn't even like the taste. I just loved to listen to him scream I love this show because you can tell when they're Because there's one word. If you watch alone, there's one word You'll hear it. They'll be down. They'll be sitting there And they're like, I can't anymore. And then you'll hear, I just want a donut. And that's it. That's the hour. The minute the human brain goes to donut, you're fucked. That's it. Give up. Because a donut. The thought of a donut is universal. It'll chew through your will and drive. You just want a donut so bad. That's why we can't go back. Because there's no going back from donuts. There's only forward from donuts. And even if you don't like a donut, Yeah, if you don't, you'll love what a donut stands for. Hot, ready None of us can go back to primitive life because we've all had pizza. You've all had broccoli That snap's fresh from the stock. You've all had to come butcher. You can't go back from that. So the best thing you can do feathers on this albatross and ride until it dies from all the plastic Yeah, because if you haven't got hip to it yet, we're all going to fucking die out here. Let's have fun. What? We're. And then we'll have woke airlines The softer you walk down the tunnel, Right? There's just the person standing there you're not quite sure you're looking for a clue one way or the other. You don't want to be rude. You don't want to make a mistake, Not sure, you know, like then they're just like, Hi, my name is I. Pronouns are nosotros for Sartre's Welcome to Woke Airlines. If you can have your 95 mask over eyes, ears, nose, mouth asshole, please. There's some future variants Please stand 100 feet apart. We need half of the line before we board. This plane will be taking off this 15 hour video from the CDC. We take it very seriously. Also, Okay? We don't want to elevate anyone. Anyone else. You're all equal. Okay. There's no seats on this flight. We don't anyone to feel This is an equitable flying experience. Nobody is elevated or above else. So can you guys just figure out a way We do have a few seats for pets. If you want to see your pet, And when you do find a place on the plane that you agree amongst yourself Please everyone I'm sorry, did I just say Indian? I'm sorry. Sorry. I notice I know this one. I know. I am so sorry. If there is any bipoc people out there, Please. I meant negative. If there's any, please sit native style. I apologize. That was a privilege that came through. That was my privilege. I'm listening now. I'm an ally. I apologize. Please accept my resignation from this. And proceeding to give somebody else an opportunity is a pure spirit. As I told you, All your flights cost the same. They were all the same amount. Okay, No prices, Any other price. We've taken all the money pulled it up and redistributed it to social services. So this is actually our last flight. We're going out of business, but please hashtag you are here and how good you felt about it making a difference. We have 86 bathrooms on this flight, one for whatever We're constantly building new bathrooms to accommodate the ever expanding list of pronouns that come into existence. We have he him, she her so trust no such rest day down there those he hall Zuby newbie pronoun bathroom yet, we do have these You can go ahead Our entertainment for this flight will just be checking in on Halsey's We only have one more for this flight. And I'm sorry applies to you, sir. There are no straight You might want to go down to the next terminal Do you like a millionaire trainer? Because I'm like, what you need to do? Do you need to put a snap here? And then I'm going and I can just find a way to snap these two together. I'm going to be like, I was like, man, come on the bathroom. Tell my wife that story. I'm like, I just invented this thing. If you give me a button, my snap, We're going to be minus. My wife goes, Nothing's ever enough for America. Now there is an American flag on the moon. There is an American flag on the back. If there's one thing in life surely it's the moon, It makes sense cause It's. It's inexplicably involved in women's Make sense. And so I'm like, for old dude, male are nice enough guys, but. But they have recently said to me You can't even flirt. You talk to a woman, And I have this to say. Are you sure you're flirting? Because I've never flirted in my life. I am married, but not because of I'm married because of online dating. Online dating is the last bastion of you can go somewhere Well, I would make out with that. Would you make out with this woman? You move forward from there. And that's why I'm married. Prior to Internet dating, I had two ways of hitting that guys, If I liked a guy, Absolutely never successful. Second way. I get liquored up, I go to the bar and go see a tune up. You want in. Neither one of those is flirting. One of them is harassment right here. How do we know? How do we know? That's how we know almost all of them And then some of them said sure. We then proceeded to have what can only be called consensual I don't know if you've had much consensual sex, Those are great. The only thing I ever did with A big fan of the condom. The youngest of six, can't possibly be And of course, the clap. But it was weird. Sometimes men would say a guy, a fella might say, I don't want to use a condom, I don't want to use a condom. And then I would say back, Does So you two options. And then we would then proceed to have sex with the condom You guys. But my favorite was a guy who said, Doesn't feel as good. Don't you trust me? No. We 35 minutes to go to you. I trust you not to kill me in the next 7 to 11 minutes. And then I looked up the definition Flirting is harassment. That's the definition. It's either successful harassment The best definition of flirting with another person wherein you make the Ooh, who's doing that? And then I realized who's doing that. And it's my dad. My father is an aluminum siding, though. Vinyl is vinyl. Steel is for real. Still selling live in Milwaukee, Windows Doors, But I recently found out that he hit Maria Bamford, at my wedding. Now, in his defense at my wedding, old blond woman, But she told me this and I was like, She said, Don't be sorry. He didn't even say anything weird. I just got the impression It was like, How did he do it? I have no idea. So the last time I was home, I had dinner with my dad, And at breakfast I said, You, What was it? He's like, It's a sales technique, Close. Warm-Up how to do it since you were born. Is anyone listening to me? He said. I hit on the waitress. We went out to dinner last night. We hit on the waitress last night You were there and I was like, Did I also remember it And he goes, It's It's a waitress She keeps going away. You can't build any kind of momentum, on someone. By the way, going to dinner We're talking out back 430. Okay. The waitress came to the table. My father looked at the waitress and said, You look very familiar. You are very good looking. You're very familiar. Are you an actress? And she said, No, no, I'm a waitress. What would you to drink? He got the coffee. She goes away, she comes back. My dad goes, I feel a connection with you. And she goes, Maybe I met a lot of people. What would you like to eat? he got the steak. She goes away. My father goes, I hope I see you around again. And she goes, Maybe here's a bill. Now, there are three beats to this thing. The first beat you say in a nonthreatening Well, play nice work. The second you say, I'm kind of sure we've never met before. My dad's like, very important. Third, Let it go. Give it a shot, you say? Well, I hope I see you around again. If she's interested, she will talk more to you. and eventually I love my father a great deal. And if you were to look at him that. I recommend you look at him subjectively through the love in my eyes, He's very good with money. He's very he loves talking to people. Actually, three weeks ago, he calls me up And at the commercial $100 square pillow. I was like, Yeah. He goes, Yeah. So I called him up and I was like, And he said, Well, I did. I hung up. Moments later, Guy calls back, different And I was like, Yeah, that's what He's like, I know, I know. I talked to him for like 90 minutes and it was great. $6,000 electric grid, And and then he finally said, he said, and then sell me $100 a month. We'll And I said, you know, I'm 80 If I live, I'll call you back, like so. This guy was a pretty good salesman. I think I saved, like, He's very good Like, he's my brother. Russ, who lives in Milwaukee, He's like, Sometimes Dad will me that and a half, I can turn it around And I remember the first time And he's like, Yeah, yeah. And my brother Russ is like, I want to make $10. Why wouldn't I do that? He's like, because you could make $250,000 and some sort of mousetrap, Rube Goldberg thing happened by roll in a bowling ball, And my brother goes, I think I'm And my dad's like, It's boring, but okay, so he's done it like six times. He is like a Scrooge McDuck pile of money. And I was like, Hey, Russ, When Dad tells you something like that And my brother Roscoe's He's not wrong. I did call my dad not long ago, and I was talking to him And I said, I turned down a gig. And he goes, You just turned it down. And I said, And he goes, And I was mad And so I said, I don't know, he became very angry. Since he's never said that, he said, No, the first thing I taught you And I was like, That does sound familiar? Because you don't say no. You say, And then you pick a giant number. And I was like 17 grand. He's like, He's like, odd number, strong, but he's like, I would love to do that. I'm going to need $17,000. And then they say, my gosh, And then you say back, Well, If your budget ever goes up, but know that my prices are always rising. So you could turn he's like, I'm totally going to do that. And I tried to do it and I did it wrong. I asked for $2,000 and I got it. So I called my dad and I said, And he goes, Yeah, every experience is And I said to Grant, he said, No, you know Yes. And now I have to grin, but I have to go to Montana in February. My dad is very much He thinks that they're just like, You either use them Actually, in his case, He is bored It is a lot like trying to iron front of your mother and then she takes That's what happened. My dad lives in what he calls an old Dad, you're 84. What's old to you? And he goes, Dad, that is all. Any day of the week in this building and he says, okay, and inside the common area He had just gotten out of the hospital. And he has Medicare. He is secondary insurance, He was almost crying because he had gotten one from the surgeon for more money And he was kind of he was really upset. My dad pauses and he goes, They got to pay hospital bills? And I was like, Dad, their bills. People pay bills. And he's like, I want a hospital money. You send him They can't do anything. Can't put a lean on anything And if that hospital gets they have to do a certain amount Then I want to give you the paperwork. But eventually I'm like, Pardon me, While I take notes until several hundred people in Minnesota, you will see The Incredibles. The most heroic moment of The Incredibles for that old lady Quite nice, but that movie, heroic. Okay, My dad says I can't handle it. So I go in and I tell the guy, I'm like, come into my apartment, So they go back into my dad's apartment, and then my dad gets to call the hospital This his favorite thing. So he calls the hospital billing like I'm talking to this woman. And I was like, I'm sitting next to him. You're never going to see this in the hospital billing lady's life. But he was in the hospital and my dad's Medicare secondary insurance, And I'm sitting right He's barely sitting up. He was in the hospital just a minute ago. Did you know that? The woman goes, he's not going to make it. Could he give us like $600 over the phone we'll write it off? And my dad's like, So they give him routing number And my dad goes, Now we're going to go He's right here in Milwaukee. I'll drive Lincoln Town Car 99. They get into the car and around 430 they drive to the surgeon's office He goes up to the receptionist and says, He's here. He's got his checkbook. We'd love to talk to the surgeon. The is like, please come and sit down. So it's 5 to 5 on a Thursday. And my dad is like starts in with the It's like yeah, Simply this guy he can barely sit up he just had surgery and the surgeons like it's like you're triple dipping. You're never going to see this. Money surgeon lasted almost an hour. 15 finally said, Give me $200, So they write the check and then they're driving home And I say to the old guy, Let's stop You can buy me a senior coffee, Get $0.59. Senior coffee guy wouldn't do it. And I was like, Dad, why would that guy You just spent 5 hours telling anyone because you're dead. But I just saved him, like, 30 grand. And I was like, And he's like, I need to get paid one. I just did something. Anyway, my father is he's a good guy. When I had breakfast with him, your uncle Johnny, son, And I was like, Dad, what's the what's the dream job? He goes, he drives a cement truck. He's like, Wait, that's the dream job. But he goes, Yeah, you know, the truck It's like, Yeah, that's the dream job. It's a gig. Just drive up into buildings But we driving a cement And my dad goes, So inside of my very sophisticated 84 year who would desperately like to drive I am going to miss some things For example, having my temperature Remember that at the restaurants, I see our menu, don't you? Look at our specials. It's aggressive. You know, I didn't feel safe. I started carrying my own thermometer That's my Second Amendment. That's my Second Amendment. I got the right. I got the right. So they'd be like, I'd be like, How you doing? No, you need to give me your email. I'll take your email in case I have to track