As every run was ticking over Piyush was talking about the bonus money [laughter] &quot;The four that was hit just now The way he was counting, Thanks to Piyush Chawla. It's because If he hadn't counted, We wouldn't have reached that amount. [rock music] Aparshakti: When the Indian cricket team it is a different feeling all together. And if that match is a World Cup final, and it lives with you forever. After a long wait of 28 years, saw MS Dhoni hit the winning ball and into the hearts of billions of fans. Viru Paaji (Virender Sehwag), and Yuvi Paaji (Yuvraj Singh) at the Wankhede Stadium for the country. This 2011 World Cup win against Sri Lanka It was about hard work, team work, Let's meet the stars of this dream team. With me are the three heroes Ashwin, Zak and Viru Paaji, welcome. We are fine. But it looks like you were given The name is &quot;Aparshakti&quot;. Have to justify my name. So, Ashwin, I think that a cricketer's career goes by thinking It was your first ever World Cup Of the winning team. These guys were in the 2007 World Cup team... They had come with the memories they had received from But I didn't feel that So when I went into the World Cup squad it was about &quot;Wow, what a feeling&quot; As the World Cup tournament started, as the momentum started building up That momentum really sucked me into Like people say... I still can't believe All the luxury cars in the world and, on that day, it had turned The entire Marine Drive Everyone had parked their cars and were celebrating the victory. - Ashwin: I've never seen... Never seen such a big community Like the 1983 World Cup. and people started taking up to the sport. But I think 2011 made sure - it was &quot;the party&quot;, you know. India celebrated cricket like a party That moment from the year 2011 when we boarded the bus was like a wedding procession We never took so long to reach - Wow! There were a few who were dancing One was Harbhajan Singh. Sachin Tendulkar also, sitting on his place, But the atmosphere was such the grooms and a wedding procession As I spoke to Ashwin, On the contrary, you were about but didn't win the final match. So how was the situation? There's pressure in every There's no doubt about that. Because World Cup is a tournament Four years is a long time for any cricketer. There's added pressure the World Cup Final match - Definitely. Be it the room service guy in your hotel or the newspaper guy, You can't escape that pressure. When we talk about the 2003 World Cup everyone reaped the benefits When we started fielding soon we were charged up with emotions upon hearing the country's I played out of character due to And that was a big lesson for me to prepare for the 2011 World Cup finals. That is to keep my emotions in check. I would like to add one small thing Whoever came to our rooms, [laughter] For the semi-final or quarter-final or &quot;Sir, can we get a couple of passes?&quot; - So imagine its worth... Yes, the pressure was on getting We would get only three passes. - Six passes, I think. We were supposed to get six We got three passes and there are 30 people. So we go and ask others. Like Ashwin was new to the team. [laughter] No one would travel from Tamil Nadu &quot;So give the passes to me.&quot; I was in the team for two years. Whenever I used to get into the bus it used to be normal. They would be listening to music Nobody would actually pay any attention. I didn't understand, the moment Everybody, as I walked in, would call me &quot;Hey, Ash&quot;. - Aparshakti: Yeah. Then I realized it was for the tickets. [laughter] Everybody had a unique way Yuvi Paaji would actually come and say &quot;Ash, do you have anyone in Chandigarh So I thought maybe he is because there's nobody I know. I thought he would say &quot;Come have dinner So I said no obviously... He said, &quot;Then give me the tickets&quot;. [laughter] I would say &quot;Okay&quot;. &quot;Give me those three tickets.&quot; &quot;Yeah, sure&quot;. I mean how can you say no I'd say &quot;Yeah, but I already Then they will have a tussle over it. &quot;Hey, you took two there...&quot; Virender Sehwag's worry wasn't about which bowler he will have to face Or how Dale Steyn will bowl. For so many years, so we know how to handle Dale Steyn, For many years, That was the right moment. I had to grab the opportunity saying we wouldn't play Viru is talking about taking the passes. Later you need to distribute That is another thing to worry about. - Whom to place where? I think Ashish Nehra helped me - Oh, is it? Ashish Nehra got injured in the semi-finals. So he couldn't play the finals. - He took all the stress on himself. He said, &quot;You won't distribute the passes. - And he made a proper system... - ...on how the passes would be distributed. - He tells me... ...&quot;You just focus on the match&quot;. A huge contribution by him Yeah, a huge contribution. I want to know if there was any pressure... ...on Sachin Paaji, to win. It might have We thought the 2003 World Cup Then we thought it'd Then we thought it would But at the end of the day, [laughter] He started playing before us. In 1989. And he used to say &quot;I'll take a few along Sehwag: &quot;I won't go alone.&quot; We had almost won in 2003. That's when I felt we have Because India had won the first World Cup So maybe it was more important for us to win And maybe we won it for them. When the 2011 World Cup ...the entire thing changed. It looked like people were fiercely focussed. Even Sachin Paaji was unlike himself The national anthem was played and my hands were shivering. and were under pressure... The first time I was padded up, waiting... And Sachin Paaji came up to me and said &quot;You know, you got this&quot;. I thought &quot;Oh yeah, he actually trusts me&quot;. &quot;Okay, let's do it&quot;. I felt from inside &quot;Yes, I've to win Wow! So, Zak, I wanted to know... A team is But in every team there is a pair So which is the pair do such mischievous pranks You already know one. [laughter] And who was his partner? - Who was my partner? - Viru Paaji was... - Aparshakti: You alone were enough. that everyone preferred to be together. If you see the 2011 World Cup tournament most of the players had already played So they had a strong connection. Bhajji and I, we were all - Nehra. - He would get upset. No, why would he get upset? So, the players of the same batch have a unique tuning. you can see that bonding. ...or on the ground. So, it was the same with our team. So our dressing room environment... ...was quite fun-filled. The problem was that Sachin Paaji played [laughter] - I know Ashwin understands them... ...as he is from South India. - But we are from North India... - to English music at all. - But your reputation... I mean Tamil and Hindi. - Aparshakti: I love Tamil. - &quot;Reputation&quot;... And the last English song I've listened to - Aparshakti: Oh, wow! That's how old I am. So we had to tell him that it's just him while the rest are interested Back then, the in-form batsmen while the others would to seek help from God. - &quot;Give me wickets&quot;. - Either that or depend on Harbhajan. [laughter] The toss happened before But the toss happened twice Why did that happen? - First of all, I didn't know that. - Yeah. No. Whoever were playing because they were getting and I wasn't playing that match. Piyush and I were clearing Mahi (MS Dhoni) flipped the coin. We saw that and left the place. But, then, he tossed it again. Then he said, &quot;Sangakkara called for Hails He mixed up Heads and Tails So they had to do the toss again. But we didn't give much importance to it. I think that was important. and you play the match thinking or whatever then that won't help you much in the match. You had a target of 276 runs. You bowled three maiden overs and the catch by Viru at the first slip. - Really? - Mine? - I know. I have seen two overs of Zaheer Khan. One was in the 2003 World He conceded 18 runs in one over in 2003 - Aparshakti: Wow! We didn't expect that Sri Lanka And when I was watching the wickets I was standing in the 30 yard circle I looked at the wicket He did this... &quot;That was awesome.&quot; [laughter] But that awesomeness wasn't for us, So when you got onto the pitch... We've heard that you didn't give Gauti (Gautam Gambhir) [laughter] I played two balls. [laughter] - I received DRS for both the balls. And this is not T20. You get 40 minutes. It's a different thing if he thought If that's the reason he didn't get ready But, otherwise, I gave him all the time. After that when you reached the dressing room I've heard that you didn't get out at all. Sachin and you watched the entire match Firstly, I was mourning my dismissal. By the time I consoled myself - Sachin Tendulkar came. Then I had to mourn his dismissal too. He sat there and didn't let me leave. - He has a... cricketer's coffin. - Aparshakti: Oh, coffin. there were many idols of gods, a flag and a note saying &quot;All the best So, he was sitting in front I was sitting beside him We kept sitting there like that - Aparshakti: For the entire innings? - Aparshaki: Wow! &quot;We have done our part, God, [laughter] &quot;Now you will help us win.&quot; So we were praying... Discussing about So the gods of cricket were sitting All the gods together were chilling. Of course. I wasn't a god. He was the god [laughter] MS Dhoni came around that time. He told me to tell Dhoni then send a righty in, I said, &quot;Now that he is here, Why pass the message through me? So when MS (MS Dhoni) came &quot;MS, send a righty in if a righty - That's the reason... - MS came up the order. After that he went out, changed, padded up - And he went to play. Yeah, so he went before Yuvi. He also said that Dhoni knows as they were a part - Aparshakti: Yeah. So it would be easier for MS And especially when Yuvi - Yeah. Yuvi performing so well and immediately after that, When you guys got to know and I'm sure During the World Cup, he complained about So that... We knew his health is not good. But no one had any idea Maybe he didn't want to and that's why he was and maybe for after the World Cup... I remember him calling me and saying, and he said possibly he's got cancer. And he was very serious. Firstly, I couldn't believe that fact. But then, you know, He's been having those symptoms I called Yuvraj and asked him about it. for better treatment Then he went to America. I went to his house to meet him I prayed that may God Whatever I saw, I felt it was very tough. I never thought he would be able to That he would get back on to the pitch. - Aparshakti: Definitely. All that he did for cricket. but also scored many runs So the &quot;Man of the Series&quot; Now let's talk about The last winning six by Dhoni, So what was happening in the dressing room? I don't think anybody moved No chance. Because I still remember. Piyush and I were Piyush said, &quot;This is not going well. Let's go upstairs and see I went in and saw everybody Everybody was looking for their emotional We thought we shouldn't disturb them, We just stepped out and MS was walking in. And we thought of giving some space We were on the steps, Piyush said, &quot;Let's sit here and watch&quot;. We both sat on the steps and were watching And... This has to be one of the most because I wouldn't think A wicket fell again and I think it was Gauti. and Yuvi Paaji was just walking out. As he walked out, and we stood up again and he said, We sat there and we sat there And as every run was ticking over Piyush was talking about the bonus money [laughter] &quot;The four that was hit just now The way he was counting, That's how Piyush was counting And the moment everything broke out, Thanks to Piyush Chawla. It's because of If he hadn't counted, We wouldn't have reached that amount. But I watched the entire innings and whoever came to the dressing room, Yeah, they weren't allowed. We saw that everyone celebrated from their - Wow! all were discussing So, we backed off saying We backed off... Gary Kirsten, MS and I. We gave the chance to the young boys. There was Yusuf Pathan, Virat Kohli... Later, they complained I mean his weight might not be too much - Aparshakti: That's always heavy. Maybe that is why he seemed heavy. So what's the environment in the dressing and then on your return after dismissal? The environment is same There's no difference in that. You go happily to bat but come back The rest who are sitting They clap for you if you have made runs even if you haven't, &quot;Okay, never mind. Well tried.&quot; - I think... I've said this to a lot of people. I've never seen a person like him or will ever see one in future because his mindset to actually, go out Come back, go there and it requires enormous amounts of I think it's his mindset that sort of an exciting It is very hard for another person to get it. Ash, carry on. I'm enjoying. [laughter] The next segment is full of It's called LBW. &quot;Let's Be Wicked&quot;. I'm going to give you these foam fingers. I'll ask you questions If the answer for the question is a &quot;yes&quot;, If the answer is a &quot;no&quot;, But you won't question our response. That depends on the situation, Paaji. [laughter] - Okay. The captain has asked you to Ash is raising his hand after looking at us. I forgot what is to be done. I think this happens with every bowler. Dada (Sourav Ganguly) still complains &quot;I used to tell Zak to bowl a bouncer He still says that. Has it ever happened that a senior player and you think you would impress him by saying something good I've been doing that from a long time. [laughter] Zaheer Khan just does small talks. With whom did it happen, Viru? - I told you don't ask that... Do not ask. Next question is, have you ever sneaked out - You mean from the team meetings and all? No, that hasn't happened. I'll answer the &quot;why&quot; for this question. Because Gary Kirsten once said there I told him if it exceeds 30 minutes, And I used to set a timer. And exactly after 30 minutes, - Aparshakti: Wow! Have you ever stolen anything [laughter] From a teammate or from a team kit? Two bowlers are sitting here - Ashwin is also there. - Yeah, a lot. Balls, obviously. [laughter] - I used to steal the grip. Because if you ask them, So, I would go check their kits - Aparshakti: Wow! - Did you... [laughter] Have you ever missed the bus to practice? - That keeps happening. It must have happened. I don't remember Never happened, Viru? Wow. That's the only thing I learnt from Sachin. Wow! Pranked someone in the dressing room? I must have. [laughter] &quot;I must have done it.&quot; Have you ever purposefully where a beautiful girl is sitting? Or maybe your wife or your girlfriend - The only person who could do is... This isn't a question for you? Zaheer Khan has hit three sixes. No, if I had so much control, My wife used to come. If I knew where to hit... My wife used to attend the matches. I mean, I know where the family I've hit a lot Wow! Okay. which two teams do you think, You have to write the name India vs. England. India vs. England. England vs. India. Great. All three of you chose India and England, - It's a prediction. England has to pay up for what [laughter] It's a prediction and also we are sitting Wow! Thank you so much Stories of the dressing room I'm sure all these things help When the team is together, only then can we bring a World Cup home. And looking forward to the same Thank you. Had a lot of fun in the show - Thank you. This is the first show where Zaheer This compliment that I just received - Yeah, you'll remember it for life. [laughter]