Now a four-stroke engine does intake, compression, familiar with nowadays and it is the concept Now an Atkinson and a Miller cycle engine they However, they differ in a small but very important efficient than an Otto cycle engine. And in today's to learn about their evolution as well as the birth of and the difference between Otto, Atkinson and Miller engines. Now the four-stroke or by German Nicolaus August Otto. Now this statement as if Mr Otto sat down one evening you know and revolutionary concept of the four-stroke of the four-stroke engine was actually preceded experimentation and failure and also attributing single individual is a bit unfair because although received a lot of help and support from many of involved with engines Mr Otto was actually a around the city of Koln or Cologne in Germany, but science and technology and although he never education his intelligence, creativity and passion behind his engines. In 1860 during his travels as This was an atmospheric engine developed by Belgian It ran on a mixture of coal gas and air and was only only two horsepower out of 18 liters of the first baby steps of internal combustion success because it was the first ever internal Several hundred Lenoir engines were made and sold both Otto believed that the Lenoir engine could be 1861 he had built his very own personal replica and very soon he made a critical discovery. The right after ingesting it. In other words there was if the air fuel mixture was compressed before It was stronger and it burned more evenly crankshaft many times over after just a single to build such an engine but ultimately he failed after running for just a few minutes. After three Otto had spent all of his own money as well as all to show for it was a graveyard of engines. So in joined forces with wealthy industrialist Eugene combustion engine manufacturing company together and Wilhelm Maybach as head of engine design. It's interesting to note how all the internal combustion company would also become key that would eventually grow into global industrial In the same year that Otto and Langen founded their company atmospheric engine. It was 12 percent efficient more efficient than anything else at the time it The design of the engine is actually upside-down piston that is attached to a toothed is that there's no connecting rod or crankshaft limiting the motion of the piston. Essentially the rack sit inside a long upright vertical tube. which opens a slide valve and allows air and fuel in. The fuel was actually lighting gas. Right after the fuel and air come in a port opens and exposes of course ignites the air fuel mixture and sends the rack of the piston then rotates a gear which is that it can only rotate in one direction but it then connected to the output shaft of the engine shaft and use it to perform some type of work. engine is nothing other than air pressure. There goes up it compresses that air until eventually it cushion that prevents the piston from hitting the the exhaust port opens and lets the exhaust in power outputs from half a horsepower up to 3 However the engine had a major drawback and version actually needed four meters of headroom However the company failed to continue Otto and Gottlieb Daimler. Otto wanted to abandon a compression charge engine. An engine that that was his original idea but Gottlieb Daimler the atmospheric engine. After they failed to come ways. Otto again started work on a compression In 1876 Otto's dream the very first compression charge four-stroke but Otto didn't do it alone. The engine was made Franz Rings and Herman Schumm, employees who were originally this is why the very first Otto cycle engine is Although it may not seem that way upon first glance this we can see on any modern engine today. There's Inside we have a piston and some valves and the engine does intake, compression, combustion and exhaust A figure that best exemplifies just charged four-stroke engine is, is that in the 15 worldwide record for engine power output never after this engine was developed the global power quickly reached 1000 horsepower. As you might success and of course Otto patented his design. who, like many of his contemporaries started developing his own engine. that for the engine to be commercially viable it order to not infringe on the patent rights. Now that which allows the auto engine to make more and this was to be done by reducing the length combustion or the expansion or the or the power the engine spends more time harnessing the energy compressing the air fuel mixture. Now the logic definitely offers a significant resistance to used this property of air. The resistance to Now the Otto engine takes a completely push the piston back down the cylinder essentially force the piston against the air fuel to a sufficient degree for optimal combustion. Of air fuel mixture wastes some of the energy created But by 1887 Atkinson made his concept into reality an innovative design which allows the piston to complete four strokes during just one revolution of the crankshaft If you observe the piston complete intake, compression, combustion and exhaust Of course the reason why that is possible of connecting rods on the engine. Instead of piston via a single connecting rod the piston The Piston Instead, it only swings out left and right from the piston this simple fact: the length of the crankshaft whereas in this position their lengths do not the main rod. This means that in this position the line and the piston pulled out of the cylinder distance is reduced. The ultimate result is that Now Atkinson managed to patent his design years by the British engine company. Atkinson even The engines demonstrated impressive efficiency and sold ranged from a few horsepower up to 100 efficiency then you must be asking yourself why our cars today instead of Otto cycle engines. Well the logic of trying to reduce the compression sap some of the engine's power but the gains it compression stroke consumes power is the same as Yes it does, but the benefits it creates are A car engine is more powerful with a supercharger engines in the world all have giant superchargers be more efficient than the Otto cycle engine If you reduce the length of the compression stroke then the combustion stroke that follows. An Atkinson responsive than an Otto cycle engine. And this is inside vehicles where power demand transitions but power and responsiveness are too. Another that the complicated set of rods and linkages made It was also extremely difficult to balance of The final nail in the coffin of this compressed charge four-stroke engine in 1886. He is sufficiently different from a prior design of I'm not sure. Rochas never tried to build his engine but So with Otto's patent gone everyone abandoned instead focused on manufacturing an already than 50 companies in several different countries is what we did for the next 60 something years. We that ultimately demonstrated incredible potential the compression stroke with the goal of increasing In this year U.S engineer Ralph Miller patented cycle is exactly the same as the concept behind sapping effects of the compression stroke. The a much simpler, and more elegant solution set of rods and linkages from Atkinson's design. That's it. The construction of the engine stays absolutely the same as that of a conventional Otto engine The only thing that We of course open the intake valve during the intake stroke to a conventional Otto engine closes the intake valve in order to ensure that the entire length of the leading to optimal power output. The during the intake stroke but it differs from intake valve when the compression stroke begins. 20 to 30 percent of the compression stroke. And motion of the piston simply pushes some of the The Piston can't compress anything until the stroke can't begin before the intake valve closes. It begins here because this is when the intake valve shorter than the power stroke but without all the 30 percent of the cylinder's length the piston the air fuel mixture. Okay this is nice, a much more and you're thinking that this is and responsiveness compared to a regular Otto Well actually no. Because there's another this is because Miller designed his engine in the something that Atkinson did not. A technology technology is superchargers. Miller added a the loss of power and responsiveness compared to is a forced induction device. What this means is air and then stuffs that air into the engine. This engine actually does during the compression stroke. open during the compression stroke when the engine of the cylinder there is still enough air fuel because the supercharger had already milliseconds before. And a supercharger is a great power and torque and responsiveness at very low turbocharger which has a bit of lag. In fact in the with the KJ-ZEM engine which they installed in it's the same car just had a different running the Miller cycle. Interestingly enough is usually what's recommended for a Miller cycle small and offers the most benefits at very low cycle is felt most painfully. which gave it a very interesting, the KJ-ZEM managed to output 217 horsepower and 285 more than Mazda's regular naturally aspirated supercharged it was still more efficient it was about 20 percent more efficient however in efficiency, probably because a supercharger has operate because it is operated usually by the engine energy and reduces efficiency but that It was an impressive engine impressive power that the Mazda Millennia with this engine was with a regular 2.5 liter V6 making the car a sales brief period on the market. But just as the Mazda behind the Atkinson's cycle. They did it in 1997 1NZ-FXE engine. But this time instead of a supercharger motors produce instant torque and they don't sap this means that electric motors and Atkinson this was put into practice in all Toyota's that modern technology has brought to Atkinson this enables the engine to run in Atkinson example highway cruising but at high RPM when the revert back into regular Otto cycle for reduced However variable valve timing can only increase peak reduced responsiveness at lower rpm. For this to provide the kind of responsiveness and torque Although Toyota's usage of the Atkinson cycle abandoned the concept. They have revived it yet seen in the Mazda Millennia. This time it's called supercharger and the Miller cycle we also have the of running spark controlled compression ignition a with extremely lean air fuel ratios which makes drivetrain available today. The final point I as you can see Toyota uses Atkinson Mazda calls it if there's a supercharger then it's a Miller cycle because the concept behind both of these amount of energy wasted during the compression Atkinson did it with rods and linkages. Miller did it with everybody else, all the modern engines are done with valve more appropriate name but again neither naming both of these engines is the same and you know it that's pretty much it a bit of theory and a bit thanks all for watching I'll be seeing you soon