- We tend to regulate things and fire safety, but - Why are we liars? - We never read the terms and agreements. And we actually tested this. We set up a wifi in Downtown London where we had a free wifi hotspot, all you had to do was to accept and those terms and agreements will be taken away by our company, and everybody accepted it. - Did you take people up on that? - They told me no. So we didn't pick up any kids, even though we had the right to. (upbeat music) - Hey everyone, it's David Bombal back He's the author of this book, If It's Smart, It's Vulnerable. Really interested to get his thoughts, because he's been in the industry for a lot longer than most of us. Mikko, welcome. - Thank you, and thank you for having me. Yeah, it's brilliant to I know you've done multiple TED Talks, you've been a Black Hat, you've done many, many talks. So thanks so much for, you know, for taking the time to And that gets us to the book. You've gotta tell us of how this came about, because I believe that's actually gotta do with one of your TED Talks. - That's right. I've been contemplating 20 years because I wanted to write a book about how to analyze malware, or how to handle nation state threats, and all kinds of different topics. But when I did my first TED Talk in 2011, then I actually really started because multiple publishers contacted me, and agents contacted me right away. They all told me that, you know, Mikko, all TED speakers write a book, Mikko, you should write a book. So I tried, I tried my best, but with the amount of it wasn't just going anywhere. So it did really did require the pandemic, because then I had no excuses, So then I actually did sit down and start writing the book for real. And at that time, the 'cause I was initially maybe a book about cyber and offensive use of cyber But my publishers told me that, no, no, no, Mikko, you should write a book about the things you've about how did we end where are we going to go next? And you should tell your stories. And that's what the book really is about. It's about the big change around us. It's about how the and the worst thing, which And then it's filled with of things I've done - Yeah, I'm glad you said that because, and I'm glad you're sharing, because I think for a lot of people who are new to the industry, it's great to get sort who have walked the road. And I really wanna thank you I mean, I've heard you say, and you talk about this that we are in a revolution, you know, great benefits and great risks. And I'm assuming based on this title, it's got something to do with IoT as one of the facets, is that right? - That's right, that's right. The title is the Hoopen and Law. I initially blurted it out during some keynote talk somewhere while talking about connected devices. And you know, when everything gets connected. If it's smart, it's and eventually it became So yeah, one of the risks, shaping our risk scenarios right now is the fact that everything I've been a computer and I used to think that my I'm a computer security But now that everything is going online, it is becoming very clear that the job of us computer security guys is not to secure computers, it's to secure the whole society, because our societies run on computers. Everything runs on computers. - I mean, you used the and I've heard you say this I think you use your watch. Are you wearing your famous watch? - I am right in here, my Omega. (audience cheering) - Yes, how old is that watch? - This watch is now 21 years old because I got it as the from the company I work for. And I worked with this And it is a great example because this is completely mechanical. There's no code on this there's no RAM, there's no there's no nothing, which There's nothing you can And then when you look at modern they might be very secure. For example, Apple Watch is They've really put a lot of but is it unhackable? Well of course it's not. It is running code, code written by humans And when coders make mistakes, you end up with vulnerabilities, which means at least in So when we turn traditional by adding functionality and connectivity, we're also adding vulnerability. - You know, I think You are both a cybersecurity expert, and correct me if I'm wrong, but you're also a privacy expert, and there's like two parts You've got the security risks, as well as the privacy risks - Yep. That's one of the reasons is bigger than many people think. Right now, people when they they think about the smart things that they buy themselves in their homes where they know that In fact, in many cases the is to get the added functionality. It's nice to have an, you know, a smart TV so you can watch Netflix on your TV. It's nice to have a smart security camera so you can watch your Some people buy smart fridges so they don't have to because there's a camera inside I give that. However, the future I see is not as much about smart it's also about dumb devices being online, and here I mean that the kind of devices that we, the consumers, A kitchen mixer is a great when you beat your eggs you'll never need an app for that mixer. You don't want, you don't What I'm saying is that will be online, but they're going online The reason why your fridge goes online is that you get benefits, you get an app. The reason why your is that the vendor who builds the mixer wants to know where you are, so they can target their marketing better. They want to know what kind with their devices. Data is money, and these would like to collect the data. And when it's cheap enough And this isn't very obvious It's happening in the near future, and the reason why it's not happening yet is that it's still a to add IoT chips into every single device, but in five years it's not And then we will see everything everything you will buy for and you don't even know - That's really scary. I mean I think in the book in the future is the way So it won't even be on your wifi, they'll just simply connect - That's right. Many people respond to this theory of dumb devices being online, that they simply won't let them go online, which is not what they can, I mean, they can't They're not going to use You don't need to give They will use Zigbee, or Sigfox, There won't be any way from going online, except And if you wrap your you won't be able to mix anything with it. And then of course, the next question that okay, what are they going to do? Like if they hack my fridge or what's the risk? And there, it is a little bit hard to turn it into concrete Because right now most of not to break into your home or into your devices in your house, but to simply make these And that botnet is then for someone else. I had a really eyeopening maybe four years ago when the Mirai Botnet originally was found, one of the largest and one We were working here in our lab, and we were like fingerprinting and scanning IPv4 address range to see where in the world And this was pretty bad because the very first thing with their botnet was couple of large including one large attack against the root DNS which then made the whole internet slower. We were eager to figure out if there's anything we could or to clean them. So we were fingerprinting these devices, and one of the IP ranges was I could actually see which which looked like a heat which you would use in to cool down or heat up the room. So I googled for the phone it was a small law agency. I called them up and I told them, &quot;Hi, you know, I'm Mikko &quot;and we believe there's &quot;in your office.&quot; And they were really helpful. They're like, &quot;Yeah, &quot;yeah, we have a brand &quot;we got it last month.&quot; And I was asking them, And they were testing it, yeah, it works fine, everything works. And then I told them that, you &quot;your heat pump is part &quot;which is right now attacking &quot;making the whole internet slower.&quot; And he responded to me saying, &quot;Uh huh, well that's kind of cool.&quot; - Oh no. - And that's not really Is it like, like they thought really interesting and really cool, but they were not eager because the thing which worked fine. It didn't do anything bad for them, so why should they do anything about it, especially why should they spend any money to do anything about it? And that's the great question. Like who really should And I think the answer is is quite clear, it should be the manufacturers not really the users who - I've heard you use this example where you talk about a washing machine, if a manufacturer's washing there's like legal issues about that, they'll be fined by the government. Lots of rules about like washing machines, temperatures, whatnot. But if the wifi password is it in their terms and conditions? It's like, so what? That's a problem. - That is a problem. We tend to regulate things and fire safety, but And that probably is In fact, over the last couple of weeks there's been a lot of about regulational certification around security of IoT devices, just like we regulate So it probably is coming up, and I'm not really a big fan of regulation because I think regulation But here, I might see that because clearly the market by itself is not going to fix this. The most important selling is price. And the vendors who invest more into building better cyber security for their washing machines or whatever, they get features that Nobody's asking for how Like what kind of firewalls or what kind of intrusion do you have in your washing machine? No, they're asking and if you invest in security, you're gonna be more expensive And if the market don't work, then the way we as a is by regulation. - Yeah, I mean it's worrying. I mean, not just from, I mean I think you've it's on Wikipedia. George Orwell was an optimist. So 1984 was an optimist book. You still believe that? You see things getting like a tracking point of view. I think you've said in your book as well, that you know, privacy is dead. - Privacy is dead, that's quite clear. And I'm afraid it died during our watch. We, the humankind, we had Like 20, 30 years ago, Today it's gone. And one of the main reasons, well the two main reasons really is the gorillas of the Silicon Valley, the biggest technology companies tracking our daily lives And the other reason is mobile phones. These phones, which we carry we even sleep next to these devices, and these devices and these know more about us than anyone else. We used to ask deep and or maybe the wise men of the tribe. Today when we have deep we ask them from Google. And that's true, you know this is true. Like when you are really or you have some weird and you're wondering if before you ask anyone else, before you ask your So we really volunteer about our lives to this in Silicon Valley. And of course other they make all their money from our data. The biggest companies on the planet used to be oil companies. Today the biggest companies on the planet are all data companies. - Yeah, in your book, I Google is a confessional. - Yeah, that's right. We confess our sins, or I work a lot with law And it's really interesting how the work of forensic digital collection, or collection of digital It used to be a thing that during cyber crimes. Like a hacker gets caught, you know, breaking into and his or hers laptops are then searched. Today, practically any serious crime contains an element of not just for location information, which of course is really useful because we carry these so if you're suspected in a certain place at certain hour, your devices will rat you. So that's of course pretty obvious. But it's not only that, I spoke with the law and he told me that, you know, murderers Google for things, like how do I hide the murder weapon? You can actually find these And of course that's very useful when you're trying to So people really do confess - That's amazing that, I mean, and I've watched quite and I read the book and it's like, wow, you know, what can we do about it? Is it like we use a watch like you have? What would you recommend, you know, do we like or do we just have to you know, I think you've used Is it something that we, you know, it's gonna happen or can we turn it back, and like you said, wear a tinfoil hat, go live in the woods. What can we do? - Well, we can't go back. We are here and there's, even if we wanted to go back, we can't. It's too hard. I tried living myself without Google, and I realized it's impossible, Or you will have to be Sure, you can replace, I don't know, Google search and Google with competitors. But when someone mails you a YouTube link, what are you supposed to do? I mean, what are you supposed to do? You can't live without Google. That's just the reality. Even if we could go back, it's probably not going Like we don't want to live in stone ages. We want to get the benefits And the revolution brings but I do believe that than the risks. And as you refer to electricity, because when electricity came around, which wasn't actually that long ago, 150 years ago is when electric grids were started being built That revolution changed You look at all the upsides and electric grid, it's amazing how much but it has also made us very, very reliant on that technology. If there would be a solar storm which would cut down electricity we would lose a lot of people. We couldn't feed the people without electricity. We couldn't communicate, we couldn't move, and that's exactly the that this connectivity So what our great-grandfathers we are doing right now, they brought us into the We are bringing all future generations into the world of connectivity, and it will become exactly And that is the right choice to make. I am not trying to steer us I think we should embrace this revolution, just like our great when they embraced electricity. But we have to understand the and the burden of decision as we are making these decisions - Amazing. And one of the things as you mentioned, like 65% of is that right? - And it's quite, quite remarkable how that has changed as well. Nowadays it's not impossible, but very hard to run your especially private email servers, Everybody used to have Everybody used to have I had my own web server and with like five guys or Nowadays, if you tried to do that, your emails probably wouldn't go anywhere because it would be weird. It would be abnormal, and it would then be categorized as spam. And this means that this is more and more turning which is being run by these - I mean that's a problem. I mean, like you said, if you it's almost impossible. How do you get away from all the big companies? And that gets me to Facebook. I think you mentioned in your book it's too expensive to is that right? - That's right. I'm not on Facebook - Why is that? - Well, it's interesting, and I remember this because for our company in 1994. At the time, there were in the whole world. I remember when the web and I saw it, and I mean I realized that, you know, this is going to be huge. Like this is so easy to use, because we had internet before that, but it was really hard to use. We had services like and now you had like images, and links and anybody could use this, like my grandma could use this. We were talking about and how this is going to change the world, and how there's gonna be all I know news and weather, maybe even something like But then one of the made a really good point, which was that why would the bring their content to this web if they're not going to get paid for it? So how would they get paid If they sell a newspaper on why would they bring it to the web? And at the time, in 1994, we had no idea. We really had no idea. So the best we could guess was that there's gonna be some in the browsers. There's gonna be a payment button. I want to read this article, so you click a button and I don't know, half a cent, so you get the right to read the article. That's how we thought And now 25 years later, we still don't have that and instead we ended up with this completely which is tracking the users, and then selling access to profiling the whole world. The history could have taken but it didn't, and the end result is - I mean, it's amazing. I mean we've basically which used to be so confidential, and I mean companies like newspapers try and put up paywalls, People, like you said to who didn't care about their IoT device being part of a botnet, people just don't seem or don't realize the I don't wanna talk too much about privacy, I want get into like, you but I wanna mention this, I saw a talk that you did the NSA quite a few years ago, and how they were farming data. And I really like what you said. You said you are a - That's right. Well, I'm a Fin, I live I've lived here all my life. As I talk about the operations done by the most powerful and the biggest intelligence who do have access to very typical reaction I yeah, yeah, sure, go ahead and but you know, NSA is okay, NSA is fine. NSA, they follow laws and regulations, and they're not gonna, you And that's true. It's unlikely they're gonna but they're American agency, and the American laws, the US laws give no rights to me They have all the rights in the world to track whatever I'm doing online. The laws they follow So when I speak about these topics, it's coming from a completely than when my colleagues from USA speak about what the NSA is doing. I am a foreigner, I'm one of the targets of this kind of information gathering. - Mikko, in your book, on page 229 that I've got opened up here, it says, &quot;My Boycott of RSA&quot;. Can you explain why you and you know, sort of the and why it's a problem, and you know, has things - Yep, in 2014 we learned about which RSA had used on which they had put into because of NSA, the National Security had requested and actually paid for them to implement this algorithm. - Wow. - Years later we learned that to use this specific algorithm so they could spy on foreigners, I learned about this just which was titled Government to be delivered at the And I remember this was and I was like sitting &quot;What the hell am I doing? &quot;Like why would I go to this &quot;after I've just learned So I wrote a public letter to who at the time owned RSA, saying that I will, I'm from the conference, and I've been boycotting It's the biggest conference in our field, but I haven't gone there since, although I think I'm You know, the company has been So it's completely different people running the conference nowadays. But I do feel strongly about things which directly affect and my own privacy. - Yeah, I mean it's crazy. So just one of the things is that Juniper had this on So people are buying using this security that, you know, it's supposed to be secure, - Yep, security which has been artificially weakened on They actually made weaker Now we don't know exactly with these things. I'm confident they weren't in particular, of course, they were aiming to look at who knows. But the whole idea weaken their products on purpose is not the kind of - No, I mean, and that's a problem. I mean, if the system is broken, and I mean that I've heard and let me ask it. Quantum computing might result in the whole internet being obliterated overnight, because is it kind of if the NSA has that could on WhatsApp or whatever - I think the thing to I don't believe anybody including NSA has the kind of capability today, but they will have it one day, which means they can be encrypted data, which but maybe in 10 years, 20 years they can, and there might be something to twist people's arms. You know, someone who's but becomes the Prime Minister. In 20 years, they have which they might be able as quantum computing gets better. And that's a bit worrying. What this all means is that we should very aggressively from quantum weak algorithms today to go to quantum safe which already exists. Once again, Bitcoin blockchain If you use a new address for it's quantum safe. So we have this technology, The challenge is that we every single web browser, every single mobile app is right now using these old algorithms. And you can just imagine how to change all of it. But that's exactly what we have to do. - But I think that's a really big warning. Don't post anything online or someone to find out about, because-- - Oh, that's an easy advice, - Yes, very difficult. Exactly right. But be very careful what you post online. I'm amazed what people post It's unbelievable. Yeah, I mean it's a problem. I mean it's, you've got and the Facebooks of but you've also got government agencies, and I mean you've mentioned your book, you cover a lot of topics, that IoT is just one of the topics. You cover a whole range of topics, and the problem is like cyber more and more in recent years, especially with what's But before we get there, like how can people who or are interested in what advice can you give them? And let's start off with this. You talk about Tetris, security Tetris, can you explain that, and then let's perhaps advice from all your or people who want to - Yep, cybersecurity Tetris, It's so easy to get dragged When we work in this industry, and we only work with the and yet another company's hacked, we often forget all the success stories. And it's especially true They only write about bad news, not just in cyber, but in general. Only bad news are news, If something doesn't When a company doesn't get So the reality is that security has never been better than today. And I know it sounds a bit You look at the security we run on our computers, and compared to where 10 years ago, you look at the and they're excellent compared So the situation is great, but since the headlines we think it's worse than it's ever been. So in the game of Tetris, what you're trying to do actually you're really trying at the time. That's the Tetris. When you close four lines that's a Tetris. That's what we are trying to do. And what do you do? What happens when you succeed? Well, the line or the lines disappear. So your successes disappear That's what happens in the game of Tetris. That's what's happening in cyber security. When we succeed, when we are when in a company the IT team to patch every single machine just in time before someone tries to scan that only means that nothing happened. No one's going to know, and rarely is anyone thanked which didn't happen. - Yeah, it's amazing that, I mean it's like the It's all the failures that make the news. - That's right. And it's important to because there's much more and the situation is Granted, the attackers than they've ever been, 'cause we've mostly here which is the big companies which are not breaking And then governments doing which is also not really probably illegal. It's not illegal when governments do it. We have to remember that people run into is online crime done by big crime groups, and they break the law to make money, and money is a pretty good motivator. - Remind us, how long have - Well, I carry a floppy to remind me of where I started from. (upbeat music) And those in the audience who this is the USB thumb drive of the 1990s. This here is a single sided, no, it's actually two sided HD floppy. So it's 720 kilos, less than This is from 1992 or 1993. This seems to contain a Form.A virus. And that's where I started I was a programmer when I was a teenager. I have published commercial in 1987 or so. But I started doing security When I joined this company, So I've been doing this forever. And just to put things into perspective, I'm born in the 1960s. I'm actually older than Arpanet, which is the predecessor for the internet. So whenever you think about this is how old the internet is. - You've gotta, before you've gotta tell us - Oh yeah, I remember my first 'cause initially I was I wasn't doing Marvel and I was doing a database with a factory on the And the project sucked. It was late, and had too few resources, and we didn't know the tools, it wasn't really going and the client wasn't very happy either. So I was in touch with and he wanted to get an update. So I agreed to have a meeting. I'll come over, I'll do which is using this database I built. So I do an overnighter, I finish the project to a then I pack my stuff into my I do the tram ride across Helsinki, I get into the meeting room, there's the CIO, there's his team. I opened up my briefcase to realize that I have forgotten my floppy. The floppy that had the database on it was still inside my An honest mistake, but He was certain I was the project is nowhere, I'm just trying to buy time. - And you're 21, so you're not believable. - Exactly, that wasn't very convincing, but I actually did have a demo, it just honestly I forgot it in the drive. So he insisted that they while I go and get the And I told him, sure I'll do 'cause I have to take the it's gonna take an hour and a half. And so he gave him his car keys. &quot;Okay, you take my car, go I go down, there's this brand I'm 19 years, oh no, 20 years old. I'm nervous. I get on the street of - And did you get fired? - No, company forgave me and why I still work here today. It's the same company 31 years ago. - So let's talk about that because you have seen many, many changes, and I think one of the amazing is you found a great company, and they didn't like when you made a mistake, So what advice would you give like go back in time with all about the industry today. But let's say you were what would you advise yourself to do? Like if someone's interested you know, what advice would you give them based on all this experience? - Well the number one thing Keep learning, keep your eyes open. Look at the new trends. When you see something go all in. Figure out what it is. Try to become an expert in this field. If it's a new field and you're you're gonna do well for yourself. Another guidance that and I've gotten good feedback on it, is find your niche, and then in that niche or one of the And it doesn't matter If you have a really it's doable to become a world And even though the niche might someone is always going to want to hire one of the best in the world in that niche regardless of how narrow the niche is. And when I mean narrow niche, it could be something like for Exchange 365 in a No, something which is sellable but narrow and where you can become one of the best. Now of course it has to be otherwise it sucks if you have to become in something you're not interested in. But keep learning, keep looking because right now the world is changing faster than ever before. - I mean that's a problem. When you start out, it's overwhelming 'cause there's so much to learn it seems. How do you after all this time manage to still keep on learning? Well, you mentioned burnout especially in this field where you can spend going down the rabbit hole. You have to close the hole regularly. You have to know when to stop. You have to know when to take a break. And this is very personal. It's hard to give advice to other people on where to draw the lines. But no one's irreplaceable, and no one should spend all of their time doing just one thing. Have a hobby is maybe because if you have a hobby you love, that's naturally going to and that will relieve the stress. If you are able to really sleep well and relieve your stress well enough, then you can go all in as much as you want and become the best that you can become. - I think that's great advice. I mean it's, this will You've gotta have some balance. Try and find something Sorry, go on. - What's your hobby? - Yeah, I have family, so my, if I don't work, I They like everything, so it's-- - And that keeps you in shape as well, running after your kids. - Yeah, exactly. So I mean my kids keep that's what's important for I spend time with them. Do you have any specific - I like to work out, or take long jogs, and things like that, but I guess the thing I most enjoy is playing competitive pinball, which I've loved all my life. I used to collect old full size 1981, 1982 video games. And I have a collection of those as well. But for the last 20 years I've mostly been getting into pinball, especially new machines because they make new and I buy new machines and bring them into my and then I play competitive - Now in your book, you mention, 'cause I wanna try and now you mentioned this thing about like latch onto the new things. You talk about NFTs, you talk about currencies, and you also mention the And I think that's what's You talk about the good But like for someone who's new, what are sort of the that like let's say I'm starting now and I'm looking for this new Have you got any sort of You know, what should I look at? Is it Bitcoin, you know, hacking, Web 3, what sort of, where's the world going? - I'm a strong believer We've just scratched the surface of what's doable with programmable money. When you look at the the 2009 white paper, and that is a major, major innovation. The way you can tell that an innovation is a major innovation is that what the innovation is and 'Cause that's exactly It's just a ledger of transaction, which is forever unchangeable That's it. And it seems so obvious before Mr. Satoshi Nakamoto did in 2009. And the things it enables so With the big things we've seen so far has been currencies and but it is so much more And I, of course I'm fully 'cause I see a lot of criminal And of course everybody knows about the energy consumption problems of many of the blockchain systems. But I do believe that we for this technologies, especially when you machine to machine transactions. When a server needs let's say storage or computing power, when it's using APIs to get and it's a transaction why would these machines or euros? It makes no sense. Of course they're gonna trade and there's tons of security work to be done about programmable currencies and smart contracts, and all of that. And the, again, a narrow If you wanna be successful in this field, looking into how to secure smart contracts and how to build there will be tons of companies interested in expertise And one of the examples which I really think will become a thing, is the fact that when my book came out, a lot of people bought the And when people buy the physical book, they quite often, you if they see me in a conference, and of course I'm more than In fact, I've been sending a lot of people signed punch cards in the mail if they can't get the signed book so they can use it as a bookmark. But how do you sign an e-book, or how do you sign an audiobook? You can't, and I think someone's going There's gonna be some kind of an NFT, or something like that, I've met this person this specific copy of this book, and later on you could even sell the book, and the signature would carry on with it. It would become more and when you take this one step further, it could be any kind of artist, let's say a famous band on stage could sign a live copy of the song they're playing to the audience right now. And everybody in the audience and they could resell it later and the band would get These are the kinds of things but they're all coming from the same innovation Something like this will happen, and someone needs to build it, and someone needs to secure it. - Yeah, I mean I think with and you've got your, like of what's happening, it's great. You hear what's coming, And I mean, based on it sounds like IoTs is a huge wave from a security point Blockchain is is a big one. Just correct me if I'm wrong, but are those two like two great areas, and are there any other areas change the world or like in the coming years so that someone new can like - Well, there's one more and it's probably gonna be the biggest, which is machine learning. It's quite scary when it's advancing right now, and how it will change the workforce. And this is also something for people who are planning their careers. We're going to lose a lot of jobs, which used to belong which is nothing new. Like when we invented artificial steam engines and then that also made a lot of people unemployed, and people protested against that as well. And people didn't, they that machine could do the But of course in the end you know, the works that steam engines and electrical engines were probably better handled Humans could do more productive things. And I think, well, I guess I hope that the same thing will where it's not artificial power, but artificial intelligence replacing some of the human jobs. You look at how good and in text in 10 years, many of the jobs which human designers will be replaced by computers. So it's gonna be painful, and it's gonna be a hard that computers can be in some of the jobs that we used to think only belong to humans. And in the end, these development will eventually, I believe, will be done by computers, but I think it's gonna take quite a while. So the current generation probably still has to but eventually programs - That's amazing. I mean, so AI, blockchain, IoT, I think you mentioned in your book, I can't remember if I if it's in your book, that networks will disappear, and they'll be limitless and that'll change everything, right? - Yep, that's the end game. - That up there, that's the end game. - It's been part of my job to try to forecast and what's gonna happen and it's really hard. Typically you get it wrong. What's easy is to forecast the far future, like where is computing going in decades, because then you only And the fact is, in the the fastest computers on the planet were slower than the phones which is just insane. Like the fastest Cray supercomputers which were size of a small lorry or van, which were water-cooled and they had less computing power than your iPhone or your And the phone runs on a battery. It's insane how much faster and cheaper everything has become. And this will continue, which means eventually it will lead us to limitless computing for free. So we will all have access You could imagine that you would be given the biggest possible AWS unlimited memory, unlimited CPU power, unlimited bandwidth for a cent a month, or something like that. That's where we're headed. Of course it's gonna take a You don't take this literally, it's not gonna be literally but very close to limitless and very close to free eventually. And that's a really positive idea. We've spoken a lot about bad and will happen. This is a good thing because of us creators, us coders, designers. It poses the question, what would you build if And that's a really powerful thought. - That's amazing, I mean, but I mean it's so true. You can see that, you know, I mean like you said years ago, the power in a smartphone you know, what we had It's unbelievable. So you've given us some big picture, you know, areas to look the way the cloud is, you unlimited power, that kind of stuff. But do you have like any practical things that we can look at doing? - Well one thing that I've which I would like to is that don't waste your listening to music. And I know this sounds weird, What I'm trying to say is I've been listening to and even things like TED Talks whenever I'm sitting in or flying on a plane. I do it for two reasons. Reason number one, I wanna learn, I wanna learn not just about but about the world, about things that I'm not And second of all, whenever I'm listening to spoken English, 'cause I'm not an English speaker, I speak Finnish, Finnish but I needed to use So one great way to keep is to listen to the As much as you can, teach during the times when you or coding away, listen to podcasts which will you need to learn. - Do you have any more practical tips, like perhaps reading books, or is like audio books, you Any sort of, you know, after all these years of things that have really helped you take sort of your knowledge or your - Well it's always a great find someone who can lead It could be a relative, it could be someone it could be someone you admire. And the way you get a you simply walk up to them and I need your help, I And then the way mentoring works is that you just meet every now and then, and you tell what you're doing And you can have multiple Find people who have and ask for help. People like to help. I help anyone who comes - Mikko, so a lot of the people watching might be younger than us, you know, we might have like you must use the command line, or you know, these days a lot but let's make it more practical. Is it worth learning the command line, like becoming good at Linux? Are there any other practical - Well, I live on the command line always, regardless if it's I'm on the command line. It's so much faster. You control the system so much better. It's so much easier to automate things when you run everything If you're not familiar learn the command line. And I don't know many people use Linux from the command line, but when they go go into You can do everything in from the command line, and it's gonna be exactly as productive. You might change the shell, or you might change the configuration, but learn command line, it will save you unlimited - Now that gets me to You're based in which country? - I'm based in Finland. - And there's a very famous person who's from that country as well, right? - You might be referring When I was studying at he was studying there at the same time. He used to be bicycling by on his way to university. I know Linus, or Linus. I haven't actually met for maybe six years now. He's living in Oregon nowadays. But he is the most who has ever lived, 'cause he This operating system that is now the number one And it's not running only on Earth, it's actually running on which is insane. - Let me ask you a dumb question. Is it Linux or is it Linux? - Oh, here in Finland it's Linux, and Linus Torvalds himself says Linux. - I'm glad you said that But it's like, it's funny how people get, you know, so hung up about that. But it's amazing how Linux has sort of, years ago, I remember the wars and how Windows was gonna kill Linux, but now we have WSL running on Windows. Linux has really taken over, hasn't it? - Oh yes, it has. I mean, smartphones, Android is 80% or 75% of and that's Linux. And also computers run Linux, Google search runs on Linux. It's everywhere. It's remarkable, but yet because their computer might and that's all they think about. They of course will ignore where they go with their Windows computer is running on Linux because So it is a massive success story. And of course Microsoft itself, but you know, many of their such Github is running on Linux itself. - So what do you use, or Windows as your desktop or computer? - I use all of them, I use all of them. I think now I'm spending but it has really changed over the years. One thing I always like to that our clients and customers run, so I understand the and I understand their problems. That's probably the main reason why I'm running so much Windows nowadays. - I've read in your book, I think something along the lines that it doesn't make to use a Windows computer, They should rather be using 'cause smartphones are, I think you said are 'cause they're more secure. So could you just talk around that, and hopefully I said it kind of right. - Yeah, yeah. The point I've been trying to make is that if you compare the this is an iPad. It's very similar to it's, you know, very few differences except that this is a closed environment. This, you can't just have an SDK installed and start coding and running code on this. If you wanna develop and make programs, which you can then run on your own device and give to your friends so they can run them on their own device, then you have to sign up for and submit your programs which is exactly the same model you have on your PlayStation. A PlayStation or an Xbox but you can't program them by yourself. These are very, very but it's also very, very secure. Funnily enough, you never or hack incidents on Xboxes, You would think there would be problems just like every other Windows, but you don't because So what does it mean in practice? It means that if you're doing something which reads ultra high security, let's say you're buying a house and you have to send the down payment. Don't send the down payment send it from your iPad. It's so much less likely of banking Trojan malware running on here as opposed to your Windows So these things, many you know, small computers they're actually more - That's really interesting. So I think the term you is you said the problem is you could write an application, and you could give it to me and I could run that application. Whereas with these kind of devices, it's much more difficult - That's exactly the reason and that's a trade off. I mean, we are giving away rights. You don't have the right to which sounds insane, but that's exactly what these and that's a trade off. We give away rights, but and it is one of the biggest we've seen in the last 15 years. These closed environments, which everybody runs in those are much more secure - So would you say for companies, it makes sense to give like receptionists, and I don't know, people who that you would need as a developer, rather give them iPads or that's much more limited. - Or Chromebooks. I'm seeing a lot of computers for people who are not doing develop open, or who don't need that And that's a great idea. It's so much easier and cheaper to maintain a network of iPads, than a network of Windows devices. - That's such an interesting, you know, I don't know, is that a paradigm shift that you kind of like advocating, 'cause I haven't heard - Yes it is, and I think and I think one of the are all these ransomware incidents, tons of big companies It spreads everywhere because everybody's and if there's a domain takeover, they can just send programs and run it, and encrypt everything When they recover, I'm seeing a lot of companies with things like Chromebooks, because why give these dangerous tools to users who don't need that kind of a power? And I have to make it clear here, I do understand that designers, developers, they need the more powerful tools, even though they are more dangerous. But in that case, you You have to be able to if you're developing systems yourself. - I think, I mean it's crazy, we're giving users a device or a Mac or whatever, and then they log in especially like at - Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well I'm happy to say that many companies are taking away admin but it makes me wonder if if the users don't really need that. And like my friend, Sami admin rights are not human rights. Many people feel really in corporate environment when someone takes away like somehow they would, and it's my right to It's not your right, you For the record, for the that I have here at the office, I don't have admin rights on that. - I mean there's a difference between, say a lot of the people watching this, and the average user out there. A lot non-technical you know, the power they've been given, and someone can, you know, like clicking on a link or something, and you know, running malware. - Yep, and that's a huge we are putting on the shoulders of users who have no way of handling that burden. And that's the wrong thing to do. And one thing I really don't like is that whenever there's or data leak or whatever, it's the end user who gets the blame. Stupid user clicked on a link, stupid user opened up an attached, stupid user fell for a phishing scam. Well you know what, it's not stupid users, it's stupid systems. And if there's a link that well that link shouldn't be Like the responsibility should who can't handle the responsibility. And we need to put the and it belongs to operating system manufacturers, That's where we should - I love that. I think that's such great advice, is like the responsibility because you've mentioned this before, you know, you can change in your book, I think but you know, how do you patch a human? - There's no patch for this. The only patch we have is education, and that almost always fails. - That's brilliant. I think that's fantastic for companies to think about. I haven't heard someone so it's fantastic that I wanna talk about something else, which I believe perhaps It's not just IoT devices, it's also SCADA and ICS devices, and I mean there's been a lot where, you know, power plants have been And I believe your company has and there's some funny and I love the stories in the book where you phone some person and say, you know, I've got access So could you just talk and why it makes you worry? - The biggest difference between and computers in our office is that the computers in our plants, they have a really, And the way they've is that you simply keep them offline. Like there's no risk if It's getting harder and And the main reason why it's is the TCP/IP routing protocol, which runs the whole internet. It's been designed to get things online. If it can't connect from it tries to find a way around it, it tries to reroute automatically, which means if there's any way no matter how long and how The end result of this are operated with computers, like networks are reconfigured, or companies are bought and merged, the networks are connected, they end up with indirect connectivities, which are hard to see and And the end result is that with age old ICS or OT computers And we find these, we scan the internet, we find these regularly. And whenever we tell these factories that we can see your control interface, they're horrified, or They simply refuse to believe would be exposed online. I've had this phone call that, &quot;Hey, you know, your control and they go &quot;No, no, &quot;We can only see it internally.&quot; I say, &quot;No, I'm actually &quot;I can see it.&quot; They're like, &quot;No you can't.&quot; Well I say, &quot;I can, I can &quot;in your interface to change &quot;Please don't click on the buttons.&quot; And the end result when we why did it end up online they reconfigured and then without anybody - And so is it a big worry for you because the systems are getting online, and I think you used there's quite a few examples out there. It's getting more so where, you know, electricity gets turned off, stuff like that, right? - Yep, it is worrying our infrastructure runs As I said earlier, you know, we used to think we're securing computers, nowadays we're securing the whole society. Electricity and water distribution, planes, trains, automobiles, it's everything is being run by computers. And this matters in times of peace, but it matters even more and during times of war. And we've seen examples of Russia has successfully during the war. Once they tried and failed because the Ukrainians were able to defend their electricity grid. And it's the kind of things that would've been science But this is real, cyber war is happening and it's very real right now. - One of the things that it feels like is like the world is so pessimistic, like talking about this stuff can like be really depressing at times. Are you depressed for the future, or are you optimistic that, you know, there will be good out of all of this? Well, I'm sort of both, but I do believe that the future is in the future, the things that get me down are things like the fact and machine learning will we right now have and love. So it's a bit of a mixed bag, but I want to be an optimist, and I picked this up a Norwegian guy I met an old guy in his 70s who had been spending his life and through the South Pole. And every year he goes and we spoke about global warming, and he told me how he has how every year the ice is thinner, and the snow goes further away. So I asked him about how does And he told me that he's an optimist, and I was really surprised, how can you be an optimist And he told me that he to be a pessimist. And that really stuck with me. And that's the mindset I want to be an optimist. It's too late to be a pessimist. - Yeah, so the world has changed. We are connecting our homes, we are connecting our factories, planes, everything to the internet, which gives us a lot of advantages, but comes with a lot of risks. So you say it's too You've just gotta be an optimist to like make the best of it, right? Internet is the best which has happened during our lifetime. - Mikko, you've told me that we're liars, why are we liars? - We're liars because have you read the terms and agreements? We say yes and we never read We just click on the And we actually tested this. We had a test, we set up where we had free wifi hotspot. All you had to do was to accept and those terms and agreements included that your firstborn child will be taken away by our company No one reads this. And that's the biggest lie we do. - That's so hilarious. I mean, and have you changed your behavior since you've pointed out or you know, do you-- - I don't read the terms No one reads the terms and agreements. - So you were, in your you were gonna get a whole bunch of kids. Did you take people up on that, and you've got a lot of - Well I was pushing for it. I told our people we really should go and pick a couple of kids, you know, just for shit and giggles. They told me no, so we even though we had the right to. - That's hilarious. There's a really funny is it the first PC virus and your interesting trip to Pakistan? - Oh yeah. I remember when we were of the first PC virus, we had a meeting here at the office, and our marketing people wanted And all the ideas they And I floated this idea that, you know, I've analyzed this virus, which is from 1986, and I remember that there's Why don't I go to the address who wrote the virus back then in 1986? Stupid idea, but we did it. And I did end up finding the people who wrote the very first PC virus in 1986. They are in Lahore, Pakistan. - That's a great story. So I don't wanna take too You should read the book. It's got a lot of very And Mikko, I think that's you've tried to do, you've tried to mix - That's right, and I the audio version of my own book. I don't read the audio version myself. It's read by an actor called Rich Miller. And I just, I was listening to it to just get the idea how he read it, and he's a great reader. But I found myself, I was driving I found myself like and just listening to the which is funny, but when someone else it's like it's a different story. We humans like to listen to stories. I believe that's how we learn, and that's why it's important to share what we've learned ourselves as stories, 'cause people tell and that's how knowledge spreads. - That's brilliant and I you know, for sharing your stories, and sharing your knowledge especially people who are perhaps younger, or who are trying to get into the field. And do you have any closing thoughts, especially for the younger generation, 'cause they might be saying, well, you old people, you and you know, the or the suffering. The internet's full of risks. Any closing thoughts - You are very lucky You're lucky to be alive. You're lucky to be born in the middle of the biggest technological revolution that mankind has ever seen. You will forever be remembered as the first generation who lives their lives online. I'm representing the last generation which was living offline. So the world is changing right now. Mankind has been on this planet We're going online right now, and you are the first ones doing it. It's never been more exciting - That's brilliant. Mikko, I wanna thank you. Thanks so much. - Thank you David, thanks for having me. (upbeat music)