I'm in contact with a man. A person with a brilliant mind. A visionary. Is there any message that the spirit If you keep floating, you'll head in the wrong direction. You are on Earth because you have a purpose. The Lord's wife has... She has given me, She lent me one of her husband's suits that was made especially for him. My son went to a shaman yesterday. The shaman told him, &quot;The nature deity does not have enough resources, make offerings to her.&quot; My name is Joseph and I have a mission: to travel the world to meet the most extraordinary people on the planet, and ask them one simple question, What is happiness to you? Welcome to the Happiness Project. I am in Ulan Bator, the capital of Mongolia, what you see more or less behind me is the statue of Genghis Khan, besides being the most polluted capital in the world, it's also famous for being partly a campsite. Because not far from here... there's an area called the Ger District, where over 800,000 people live in homes like that one, the Gers, which are traditional homes of the nomads of Mongolia. They are dismantlable homes, made with wooden poles and felt canvas. And this is because one of the most widespread religions in Mongolia is shamanism, which has as one of its main tenets not to alter nature. In fact, Gers, compared to new constructions that are mushrooming in the capital, do not have foundations and thus respect the pillars of shamanism. But what do we know about this religion? The practice of shamanism has deep roots in the nomadic culture of Mongolia. Before the adoption of Buddhism and other religions, Mongolian tribes followed only the spiritual practices of shamans, considered mediators between humanity and the spirit world. Through deep trance states, they were able to make contact with ancestors and were capable of diagnosing and curing serious illnesses and guiding people through spiritual experiences to predict the future and interpret signs and omens. Shamanism attributes a soul, or a spirit, to all living beings and elements of nature. For this reason, the spirits of animals, plants, and elements can influence human life and must be deeply respected and honored. Today, although Tibetan Buddhism is the dominant religion in Mongolia, shamanism continues to be practiced by some Mongolians, especially in more rural regions, as an integral part of their cultural and spiritual identity. The goal of this mission is to meet one of the last true shamans, but to achieve this, we must traverse Mongolia by land, facing one of the most rugged and treacherous territories in the world in a vehicle not exactly state-of-the-art. At first glance, it might seem like a clunker and not the most suitable vehicle to cross Mongolia in winter. But the UAZ 452 has made history, it has become legendary because it is said that Russia won the Second World War with it. it became legendary because it's said that Russia won the Second World War thanks to this van, because during a very difficult time of the war they needed to transport wounded, people, military personnel across the country. But Russia is vast, endless, and moreover, it has completely different climates. Though it might not seem like it, it can traverse snow up to five meters high, ford rivers, cross dirt roads, it can really do everything, and it can also accommodate up to nine people. Just those people who can help push the van out of trouble if there's a problem. So this is the right vehicle to start our adventure in Mongolia. In this expedition, the key man is our driver, because in addition to providing the powerhouse, he is the brother-in-law of one of the most powerful shamans in Mongolia. My name is Bataa. Now we're going to visit my half-sister, who is a shaman. She can heal people and with her rituals change fate for a better earthly life. Her power can do anything. I believe in shamanism. Shamans can connect with mother nature, and the earth tells us what we're doing wrong and how we should behave. The role of shamans is to predict the future and act as intermediaries with the spirits to share what mother nature wants to tell us. This is their mission. And even on this trip, we are protected by NordVPN which lets us surf in total security, both when we are at home and when traveling around the world. And now I'll explain how. NORDVPN is my number one ally to keep my internet connection secure, and in the link you'll find in the description you will have a special offer to purchase two years plus an extra four months of NORDVPN at an exclusive discount. Plus up to 50 euros in gift cards to use for your travels on FLIXBUS, AIRBNB, ITALO, VOLAGRATIS, AMAZON, and hundreds of other stores. This special offer is valid until May 30 and with a single NORDVPN account, you can use 10 devices simultaneously. So you can protect both yourself and the browsing of all the people you care about. So if you're watching this video and you're not using a VPN well, it's the right time to think about it, because your IP address, your browsing history, your location, and other sensitive data are visible at best to advertisers, and unfortunately, also to cybercriminals. And as always I leave you a link in the description with the best market offer at the moment to try NordVPN and surf in total security wherever you are. And now let's continue your adventure into the world of shamanism. Inside Bata's UAZ the heating works excellently, but outside the temperatures are prohibitive and for once that's just fine, because we will have to cross hundreds of kilometers over one of the world's largest lakes, hoping it is well frozen. During winter Lake Hovsgol, which the shamans revere as Mother Ocean, becomes practically a highway, as well as a breathtaking natural spectacle. Here it is. This is my colleague. His name is Nicola, and he has some serious head issues. Beautiful. Want to try? It's beautiful. We are here for work, huh? The days are short and it is not advised to travel at night. The only way to survive these extreme temperatures is to seek shelter in a &quot;GER&quot;. The traditional home of the Mongolian nomads, and fortunately, Bata knows one not far from us. It's exactly as I had read in the books, it's warm, welcoming... spacious. Inside, whole families live within these nomads' &quot;GERs&quot;. Even though it seems like a very small space, here even 10, 15 people can live, because clearly now this is a kitchen, but it's also a living room, but it's also the bedroom. So, all of the nomads' life takes place here and it's wonderful how there is, as you can see, no privacy, but nomadic families are really close-knit precisely for this reason because the problems must... Thank you. We have just been offered some food. I was saying that here it's better to solve problems because everyone lives under the same roof or rather under the same tent. Obviously, even here in the Mongolian nomads' &quot;GER&quot; it is good custom to accept everything that is offered and among the biscuits and sweets there is this, which is called Aaruul. It's typical, a typical Mongolian snack, it's fermented milk. It has a really, really strong taste, so if you don't like yogurt to give you an idea go for the biscuits, because once you taste it, once you try it, you have to finish it. So this is Aaruul. And I assure you that the taste is really, really strong. The &quot;GER&quot; is certainly one of the most fascinating homes I've ever seen around the world, because being such a small space for so many people, there's only what's necessary. There is no superfluous object and indeed... let me show you the most important object in the whole house which is the stove. The stove heats the entire environment. Clearly, they cook with fire, but the fire is also the spirit that is revered by the family, because they revere spirits, also a mix of Buddhism animism... Their religion is very particular. It's amazing how many people can fit inside a &quot;GER&quot;, we are at least fifteen, there are the owners, the owners of the &quot;GER&quot; with their whole family and their children. We all sleep together tonight, they have been very kind they have hosted us and we are sleeping on the ground, as is normal. And the master of the house in a bed, a very simple metal cot, but clearly it's a great luxury here. For them, it's very normal we've just met but now we all sleep together. There's a non-negligible detail that the &quot;GER&quot; at night is also left open to let out all the heat from the stove, but outside there are at least minus twenty degrees, and it's a warm winter night. The life of a nomadic family revolves around two essential elements. The &quot;GER&quot; and the livestock. The &quot;GER&quot; is a portable dwelling that allows them to move agilely following the course of the seasons just to graze the livestock, which provides everything the family needs food, milk, fuel, namely dung, and means of transportation. Nomadic women and men play complementary roles to ensure the survival and well-being of the family. The woman takes care of domestic activities such as preparing food, caring for the &quot;GER&quot; and raising the children, to whom she lovingly and devotedly passes down the three pillars of shamanism: respecting the earth, the animals, and the ancestors. It can be said that there's nothing more traditional than a meal like this. Buuz which are traditional Mongolian dumplings made of yak meat, onions, and lard. And this is the drink, a beverage they drink morning, noon, and night which is tea, milk, and meat. Meat that can come from various animals and also lard. sometimes they put lard in it. But they explained that when it has lard it becomes much heavier, and salt, so a beverage that is good morning, noon, and night. They always drink it to stay warm. On the other hand, the man must be a skilled shepherd and also a hunter. With pride, he leads his family and herds of yaks and horses across endless pastures, protecting them from natural dangers and predators. The horse is truly a symbol of the nomads' freedom. It is a sacred animal in shamanism. To give you an idea of the importance of the horse. An old Mongolian proverb says: &quot;A man without a horse is like a bird without wings.&quot; How do you do it? Do you understand? I don't very much. Almost. Damn it... Almost, almost, almost. Got it. You caught the leg. I caught it. Better let it go because... I didn't catch it well. We're causing a bit of damage. All the horses have run away. I guess he'll never let me do it again. They all ran away. To not make me feel too guilty, the lady explains that the problem is the color of my down jacket that scares the horses and so, as if I deserved it, she honors me with a traditional outfit made by her for her husband, to accompany him to a horse race. It's a winter jacket with an inner lining. I made it for my husband, it's warm! A &quot;Deel&quot; is not complete without its... its belt, only that it is worn very, very low on the waist. And I still don't understand why. But this is how a true Mongolian nomad man dresses. The gentleman's wife has... has given me, has lent me one of her husband's outfits that was made especially for him and it's much warmer than my technical jacket. Now we're about to go see something typical and traditional of the nomads, the horse race. Indeed, the gentleman has in his GER banners that are all the victories he has achieved in horse racing, but I don't know if he. It had been ten years since I had ridden a horse and getting on a Mongolian one is not the best because they are really proud and difficult to tame. But actually, the gentleman seems to treat them very well, so I am, I am very calm. We arrived a bit late. Perhaps due to my somewhat slow gallop, but the races are almost over. Only one left, the children's race, who are actually the preferred riders here in Mongolia, because they are much lighter, much smaller, and thus can go faster in endurance races like the ones they are doing here. Usually, on Saturdays to celebrate this holiday, they hold races among all the nearby nomads in the area to see which horse is the fastest over distance. The children are the ones who compete most often because they need to learn from a young age and because they are faster. So now we wait for them here at the finish line and see what happens. In this entire valley, people take care of horses. These races are to appreciate the results of their hard training. And here we bet on the races to understand the results of the work done with the horses during the winter. And here is the champion, he won the race. His father taught him to gallop at two years old. And from his words, I understand how important it is for them to pass on this tradition. The horse is the pride of the Mongolian man. It is part of the Mongolian cultural heritage, Genghis Khan conquered the world mounted on his horse. That's why horse races are the pride of the Mongolians. We are already far behind schedule for our meeting with the shaman, but it was worth it. This wonderful family has honored us with the renowned generosity and hospitality of the Mongolian nomads. But before saying goodbye, I am curious to ask this gentleman what it means to live as a nomad. We have to move to different places based on the needs of our livestock. We cannot live if we are far from our livestock, if we are distant from the land and water. We are connected to nature. When we move from here across the river, the shamans say that the land misses us. So, we cannot move from here. Even the livestock cannot graze. They are used to grazing in this area. When we need to cut trees, for example, we must respect and consider them, doing so only if necessary. Shamans help us understand the feelings of nature. Shamans know it is necessary to &quot;calm nature.&quot; They tell us: &quot;Because of what you've done to nature, today you feel unwell.&quot; &quot;...and even your livestock suffer.&quot; Nature, humans, and animals are connected. Nature. Humans. Animals are connected. It's all connected. Because we cannot see it in cities. Shamanism attributes a soul or a spirit to all living beings and the elements of nature. For this reason, for nomads, the spirits of animals, plants, elements, can influence human life and must be deeply respected and honored. After another long day of travel, guided by the wild beauty of the landscape, we finally pass through a gateway that marks the entrance to the world of shamanism. Along the border between the earthly world and the spiritual world, are placed 13 &quot;Ovoo&quot; erected over 500 years ago to represent the animals of the Mongolian zodiac corresponding to twelve lunar years. These &quot;Ovoo&quot; are places of prayers and offerings to the spirits and ancestors, where people leave gifts like stones, coins, fabrics, or food as a sign of respect and gratitude. We still have hundreds of kilometers to go to the Shaman's GER so we stop to rest and refresh at another family of nomads. In Mongolia, it is traditional to offer travelers shelter and food, since outside the few cities there are neither hotels nor restaurants. This gesture of generosity is considered sacred in the culture of nomads and is done without expecting anything in return. The head of the family is deeply moved by our mission and shares with us what shamanism means to him. Shamanism helps us connect with our ancestors. Because on our own, we are not capable of receiving messages from our ancestors. It helps us communicate between various worlds. It connects everything. Is there a message you have received from a shaman that has changed or saved your life in some way? My son went to a shaman yesterday to find out what was wrong with the livestock. The livestock were dying en masse. So he went to a shaman. The shaman told him: &quot;You have taken too many resources from the deity of nature. Make offerings.&quot; This happens when men like us exploit nature thoughtlessly. We are connected to nature. Probably with our actions, we have annoyed it. How do shamans help you be happier? When the shaman enters a trance, he kills all the evil spirits around me. So, we turn to the shaman to destroy all impending evils and bad luck. And after two days of travel, we finally reach the shaman's GER. I don't know if I'm ready, but I am certainly curious to witness such an ancient, powerful ceremony firsthand and find out if my ancestors can help me in my search for the formula for happiness. Is he now in contact with my ancestors? I am in contact with a man. An ancestor of yours with a hooked nose, brown face with hair and a mustache. A person with a brilliant mind. A visionary. Is there any message that the spirit has told me I should know? You are in this world because you have a great purpose. You will have a mission as long as you continue to realize the things you have in mind. Make your thoughts your goals. But be careful: do not float! You will head in the wrong direction. Embrace this mission. Embrace your destiny with courage. What is the true meaning of happiness for the spirits? You cannot ask me this question. It cannot be that easy. You must discover it for yourself. when he does not speak. Thank you. He had a mustache. He looked like you, but a bit fatter. An old man with a mustache. He was a brilliant person. Noble. The place where the elder lived is different from yours. He lived somewhere... like in the countryside. Somewhere different from now. Why has he come? Why him specifically? What you are trying to achieve will happen as long as you are true to your soul and confident in yourself. Everything will be fine. Year after year, your light will increase to the next level. We Mongolians say that souls like yours will know enlightenment day by day. Exactly. You like to go to many different places. And you will continue to discover the most remote corners of the planet. That's what I'm actually doing now. I'm traveling all over the world to understand how happiness changes in all places and to learn it from others. As long as you sincerely keep the fire inside you burning, you must carry on this mission. Your effort will expand around the world, year after year, you will be surrounded by more and more people. Take this with you. What is this? Juniper. It will protect you from evil. I'm curious to know what happiness is for you. It's the psychic world that passes through my body and transmits the message. You help everyone improve or feel better. But sometimes you must absorb negative energies or people's problems. I cannot resist the destiny that has been written for me. I have received the power of the spirits. I must live to help others and defeat evil. I must heal people and ward off evil spirits. It's difficult. It's a tough destiny. One that cannot be seen with the eyes or touched with the hands. It's like that. Once the mask is removed, the shaman reveals her full humanity. Every bit of her energy, every breath is dedicated to the well-being of others. The happiness of others has become her mission. Her life is a daily offering, a silent sacrifice in the service of the community. And in the depths of these still wild lands, where the visible world blends with that of the spirits. I realized how shamanism is more than just a spiritual practice. It is an invitation, a call to reconnect with the deepest roots of our existence, to rediscover the wisdom of the ancients and to embrace the beauty of the mystery that surrounds us. My ancestor, whoever he was, was right. Through the shaman, he reminded me that happiness knows no shortcuts. It is a personal discovery, an inner journey that no one else can take for you. You just have to have the courage to explore the boundaries of your own soul.