It is impossible and relatively pointless to caused the decline of Classical civilisation. of the second century AD, when the Emperor of Rome But who was the son of Marcus Aurelius and what as among the darkest rulers of the Roman Empire, Welcome to our video on Commodus Following the death of emperor his son Commodus inherited the throne at the age idea that the young emperor immediately went home he continued campaigning against the Germanic and only then returned to Rome victorious. This which have certainly been warped by contemptuous Acting on the counsel of high-ranking freedmen abandoned Marcus Aurelius' ambitious plans lands of Germania. Although this was actually in our sources deride it as a consequence of the of Commodus from 180 to 182 was actually in line to show the senate the same reverence his late and emperor was only to worsen, triggered We are happy to present the sponsor of this video and hopefuls to write and publish a novel down World Anvil. World Anvil is the award-winning Manager made for gamemasters, writers, roleplayers own universe! It allows the users to build games and art using their inspirational a tool to collaborate, showcase and monetize anvil are completely secure - each account so you will never lose your progress! The feature you can bring in your custom map to the platform dungeon and place to the wiki-like articles. path to writing your bestselling novel or what are you waiting for? Support our link in the description and using our code Without his mother Faustina to keep the imperial quickly spiralled out of control. Most prominent Lucilla. She, as the widow of Lucius Verus, had empress. Becoming a mere princess, as well as embittered her. That, alongside the emperor's and his sidelining of senatorial So the angry senate and the influential sister During one dark afternoon in the winter of 182AD, places in all of Rome - the amphitheatre. Pompeianus Quintianus, was waiting for him in but rather than immediately striking , he shouted delay allowed Commodus to escape, and his guard Lucilla's part in it all was uncovered and the executed. Quintianus was ruthlessly tortured and From that point forward, Commodus always remembering the would-be As a natural reaction to this attempted life to a certain extent. Although the emperor he delegated more and more control of ruthless praetorian prefect - Tigidius Perennis, Although this isn't explicitly stated in our emperor used his newfound free time to further infamous - gladiatorial combat. While Perennis Commodus spent a portion of his This was not to last - a highly competent and jealous rivals. Largely unrelated to his own Gaul, and Spain, none of which Perennis was able emperor against his prefect. Among his enemies was freedman Cleander. Not only did he desire he also hated Perennis personally, taking glee in strange occasion during a festival, Commodus was Perennis was planning to kill him. This warning Embattled by constant failure, the emperor evidence emerged that the prefect was plotting and Cleander replaced Perennis The Emperor and his new favourite were which to fuel the state apparatus, pay the They attempted to squeeze revenues and the hostile sources we have access to is almost definitely a perspective gleaned from and his shadow-behind-the-throne Cleander on trivialities such as banquets, games, and it is worth keeping in mind that 'bread and patronising entertainment was a mark of a shrewd Works completed during the reign of Commodus treasury was squandered on uselessness. Included of Commodus, a lavish temple to Marcus Aurelius despised by the aristocracy were the methods from them. Charges of treason against wealthy the estates of the convicted senators. It is but we can't be sure of that. Cleander also sold commands, enrolments, and more. In our age, as unacceptable, but Ancient Rome was a world in this case the imperial throne, would grant positions and ranks, who would repay the favour A bought position and incompetence were not Otherwise, these stations would almost definitely aristocratic patronages. Most of the actions were normal practices, twisted and warped by Nevertheless, Cleander's reign as de had run its course. At some point in 189 or 190, a food shortage driven by problems with exacerbated by an administrator who wanted to Soon a violent mob descended on the emperor's Shaken by this, Commodus' changed how he was the situation is clearly hyperbole, but it goes "After undergoing such risks, the emperor listening to all accusations without question He no longer had any regard for the &quot;good licentious pleasures of the flesh Although it could be argued that Commodus' senatorial critique, it is from 190 from slightly unorthodox to possibly insane. Due Commodus further intensified his martial training, moving to a new palace which was far closer He became a truly formidable presence, and physical fitness. To top it off, the emperor And though Commodus' enemies must've seen this it was really just prudent - Commodus A subtle change in Roman currency between 186 of the emperor's unorthodox post-Cleander quirks. were engraved such phrases as 'Herculi Commodiano' around 190 also shows the crowned sun god Sol The emperor was no longer to be made a god During this period, the freshly rebranded senators and aristocrats from Rome's power of his imperial household, freedmen, servants, unmoored his rule from the senate's traditional people. The emperor forced the senate to vote official records. To mark the start of this new to the grandiose 'Lucius Aelius Aurelius Commodus whom he believed despised him, Commodus supposedly Then, in perhaps his most infamously narcissistic 'Commodiana', while the Roman people were duly the year were changed. September, for example, all of these strange sounding actions were or a legitimate attempt to consciously reinvent debate among historians. In any case, this The crescendo of Commodus' reign came during Word of the upcoming spectacle was spread flocked to the splendour of their imperial capital gladiatorial combats and chariot races. To begin garb of Hercules Venator - the Hunter. Moving Commodus used both spear and bow to kill an supposedly requiring only a After a short intermission and a drink of and fought continuous bouts against various It may not be a surprise to hear that, once his victories guaranteed in advance, however about Commodus as a whole indicates that he competent fighter. Despite that, Rome's nobles Each time the emperor vanquished both Eclectus, his new chamberlain, his two most favoured subordinates, as the in Ancient Rome this gesture would've been bestowed by a man viewed as something only In contrast, the assembled senators were "You are lord and you are first, of all everlasting Amazonian, you are a victor." the senate was to be nothing an outdated relic there to fawn at his feet the state. Cassius Dio describes a moment during took a hold of its head and ascended to where his left hand and in his right hand raising aloft yet he wagged his head with a grin, indicating It seemed that Commodus was in full control, and pure bad luck posed a threat. For more irritated with the emperor's increasing Desiring the enthronement of an easily-led Laetus began to plot and scheme against Commodus. reason to get in on the act. For some time prior salacious affair with Marcia, a woman whom despite was loved almost without reservation by Commodus. been his wife and empress had her status in These three conspirators then involved another who occupied the position of urban the plotters offered Pertinax the throne he accepted gladly, despite being the man tasked The day of execution would be December 31st 192. it was a well chosen occasion indeed. It meant indulging in other distractions. Moreover, almost would be preparing for the new That evening, during dinner, Marcia covertly At a signal, her lover Eclectus used his the palace servants. As planned, the emperor to be in the process of dying, but it wouldn't and vomiting purged much of the substance from his Commodus stumbled to the Vectilian Villa's up. More concerningly for the conspirators, he and Eclectus found Commodus' wrestling partner being plied with splendorous bribes and promises, hands around the emperor's throat. In any other but weakened as he was by his mistress' poison, 'Such was the end of Commodus-' states Cassius Dio fourteen days. He had lived thirty-one years and ceased to rule. After this there occurred most saw the end of the Roman age of plenty that had year of five emperors concluded in the who managed to hold the empire together until 235, We will talk more about Roman history in our pressed the bell button. Please, consider liking, Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via to know our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals