PREVIOUSLY... Hang on, it's been a year since In the real world? No. Oh, okay. Yo, rook, you should have killed the pawn Now I am protecting him. Oh, hey, bishop, looks like Damn it, this keeps I need to take drastic measures. - For now, run. - Why are you running? Stop running, you simpungus. Pawn, come here Alright, sire. Phew, that was close. I need to come out I am hanging, king. Why? Your precious bishop Shut up. Move and protect him, Fine. I need to move too. Now that they are busy, I can move away from the safe zone - You naughty naughty. Uno reverse. Uno reverse 2. Rook, stop dancing with the bishop. - Help this pawn. Finally, I am free. Roger roger. You thought it would be easy to kill me? I need to stay close to that pawn. Hahaha, I have a plan. - Bishop, get ready. Why would he sacrifice the rook? Pawn, what are you waiting for? No, don't kill him, pawn. Shut the f*ck up, king. Hahahahaha. The rook is screwed. - It is called &quot;skewered&quot;. Now once the rook is gone, I fell into their elaborate trap. I told you, stupid. You have nothing to do anymore. Even if I kill the rook, you cannot take me back because you Thanks to the pawn. Well, in that case... At least I can kill this horsey Wait, no, that's not fair. - King, just give me the order. Don't kill the rook. Hehe, I thought so. No, king, don't do this mistake. My sacrifice will be I can never give up on you. Never gonna give you up. Did you just rickroll me? Anyway, it's necessary for me to die. No. - Any last word, rooky boy? No! My rook! Now no one can stop But you can. Hell nah. That horsey will kill me. Even if I kill the horsey, 'cause both of you bishops You have to stop the queen. I won't do it. If you don't do this, I am gonna tell your What the f*ck? What the heck, king? I have my ways. The power dynamic Now do it. Dammit, this will Please, do it fast, horsey. Hell no. Check him instead. - Check. We lost the opportunity Now you pawn will die. What the f*ck? Where are you running, king? - Check. Go ahead. I won't interfere. I will go there and assist any pawn Shit, I don't have But if I go there, we can Damn it, this pawn is pinned. He is gone either way. So you pawn, start running like hell, You have to become queen But it is pointless. Hard work is worthless for those Somebody told me I'm a failure. But this is a difficult situation. A smile is the easiest way out Okay, I will smile. - Checky check. Hello, pawn. Yum yum, perfect. I need to stay with this pawn Come, pawn. You do realized? Shut the f*ck up and move. I am just gonna grab my popcorn. I will block off that square. It's tricky to mate You pawn, keep coming. If that bishop kills you, I need to corner him You have nowhere to move now. Put your hands behind your back. I can still push the pawn. No, that pawn Only way to stop him is I don't want to sack him. Don't worry, king. How the f*ck do you read my mind? I am going sack myself Answer me first. That was a ballsy move. So since I sacked myself, could it be said that No. Yeah, I agree with black king I need a queen and you are Eww, king, - Just push him. I will stop him. I won't let you enter. You cannot hold me alone. I can do this all day Say hello to my horsey. Dammit, I can't go up anymore. Bishop, help please. Nope, I won't. About what? - The wife thing. Glad to hear. Now listen to this ad Okay, fine. Let me talk about WeCall. Now what the hell is WeCall? WeCall is an app which is available So nice to hear. I am not finished yet. With WeCall, double the camera, Experience video call with both front Is that so, sire? Yes, this app is making It let's you play chess and make chess way more fun. Download WeCall now and submit your best chess clips to us using WeCall on Discord for a chance to be featured Join the new wave Yes, now I can play chess and show off Yes, show off your skills in a PVP match friends, and family. Let the best chess player win. Oh, my God! - Okay, okay, I am done anyway. Checky checky check check. I just realized one thing. All the bishop era started because you, black king, didn't apologize to bishop. How the hell would I know You can still say sorry I don't think I will. We are way past that. - But you should run. Now I can escape through here - Hahaha, you are too late. Wait a minute. You stupid king, Oopsie. I think I can catch the pawn. You can't catch me, you stupid. - Checky checksickle. Let's just go to that corner I have no safe checks for him Horsey, I need your assistance. Anything for you, queen. Let's push that last pawn and it will be a stalemate. I am not dumb. Yeah, queen. Damn it, is it a forced mate now? Chicky chicky check. Queen, after the checkmate, Sure, whatever. Checky checky, matey matey. I will take revenge. Only if you can stay safe from me. Noooo.