The year is 48 BCE. Julius Caesar is stationed at the city of He is after the republican forces that retreated led by his arch-rival, Pompey Magnus. A pivotal conflict of ancient history was about to take place... The He had declared war on the senate, marched Italian peninsula, constantly chasing after His civil war was a characteristic outcome sense of worth and self-importance and he to tell him what to do and when to do it, political power by handing over his legions of certain persecution and marginalization, Because this was the situation he faced just the Senate specifically ordered him to disband for the second time, something that would Back at Brundisium Caesar was contemplating a crossing with two glaring problems in his mind. The first being his significantly inferior who were patrolling the area and the second pretty risky in antiquity since ancient ships On the other hand a passage through Illyricum The delay would have been great and the route was treacherous, full of perils and hostile local tribes. So on the night of 4th of January (or 6th Caesar, with 7 legions and 500 cavalry, crossed the patrols of the republican navy, landing Meanwhile Pompey, who was stationed at the of the republican forces, an appointment that of the Roman state. And it was at this stage Epirus in order to station his legions within Caesar had pushed on through the ragged ground upon two completely unsuspecting cities, Apollonia The surprise was such that he captured them Moving northwards Caesar's strategic goal He was trying to deprive Pompey from his western which were vital for his Adriatic fleet, an his army's own communications and supply rocky and scarce land of Epirus that barely Pompey must have heard about Caesar's landing He forced marched his army in order to cut to insert himself between Caesar and Dyracchium the Roman Via Egnatia. The two armies faced each other on the opposite Caesar had significantly inferior forces in tried to force the Caesarians into an unwanted but while he was attempting a crossing the The stalemate was inevitable. Of course Caesar was not being idle, he repeatedly but his generals had to face the same unfavorable of the republican fleet. Finally Marc Antony, with 4 legions and a to cross the Adriatic but due to unexpected north than he intended into the bay of Nymphaeum. This delicate and complicated maneuvering, of the "game". Pompey would not allow Marc Antony to link He immediately broke camp and forced marched his legions up the river until he found a The rapid pace of Caesar ultimately deterred Marc Antony. So in order to avoid being trapped between westward, camping his army north of the river Genusus close to Asparagium in a convenient situation. This war of movement would continue and be expanded upon by Caesar who dispatched three of his subordinates to other operating theaters across the Greek Thessaly where they could organize vital grain The third commander Domitius Calvinus was approaching via Macedonia in order to reinforce Caesar and Pompey were now facing each other were immensely beneficial for Pompey who could supply situation was far superior and his and complete. On the other hand Caesar needed to force a entrain a striking and decisive blow to his Time was running against him. In typical Caesarian fashion he adopted a and surprise. He broke camp and marched his army eastwards his true destination who thought that he was an area that would be supplied more easily. But when Caesar found a fordable area he crossed Dyrrachium through a ragged and concealed the city he already knew was his main supply The subterfuge was successful and Caesar managed enemy's communications and he then proceeded towards Dyrachium. In this game of warfare Caesar seemed to always The two generals seemed to have settled down It was at that point that Caesar demonstrated he was up against a numerically superior enemy position and intention to engage with him He needed to force Pompeys hand and simultaneously advance against the depot in Dyrrachium, so in Gaul with tremendous success. Taking into consideration the fact that Pompey's hills he occupied them, fortified key areas around Pompey's position. We need not wonder about his intentions here and labor intensive method to deal with his own account. His reasons were the following, Pompey was use it to forage for grain and provisions mobility, so by confining his army within ability of Pompey's cavalry to forage and to sustain. And also there was another reason that was reputation throughout the empire would suffer and besieged by Caesar while he did not dare While Caesar was being busy trying to expand within a compass as narrow as possible, Pompey set into digging a line of fortifications as many hills as he could in as large a circuit or surrounding him. As a result the two armies fought a series areas or hills. Even though Pompey was determined not to come send light troops in order to harass the Caesarians. By the time the two armies completed their to 24km and Pompey's lines were stretched to finish them first since he had greater The two generals faced completely opposite a well-supplied and larger army with a smaller hemmed in within an enclosed area without as he saw fit. Of course Pompey's large cavalry force and out quickly and soon his horses would be out him daily, plus there was a water shortage river or stream that was running through Pompey's The sporadic skirmishing did not cease especially emerging from their trenches to pepper with Caesarians who were on guard. After a while the Caesarians were accustomed one place and keep guard at another. By the beginning of June Pompey needed to He somehow misinformed Caesar to believe that was ready to surrender the city to him. Caesar with a detachment marched towards Dyrrachium Attacked from three sides simultaneously he at the same time Pompey launched an all out It was a magnificent plan and it probably an army of grizzled veterans who were defending The Ceasarians held until their General managed The whole struggle was desperate as Caesar loses (20 men in comparison with Pompey's In one fort they counted 30.000 arrows which were found 230 holes! Caesar would attempt to force a battle every on a level ground and offered Pompey battle, before the range of Pompeys siege engines face and would draw his legions within the in front of his fortifications but so close the rampart. At some point something unexpected happened. Two officers of Caesar's Gallic cavalry defected position in Caesars fortifications. At the southern end of his entrenched lines wasn't connected with a transverse line Pompey decided to strike there and he would engagement of the battle. At dusk of 9 July Pompey prepared an amphibious the Caesarian fortification. He boarded a multitude of light and missile the position from three sides simultaneously. Backing this assault were six legions who managed and fled facing overwhelming odds. The rest of the Caesarian army was alarmed for just such occasions. Marc Antony, followed by Caesar himself, arrived In between the now contested double ramparts was an abandoned camp which was now occupied by adding an outer rampart and in addition camp outside the Caesarian enclosure. Seeing this Caesar realized that he needed from securing and fortifying an opening from easily forage and find fodder. He secretly gathered 33 cohorts, arranged position of his enemy. The left wing of his attack column fell upon push them back, but the right wing followed the river Lesnikia. That delay was crucial for the outcome of After a while they realized that the palisade and they broke through within the narrow space Pompey, seeing the critical situation his outer camp and immediately send them to relieve to charge head on the right wing of the Caesarian through the levelled palisades. The Caesarian cavalry which was the first significantly stronger Pompeian cavalry charging Fearing they were going to be trapped between the palisades and the camp they broke and fled. The panic spread to the infantry and soon The left wing that was being successful up and fearing that it will be overwhelmed broke This cascade of panic was the critical point Caesar's legionaries were crushed and squeezed The first legionaries who fell down a 10 feet rest fled for their lives. Even Caesar himself failed to stop the rout standard and urging them to stand their ground. According to Appian, the panic was so widespread tried to kill Caesar with it! A legionary from his German bodyguards was the general and changing the course of history. By the end of the engagement the strategic of Pompey, and Caesar now realizing that his ordered an immediate withdrawal so that his The casualty count was 32 centurions and tribunes side. This would probably be the direst and most That day the Caesarians abandoned their extensive regroup. The situation looked bleak for Caesar but (9-10 JULY 48 B.C.E)Julius Caesar is retreating, his illustrious career, his plan to trap the and now his options were running out. The misfortunes for the Caesarians though time that the Pompeians managed to catch half every single ship . retreat during the night, at dawn the next the river Genusus when his rear guard clashed the Caesarians fought bravely and managed the crossing the same river occupying the same old camps on staying, he conducted a speedy retreat towards Apollonia in which he left a small to march inland away from his all-conquering the remaining forces of Domitius Calvinus commanded by Scipio. Pompey and Caesar were simultaneously marching up the valley of the river Aous and Pompey with quite opposite objectives from each other, while Pompey was attempting to surprise and By a struck of luck and just 4 hours before of his arrival and immediately made a U turn iron grip the city of Aeginium. The plain of Thessaly with its fertile fields was clear, capture the near by cities and southwards the first city his legions encountered encouraged by overinflated rumours of his victory rather than be a part of Caesars misfortunes" this defiance could not remain unpunished city by unleashing his veterans who ransacked an effective incentive for the locals to collaborate to side with Caesar.The to Caesar with a little encouragement by some advanced further towards Thessaly reaching Meanwhile Pompey who advanced from Via engatia, the city of Larissa, in which the two legions The Pompeian contingents united near the city when the army reached the hills overlooking understood that any further advance was pointless The monumental clash of the two generals was decide the future of a whole empire and the centuries. While Caesar was already encamped in a convenient to the city of Pharsalus, Pompey marched his from which he could overlook the Caesarian favourably placed in a strong defensive position. Caesar was running out of time, his supply had suffered a critical blow after the unfortunate still needed to force a swift conclusion to did not budge at all even after the debacle and unique advantage in comparison to his in no way absolute and undisputed since he and limited authority over the republics aristocrats with his command, Caesars word and authority undisputed and complete. Caesar would attempt to force a battle every his legions in an aggressive manner, hoping defensive position and face him in a single to abandon the safety of his hills would draw bordering the northern part of the plain. The great rogue general demonstrated his elaborate proving that each move that he made was totally by marching daily his legions closer and closer of his men and made them accustomed to this if he was to succeed in a potential clash have to face the by many degrees numerically with his own cavalry a selected group of the and instilled them, by this daily practise, numerical superiority. After many days of this military ballet, Caesar was willing to risk everything in a single against his better judgement and at the exact out something unexpected happened,on the morning calendar, Pompeys arrangement shifted from usual from his entrenchments. Caesar after no long deliberation understood himself to his soldiers when they were at (Caesars speech= We must defer, our march which has been our constant wish, let us then not hereafter easily find such and opportunity On the other side of the field Pompey was cavalry )force would be the key for victory. "I have persuaded our cavalry, and they two armies have met, to attack Caesar's right on the rear, throw them into disorder, and a weapon against the enemy" in a machine like manner, Pompeys army was at their full strength, some auxiliaries and his cavalry was commanded by a Caesarian former Titus Labienus , his left wing was commanded that were delivered over by Caesar at the in compliance with one of their decrees, Scipio and his right wing was commanded by Afranius, most trusted legions that would include the that he managed to salvage from Spain. Caesars order of battle was the following, legion eventhough the 9th was so weakened the eighth legion pretty close to the ninth, the command to Antonius, the centre was under was under the direct command of Sulla, Caesar wing opposite to his rival and close to his small cavalry force together with all of his to Pompeys cavalry, and at the last moment in his third line and made a concealed 4th of Pompey with their Pilla once they broke would be decided, in total 80 cohorts made typical triplex acies Roman formation of the to guard their camp. Moments after Caesar gave the signal to charge, X legion named Crastinus, saluted him and to-day, that you will feel grateful to me And with such high spirits Caesars outnumbered superior but mostly inexperienced recruits, to stand their ground and receive Caesars veterans were accustomed to this and being midway, redressed their ranks and renewed drew their swords clashing against the Pompeian At the same time Pompeys cavalry began its and slingers, were moving as a single block cavalry, the Caesarians did not withstand little, at that moment Julius Caesar gave charged holding their Pila high and stabbing words "they rushed with such fury that not not only quitted their post, but galloped By their retreat the archers and slingers, all cut to pieces" plan had completely backfired and his "hammer" 4th line wheeled about upon Pompeys unprotected it was now that Caesar gave the order to his The Pompeians fought bravely but without the the front and attacked from their flank and third line they broke and began to flee for carpet after that with the republican left Pompey would not stay to share the fate of he gave orders to some cohorts and auxiliaries tent waiting for the outcome of the battle. The victorious Caesarians pushed on towards who could not withstand the multitude of projectiles and the survivors abandoned any further effort hills leaving the victorious Caesarians to troops were able to force the gates he Is very camp?". It was a total victory for Julius Caesar, obvious until after the casualties from both devastated with 15.000 dead and 25.000 captured out, while Caesar himself informs us that which there lay the Valliant Crastinus who in his mouth. The remaining republicans who fled to the and surrendered the next day. Pompey who had fled towards the coast boarded be assassinated within a few months, while Roman Empire. After he decisively defeated Pompey in the Battle of Pharsalus, Caesar did not linger for long and went after his arch-rival to There he was greeted by a reluctant and scheming court which presented him the severed head of Pompey... Despite being victorious in a civil war much idle time on his hands. Having been embroiled in prolonged Egyptian of the local population, more recently he Pharnaces II of Pontus. Caesar was able to successfully conclude the but this brief window of time gave was enough consolidate their forces and allies, and to Cato, Labienus, Afranius, Scipio and many to form 10 legions and ensure valuable support an army that was the equivalent of 4 legions cavalry, as well as 120 war elephants. Caesar needed to act quickly. By the time he reached Italy many of his veteran mutinous and were demanding to be demobilized It was a situation that became worse due to But yet again he displayed a crucial gift, grasp of his troops' psychology. Caesar agreed to their demands, declaring once he had won the war in Africa with the his veterans not as "comrades", but as This bit of reverse-psychology made even his The mutineers and especially troops from the them back into his service. Now that the mutiny was resolved it was time Caesar impatiently rushed towards Sicily with as soon as possible. Unfortunately for him, bad weather forced While waiting, he ordered his tent to be pitched and confident he was to embark on a journey Finally on the 25th of December 47 BC he set But hasty planning of the expedition meant 2000 cavalry, and there was almost no effort Once again in his career Caesar's sea crossing scattered his fleet in multiple directions. African coast came in sight not far from Hadrumentum. The city was occupied by a large garrison, disposal Caesar could only wait until more After a few hours he eventually disembarked near the city with a meagre force of 3000 foot and 150 horse. With his logistical situation critical, Caesar base an attain a firmer foothold on Africa. Marching along the coast he was soon met with cities that were offering to supply and help Once at the city of Ruspina, he raised a fortified With his base established, Caesar marched There the deputies of the town offered their While in the city, by sheer chance some of From the crews Caesar learned that the rest and decided to sail for Utica. The Roman general garrisoned Leptis with 6 He left the remainder of his small force in went on a reconnaissance mission in order to find out the whereabouts of the rest of his army. His lucky star shined bright that night, as in view just before day break. Re-united with the remained of his forces, The next task was finding supplies, as the put an extra weight on his already strained A contingent of 30 cohorts, some 9000-strong, out into the country without their baggage Caesar had not marched more than three miles scouts that enemy forces were in sight. As soon as the announcement was made a big He immediately ordered his small force of in order to cover his infantry, with explicit And, in a rare move he deployed his legions into a single line due to the small size of his force. The enemy army was comprised mainly of light under the command of his former deputy, Titus Labienus. In total the Numidians numbered around 11.500 men. Labienus had arranged his cavalry in such so when he suddenly began to extend his line As the light Numidian cavalry advanced, Caesar's same time a few cohorts broke ranks and charged The light cavalry retreated immediately while their missiles at the unshielded right side Labienus now gave the order and by using his back the outnumbered Caesarian cavalry that The fast moving Numidians used their superior was available to block their advance. For once, Caesar was completely enveloped The situation was made worse by the fact that veterans of Gaul and Pharsalus, but mostly It was his charisma and reputation alone that men to hold their nerve. Caesar forbade his men to advance beyond the face both sides. The heavy armored legionaries were incapable they couldn't catch up neither with the while the Numidians could shower them with projectiles without engaging them in close quarters. At this moment Labienus advanced in front began taunting the Caesarians, mocking their A legionary from Caesar's ranks replied: of the 10th legion". &quot;Where is your standard?!&quot;, Labienus shouted &quot;I will soon make you sensible to who I am&quot;, Then, pulling off his helmet to reveal himself, Labienus' horse, which threw him on the The soldier warned: &quot;Know that this javelin The wounded Labienus was carried from the Despite the heroic display of the veteran, standard bearer attempted to abandon his position turn him around and say "Look, that's With dusk approaching Caesar tried to break his fortified camp. He gave orders to most of his cohorts and Numidians, hoping that the surprise attack would give them enough time to break out and retreat. The concentrated push caught the Numidians unawares, and their formation scattered in confusion. A brief skirmish ensued, but the light cavalrymen a rapid march towards their fortifications. With daylight diminishing, the Caesarian columns detachment of 1100 strong Numidian cavalry, commanded by Marcus Petreius fell upon Caesar's rear guard. Caesar ordered his cavalry and a contingent in the rear and buy time for the rest of the The countercharge was successful and the Numidians in the fighting. After a long and hard-fought retreat, Caesar's fortified camp. Casualties for both sides are unknown but At Ruspina, Caesar almost lost everything and his good luck that he was able to survive The decisive engagement in Africa was yet to come... Ruspina was a close call for Julius Caesar. Not only was he incapable of delivering a cause of his senatorial enemies, but he was lucky to escape with his army unscathed. After he barely fended off the forces of the was still in a logistical predicament, and at best, with his soldiers improvising heavily and cattle with sea-weed in order to sustain At the same time, Metellus Scipio, the commander from Utica with the entire army in order assist Caesar's situation was critical. His hasty sea-crossing with a small force a bridgehead for his incoming supplies, nor strategic tool, which forced him to dig in At the same time he send messages to his allies ships with the rest of his army and the much Caesar and Scipio were facing each other across had a significant numerical advantage he would something that Caesar was aware of. While he was biding his time, numerous delegations offered their services or pleaded with him This was a perfect opportunity for Caesar so when several deputies from the neighboring that would assist them against the incursions C.Messius with a few cohorts in order to take Soon after he entered the city though, Messius and few cavalry. During this slow and methodic game of strategic than his enemy, forcing Scipio to play catch-up Amidst this standstill, Caesar's proconsul more legions, the 13th and 14th, together The reinforcements arrived safely to Ruspina The timing was vital because the two legions veterans, and their arrival rejuvenated the made up the bulk of his army. With the determination of his troops renewed, Scipio's camp was placed upon a ridge nearby advantage over his enemy by occupying the After a series of skirmishes mainly between his actions and in battle array marched along nearby city of Uzitta. And Scipio could not afford to lose Uzitta. It was a vital logistical depot and his main marched to aid the city, determined to defend Caesar's unconventional approach to warfare be forced to face. With his outnumbered army and with no hope needed to overcome both his numerical and camp upon a hill opposite to Uzitta and began each side of the city. By this labor intensive method, which was both of his flanks while attempting to occupy And as he began extending his siegeworks, with a substantial force of cavalry and light and 3 legions under his command. The stakes were getting higher by the minute. A series of skirmishes ensued upon the ridges two generals, with Labienus having a prominent that followed. While those hostilities were carrying on around Sicily managed to arrive safely at Ruspina, And the timing could not have been more crucial. With his army reinforced by 2 veteran legions long before Caesar was able to extend his it within range of his siege engines. This gave the opportunity to numerous local that were sympathetic to Caesar, but forced of darkness and reach his fortifications carrying help and collaboration. On a daily basis Caesar would attempt to provoke hardened veterans, by arranging his army in army, assuming an aggressive formation and of Scipio's fortifications. He remained so posted from morning till night to advance within the narrow entrenched area Caesar forfeit the protection that the fortifications As a result, the opposing cavalry forces would with the Caesarians trying to fend off the to deter their enemy from expanding the ramparts Meanwhile Considius Longus, after besieging that he would not be able to storm the city's the siege. But things would not remain so smooth for During the stand-off with Scipio's forces ships that were anchored outside Leptis had of them were burned. With his lines of communication now severely the naval operations against the enemy fleet. After he successfully combined most of his proceeded to attack the fleet that was stationed The surprise was complete and most of the the safety of the harbor were burned. Caesar managed to resolve this crisis in record It seemed that wherever he was able to personally This "Midas touch" that he had on the consistently follow him throughout his military But despite all of his efforts, Caesar's When he returned to his main camp he decided of Uzitta and resume the war of movement. At dawn he gathered all of his legions and, off towards Agar. There, he encamped on the plain before the the country in search of provisions. Scipio meanwhile, hearing of Caesar's departure, his forces, and posted himself about six miles If Caesar couldn't dislodge his enemy he received intelligence from a spy that Scipio an opportunity to occupy the nearby strategically Under the cover of darkness, he force-marched the town right under the nose of his enemies, down the country side foraging, he immediately But almost immediately it became apparent of Caesar's presence and was hastily heading Caesar's force was not prepared for a full a large portion of his legions left to garrison did not choose, he would not risk it, so he As he drew near the enemy camp from which were laying in ambush among the nearby hills with a strong detachment of Numidian light cavalry. The rear guard of Caesar's veterans immediately of the enemy cavalry, but as soon as they back into the hills. It was apparent that the cavalry of the optimates retreat and oblige him to encamp at a place The situation that Caesar faced is described is mentioned that "Caesar, to meet enemies his soldiers, not like a general of a veteran battles, but like a fencing master training advance or retire; when they were to oppose an attack; at what place, and in what manner This march had already lasted from 3 in the legionaries exhausted, and the retreat almost he needed to find a way out of this predicament. Realizing that, by keeping his cavalry in not easily replace, so he instead positioned his rear-guard, with specific orders to receive This tactic proved to be effective and by Caesar's army was at last able to reach sustaining only a few casualties. The next day Caesar tried to induce Scipio army in battle order outside his camp but in his camp on the nearby hills. But the tactic of taunting his enemy remained of rapid marches that his veterans were accustomed city of Sarsura were there was a magazine His legions were constantly harassed by the this time Caesar was prepared. By assigning 300 legionaries from each legion against the enemy's rear-guard action he of Labienus's cavalry and to reach Sarsura The next day Caesar resumed his march against to the city's stronger defences and the would entail, he abandoned the attempt to near Agar. Between the two camps was a small town by a small garrison that he intended to assist. After yet another small and indecisive skirmish the stalemate could not be broken. Caesar could not entice Scipio to abandon near the city of Tagea, but neither could being so far away from his main coastal supply However, the apparent lack of an overall strategic objective for Scipio played into Caesar's hand. The veteran general had a unique insight when it came to a warfare of movement and strategic planning. Caesar once again found himself in need of to give, so he came up with a plan that would rapid movement, keen insight when it came military objective and the boundless capacity of his legionaries for hard and unremitting labour. Under the cover of night he broke camp and of Thapsus that was occupied by a well-known Thapsus was already besieged by sea and would battle that Caesar needed so much. When Caesar arrived he immediately set his ramparts around the whole town in order to Scipio could not afford the disgrace of abandoning were loyal all along to the cause of the optimates When he received news of Caesar's designs and camped just 8 miles away from the city It is not exactly clear how long it took but within a few days, Caesar's legions were elaborate double network of ditches, ramparts Surrounded and completely cut off by both Scipio could break the encirclement. The next day Scipio left his fort and advanced range of his siege engines. His army was arranged in battle order and was facing the Caesarians that were now clearly in sight. Caesar noticed this movement and drew off face the enemy, left a small garrison to guard his fleet to raise a shout on his signal so his legions were engaged in battle. Caesar drew up his army in 3 lines. On his right wing he placed the 10th and 2nd on his left wing and in his center he positioned He also placed the 5th legion, which was split it to deal with the enemy elephants. His cavalry was positioned on both of his The opposing army of Scipio was drawn up similarly and light troops on both wings, but he also of his main battle line for shock value and Scipio hoped that with his elephants he could once the battle commenced and had them specifically trained to endure the sound of slings and arrows. All told, Scipio deployed approximately 12 of light Numidian cavalry, commanded by King Caesar went from rank to rank to rouse the their former victories and animating them He exhorted the new recruits who had never and endurance of the veterans and endeavour for themselves. As he ran from rank to rank he noticed that portion of it still working on the fortifications uneasy hurrying from place to place or retiring again in confusion. As many others from his army began to observe and implored their general to give the order renowned 10th legion, who so often were at uneasy and chafing at the beat to launch against As Caesar did not wish to commence a battle eagerness of the men and mitigate their aggressive of a sudden a trumpeter on the right wing, his 10th legion, sounded the charge. The small trickle of furiously attacking veterans nor Caesar himself were able to stop them. Caesar understood that the enthusiasm of his wishing them "Good luck" he spurred on The explosive onslaught of the veterans gave Caesar's archers and light troops showered arrows in such a way that the animals panicked who were still within the ramparts of the Soon afterwards the Caesarian right wing enveloped The ferocity of the attack is captured by a veteran of the 5th legion who, after witnessing an elephant, charged the animal by himself. When the elephant grabbed him with his trunk of mind to brand his sword and wound the elephant's Miraculously the animal eased its grab, released Soon the battle turned into a rout and the Caesar's veterans managed to kill almost are described as being negligible, ranging The unstoppable Caesarian advance chased off their right flank and soon the veterans occupied The fleeing rabble could not pose a threat any longer to the triumphant leader of the &quot;Populares&quot;. The African campaign was all but won. The battle of Thapsus was a unique instance of Caesar completely losing control of his army. Nevertheless the sheer guts, experience and total and decisive victory. All seemed lost for the scattered optimates, minor under the iron grip of the Caesarians. Now, Spain remained the only refuge for the optimates... It's early in the year 46 BC. After the decisive defeat at Thapsus all seemed Most of their prominent members were either A large portion of their armies was either while any remaining troops scattered. But despite all of these disastrous set-backs, be a very hard nut to crack. The Optimates will soon prove that they still have some fight left in them. Two of Pompey Magnuses's sons, Gnaeus and Caesarean who turned against him, managed defeat at Thapsus. They made their way to Spain and slowly began renew the hostilities against their nemesis. A couple of Pompey's former veteran legions declared themselves for the optimates and Those two legions were soon joined by the the North African campaign. By combining their forces they managed to capital of the, Corduba. It didn't take long after that for the optimates levies from roman citizens of the region and former slaves who were disillusioned with Caesar again had a full scale crisis on his The civil war has resurged within just a few But this time around the leader of the populares Most of his veterans, after years of service The majority of his loyal and so often victorious veterans would not follow their general to Spain. Nevertheless, Caesar's favorite and most understrength due to years of campaigning 5th legion, that so successfully managed to during the battle of Thapsus, were amongst ultimately prove to be his final campaign. Caesar arrived in Spain in early December which his army covered in less than a month, Caesar commemorated in a short poem that he wrote. When his presence became known to the region, many ambassadors approached him with a variety of requests. The ambassadors from Corduba, urged him to from the enemy who they claimed was not yet But at the same time, survivors from the garrison city that was under siege by Gnaeus Pompey Caesar thought it more prudent to march to remained loyal under pressure. He detached 11 cohorts with a small cavalry and sent them during the night to lift the When the detachment arrived near Ulia, a severe just a few metres. Thinking quickly, Paciecus ordered his men entrenchments, marching with his cavalry in After a Pompeian guard became aware of their one of Paciecus' legionaries yelled at him to capture the walls! The trick worked and the Caesareans managed Thanks to Paciecius' cunning and the audacity of a single legionnaire, the siege of Ulia was lifted. When Caesar received news of this success He quickly built a bridge and forded the river Qualdacivir, setting his camp not far from the city. Pompey rushed to intercept Caesar and set across the bridge. As it was typical for Caesar he attempted access to the bridge by having his soldiers As a result, a series of bloody skirmishes The Pompeians tried to gain access to the So severe were the losses for both sides due that heaps of bodies piled up on both sides of Caesar realized that Pompey would not commit not linger for long. He instructed his soldiers to light many fires that the entire force was in the camp. Then, during that same night he forded the which was the strongest fort that the Optimates The veterans immediately began to besiege to follow their lead and accustom themselves the Caesarean way of waging war. It wasn't long after that a series of ditches Around the same time Pompey who was informed the aid of Ategua, happened to stumble upon some heavy mist and completely destroyed it. Despite his success, most of the strategic occupied by Caesareans, so he was forced to Ategua and the nearby city of Ucubis, upon From his position Pompey could not assist After he assessed the situation he came up There, across a nearby river, he saw a weakly well as Caesar's communication lines and, intervening river, he thought that Caesar in case of a surprise attack. Driven by this belief he sent a strong detachment position and dislodge the Caesareans. Things did not go according to Pompey's When his legionaries reached the position with their pila from a favorable and elevated With the surprise being unsuccessful the ensuing Three legions from the main camp rushed to were caught in between the two forces. After a brief struggle the Pompeians fled The loses would have probably been more severe After the failure of the surprise attack, force his way across the river and onto the He began digging a line across his camp to be able to safely reach the other side. Once again, skirmishes ensued around the entrenchments, but Pompey's army was eventually able to reach the river and even build a new fort The no-man's-land between the two opposing intense clashes, with neither side being able sustained minor setbacks. Pompey needed to break the stalemate and relieve During the night he managed to sneak messages and attack a specific point of Caesar's break out and unite with his forces outside. The garrison of Ategua complied and tried chokehold, but the effort was in vain. The Caesarean army proved to be way too prepared After a brief clash, in which the garrison forced to retreat in disarray back within After the failed breakthrough attempt, Pompey decided that he could do nothing more for besieged. Preparations began to break camp and march there were numerous well defended allied cities more effectively. Caesar intercepted this intelligence and decided city about Pompey's decision to abandon And, as he had correctly predicted, it didn't L. Minatius who offered to surrender the town lives would be spared, which Caesar granted. The siege of Ategua was successfully concluded The fall of this key fortress incited a cascade in favour of Caesar's cause. Pompey was retreating towards the city of After crossing yet another river close to and began entrenching himself on defendable The two armies were soon engaged in a ferocious during which the Caesareans were overwhelmed Two of Caesar's veteran centurions made down the Pompeian counter charge. Their eventual deaths gave enough time to out of their camp to intervene and in their turn drove the Pompeians back to their own entrenchments. Both adversaries were carefully manoeuvring, the same time endeavouring to exploit any After marching a few miles westwards both Pompey encamped just outside the city of Ucubis He immediately set his legionaries to dig and supply routes of his enemy that run towards of his position. After Pompey observed this he immediately and decided to hazard an engagement against and cautious enough to march along the hills a favourable elevated position. The exact description of what happened next that Caesar's forces managed to dislodge they were only saved by the onset of darkness. It was around that time that letters send were intercepted. In them he described a switch in his strategy every allied city, intending to hinder Caesar's provision sources that it so desperately needed. Pompey continued to retreat to the western closely, managing to capture the city of Ventisponte The commander of the optimates, being faithful to enact it, burning the nearby city of Carruca to him and from there marching southwards his army upon the mountainous area to the Caesar, still on the pursuit, arrived in the to that of Pompey. The next day, while Caesar was preparing to stated that Pompey's army was arranged in Julius Caesar ordered for the battle standard The final showdown of the largest and most was imminent... The two camps were divided from one another Pompey enjoyed a double defence of sorts, the town was situated on elevated ground. Across this valley ran a small river or rivulet, which rendered the approach to the mountain very difficult. Due to perfect weather conditions on the day, flat plain that lay between them, Caesar thought enemy would entice him to move down from his But Pompey stayed put, and it soon became would not dare leave the high ground, even of new recruits. When they reached the edge of the plain, which a battle, Caesar pointed that out to his largely The subsequent delay of their advance enlivened without abandoning their advantageous position. Cautiously but steadily, Caesar's legions towards Pompey's position. The army of the Optimates consisted of thirteen The cavalry that was about 6000 men strong by Titus Labienus, with an equal number of In total, the Pompeian army numbered around During that day Julius Caesar led a total strength numbering around 40.000 men and he with a total of 8000 horsemen under his command, His infantry was arranged in the usual triple occupying its' usual position on the right The battle that was about to come was to be, in terms of scale. But the main bulk of the Caesarean legions victorious veterans who had campaigned with mainly by new levies and recruits who were Needless to say, they proceeded hesitantly and in an advantageous position. Sensing this, Caesar ran up and down the line sources claiming that he seized a shield from himself, saying to the officers around him their military service. While he shamed them to their faces and exhorted he was soon joined by tribunes who took position by his side, something that encouraged the rest of the army to rush towards the enemy. The bulky mass of the two armies had no room and cavalry action could not be easily initiated so the infantry was to play a decisive role. The battle proved a much longer affair than to withstand the initial and most formidable After the exchange of more than 30.000 pila, engaged in a long drawn out and exhaustive in which no one seemed to be gaining the upper hand. For hours they were battling it out with neither of their enemy nor the Caesareans being able were blocking their advance. After hours of this exhaustive hand to hand out their opponents. Once more it was the grizzled veterans of of their enemies, despite being severely understrength. With only a fraction of their manpower still them in their 40s and 50s, who were the spearhead they have done countless times before, displaying began to push Pompey's numerically superior With this severe crisis unfolding, Pompey right wing and bring it to the rescue of his This was the moment that Caesar was waiting He ordered his cavalry to charge directly send part of his auxiliaries to charge Pompey's Labienus who commanded the cavalry saw the charged with some of the troops to intercept Amidst this turmoil Pompey's hard pressed an attempted retreat. It was the turning point in the battle and began towards the city of Munda. The Caesareans mercilessly pursued the remnants of Munda which they soon placed under siege. 30.000 Pompeians laid dead on the battlefield were much lighter, ranging around 1000 men. Munda was to be the last battle that Caesar ever fought but it was also one of his hardest fought ones. He was later recorded as saying: "I often for my very existence". This was the largest civil war of the ancient The optimates fought against Caesar tooth drive, genius and tenacity in order to achieve Gaius Julius Caesar was triumphant, but his the ides of March 44 BC...