It's the early dawn on the 10th of December 1941. A task force of ships are off the coast of Malaya. They're hoping to launch a surprise attack against the Japanese who they think are in Kuantan. The head of the task force is the HMS Prince of Wales and its Captain, John "Jack" Leach. "Sir, Tenedos is signaling distress." "Bloody fools! We're under radio silence. This has better be good." Leach speaks urgently with Admiral Phillips. "Sir, Tenedos is under a Japanese bomber attack." It's the worst possible situation. "Get everyone ready." With horror, they need to accept that the Japanese have found them and the entirety of Task Force Z is within range. Outside, the air trembles with the engines of Japanese aircraft. They come through the clouds and line up their target. First, they go for the aging Battlecruiser HMS Repulse. The bombs are away. They scream down towards the ship. And a tall column of water erupts on the starboard side, Captain Tennant of Repulse orders, &quot;All hands to action stations!&quot; A 250-kg bomb screams down. There's an enormous explosion The Captain is thrown to the floor, The bomb has penetrated through the port seaplane hangar and devastated the armored deck below. It's a scene of carnage as the fallen Repulse emerges from the fray, with a plume of smoke coming from her upper deck - "Damage report?" Her speed, though, is unaffected and she steams on, emitting just the faintest smoke curl. On the Prince of Wales, Leach turns and gives an order. "Action stations!" "Repel aircraft!" More shapes emerge from the clouds. It's 67 Japanese bombers! Two squadrons separate and approach the capital ships designed to reduce the effectiveness From eight miles away, they begin their dive. Phillips's demeanor hardens as he broadcasts the order. "All ships increase speed to 25 knots." "All captains are granted freedom to maneuver." An officer hunches over his radio. "Confirm message, over." His face drops. "Sir, the aircraft to port appeared to be carrying torpedoes." "There is no such aircraft around." Phillips observes the sight through binoculars The Japanese aircraft continue to lose height and fly into some low cloud before appearing Nine Japanese planes start their approach. They see the British ship in the distance There's a flash as one by one the British anti-aircraft guns open fire. Tracers arc up towards the black dots in the sky and after 12 salvoes, the guns switch from controlled fire at individual planes to barrage fire, hurling a curtain of bursting shells desperately trying to force them to drop their torpedoes early. The Japanese planes keep coming. The loaders begin trembling as they push shells hoping that something - anything - will down just one of the planes. The British anti-aircraft gunners, however, are unprepared for the sheer speed of the Japanese planes. Most of the British anti-aircraft shells burst well behind the aircraft as they Battered but still flying, the Japanese pilots bravely push on until their torpedoes are in range. They drop. The fish are away. On the Prince of Wales, there's horror &quot;Hard-a-port&quot; attempting to slip through the tracks of the torpedoes. Meanwhile, the Japanese bombers are too large and they fly straight at the Prince of Wales, reaching the battleship well before their torpedoes do, and causing disorder on her decks, The British gunners are now firing A Betty bomber takes a flak shell to the wing, causing it to spin and dramatically slam into the water. But there's no time to celebrate. Two torpedoes move straight towards the ship, and there's no avoiding a hit. All the men aboard brace for impact. The first one strikes. A pillar of water erupts on the port side of the Prince of Wales and punches through the outer hull, Moments later, the second torpedo strikes blasting open a hole some four metres high and six metres wide. It's a critical blow! There's now a direct route for water sweeping sailors off their feet and drowning Her speed immediately starts dropping. As water floods into her, emergency pumps The sailors continue to attempt repairs, She begins listing to port. On the deck, the gunners keep shooting to the point where the air can almost burn the skin, but their rounds explode behind the Japanese planes All the sailors can do is watch, wait, hold on and hope. The tracks zip towards the ship Her electrical system at the stern suffers massive damage. Without power, both the steering motors are dead. The Prince of Wales is a sitting duck. She's now a death trap. Captain Leach orders: &quot;Flood the void spaces of the starboard torpedo defense system. We need the ship level.&quot; He needs the ship level, or almost level, so that his men can train their anti-aircraft guns, But this also makes the ship more vulnerable should she The sailors strap on any small arms they can By 12:19, the Prince of Wales is left The gunners pour water on their boiling barrels and the loaders scramble to and from the magazine, A gunner looks up, &quot;Contact, due east.&quot; A huge formation of aircraft sweep down like a cloud, losing height and once again Six Betty bombers come in low and race towards flying under the anti-aircraft fire she could offer on that side. The sailors begin firing with anything All the fire goes harmlessly above the attackers. Torpedoes drop in quick succession. The sailors watch in horror There's a hit. A jagged hole tears right through the ship as the first torpedo blows clean out through the other side, the force of the current dragging sailors under and out of the ship. The second torpedo strikes almost directly under B turret, shooting a plume of oil and water up the side of the ship. The final torpedo strikes the unarmoured section of the hull, where there is only 1-inch-thick steel. There's nothing Captain Leach can do. Meanwhile, the Repulse is putting up Captain Tennant turns his great ship readying his vessel to pass through the tracks The torpedoes drop, and as they run in the water Captain Tennant brings all his seamanship to bear of every one of the torpedoes dropped as well as the others coming from the attack on Each member of the bridge holds on as the ship leans and The crew speak later with pride And how the huge ship had been thrown about like a destroyer. Incredibly, he also avoids all the bombs from high-level But at 12:20 on the Prince of Wales, Phillips is left with no option. Reluctantly, he orders his radio signals to break radio to come to the aid of the Prince of Wales and the Repulse. At 12:23, the remaining 20 or so torpedo bombers almost simultaneously pounce on Repulse Her main guns keep firing against the incoming enemy. The 15-inch shells fly straight into the water, hoping to create a splash powerful enough But the Repulse crew is out of luck today. The first eight aircraft drop Captain Tennant turns Repulse to But then the three aircraft attack Repulse on her port side. Captain Tennant can do no more than continue his turn to starboard to avoid the first eight torpedoes. The deckhands and gunners keep up as much fire as they can, but they know it will make little difference. Men fall to the floor and cover their heads. A torpedo hits Repulse on midships on the port side. But does little significant damage. She continues manoeuvring and steams at 25 knots. Tennant is not going to stop. &quot;Set a new heading for...&quot; He never finishes his sentence, as a torpedo hits. Immediately, nine aircraft attack Repulse from different angles. Six planes attempt to work their way round to her starboard side, while the remaining three Betty Bombers It's a skillfully executed attack. Repulse's engines are still fully functioning, but with her rudder jammed, Could you withstand a massive strike? Test your skills by becoming a captain in World of Warships They release new content every month so you can always count on enjoying fresh gameplay experiences And for this month only, keep your eyes and ears peeled including Dave Mustaine and Vic Rattlehead commanders World of Warships will also be releasing a new line of Japanese Battleships in October, so start practicing now! Yarnold loves playing innovative collaborations like Although Yarnold is still waiting for the call The stunning new water effects and textures make it And don't forget - the game is available on console! Support the channel and join the great game today using code YARNHUB to receive a huge starter pack and 7 days Premium Account time and a ship! But the fish is not included. Back on the Repulse, the gunners don't know what to do. &quot;Tell the bridge we can't get a good view &quot;Enemy incoming!&quot; The three Betty Bombers fly forward, seemingly unfazed and they drop their torpedoes in a slow sequence, And they continue their course, strafing the deck &quot;'Ave this!!!&quot; A Betty ignites and spins rapidly out Shortly after, a gunner leveling his weapon sends a shell straight through the cockpit, and the Japanese aircraft explodes in mid-air. It is a small consolation. Two explosions tear through the lower decks, immediately causing catastrophic flooding and Repulse lists to port, and looks done for. But the Japanese are not finished yet. At 12:25, the other six torpedo-bombers skim the waves The men on deck watch helplessly before scattering for cover. All six planes release their torpedoes at once. The wait is agonising. Two rudimentary shots ring from but the torpedoes are still coming. There's silence. A rating puts his head over the rail and sees five trails in the water. He's rocked by a pummelling explosion. Even though five missed, Over the last four to five minutes, Repulse had been hit Very quickly, the list to port starts to increase, All 51 of the Japanese torpedo bombers But only eight of the 34 high-level bombers had done so. Two squadrons of high-level bombers and each plane carries a single, huge, 500-kg bomb. At 12:33pm, the first nine of these bombers But their bombs are released too early and fail to find their target, missing by a considerable distance. Repulse, with multiple large holes in her hull, The other ships from Task Force Z Captain Tennant orders: &quot;All hands to the main deck. Not one man had left his place of duty But now, dozens of men pour up through the hatches from below, or scramble down ladders from stations high in the superstructure. The crew start jumping over the side As the ship lists further, and start to slide down the huge raised Hundreds of men get away in minutes. However, below decks, many loudspeakers are not working, and the men don't hear the order to abandon ship. As she continues rolling over to port, emerge out of the water, and the stern rears up The stern then slips below the waves and disappears, leaving her bow hanging in the air, before it too vanishes beneath the waves. Just 11 minutes after the first torpedo had struck her, Captain Tennant fights his way There's another attack. The Japanese are still not done. A 500-kg bomb hits the Prince of Wales, By 12:50pm, the end is nigh for the Prince of Wales. She's taken on an estimated 18,000 tonnes of water. Captain Leach orders all the wounded to leave the ship. "This is the end." "No." He leaves the bridge and comes down to the quarterdeck, where a large group of his crew had congregated. "Gentlemen, she's been badly riddled. We need If you go, that's fine. But let's help our old girl out one last time, eh?" There's a slight hesitation. Surely the ship is sinking. They haven't got a hope A silence follows before A petty officer and several other ratings also step forward, Captain Leach smiles and declares an order to those present. "Aside from gunners, marines and officers, God save the King." He then climbs back up to the bridge Hundreds of men started crossing over to Express But as the Prince of Wales rolls further over onto her port side, and her starboard side lifts, The gangplanks fall into the sea, and the cable that still join the two ships. Under the incredible strain, the cable finally snaps. The list to port starts to worsen. It was clear the ship was now beyond any help Leach comes to the realisation that his ship's not going anywhere, "Abandon ship." The battleship's starboard bilge keel rises. The skipper of Express skilfully judges the last moment her hull bumping and grinding on the battleship's heaving keel, and almost getting overturned herself. The destroyer suffers a 20-ft gash in her hull from the contact, Admiral Sir Tom Phillips remains on the bridge almost to the end, he and Captain Leach silent, contemplating their defeat. The last reports, seeing them alive, are at 13:24, when the two men are on the side of the horizontal ship. Just before she rolls over, and capsizes. The destroyer Electra sent a simple signal to headquarters in Singapore - "H.M.S. PRINCE OF WALES Sunk". Tragically in 2023 the Malaysian coastguard seized a Chinese ship The Chinese dredger Chuan Hong 68 was detained. On board were found shells suspected to be Thanks again to World of Warships,