Growing up means learning to dig beneath surface. Surface behaviour. And discern the true motives of others. And discern the true motives of others. And to respond to intent. Not behaviour. It's a beautiful line. Growing up means when the soul's maturity increases. When the soul's power increases. What is its sign? That we should not just look at the behaviour of others at a superficial or surface level, Neither of others nor of ourselves. It says others' behaviour but the same thing is applicable also to us. We should not just look at a superficial or surface level regarding what they said or what they did. But we need to go deep into it. What was the intent behind it? What was the motive? In spirituality, we say what was the Sanskar behind it? What was the emotion behind it? What was the intention and what was the Sanskar? We need to find this out and then discern. The power of discernment is hence so valuable. If we look at something from a surface level, we may not discern it correctly. And if we don't discern it correctly, we will not take the right decision. To discern anything, we need to go deep into it. So that our decision is right. We saw last time also that intuition power to help us discern We all have experienced it. But most of the time, we have used our inner voice For external situations and for other people. Which is also very valuable. Very precious and very important. To be able to judge correctly and take the right decision in a situation. To be able to discern a person How is that person? Very important. But now let's take the power of discernment to a deeper level. Which is to discern ourselves. To discern our thoughts. One is to use that power externally. The other is to use that power internally. To discern our attitudes. To discern our belief systems. To discern our Sanskars. If we start using this power to discern Then we take a lot of decisions in life. Like the quotation said, your response will change. The way we respond to situations and people will change. If our power of discernment is good. Before spiritual study Which we call as ignorance - one is knowledge and other is ignorance. Before coming into Gyan, we had never discerned our thoughts. Whether they are right or not. We felt we have no control over what we think. That we keep getting those thoughts. Now we understand that our thoughts are our choice. If we slow down a little and check them The next thing that we do is to change our thoughts But if we don't check at all If we don't check or discern whether it is right or wrong Then the concept of change at the level of thought It never was there. It was always outside. Let's start practicing this from today. Because it becomes very interesting. Am I thinking right? Are they doing right? - This is easy to check. Are they behaving right? - This is easy to check Is the situation right? - This is easy to check But am I thinking right? Checking. If we go in this inward direction, miracles will start getting created. Because as we saw earlier Even if we correctly discern things that are outside We cannot always change them As I said earlier, people go to astrologers who checks their hands and horoscopes. They go to them with so much faith. When your intelligence is there Don't consider us to be so foolish. I am saying this after discerning myself Right now I am angry, fine. But if someone does this, won't I get angry? Even if I don't get angry - this line cannot even be valid now. Again and again, how much we have to go back to it? No matter what the other person does I cannot say the line - I obviously get angry. I need to check this belief system also. Was this belief system right? Like you said, if someone doubts my intelligence Not just doubt me, but looks down upon me. Then whose power of discernment is lacking? The power of discernment is lacking in the other person. But if whatever he understood Whatever he understood If we get angry, it means our ego gets disturbed. Whatever he thought or did, it is the Karma of that soul. If our ego gets disturbed Then whom should we discern? Even this is a belief system. Work on this belief system. And you will see that it will change. If someone doubts my intelligence If someone considers me less intelligent Saying as - Then I will definitely get angry. This is a belief system. This is a programming. Let's check this programming and change it. Because every time If we don't check the programming Every time the decision is wrong If we get angry every time Then our Sanskar is getting created. Change this programming today. How to do it? Every time when someone Underestimates me Or when they don't correctly evaluate my intelligence I will definitely get angry. Programming change. The other person will look at me from his level of perspective. As per whatever is his level of understanding and discernment. Whatever it is, it is his level. I know who I am. So, being disturbed or hurt It was my choice till today. Because at that time I was in my ego. Ego means I am this and people should look at me from the same perspective. From today I remain in my self-respect. We are also shifting. From today I am in my self-respect and not in my ego. Till I was in my ego I thought I will definitely get angry. I said - I will definitely get angry. Then I decided to get angry. Then my behaviour with that person Would have gone up and down a little. Karma is wrong, destiny is wrong. From today it will change. If someone Understands me in that way And behaves in that way I need to know about myself. Who am I? Focus has to come back to ourselves. The more we focus on ourselves Our power will increase. In 1980, someone told me in a discussion You won't understand this. We are intellectuals. You are just a small actor. Imagine what I had to go through. You had to fight with that person? Yes. I had to tell him that I also have that knowledge. How did you tell him? I told him my knowledge, I got angry, I left him. Finally, he left the party. If we look at it now As a detached observer Do you still feel that response was right? It's not about that response. If I tell you You cannot lift this. We are not discussing that. We are not discussing whether he said the right thing or not. You just discern now Whether your response was right that day. It was right because otherwise I would have kept it inside and carried my emotions home. Was it right to keep it inside? If I didn't know how to keep it inside, I would have thrown it out. That's okay. If you didn't know how, it's fine. Let's check today. Because we are growing. It was important to explain to him. He had to know that he should not talk to people like that. We always worry about explaining to other people. What was the need for him to underestimate my intelligence? Whatever he said, whether it was right or wrong Let's leave that right now. We just need to check ourselves. Because this is realisation power. My response Of getting angry And you also fought with him. Yes, I didn't talk to him for a long time. You fought, didn't talk to him for a long time, walked out of the party. Even today do you feel that response was right? Yes, it was right. Even today do you feel there was no better response to that? What can we do? If we go to someone's house And if they call themselves intellectual and we ordinary If we are really intelligent I had a lot of fights with him. I went to someone's house. Usually he doesn't stay there. He said he will send a car. He sent me a horrible car and I went to his house in that car. There I saw a Mercedes parked in his house. And he went to office in it. I felt very bad and I left from his house immediately. He kept the Mercedes for himself and had sent some other old car to pick me. This is where we are allowing Other people to keep depleting our energy. Somebody is not treating you well. Somebody is not treating me well. Let me at least treat myself well. That is what I did. No, we didn't. I said I can afford a 5 star hotel. I treated myself better. But you did not treat yourself better that day. Because even if you left that place and even if you went to a 5 star hotel You only treated yourself well only physically. What happened emotionally? Whether it was in this incident When somebody did not treat us well or whether it was in the previous incident When somebody said you will not understand - It means they did not respect us. They did not treat us well. They underestimated us. What did we do to ourselves? This is very important. What did we do to ourselves? See again, let's not focus on them. Again, we are not talking about them. What they did is not important. Did I treat myself well that day? Stability, peace and power were my nature. Somebody else did not treat me well. So, I treated myself worse than that person that day. This is the reality. Reflect back right now. See what we did. What did the other person do? He just did not give us a good car. What did the other person do? He just said you will not understand. They treated us badly only to that extent. If we say they treated me badly. They underestimated me. What did I do to myself after that? I created so much anger internally. I created so many wrong thoughts. I regretted going to his house. They started crying and asking me to come home. How we treated ourselves after that is only the realisation right now. What they did is not important. If they don't treat me well, I treat myself well. We didn't treat ourselves well that day. You created anger that day. You were disturbed internally. I cursed myself. They had not even cursed you. Who treated who badly? This is the power to discern. At least today we need to reflect and change ourselves. I still feel I did a good thing that day. Do you feel that day it was right for you to curse yourself? That is why Suresh Oberoi did not get affected by anyone. I was able to discern that they were lying. He did not improve change in that context. You decided that you will not go to anyone's house. First of all, even we do not know whether it is right or not to decide that way. That is my rule. This is what happens. Because of one past experience Because of one belief system Just because we don't let go of one past incident. We keep using that past in the present every time. This is what we do. We are not letting go of one 30-year-old experience. It happened in the past. Most important, that day Suppose we had made a rule that we don't want to do it again. Which is fine. But did we treat ourselves well that day? Someone else behaved wrongly with us How I responded Even if it is a past incident If I made a mistake, should I not punish myself? No punishment. We don't even need to punish other people. We are on a journey of transformation. If we punish ourselves, we will not be able to transform. I got transformed - because I did not go anywhere after that incident. After that, the transform that happened was that you did not go to or stay at anyone else's home. But the actual transformation did not happen. Neither did I stay there nor did I ask for vehicle. But that is not transformation Transformation which was necessary is That even if someone does not behave right I will not get disturbed. If people don't treat me well, it's fine. I can accept that both are right. We need to transform both. But that transformation was necessary. I need to treat myself well. People might not treat me nicely. It's fine. I can't change them. How people treat me How much respect people give me How much do people value me I cannot change that. But every time when other people don't respect me As much as I thought I should be respected Or as much as people didn't treat me the way I wanted them to do That day I didn't treat myself well. That day I didn't respect myself. That day I caused more harm than they did. So, where did the transformation happen? The Sanskar kept on getting reinforced. Even today if you check If you still feel I think what I did that time was right. What protocol did I ask for? I didn't ask anyone to come. I didn't ask for anything. I just asked them to send a car driver. Justification for our own behaviour. Justification is happening right now. I am losing my power. They didn't send a good car, but I lost all my power. They didn't send the car which I wanted. They had a good car with them but did not send it. Whatever. Justification is happening about their Karma. They did wrong. What did I do to myself that day? I felt - Am I not worthy of this car and you are worthy? You are going to your office in a good car. It is not about what they did? It's about what I did. How did I behave with myself that day? First of all, I scolded myself. I cursed myself. I said I will never do this again. Whatever you did They did not disrespect respect me that much. I am very, very strict with myself. This is not strict. If you want to be strict with yourself You need to be strict at this level that No matter what the other person says I am going to be so strict. That no one can disturb me. Should I have accepted even if I had asked me to go to his house in a taxi? We cannot do anything to them. But in practical life We are talking about practical life itself. I improved because of it, have I not? See, there was no improvement. Even today we feel that our response was right. If we still feel that our response was right It will mean we will still respond in the same way. Where is any improvement? I did not let that situation happen again, isn't it? We will face a similar situation then. We will not face an identical situation. We will face so many situations where you feel people did not treat you the way they should have. That they did not respect as much as they should have. Will we not face such situations? After that particular incident in the last 30 years You mentioned 30 years. How many such situations have there been in the last 30 years? Where people have not treated or respected you the way you should have been treated? Have there been so many or not? There have been so many. And you were disturbed in the majority, isn't it? I was disturbed in the majority. I would go back to my work and leave. After that I did not visit their homes again. So, who has harmed whom? Where did the transformation happen? Where did I improve? You are saying - I have become strict. Where did you become strict? I have not gone to anyone's house in Bombay. There I have become very strict. But what has happened with that? You have not faced that situation, you have faced other situations. You have not faced that situation again. You said you have become strict. I was sitting with a VIP. He was the Chief Guest and I was the Guest of Honor. Later when other VIPs came We were sitting in front of the stage. There was a place in front of us. They brought more sofas and made us sit there. He kept saying to me - I am going home. I feel insulted. They put more sofas in front of me. I explained to him. I told him - It is ok, just give your speech and then leave. He got up and went home. So, does it seem right that he got up and left? They should also understand that he is the Chief Guest. He got up and left. Doe it seem right? He thought it was right. But I did not leave. The one who had invited me was my friend. But how many times have you got up and left in other instances? If he was not my friend, I would have left. This is it, Power. The soul is so vulnerable. It is asking for respect. As - Give me respect. Who is my respect dependent on? My respect is dependent on where I sit, how I walk Which car will come to pick me, which house will I visit? What will people think about me? My respect is dependent on those things. Is it not the worldly way? Yes, it is. But if the other person does not do what we think is right Let us at least hold on to our self-respect. Why are we so vulnerable? We are so weak that if someone did not give us what we wanted, we got completely shaken inside. You had said many times that we should give respect to other people. We should give respect to them. That is fine. But if someone did not give us respect, should we not respect ourselves? Should we not live in our self-respect? I thought respecting myself means that I should not live in a place where I am not respected. Who will walk out of such a situation? Someone who will be so disturbed that he cannot sit there after that. He will walk out. His self-respect is so low that he cannot sit there without that sofa being in the front. He did not get a seat on the first row. He was sitting in the first row, but after that, it became the second row. Which means when we did not get a sofa. When we did not get a good car. When did not get a salute. When someone not speak to us lovingly. When we did not get a good treatment. When someone said we cannot understand something. When someone said that we are not intelligent. In 30 years, so many situations have come up. Even if the same situation do not come again. It will be different. Let's go back to that day. That day you created a rule as - I will not go to anyone's house after this. If we had created a different rule as - No matter how people treat me after this. Because we cannot control everything It's not in our control. The world is not in my control. But if we had created a rule as Someone's behaviour or someone's external respect cannot shake me from my self-respect. If we had created that rule that day, how much energy would we have saved in 30 years? How many rules do we create for external situations? So that we get respect and so on. These are all external rules. We have never created a rule for the inner self. We did not create it that day. And then the same Sanskar kept getting worked in 30 years. Even today if we feel that it was right We will continue with the same Sanskar for 30 years. There will be no change. Even now when we are discerning that situation We are focusing on the mistakes of the other person. What should our focus be on? This is the power to discern. I got disturbed that day. My belief system was that respect means See what is our belief system. Respect means this (how other people treat me). But the truth is - Respect means I am undisturbed. This is my respect towards myself. This is my dignity for myself. That was not self-respect. That if someone did not give me a car, a flower, or a greeting I got disturbed because of those small things. Let's create a new rule today. What respect do people give me? Outwardly respect. It's not even respect. We cannot call it respect. Respect is when someone gives me a certain vibration. Respect is in that. Even if someone gives you a big car But if they don't think nice of you inside, will you call it respect? First of all, that is not respect at all. Respect is not even about the car. Respect is about their intention and feelings for you. You had read earlier Don't go by the outwardly behaviour. See the intention. The intent, the motive of the person. Respect is not in the behaviour, but in the intention. But still if you don't get it I will discuss this intention in the next episode. If a Prime Minister or a Chief Minister was coming to their house Would they let their Mercedes remain at home? Their intention was wrong. What they think about us More important that - is what we think about ourselves. Again, see the belief. We cannot change the world. We cannot. How many people will you analyse like this? How much energy do you need? How much are we analysing? If we had focused on ourselves during that time Even if it meant that I did not find it right - Whether it was a small or a big issue I did not find it right, so I cannot stay here. Even then, how was my state of mind? The disturbance inside, the state of self-respect inside from which you got shaken You must have also criticised them so much internally. They must have created so much hatred. Till today I have never been to their house. I have not gone to their house even once. This is the lack of treating ourselves well. Until we are able to respect ourselves We will not be able to respect other people. This is what we are going to focus on. Spirituality means only this. That is why spirituality is so interesting. Throughout the day, in so many small things Spirituality means focusing on the spirit. Focus on yourself. We will discuss it in the next episode. But I will never go to his house again. We will discuss it next time. Thank you so much. Om Shanti. Thank you.