What's disastrous? I'm Mr. Beat You may be wondering, why am I hanging out at some complex isn't random. It's where I lived when I I was in college at the time. On March a long day at both class and work, my fellow citizen at this hour are in the early stages of military people and to defend the world from this and reports like this it was just over for Saddam Hussein to leave Iraq that us Salvo of operation Iraqi freedom and I remember my government doing this wasn't this one who felt this way we live in a time fictitious reasons we are against this war and anytime you've got the pop and the Dixie But as you could hear from the boos from those many Americans thought this war So you know my bias, as you should I'm going to try very hard to IGNORE the most controversial wars in -Causes of the Iraq War- ruthless dictator named Saddam Hussein. A ruthless as 250,000 of his own citizens, sometimes using had invaded a smaller country to the south in what a video about that! Yeah, Hussein was not a actively supporting efforts to remove him from passed a law that President Bill Clinton signed After the United States accused Hussein of after he refused to let the United Nations look which led to the American military military sites around Iraq, killing Flash forward to September 11, 2001, the soil and the deadliest terrorist attack in world as it's more commonly called, but the gist of hijacked four planes with the goal of crashing They crashed two into the World Trade ultimately killing nearly 3,000 people. In an the United States government invaded Afghanistan just Afghanistan that the United States sent of Military Force, Congress gave President George WORLD. In fact, the country has been fighting So what does 9/11 have to But MANY in the Bush Administration wanted to an excuse to invade Iraq for YEARS, and perhaps to link 9/11 with Saddam Hussein was a dude named Secretary of Defense at the time. He argued that and basically said that taking HIM out would Wolfowitz even compared Hussein to the head head of the snake, and the rest of the body Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, also give them a chance to take out Hussein. He began they weaponized chemical weapons we know that weapons they uh it's also clear that they are know what other kinds of weapons would fall under if there are more I suspect they're working on what they are in this the big thing that was and he had agreed and the UN had agreed that know he does have one and he is continuing it soon about Hussein simply stated there is no doubt that there is no doubt that he is amassing them to and against us oh there was plenty of Doubt but Iraq and finally the president himself was now case to the American people directly I take the very seriously I remember the fact that he has that he's poisoned his own people the regime to be interviewed outside of the country these families with them so they're beyond the reach torture Saddam Hussein's murder in addition to mass destruction C Iraq in accordance with un for terrorism heck as early as January 29th he was talking trash Iraq continues to flaun its Iraqi regime has plotted to develop Anthrax and I mean it's no surprise, really, that President Bush wanted to take out Saddam especially after Hussein threatened and possibly Anyway, and just so we're clear here...even though the Bush administration just kept arguing that but was giving these weapons of mass destruction Well, this fear mongering Including members of Congress. Saddam Hussein has worked to rebuild his missile delivery capability and given Aid comfort and Sanctuary to In October 2002, Congress passed the Authorization which said that President Bush could send government if needed. That said, the saying that the Bush administration to see if Hussein would hand over weapons of noting that most Americans wanted diplomacy Still, the British government and even the hardly any evidence of the development At this point, there's quite a bit of evidence his administration found weapons of it'd be nice to at least get the United In November 2002, the United Nations they ultimately never found any, even And yet, on February 5, 2003, the Colin Powell, who also happened to be made his case for invading Iraq to The facts and Iraq's Behavior show that their efforts to produce more weapons of mass about using them again against his neighbors who tell us that he recently has authorized be passing out the orders if he didn't However, Hans Blix, the dude in charge accused Powell and the entire Bush of beating the war drums without sufficient an apparent attempt to undermine him since By March, even though UN inspections were still protests were building around the world, anyway. Many of the world's most powerful the Bush administration was able to put together help them overthrow Hussein. Together, they were most of these countries had little power and unlike the Persian Gulf War that happened just effort. Sure, the United Kingdom helped out just be by American forces. Heck, even the pope Regardless, what became known as March 19, 2003 when the United Iraq's capital. Two days later, American -What went down in the Iraq War- As I said like a minute ago, it started and the Presidential Palace in Baghdad. It was a or anything like that. According to Tommy Operation Iraqi Freedom had eight goals: Finding and getting rid of Iraq's Looking for and getting rid Well that could, uh...take a while, couldn't it? Gathering intelligence to Gathering intelligence to find weapons Ending sanctions and getting humanitarian under Hussein's control Ok ok ok. I know what' you're thinking, but Franks for the Iraqi people...(shrugs) I don't know Helping the Iraqi people transition Approximately 160,000 troops, again mostly southern Iraq beginning on March 21, 2003. They supporters fought back, many of them fighting back easily defeated them and soon worked their way system toward Baghdad, skipping over areas American forces had taken over Baghdad's Guard defended Baghdad, but its defense was very the city in what became known as the Battle of taken control of the city. Kurdish fighters from Iraqi cities of Kirkuk and Mosul by April 11. on April 13. Isolated groups of soldiers loyal to but by the end of the month the United States had invasion cost the lives of nearly 13,000 On May 1, 2003, President Bush made Accomplished speech" aboard the USS Abraham case you were wondering, San Diego is on major combat operations in Iraq have ended in allies have [Applause] prevailed now I know you know it basically comes up anytime anyone worth noting that bush also said the following Iraq and boy was that an understatement little the next 8 years meanwhile Saddam Hussein we thought the war was over and we celebrated and they would hate us but they didn't you know If the coalition forces had just left on May controversial. One Gallup poll found that 79% with or WITHOUT clear evidence And yet, the Americans stayed...the An insurgent is a person who revolts against declared victory on May 1, 2003, the first, armed the beginning, these insurgents were just Saddam soon the insurgents were Islamist extremists to create an Islamist government. Oh hey soon closing in on him. They had killed his as well as killed or captured at least 300 of his 2003, they found Hussein hiding on a farm the new Iraqi government found him guilty him to death by hanging. You can watch the Anyway, even though American forces had captured many of the insurgents were Iraqis mad about the murders, car bombs, suicide bombings, and highway or IEDs, became much more common and increasingly got worse in April 2004, when word got out about Abu Ghraib prison. This led to a flood of Islamist This all went down when the American military Meanwhile, the Iraq War hadn't hurt President Bush's popularity too much...yet. But if Americans knew how bad the war he likely would not have gotten re-elected. In 2005, millions of Iraqis voted vote for new representatives and a well. Sunnis boycotted the elections, Oh wait, you may not know "Shiite" mean. Oh crap. I guess I'd Sunni Islam is just a branch of Islam, the Shia Islam is the second-largest branch. Iraq divide between Shiites and Sunnis within its War was actually a smaller conflict within Iraqi Sunnis began attacking each other. Sunnis and blowing up bombs in Sunni neighborhoods. spiraled out of control, especially after the 2006. At one point Baghdad became so violent Most of the violence, though, was based particularly in the provinces of Al Anbar and and destruction had led to the displacement One spot where insurgents were Iraq War was Ramadi, in the Al Anbar province. For six months in 2006, American forces fought Battle of Ramadi. Uhhh yeah. You heard that right. happened during the war was al-Qaeda showing up to before, and no links were ever found between overthrow of the Hussein regime and after American recruiting. Oh, and THEY also now had Saddam's Now that al-Qaeda was actually well uh...maybe we should send MORE troops eh? And that's exactly what happened. In January the soda pop. A surge, as in a quick increase in security there. He sent 30,000 additional troops ended up being the deadliest year for American insurgent attacks went down afterward, though it's On February 10, 2007, General David Petraeus leadership had been one of the few success stories focus on rebuilding the country's infrastructure Still, by 2008, most Americans Polls now showed that a clear majority of troops home. And not only did the war but it hurt the popularity of the entire presidential election of 2008, in fact, promising the Iraqi parliament had already established February 2009, the newly-elected President be out of Iraq by August 31, 2010. Well, I am announcing that the American combat freedom is over and the Iraqi people now have lead That said, around 50,000 American soldiers remained in Iraq to help with the By that time, the whistleblower media organization known as the July 12, 2007 Baghdad airstrike. The showed American troops aboard an Apache and other civilians. This footage, as well from the war released by WikiLeaks later on that In October 2011, President Obama announced Iraq would leave the country by the end of 2011. And I wish that was the end You see, almost as soon as American troops left, again went on the rise in Iraq. Sunni extremists and soon many of them teamed up a country bordering Iraq to the north Well, long story short, this all That's right. The Iraq War led to the War in Iraq. By December 30, 2013, the insurgency had turned Iraq with the rise of the Islamic State, aka aka the Islamic State of Iraq and ISIS controlled an area where millions eventually defeated them by 2019, but only In fact, today, and I bet you didn't know this, there are still around 2,500 American soldiers -The legacy of the Iraq War- By most accounts, the Iraq War was a disaster. Likely at least a million people died directly millions of Iraqis. It cost TRILLIONS of dollars. biggest humanitarian crises in modern history, its devastation, although, to be fair, things Similar to the Vietnam War The Iraq War further eroded American trust it as an unnecessary war...a war that just By invading and conquering Iraq in 2003 and the United States ended up destabilizing freaking region. Before the war, there was no and al-Qaeda. And yet, this war was so you could say...CAUSED al-Qaeda to take The Iraq War hurt the international States but also the United Kingdom. It Heck, the Iraq War made the majority of when the American government tried to drum the name of "spreading democracy" or "nation for it anymore. And not just Democrats. I'd say the Iraq War was a mistake as Democrats, who has made no secret of his But perhaps that's one silver we were just more likely to fall for In 2003, when I lived in these apartments, I was even back then I knew this war was unjust. Obviously, I left a lot out, and as always, I I've listed some sources in the description. I have family and friends who were actually an opinion about it. Anyway, I did the best I Bye bye