Hey everyone, Chase here with a video that I've we're gonna be talking about the HARDEST badges an amazing addition to the Splatoon series. your Splashtag lets players customize and express some badges in this game that can be considered thousands of hours of grinding, or requires you trying to 100% all the Splatoon 3 badges isn't playing legitimately of course. Other people have but Nintendo recently added a few new badges in this list, so I figured I'd give my own take and want to see more like it, please like, and While every badge that I discuss is in this some are definitely harder than others. So, we're then work our way up. The final badge that we in Splatoon 3. Now that you guys understand, let's that I know everyone watching this is familiar these are at the bottom. In a nutshell, this wins on a certain weapon. And when I say a ton, I 1,160,000 freshness points. And, for comparison, freshness points. So uh... yeah this takes a while. wins. At the time of recording, I have six 5-star from 50-75 hours' worth of using said weapon. don't count towards your freshness. As with the this badge is hard purely because of the grinding "good" at the game to get this badge, although Next, we have the golden special weapon badges. require 464 Anarchy Battle wins. The golden though is that unlike the 5-star badges, Anarchy winning in either mode counts as a single "win" private battle wins don't count, and neither do Therefore, there's no way to properly check how the NSO app does show how many wins you have with non-special wins. So, the number it's giving 4 golden special badges at the time of recording 120 hours' worth of using the special. I know not going to win every single game. All of ton of wasted time while going for this badge. 999 badge. I don't even play Tableturf, but that some people have been getting this badge by but again, this entire list is going off of the I didn't even have any idea regarding exactly how fragzz made a video about it. I'll leave a he says that earning this badge would take assuming that you're fighting a level 3 enemy game. In the little bit of Tableturf that I've cannot IMAGINE playing this mode for 1,000 hours. the 2023 Chill Season, the "Win 250 when you hear the term "win straight series" this it's not as bad as it seems. I don't know WHY the the term "straight series" is just straight win 250 Anarchy Series in a row, while going 5-0 you just have to WIN the series, even if you go to be in a row. I know this because I GOT the only had like, a two series streak. I think it's but yeah, this badge description is VERY the badge certainly isn't easy. To be able to long time, that's 1250 wins. Remember, winning an let's say, for example, you win 4 games in then that series isn't going to count half an hour in regard to earning this badge. it is just Anarchy Series, but winning Directly following the series badge, we have the that there are separate badges depending on which badge, this description is misleading. The wins seem like you only have to win individual games you're winning. Going 3-2 is fine, but you must if you do the math, this actually does amount to since an X series only requires 3 wins compared to the 1250 with Anarchy Series. However, because, well, one: it's X rank. The opponents you have to be above 2,000 X Power for a While that may be easy for some people, it's the X badge is harder to obtain in my opinion. badges. If you guys know, I do play a bit of But I'm by NO means a pro. So, I thought, rather difficult, why not bring on an expert? I'm going who's a top overfisher, as well as a fellow these Salmon Run badges. Take it away Hydro. make a big part in terms of Salmon Run's badges badge for how many times you defeat them. You get silver badge for defeating 1000, but for the gold to defeat 10000 of a certain boss salmonid! From earn their first gold boss badge at around 6 to 7 is notably harder to obtain than the rest, simply the Big Shot. The Big Shot undergoes a 50:50 check that they don't spawn all the time... it does them all the more difficult. Something else to all during high tide, nor do they spawn on any For the next series of badges, the gold King as you need to defeat 1 thousand of a certain To put into perspective, getting a gold king badge which is very grindy and requires a lot of that teams with communication can do, called games to fill up the Salmometer, which spawns This trick helps by getting king salmonids more 1 thousand of a certain king salmonid is still a For the last Salmon Run related badge, this is mode. To earn this badge tells me that you are thousands of hours playing the mode, and clocked to get from Salmon Run in Splatoon 3, is the gold just how insane the badge is, let's take a quick Grizzco points, and the silver version at 100,000 think that the gold version would take 1 million Grizzco points, which is the most ridiculous jump the bronze and silver variations is normal, but journey that requires unparalleled dedication. One Manami, who achieved it in June of 2023. It took and within that time frame, I could never imagine this wraps it up for the Salmon Run badges. Now, Thanks Hydro. As I mentioned earlier, Hydro is in Salmon Run at all, be sure to check overfishing content as well as informative The next badge on the list is the infamous "Level badge is so high on the list. Leveling up takes ticket active. Oh, and get this. Once you reach to level up starts to increase. In fact, every required goes up by increments of 50,000. Except 33,333, making it require 333,333 experience to say that if you're playing legitimately, this game, taking around 9,500 hours. *the golden Second to last, we have the Top 10 X Rank badges. along with the standard Golden X badge. You'll get in the Tentatek division at the end of a season, Takaroka division. You'll also get the standard it's no secret that the Takaroka division is MUCH division, since Takaroka is the JP region. the golden Takaroka X badge holds a lot more that's not to say that ANYONE can get the golden player. But when you look at the top X powers for Takoroka division is much more challenging. Only players at the end of every season, so in order So... that brings us to the final badge. What could to be a top 10 player? Well, let me tell you. In 3, is... the golden Shell-Out Machine badge. This capsule from the Shell-Out Machine a whopping the rare title and banner from EVERY SEASON. For this badge isn't even possible to get. There are now. So, if you see someone with this badge on even if we fast forward a few months to the this badge is still near impossible. A lot of a silver capsule, and a 0.1% chance of rolling know is that those odds are predetermined on your Lean's website, you can actually find the seed for roll one of these capsules. And, while some people other people have still yet to get a SINGLE and... that includes me. I actually recently checked a thousand rolls away. So... yay. Anyway, why do when it's just all luck? Well... that's exactly some of the other badges are definitely hard, but you CAN get all of those badges. But, with this play the game. If you don't have a near perfect EVER. It could take hundreds of thousands of rolls control over this badge. And THAT is why I believe hardest badge to obtain in Splatoon 3. are what I believe to be the toughest badges because of the grind aspect, but other ones order to obtain them. I have a theory that in one some factors that will make earning some of these introduce a third tier of level up tickets that or maybe something that can alter your seed for at hitting the jackpot. Either way though, to be impossible. I am 100% confident that no player let me know what you all think of this down anything, and also please like and subscribe