- iPhones are synonymous with privacy, or at least that's what Apple's marketing team wants us to believe. But guess what? Real privacy and it's rarely on by default. It requires you and I to take action, and these are the mistakes and step-by-step instructions By default, the photos and documents and data that we upload to Apple servers can be seen by Apple. Advanced Data Protection for end-to-end encryption, which means that you control your encryption keys and even Apple can't access or view the data that If it sounds unfamiliar, chances are you've never To check if you've enabled or to turn it on for the very first time, open your settings app, click on your Apple ID there on the top, you are gonna find iCloud and then scroll all the way down to find advanced data won't change your or slow it down in any way, but you will see that Apple requires you to have updated devices. All of your devices need with two factor authentication set up and at least one account The good news is that once you set it up, you never have to think about it again. Your data is encrypted, you're good to go. Speaking of securing your account with two-factor authentication, the default security method digit code sent to another Apple device. While this isn't a huge risk to be using 2FA keys for And if you already have you might as well set them to check on your setup. Open your settings app and click on your name again at the top, and now you're looking for sign in and security, which usually and then you'll see two You can pair up to six different single account, and adding as clicking add security key. If you're still not sure I have an entire walkthrough Most iPhone users I know make the mistake of keeping every single recents album. Sure, they might create separate albums or mark a photo to put in their favorites, but for the most part, the recent album is kinda this catch-all for all of the photos. But did you know that Apple that is locked with your biometrics? Let's say you take a picture or something with your or even some photos that you If someone's scrolling to hide those images, simply click on the three and click hide. You'll see the photos suddenly disappear. But if you go back to your albums and you're gonna scroll down, you're gonna look under utilities, you're gonna find your hidden folder with a lock right next to it. Opening this folder requires which you should already have set up, so now you can safely keep eyes to unhide photo, you do You click on the three and now click unhide. That's it. I think it's absolutely crazy how much we allow our devices to interrupt us throughout the day. Actually, you know, it's we actually seem to encourage it. This is so bad that a study of Health found that 60% of young adults experience phantom vibrations throughout the day. That's where you think with a message, but even in your pocket. While I have my own opinions to our psychological health, I also think that it's a big mistake See, there are problems because they can sometimes share lock screen, but also because they use a separate service known as Apple Push notification or a PN to deliver these notifications to the phone in early 2024. This process was exploited and Instagram to fingerprint user devices. Personally, I've decided to turn off almost all that allow my wife to get ahold of me. Other than that, everybody else can wait to make these kinds of changes. Go into your settings app. Scroll down just a bit From here, I suggest you make to when unlocked, screen sharing and then go through all the to send you notifications Thanks to Gmail giving us this option to archive an email We've been conditioned over the that we absolutely must to us just in case we need to search for it again in the future. This is another mistake and it usually has nothing It's all about the photos Check this out When you and scroll a ways down to find messages, you can scroll down on this screen to find your message history. The default for most people I know this is gonna be hard but changing this to at to kill you, and it's so and a data storage perspective. Or you can be a hero and choose 30 days. It's entirely up to you. Just make sure you download the before you do this. It's always good to keep that you update every so often. You can do this on your on a separate drive or if you'd like on an like Internxt. My internet app allows me to and of course a backup of my iPhone and a secure way that is not which is important to me. Best of all, as sponsor of this video, they're offering a that basically replaces this online version at a cheaper price. No monthly subscription, just that you can access anywhere, anytime. Get an amazing 80% off any lifetime plan. And this deal is so exclusive that it only works when you or in the description and An iPhone out of the box is programmed to send Apple all the diagnostics and usage data that it wants. They want to improve the device, obviously the iCloud products and Siri, and that all makes sense, They even wanna understand the size and shape of buildings around you. Seriously, it's a mistake There are more than enough people who send their data Apple can You can stop this by going clicking privacy and security, and then scrolling all to find analytics and improvements. I personally toggle all of these off and really there's no harm Most people like to jump and turn them all off thinking that apps can really track you. Now, while that's a good idea, the mistake is forgetting about the power of Bluetooth apps can use where you are in a store or the general location that And what's interesting to me is that when you go into your and security and then scroll it's often confusing to understand why certain apps need access to Bluetooth in the first place. I mean, some imaging apps like DJI or Insta360 need to connect but ESPN? Does LinkedIn or Hulu really need access to Bluetooth? I say no, and for this with hotel apps that use I only turn it on when I'm They don't need to get at all times. We humans are simple to be easy and memorable. I get it. When we have to or a six digit passcode, we tend to use the same exact one all the time, and unfortunately, password and help us. This means that the same code that unlocks your phone that unlocks other apps or might even be used as the This is a huge no-no. If somebody can peek over your shoulder to see you type in a passcode that you use everywhere you're to have one code to unlock your phone and then a separate one that require it, whether your two FA key pin, or your bank card. It is a mistake to share a photo with all of the metadata still attached, which usually includes GPS coordinates. I just published another video of photos on your mobile - Takeaways that you need to either change the way you take photos or change the way that you share them. In other words, you can either for the camera app in your settings app and restrict access to after you take a photo and when you're preparing to share it, click on options here on the top and toggle off the location before you post or share it. You know, this particular risk but I still think it's I'm very careful about connect my phone to. For the most part, I tend to only connect to trusted networks at my home or office, and then I tether to my the coffee shop, the But when, for various reasons, to connect to a public network, or especially when I'm I turn on A VPN while it's and I've detailed that in another video, the most popular way to do this is through a commercial VPN service. You simply download their app, you find a server and you click connect. It's that easy. It's not a but it's a lot better than to a public wifi network. Not all apps respect they say they do. It's a mistake to just assume even if you found it on the app store or heard about it from a friend. It's a big ask to think to review an app's privacy I don't even have the time to do that, but at the very least, and all notifications location data, Bluetooth data and more. And if you're like me, you can go through your phone every and just delete the apps that You can always download So which of these turned out to be a new and important change for you? Leave a comment below to let me know and be sure to visit this link for Internxt here using the code ATS to get 80% off their lifetime