This house, on the right hand This same tree, actually, same And that big gum used to be full of fruit bats. They would come and screech And life was pretty It happens suddenly. My partner basically we don't have any money left. And, um, it's sort of too hard to He just kept saying to me don't worry about money. Everything is under control. You just keep doing your thing." But then, this day he said - it was a Saturday, and he said, The removalists came and Homelessness was I had never, ever considered Never. For many years, owning a house was known The belief was that home A home represents more More than a roof over your head. It is a shelter. A Giving us security and Australia was called a land of hope and opportunity. The myth was that if you could achieve anything. The aim was, for many, to own a quarter acre with a clothesline out the back. Housing developments New suburbs were sprawling and We're selling! For a while, the Politics and economics As time passed, the great Australian And for many people, that I'm going a bit ranty now, but it's absolutely crazy, how our society There's this thing in the of wanting everyone to because it's their own fault. Technically homeless just That can happen to anybody. Anyone could end up Everyone who looks down these homeless people have done or they just need to work shouldn't be on not realizing that they could I didn't think I could end I was homeless I got sacked from my job and had a relationship And then two weeks later, because I couldn't afford to pay So I went through the lost which are 3 of the 5 you can have in your So from that, I ended I had a generic white van and just went to I actually slept in for almost a year in my car. I want to introduce I've heard Claire speaking about her experiences Claire's novel, Terra Nullius, won the Norma K. Hemming award, which is a science fiction significant female It's a powerful story of colonial and the resistance I may offend some of you. That's not a surprise, I 'This land was taken by Every square inch of is unceded Indigenous land and everyone needs to Australia is not the Australia is racist, sexist, So, don't make me choose For I am both, I am Aboriginal and LGBTIQ ABCDEFG.' I'm a resident of the I came from Germany to escape I found a studio in Myocum. Decent rent, not After 3 years and 3 months, my landlord turned "Nada, I think I have due to lack of He didn't like that I would in his little meditation hut. I had other harassment from They would turn with a bunch of flowers "No, I pay you rent so I have actually lived in a Today is a lucky It's getting a bit But I won't tempt more by switching on a I feel as though the I don't even need curtains. I refused putting because when I wake I can look up At night and see the night sky. I don't get bored, but I just want to curl up into the not feel anymore, Homelessness is often What comes to mind is a man You don't tend to think mother, grandmother. As new data emerges, have been identified as homeless or on the brink of These women are all over the It is a crisis on our doorstep. It's always been a struggle for Although there has the fight for equality in continues to this day. Women may have raised children, cared for aging parents, put careers on hold and had Now, as they age, and with no prospect of they find themselves and shameful statistic They are often hidden, You're not going to see many because they will They will sleep out Women won't even tell their You know, I think everyone if we said that 'women in of people experiencing You know, in the 21st And the reasons Superannuation, family a whole range of what we're seeing as a crisis. Good morning, Peter. Good morning, how you going? Good, good, good, good, and Already up. Sometimes it looks so you know, hundreds are either homeless Well, it really started with a It was at the time when the was in the news, how it and below it, people And I said to her, "how many other buildings and from that, Housing All Pop up shelter is a It is not a solution for because it's only temporary. But why not use buildings to house people that are It was an old home that and now we're converting The good will of we can refurbish these with an appropriate or Salvation Army and It is not a total solution. We Well, it's a great space. Yeah, and it's big enough get people-in-training if they want to re-educate, so then they can get back Thanks Rob, that's fantastic. You're passed a certain age, experience counts It's all about It's consumerist in the use it until the next newer, So you just think, I don't even ... I'm not the me I I didn't know such I didn't know about because that wasn't in my experience that was for poor who had to leave, you or poor single mums and like barely coping. it wasn't for me. I was never going to or a disability benefit. Never going to happen, never. Old age pension? Sure, maybe. But, of course, it did. You can go have everything in place and a couple of trip ups you hadn't actually allowed on the doorstep of homelessness. I lived in Sydney for 13 years, I was in advertising for very high powered job, very But I was an unmedicated I was diagnosed as I went through years every antidepressant on I was on anti-psychotics. I've been on I've been on all I've been sleeping on bloody Seroquel And eventually that when I had the year from hell. I lost my mother, my in a 12 month period. I had no money. I had to get back to Melbourne, Started work again, Lost my job in retail, could not I could no longer afford to Went through super(annuation), went through and then you get to the stage where you can't go I couldn't afford to live there And I honestly did not And somehow this lovely that she was referring to a That is the only way I found who came to my rescue. I found somewhere to live, I feel secure. They told me I as long as I want it or need it. If, per chance, George Clooney you know, we finally he can move into but it will still be my This van is called Rosie. And I... it took me a while but I always felt very and that's the name I've been houseless, since 2018 and I bought so pretty much, I have This is my home. I don't wanna be I don't want to be stuck in one You know, my children are there, but they're busy So this is my home and I used to think: I need a home. And then, after 17 years I was a stay at home mum, and I had to fight I can still remember a I was on my own. I thought, how do I do this? Yeah, one day I just this is my life now I started to pick up. I there's gotta be It was a real game-changer. I decided that I didn't want to So I went for a big trip. This bus has just been I guess I haven't found It's the choices you make, and sometimes fear of the Like I used a fair whack to buy this bus, so &quot;Gee, she's done Maybe something will But I talk to her all the time, the best diesel. She gets serviced regularly. So all those things, you think, &quot;Well, that could Well, don't think it, you As long as I can drive, As well as state and there are hundreds of not-for-profits and individuals to assist and find accommodation for the growing number of Even if a woman is lucky it's not a gift, it's not free. She must use a portion of This type of accommodation but it is often located far from and has little or no connection I'm from England, I and in that period of time I have moved 25 times. My house in Brighton is but it comes into my head a I think I must have been So I'm here, in Newport. I'm not 100% happy living and though it was wonderful I wasn't in my comfort I actually didn't realize that all this homelessness is I know that I'm not But, hey, I've got I hope that I won't ever I don't have the emotional I don't want to. I want to make the most My mum died in 2018. I then found out from she had made it quite clear were to have And the house has She was my mum. And she really hated us. I'm A lot of Christmases, I just feel that it's a family I'd prefer probably not to or think too much about it and Here I am at 71 and I don't think I've still you know what, sometimes life just doesn't I finished my third novel and I wrote that entirely It's about four people, two of them kind trapped in a during a pandemic And I pitched that I always thought there was a The thing that kept me more than anything else, was hope that things If anything, having has left me a little bit paranoid You get this kind that I could mess up and so I tend to go for things that It's like being, in a way, constantly with heightened The writing that has gotten and poverty, started I think subconsciously, I don't want to get rid of the in that I built up from starting from experiences, while traveling in Her name's Helga Hogarse. Also known as Helga But she's now really dying. She's not well um. She's rusted out, so... The massive housing boom has pushed up house prices. And the cost of The universal declaration 'everyone has the right to that includes housing.' Whether it's a utopian homelessness is the But also, as a society, we cannot There is just not enough there is not enough Without governments the non-governments are buckling under the pressure. For many people, home Oh, this is so beautiful. There's a sense of safety of a home. I wanna thank you all of Garden House. In the last year over who were accessing and the main reason for was a result of family In the majority of the cases, women need to staying in an unsafe home And while transitional it doesn't solve homelessness, but it really provides a lifeline for For forty-six years of Then when I came I feel safe and I got married at the age of 21. We were very secure, and servant maids and all that. We have so much, my husband kept He was like a military man, applying the military He used to assault me and he and all that sit for a long Throughout my life And this is the first time and living alone. But still I feel all my, these I became independent, I all the bondages and and together we and we support each other. So I am happy here. I don't really get lonely as I've kinda lost a little and I think that creates It's like I'm just It's just not feeling so I don't know if that's with more people on the road I've already been and It just doesn't feel the same. I don't think about it too much, I could imagine that living in You know, I'll get a just little things like that. Yeah, I honestly don't know. Hopefully I'd find a I have this tendency to It kind of motivates me to make my tea, But there is another Part of the society we with the choice I made Not leaving the area. Where I just want to stay where my friends are. I look in other people's and I wouldn't want because some and some people are I had managed to in my car over 1000 nights, then I got this first offer moving into a place That's a very I have no drama and I have no drama in Bathroom is an issue. I That's the one thing just there is not that is above disgusting This place is usually Due to the COVID-19 lockdown, the person who normally he kept getting cancellations, so it was standing empty so due to the lockdown. I was the last one to arrive Immediately I started to sort stuff into what is and give other stuff away. So the fact is that I have space It's pretty clear that when I have to move out again. What I don't know I have been given That's a lot of uncertainty. I'm a bit afraid of the day to put it all back in So, I spend my time I couldn't leave If I don't really take care that it can get smelly. I had that once, and I So that means I have to like I would not put my I would not put my solar The candle gives me an The unpredictable nature of is just one of many complications Whether you're sleeping or in temporary accommodation, it is a rollercoaster of emotions: anxiety, trauma, fear, and trying There is a need to reimagine with the political will to rebuild The great Australian Maybe it's time to Well, next, I'll be to see my children So I'll probably stay there And after that I'm I kind of fly by the and intuition It's like I know what to do, I'll be traveling as Home is where I park my bus!