In October 1997, a small team at Interplay deeply engaging, and instantly classic It was a post-apocalyptic, bleak, and darkly aspect was its world. The Fallout universe since recurred throughout the series, such as Nuka not those. Well, yes, okay, those too, but...right, Built by Vault-Tec with the stated goal of far less noble. After all, there were only 122 hardly enough to save a significant percentage would get to decide exactly which segments Vault-Tec calling? More like Vault-Tec culling! they were actually a front for hideous social, on the occupants. Tiny little ant farms for the Still, though, it must be nice to hear the bombs with the end of the world drawing nearer every trying to decide where we'd like to reserve and rank them from worst to best. we'll be judging the Vaults based on how is based on the experiment performed on the the number of environmental storytelling We will not be considering any of the unnumbered such as the demonstration Vault under Vault-Tec underneath Nuka World. Nor will we be considering as those in Fallout Shelter or the tabletop games. discussing the lore behind each one. If you'd you've been warned. And we understand! After Because lore...lore never changes. I'm Benand I'm Peter from TripleJump, and this #32: The Nine Fallout Bible Vaults Some of you will know exactly what we're iguana bits while we explain it for everyone else. created between the development of Fallout and former employees of Interplay and they make you'll read about many ideas that were eventually New Vegas, and, yes, even Bethesda's Fallout that they contain information on nine Vaults that These are Vaults 27, 36, 42, 53, 55, 56, 68, experiments and nothing about how any of them as it's suggested Harold lived If you'd like some footage of inside use your imagination. Or don't do that, #31: Appalachia's sealed Vaults Oh, come on, another catchall entry at the thank Fallout 76: the grift that keeps on giving. these Vaults do exist. You can visit them in for photos, wondering why they're here without At Vault 63, a terminal will tell you that At Vault 96, a terminal will tell you that parameters." That's all we've got for now. sealed Vault that eventually opened areas will be added as well. Being as the and is still in beta, however, I'm #30: Vault 12 Vault 12 was home to one of the simplest the door was prevented from sealing, allowing was affected by radiation. It turned out that the Vault-dwellers - and much of humanity - into more resilient and granted them a longer life. On Sure enough, that's what happened to concentration of Ghouls in one place gave rise Like everywhere else in the Wasteland, the those who have retained their mental faculties. the whole "being an apocalyptic guinea pig" thing. #29: Vault 11 The good news: Vault 11 chooses its The bad news: Literally everything else. In one series - which is saying something - this Vault if one of its residents weren't sacrificed first sacrifice and it became a tradition to sacrificed to keep life support operational. spite or revenge, as well as factions forming and That's why you see such...confusing election Of course, the real experiment was to see how Unfortunately, the occupants didn't see remained. Ah well. Live and learn, right? Or, #28: Vault 87 Fans of Fallout and Fallout 2 might have Mutants in Fallout 3, which takes place decades While it might be fun to picture them on a that the Super Mutants in Fallout 3 originate Forced Evolutionary Virus, which was meant to In one way, it was a rousing success! Vault 87's different FEV strain explains why more vicious, though there are some who you meet in the Vault and fall In case there was any confusion, no, we do beings are chemically transformed into Shrek. #27: Vault 75 We can all agree that any experiment involving right? Right. Vault 75, built beneath Malden families to survive the apocalypse. In reality, the children were subjected to constant, rigorous The idea was to improve the resilience and occupants could return to the surface and retake most successful subjects were dissected and their were incinerated. Those who performed poorly in recruited to the research team...so that they could And you thought you had a #26: Vault 17 We know very little about Vault 17, and what we Lily the Super Mutant. It could have been a repugnant experiment. Either way, it doesn't in the year 2154. It was raided by Super Mutants, or being taken to Mariposa Military Base to This happened when Lily was 75 years old, way to be turned into a Super Mutant herself. She carries with her a holotape and developed an alternate personality to further Bet you feel bad for laughing at the #25: Vault 112 If you have to be trapped underground for years 112 would be the best possible situation. occupants live in a virtual world that could be What could possibly go wrong? Well, the same thing Overseer Stanislaus Braun is positively out in a simulation called Tranquility Lane, within delights in tormenting the vault dwellers. Braun occupants of Vault 112 for two centuries. of putting the residents out of their misery own making does mean that this experiment is #24: Vault 95 Many of Vault-Tec's experiments are comically In the case of Vault 95, however, there's nothing recovering drug addicts and alcoholics. Here, addictions. It was a painful process, full at least, have support meetings during which Eventually, it actually worked. The residents And then, after five years, an undercover of drugs and alcohol. The experiment was to see the overseer was unaware of this and unprepared the violence from the residents who felt rightly example of man being the real monster in Fallout, #23: Vault 43 In many cases with these Vaults, players are they can piece the story and its outcome and soaking in the environmental storytelling Other times...well, other times we have Vault 43. of the experiment in the official "One that it tells us much. In fact, it tells 10 women, and one panther. The humans don't look the panther doesn't seem to mind, so Could 20 men and 10 women Would 20 men and 10 women take down a panther? and I'm grateful that I have no personal #22: Vault 106 Vault 106 was one of the original Vault this being the only information: "Psychoactive 10 days after the Door was sealed." Bethesda the most memorable Vaults in the series. render occupants docile. And it did! Of paranoid and homicidal. 50% success, at least. the player character, as well. As you explore you hallucinate a much cleaner, pre-crisis suggesting you "relax" and "breathe deep in the your old friends from Vault 101, including your you murdering the only non-insane occupant of #21: Vault 22 When entering Vault 22 for the first time, you see clearly that the experiment had What will you find? What was the outcome? What it's plant monsters. You can't mix Vault-Tec Vault 22 is one of the more tedious Vaults to either. The experiment was meant to develop hardy landscape. The problem came in the form of that turned the researchers into plant monsters. Vault and, obviously, we wouldn't want or being mauled by a plant monster are You can learn what happened to the Vault But while that story is at least interesting, it also unfolds off-camera. #20: Vault 51 It's the Fortnite Vault. Vault 51 is the right? It's the result of a struggling It exists so people who enjoyed Fortnite could Surprisingly, there's a good bit of lore enough of the mode to unlock access to all of a computer in charge of selecting an overseer, Ultimately - and we are skipping a lot of decided the 52 residents could simply fight winner would have really enjoyed ruling flossing. So yes, it's the Fortnite charge of the backstory did their #19: Vault 3 Vault 3 was one of Vault-Tec's "control vaults," their own pivotal conflict to resolve. Honestly, tragedy is sometimes indistinguishable Several generations after the Great leak that continued to get worse until their Vault 3 decided to use this complication as Wasteland and attempt to establish relationships And it worked! For a couple of weeks, anyway. people unprepared for the post-apocalypse was of that you meet in the Vault in New Vegas, with let's not think too much about what #18: Vault 15 Vault 15 is a hollowed, looted shell but you will meet a good number of its former of them will try to kill you! What a wonderful Actually, the experiment really wasn't so bad. The from different ideologies and cultures to see did not achieve harmony and were frequently at just so they could get away from each other. The socially speaking; some of them founded the raiders. But even the raiders couldn't get along, The experiment was a failure, in the sense of everyone learning to get along, but it did at least succeed in proving #17: Vault 114 Vault 114 was ostensibly designed to in the lap of luxury. In truth, the Vault was as it used parts of Boston's existing subway experiment; that's just Vault-Tec cutting corners. in Vault-Tec's own words, had "no and hopefully with a strong anti-authority bias." Harry...but the Vault was not completed Soup-Can Harry would have handled the trials That's especially disappointing because most fun writing in all of Fallout 4, but by gangsters with no particular connection to #16: Vault 77 The experiment in Vault 77 was...oh, come on. was only one occupant of Vault 77. At least, that his only companions to guide him through he doesn't discover this until he's been locked Vault. Maybe he was doing a low-intelligence His mind soon breaks, and he finds that the And daring. And violent. He eventually people he met may have survived the encounter. alongside a recording of a slaver who hopes he If the experiment were intended to create Vault 77 was a success. But, y'know, #15: Vault 94 The residents of Vault 94 were a congregation appointed their overseer. The experiment, as far vegetation to the world after nuclear war. A noble Eden Creation Kit to get the job done, as well The real experiment, which a Vault-Tec operative was to find out whether the pacifists moment they opened the Vault door and faced The Vault-Tec operative grew to be and pleaded with them not to open the Vault to the Appalachian survivors would welcome them and need to tell you what happened after that, but I #14: Vault 88 Boy, Fallout 4's DLCs really run the you've got Far Harbor, which is great, and On the other side, you've got...extra crap you can anyone who shelled out for the season pass. adding a number of Vault components that you can doing something pointless such as tracking down tasked with completing the unfinished Vault 88, These builders and their excuses, I tell you. Vault 88 and even conduct some experiments near as fun or creative as it sounds. Another #13: Vault 108 Anyone who has been swarmed by clones in what's to believe that Vault-Tec implemented And, well, they did! But it had Instead, Vault-Tec selected an overseer suffering supply to fail in 20 years. They wanted to study people were faced with a leadership vacuum. some of the occupants passed the time by cloning got less coherent and more violent, until the than their name. The Garys, each shouting "Gary," Vault. In this case, Vault-Tec, your victims than you did. I think the residents of Vault 108 #12: Vault 92 The stated purpose of Vault 92 was to house that musical knowledge and talent would Uncommonly noble of Vault-Tec, so of course it brainwashing its residents with white noise. occupants of Vault 92 were indeed brainwashed very relative in these games.) The experiment did Vault 92 preserved a number of musical including the rare Soil Stradivarius. Vault for Agatha, one of the rare truly gentle will play her music for the entire Wasteland on a beauty blooming from ugliness. And, ultimately, #11: Vault 34 An overstocked armory represents quite a tame managed to give them a show. Its overseer was access to firearms in an enclosed bunker, and bristled at this, believing their right to bear arms to stay alive. Thank God this is fiction, eh? stayed behind were spared the dangers of stray the more urgent concern. Even worse, after the deserters left. Desperate riots all of the remaining occupants into feral ghouls. dangerously close to making a joke that goes "Ghouls Just #10: Vault 79 Vault 79 was designed to house America's as could be transported there before the the country's economy after the Great 79 would not house any of the general population. to the Vault in order to protect the gold, which Sadly, they were unprepared for the effects from suicide and conflict within the Vault. A though, so the Vault didn't entirely fail. earliest Fallout game, and the fact that bottle the series suggests that it didn't succeed it was worth a try. It's not like they would #9: Vault 111 Ice, ice, baby. Actually, I probably shouldn't Vault 111 was designed to study the effects of a disappointment for residents who prefer warmer up dead! Actually, that does happen to the other you'll be unfrozen at some point! Actually...oh. Okay, fine, well, not all of the Vault's scientists and security guards who got routines of research and Vault maintenance. as supplies dwindled and they were forced to Boy, Vault 111 was just a disaster all #8: Vault 19 Vault 19 was split into two sections: red and but the occupants of Vault 19 spent most of Vault-Tec likely wished to study how the two they got a wealth of data from Vault 19. there was a seemingly legitimate problem with the sabotage. If a vent kicked on unexpectedly in trying to gas them in their sleep. If a light was sending messages in morse code to each other. experiments in the series, if only stimulus was. This Vault collapsed into chaos, and #7: Vault 76 Vault 76 was technically a control vault, but the intention was to pack it full of could rebuild and repopulate Appalachia 25 something went horribly wrong, and the to be those who liked to yell obscenities We don't learn much about Vault 76; it's a brief Evidently, though, things went well. The Vault and the overseer did a good job of keeping we can't imagine much that could have gone better So why wouldn't we choose to be in this Vault? #6: Vault 118 It's not at all surprising that one of the best stuff in Fallout 4 is: Far Harbor. Vault 10 extremely rich individuals who would have and 300 lower-class residents who cramped wing with limited rations. minutes before the bloodbath, but we can't When the bombs fell, there was All fine and good, right? Well, actually, yes, could ride out the entire war and its aftermath For those unfamiliar with the series, Robo means but you do get to solve a robot murder mystery. #5: Vault 13 The very first Vault in the series is it would have been if not for a shipping Vault's allotted supply of water chips this was not part of the Vault's experiment; it The failure of the water chip sets into okay, we're grateful for it on that count. But it community is thrown into discord by the fact and everyone who leaves the Vault becomes If it weren't for that damn water chip, though, batch. Such a near miss. When you visit Vault 8 in 13's water chip, but so many others that the game #4: Vault 8 The easiest way to understand Vault 8 is to genuinely experienced the safety and security they leaves us without much info on what happened. the Vault's GECK to found Vault City, one of in post-war America. And the population of Vault 8 in the first place. That's because if we're feeling less charitable - and quick In short, Vault 8 and everything about it into the post-apocalypse, you're going to bring mean you're better off dead? Probably not, but #3: Vault 21 Fitting for a Vault constructed on the Las Vegas around gambling, with every decision made and ensured that no particular occupant Brains didn't matter, brawn didn't wealth didn't matter; everything was settled The experiment seemed to work extremely well, and only opened when Mr. House asked the occupants this and some were opposed, so it was settled blackjack. The House supporters won. Vault 21 was from the worst way for a Vault experiment to end. you meet in Fallout: New Vegas 21. The one with the spinny head. Oh God... #2: Vault 101 Vault 101's experiment was to remain through the years achieved this nefarious the Vault closed for all eternity. Some of Of course, this wasn't entirely the case; the survey teams to explore the Wasteland, performing ecology to study. And, in one notable case, an Dr. Liam Neeson into the Vault with too, or Fallout 3 would have been very short. Granted, the residents aren't ever supposed to get what's out there? Wall to wall spookums. I'll stay #1: Vault 81 Vault 81 was intended to conduct one of the between a team of scientists and a group their own sections, with only the overseer having for the scientists to introduce various diseases and then experiment on them to find a cure. the pale, and prevented the research team activated. A few scientists showed up and sabotaged the valves that were meant to Because of the overseer's work - work of which from being one of the most potentially nightmarish More than 200 years later, the society here is enough to have opened their doors to the as they please. Being safe in Vault 81, for the isolated. That's quite an accomplishment.