- Today we're gonna talk about this. It's the new AeroPress Clear, a new brewer from Aeropress, which in itself feels kind of noteworthy. This is a company, been that hasn't released many new products. So a new thing. But more importantly, I think it's indicative of changes coming to AeroPress. And I think those are Now quick history of this, the original AeroPress itself was clear, but that had some issues and those materials used had some issues and over time they changed the materials and it became more and and people missed the cool clear thing. And so this came along. New materials is made outta Tritan and that should solve the with previous materials. And it's now available, than the original AeroPress, that's gone up to about $40. And this is $50. Now, historically the AeroPress was such an easy recommendation to make. It was this kind of cheap, that you could just say, &quot;hey, it's like 30 bucks. You'd It was cheap, it was it made lovely coffee. It was easy to use, easy to clean. It was a whole thing. And very, very successful. Incredibly successful, no doubt. There's gotta be millions in the world. But over the last few years And again, everything's gotten So I'm not really having for now being $40 and which was the average price things have gotten more expensive, but there has been change within AeroPress in the last couple of years Now, if you don't know there's a video. Actually we made a whole 'cause we do love this You can click it up down below, kind of covers but it was founded by a He created Aerobie, the delightful flying rings. And then he made a coffee maker because that's what you do, I guess. And it was born out of about how coffee should be, how it should taste, Opinions, honestly, I but I enjoyed that he had them. Anyway, 2021, Alan, I think looking for an took an investment from Tiny Capital based outta Canada, I think. And it seems that there's kind of new management within there's a new CEO and and I think that's interesting. Now this thing at $50 is kind of nice. It doesn't necessarily feel more premium than the previous AeroPress. In fact, if we take one thing I did notice on and I bought a few for is that I presume as a result at the top of the cylinder here there's these two little marks that leave kind of around here with and you don't have these It just, as you sort of touch them, it just feels like something's gone wrong or it's been chipped. They're kind of... They're not smooth. It's kind of weird. Other than that though, Doesn't it look nice? Nice and clear. We'll brew some coffee but most people probably which is, is my brewer gonna get covered That's a good question. First thing I wondered too, like while it looks nice now, what about a year from now? And so we thought we should So we bought a couple of other AeroPresses and we brewed a very long brew 'cause I figured if you every day for a year, it's, you know, 700 and some minutes, it's about 12 hours. We let a brew just sit in here for about 20 hours and well, do you wanna see what happened? Absolutely nothing at all, right. Like absolutely fine. There's no visible staining, I would say. There's no visible differences between these two. This has had 20 hours of coffee contact. You might say, &quot;well hang on, what about temperature?&quot; You make a good point because this obviously and then declined and it was like a 23 hour cold brew with an hour of hot to warm. So we took another brewer and we kind of sealed both ends of it, brewed some coffee and then stuck it in a sous vide kind of situation with a water circulator held at 90 degrees Celsius Let's have a look at that one. Again, no real staining. Though, well, it looks like Firstly, I used a cling film or Saran Wrap or whatever you call a PVC film. It has adhered to this in a way that's made it kind of So don't judge the discoloration around the top here for that. We'll show you some closeups so you can really see. I can see interestingly, a couple of little cracks almost in here. Little like hairline kind of marks and I don't know where whether that's a heat stress thing, I don't know. Afterwards, after I've talked about them, we will do a drop test I'll show you the drop test now. I'll drop it in and you can see whether this is a more fragile material than the original, though you are unlikely to see what happens. Drop test one, and we go for like this height. Drop test two, I guess about three meters. And now for the of about, I guess, six, seven meters. Here we go. Fatality. So I think fair to say that I have zero concerns about the durability of this new material. I do think it is worth noting what you get in the box though. Now side note really, the box historically and I say this with love, gloriously terrible, like it was not a good box. The design did not speak to me. The new box is like the old box but sort of more boring, It's a bit smaller 'cause there's less stuff in it actually which is sort of worth noting because inside you get your stirrer, your lovely AeroPress stirrer. I dunno if people use these, it's sort of, you know You get your scoop, it's well known how I feel about scoops and you get some paper filters. Now, if you've bought an AeroPress in the last decade or more, you might notice a small difference here. This is a little shrink The old AeroPress came with one of these, it was a filter holder and it also came with 350 paper filters. And that was a really nice thing, that you were set up for if you wanted to be. And it felt generous and it was still this You know, paper, it doesn't cost very much to make, a small disc of paper like this. And so this drop in paper filters felt like a weird little red flag to me. And maybe I'm reading too But for me it sort of Not just because it came wedged inside the sort of filter cap and it was quite difficult to get it out and that was a maddening experience, but they didn't really need to drop the number of papers you get unless they're trying to squeeze some more margin out of this thing here. And there's not much margin to be squeezed out of reducing 250 paper filters. Generously, if they cost a cent each, which if they cost as cent each, that's surprising. That's $2.50. You've gone from what was a $30 product up to a $40 product now to a $50 product. What what bothers me more though, if I'm getting fussy about this, is that on the website they don't tell you there's been a change and that the paper filters are shot top down, so you can't tell how tall the stack is. And it made me think, &quot;oh, what does new ownership mean for the future of the AeroPress?&quot; As I said, Alan had very Alan had a force of opinion that was tremendous and and laudable, even if I strongly disagreed with him. He felt very deeply passionate about brewing coffee I don't feel that way. He was a real big advocate for health and flavor reasons and he didn't make new products. Like people wanted a bigger AeroPress. He said no. The only other product AeroPress made under his sort of tenure was the AeroPress Go, which was the same thing in a cup for easier transport. New ownership has kind of brought forth a kind of wave of new products. Now this is one of the first ones here. So it is a more expensive AeroPress and a kind of premium looking one though I will say it or even maybe feels slightly worse because of that manufacturing This is our original and in comparison, yes, you can't see what's going on inside. Pretty boring, pretty I get it, I totally get it. They've also come out with this. This is the AeroPress Now I'm not gonna review it today but I am gonna compare which is the Fellow Prismo. So you'll see it in the middle. This is like a silicone piece here that if you apply pressure, it will open the hole in the middle of it, otherwise it'll be tight enough to seal it and nothing will drip out at the bottom. This is $25 or 24.95, sorry. And this Fellow product is $25, though I will say the Fellow which works in a very similar way as well as a metal filter here. AeroPress do now sell a metal filter but that's an additional $15 on top of it. So in a value comparison, I'm not sure really where in compared to this. Materials wise it doesn't feel any better. And design-wise, I think it looks a little bit worse. It's just the pricing really was the notable thing to me there. Again, it feels like there's a search for products with higher margins and And as we look at the future of AeroPress, well, that's interesting, right. Because there's two more notable products coming down the line. The first is the AeroPress XL, something that people for years, years and years and years. And he'd always said no, he'd tried it, he had prototypes, he didn't like results. Now it seems they've cracked it. So the word is it's twice the volume of the existing AeroPress, that'll change some of the That's just worth noting now. Whether they make it wider or taller or a combination of those things, I don't really know. You can see pictures of it, but without dimensions. I don't really know how Someone could probably and work it out, but I'm And then the other product that I think is kind of notable is a kind of premium AeroPress that's coming that I think This is made out of glass and metal. I'm not sure those are materials that I really want in a brewer that people often like to which is dangerous enough let alone shatterable hot But I get it. I think they've looked at the market and they've had this brewer but it's been relatively and they're like, &quot;well, what would people like?&quot; They said a higher price well, that sounds kind of nice. I feel like this is kind of aiming as squarely at that market as is possible. I don't think many people are looking to spend a 100 and, you know, that doesn't really fit with That kind of fell in love with it. It spread it through word of mouth because it was an accessible brewer that made great coffee It was hugely flexible. There's a million different Of course, if you wanna there's a link in the description down below to the ultimate and you could even see a video on how we worked out all of Now I did say I'd brew some coffee with it and so to wrap up, I guess let's make a brew. Couple of other things to One, the whole hole pattern has changed compared to the original. Don't know what that means yet. Secondly, and actually I even though it's slightly the funnel's gone. I hadn't realized actually till now. I should have realized. The AeroPress Clear does not come with the hilarious funnel that I'm gonna use to put my coffee in even though I don't need to. But I thought it was worth mentioning. So no one of these, no I guess there could be copper-made or stainless coming down the line that are a bit more expensive as a kind of premium add-on. I don't know, maybe they just don't think (beep) (Water pouring) Let's have a look at you. You can see a nice crust forming there. After a couple of minutes, we will be swirling this waiting a little bit before we press. You can see that knocks down the crust. Everything starts to fall to the bottom and you can see it now. See because this is clear. No pressing on the scale, they don't like it. There we have it, looks nice and clean afterwards. That is satisfying actually that as you press it kind of cleans it down. That does look good, I approve. I guess this comes down to two things. One, if you've got an AeroPress and you're thinking about upgrading it, is this a worthwhile upgrade for 50 bucks over what you have now? I'm not sure that's a great investment. It doesn't make a coffee It looks nicer, but I'm not sure that's it. If I was in the market for an AeroPress from the beginning, if I'm confident I'm gonna If I've got a couple I might be tempted to It does look nicer. It is kind of prettier. I don't really worry about over time based on the By the way, this is not a this is just the testing we've done today. So I would be tempted by it. But you know, if the original is out there and you see it for less than $40, I think that's a great buy. I think it's one of the best investments you can make for the money in your coffee gear, in your kind of coffee brewing collection. It makes great coffee. This makes great coffee, but So nice fun, but I think an interesting signpost for the future of AeroPress. Now I wanna hear from you Have you got one of these? How's your experience been so far? Are you thinking about getting one? Are you holding out for the premium? I'm sure a lot of you are so as soon as I have my we'll brew with it and we'll see what we get out of it because I think that's been something the audience has definitely wanted. It's been a limitation of the We'll find out, but I'd love to hear your thoughts on this down in the comments below. For now, I say thank you so much for watching. Hope you have a great day.