[mast creaks] You just made yourself a target, right? There's one guy there. It's relatively easy to defend against. Just shoot him. Hi, my name is Evan Wilson. I'm a professor at the and I'm an expert in Today I'll be looking at and judging how real they are. So, if you're desperate and you're being chased by someone who you know is stronger than you, you would throw things overboard if you're trying to speed up. But the thing that's really is throwing the guns overboard. I mean, that's the A 32-pound cannon or something like that weighs 7,000 pounds. What they're throwing overboard is like -- a single cannonball isn't going to make any difference in the speed of your ship. This is a maneuver that's You drop an anchor off the side in an attempt to rapidly turn the ship in another direction. It did happen, but you when you were trying from a very dangerous situation, rather than as a tactic in battle usually. You could surprise the Black Pearl, but it's going to take many minutes for this maneuver to happen. I mean, it is a surprise, So, that's chain shot. That's a real thing. It's either an antipersonnel thing, 'cause it's going to spin, or you fire it at the rigging in the hopes of cutting I'd be surprised if you that brings the mast down like that. A good naval gun crew that's can load and fire a cannon in a minute, but you probably couldn't It looks like there are, like, like I said, so, you know, But not all of them. It's a great way to Probably much more likely to which is a great way to It's very cinematic, it's very evocative, and it looks like sort of a but you're asking for trouble. And I think when people are firing at you, doing that is not smart. One of the things you don't see here is that it's actually really hard to keep two ships right We saw these ships moving Something would have to keep them near each other. Right now this is just, very conveniently, I guess they've anchored so that they can duke it out. Like, in the &quot;Pirates&quot; universe, It's about as accurate as they ever get. In reality, it's like a, I don't know, 4 out of 10. French officer: This is They showed a couple shots there of the crowded deck of what That's much more accurate. I mean, these ships are going Jack: Fire! So, that's a pretty risky strategy, to try to knock down the because masts are hard to hit. But firing into the because the masts are So the reason you'd want to is to disable his ship. And then he couldn't chase you anymore, and then you could just leave. Often the British practiced into enemy hulls, into the enemy ship, with the idea of killing men. Not to sink the ship. It's really hard to sink a Instead, what you're doing is you're trying to kill the crew. The knock-on effect of that is that you can either board them and take them, or they'll be so disabled and so damaged that they will surrender to you and then you can go take possession. Officer: Put out the boarding plank! Those are ropes that they're throwing over to try to get the ships to stay together, to solve that problem of It's really hard to get two ships to actually get close Ships have something called a tumblehome. The hull is shaped so that the sides aren't straight up and down. The sides actually turn in a little bit. Which means that when two they both have tumblehomes which means that to cross is actually a long way. The challenge of actually next to each other to board them is real. They do a good job in this movie of showing you that that you can go about doing it. I mean, they got almost everything right. This is a 10 out of 10. [Euron yells] [bowsprit thuds] That's supposed to be That's the mast that sticks That's really essential to hold up most of the rigging of a ship. If you were to put elaborate you'd, first of all, probably not be able to secondly, it'd be very heavy and cause your ship to go like this. You can run your ship into the other ship and then board it from there. But you do that by just You don't do it by staging an once again, just like with you just made yourself a target, right? I mean, they stand there but, like, just shoot him. Flaming arrows? I would say no, that's not Mainly because to make you probably have to and fire is by far the Wood, canvas, pitch, tar, this Firing flaming arrows is much more likely to than to set the other guy's ship on fire. The fact that they correctly identify that one of the greatest fears and that would be the thing I think is accurate. The two ships are about to be on fire. That would be very bad. That would be catastrophic. You would be much more than about whatever the enemy's doing. Would you keep fighting in a storm? The answer is, it would affect tactics, but it wouldn't necessarily There's a famous example chasing a much larger French ship in 1797. And normally, if the the two frigates probably from the bigger French ship. But because of the storm was so bad, the French ship couldn't because the water would've So the French ship was basically half as powerful as it would've been. I don't feel like I need to explain that, but I can, if you want. What's the name of the carnival ride? That's what -- they clearly and they were like, The guy swings like Tarzan, comes around, fires a gun, and then Because of course he would. 'Cause you see a guy &quot;I'm gonna shoot you now.&quot; Boarding is risky, right? When you board another ship, you need to be pretty confident that you are superior to the Because if you board an enemy then you might lose your own ship. Whereas if you hadn't bothered to board them in the first place, you probably wouldn't get captured. And you'd be much more likely to just obliterate them at a distance, and then once they surrender, &quot;Well, that was better.&quot; A lot of movies have boarding in them because it's very cinematic and it's a lot more interesting just fire at each other for a long time. That's a 1. War at sea is not a carnival ride. That's just ... Look at the way that the wind is blowing the sails of the and the sails of the other I mean, that's a really the wind doesn't work like that. The wind has been so that these ships can A lot of the times in that we've been seeing, they're turning the you're just sort of spinning it, like, &quot;Ah, just gonna throw Usually it took two guys. It would take two people there 'Cause you're turning a really So you turn the wheel, that are connected to the tiller that are connected to the rudder, and the rudder does steer the ship. So you do need to spin the wheel, but often these ships with nothing happening in the sails, and you're expected to believe So, you would turn the wheel to do that, but you'd also do 1,000 other things, and the wind would have to be just right, in the right place, and These ships are passing I mean, the combined speed 15 miles an hour. The number of seconds you'd probably have in which the enemy ship was in just the right would be very few. And so you'd end up with them just, you know, you'd do a little bit of damage, and then the ship would just sail on. You could double up on and there are famous examples of it. At the Battle of the Nile in 1798, the British do this to the French. It's a great way to do a lot of damage, 'cause it forces the enemy to figure out which way to concentrate. They do a good job actually And the one realistic thing the air gets filled with splinters, and splinters were the real danger. That was what hurt you. You're very unlikely to be It happened, of course, but the splinters are the thing here. Like, these things are There are famous examples They're rare, but The magazine is where If the magazine catches fire, then you'd see a major explosion. An iron cannon ball doesn't bring with it any explosive power. There's nothing that goes boom there, it's just a solid iron ball. So it's unlikely that an enemy shot is going to cause a magazine to explode. It's not something you It's much more likely that that then spread to the magazine. Because, remember, all the in order to ignite the so there's a lot of flames in and around powder on board a ship. And if something goes wrong, Wood floats. Right? Wood doesn't take a nosedive and be like, &quot;Well, I'm done floating now. See ya.&quot; There'd be wreckage everywhere, and all that wreckage would float. You'd end up with water and it would sink slowly over time. Certainly not after a single pass from two ships sailing on a magical wind. So this clip is a 2, mainly because of the splinters, But all the sailing stuff is ludicrous. Yeah, I don't know what to What happens when a ship goes downhill? I don't know. I'd be much more concerned about the wave and the curvature of the earth but that's a fantasy Rowing a ship using human power is pretty inefficient. The way to get your ship going fast enough to do any damage with the ram means that the rest of the and you need a lot of rowers. They've done some testing on this. The answer is, an untrained crew could get a trireme going maybe 9 knots, which is like a jog. It's like 8 miles an hour, right? So, yeah, it's not that fast. The way that they're as they approach the ship is, meh, sure. And then it's sort of and then the ship bent. You could probably poke if you really were going And you would aim for the 'cause that probably but you're unlikely to sink him. 'Cause, again, wood floats. It's really hard to sink ships. What you're more likely to that you can board him. But what doesn't work in this clip is that the vessels that you are fair-weather ships, right? So galleys, triremes, that sort of thing. These are not all-weather vessels that are going to handle a big sea. These ships would be mainly rather than able to fight much. Maybe it's a 5. Yeah, they had triremes, they Their boat is turning into more boats! The division of the pirate to send them out to attack the small ship doesn't make a ton of sense to me. You'd use the small boats on your big ship to tow you places in a flat calm, sometimes, if it were an emergency, but otherwise the little are not going to help do much. A smaller, maneuverable ship could theoretically in the right conditions. The speed of a ship depends on about 1,000 different factors. You're going to deal the wind speed, which direction the ship is trying to go relative to the wind. Moana and Maui are going They're going to be able to I think for realism, you know, it's a 6. I mean, there are coconut pirates, so let's not get too carried away. So, now's probably a good The guns that they're are not usually rifled, right, so they have smooth bore barrels, which means that the cannonball is slightly smaller than the barrel. Which means that as it it's got windage, so it can bounce around and then it goes off there. So they're not particularly accurate. Think of a musket as opposed to a rifle. That said, they can So, the muzzle velocity is, like, 1,500 feet per second, or I think Mach 1.3. It's going faster than the speed of sound. And so you could hit something at maybe a mile. Whether you could hit what less clear, but at a if you got the pitch just right you could get a ball to go that far. Unlike most movies that immediately shrink the battlefield down it does a good job of yeah, you could actually open and expect maybe to hit something. Ideally you'd want to be You'd only do that in very short ranges. Ships are constantly moving, right? And they're moving So the idea that you would be able to risk swimming across to an enemy ship and then when you board it to actually do something In a fleet battle like What they did at Trafalgar, this lieutenant swam and then managed to so that they could grapple again, to board it. But it's within range of someone to be able to throw a rope, not, like, a mile or whatever Would you do it at that range? No. Would you open up guns at that range? It looks pretty far to me, but it's hard to judge distances here. So I'll say 7. That weird funnel of ships was strange. There are a lot of collisions in that fleet right there. So you wouldn't get that But they're basically trying Forming a line of battle was a technique developed in the middle in the 1650s, roughly. And it was a defensive technique. So you form ships in a line of battle one after the other, lined up like this. Remember that ships' guns, the most powerful ones fire sideways, but ships sail forward. You line up all the ships in your fleet, one after the other, like this in a line, so that the weakest part of every ship, the bow and the stern, is facing a friend. The most dangerous part You form a really that means that it's very difficult for the enemy to do anything to you, because you can keep them at bay with your massive powerful And that's called the line of battle, and it basically is the major fleet tactic for the next 150 years. If you had a solid line of then chances are you're weren't That gun sort of gently Like, that's not nearly violent enough. 7,000 pounds moving you wouldn't really even 'Cause the thing that's is going out at Mach 1.3. Now, that put out a huge amount of stress on the ship's side, 'cause it meant that the bolts that held had 16 tons of force pulling them that way every time you fired the gun. So one of the things that don't fire every single gun Do a rolling broadside so that you don't exert 16 tons of power on every single bracket on every single side of your ship. So bang, bang, bang, not kaboom, right? It wouldn't necessarily but it would certainly put if you sort of staggered To fire these cannon, put the Well, all that's doing is igniting a stream of powder fuse that's going to go down the touch hole into the actual charge. And then sometime in the the cannon's going to fire. But I can't exactly predict it. Which, again, makes aiming really hard, 'cause the ship is moving It's going forward, it's pitching and rolling and yawing, and all these other dimensions. They do a good job of actually showing slow match in this clip, but the guns don't recoil fast enough and there's not enough This is probably an 8. You don't normally see and so credit where credit's due. If you take nothing else away If you enjoyed this video, click above to watch another one.