Of all the species to have ever lived, At some point in the future, It may take centuries. It might take eons. But extinction is unavoidable. The future is fraught with uncertainty, Nearly 800,000 years ago, an approximately The crater has yet to be located. But fragments from the impact have been An expansive strewn field Our distant ancestors were not only alive to witness Impacts of this magnitude occur roughly once More devastating impacts, are far less frequent. Possibly striking once Whether a collision of this magnitude is survivable The kinetic energy released upon impact would of billions of atomic bombs. Those who survived the initial blast would be subjected to unrelenting A thick layer of smoke and dust would quickly An impact winter Darkness, freezing cold, and global famine In spite of this, Small pockets of humanity and would at least But, make no mistake... ...it would be a close call. The survivability of an impact also depends More than 90% of nearby have already been detected. If one of them were on we'd know for decades But this was not always the case. In 1983, a 9-kilometer-wide comet was only That's two weeks of preparation While things have space is impossibly vast. In 2019, an asteroid capable of leveling a city it flew five times closer While the odds of it's not impossible. There is a class of objects known as Damocloids. Damocloids are typified by their Meaning, they periodically pay us a visit We're currently tracking about 200, tumbling through the Solar System. Damocloids are, on average... ...16 kilometers wide. If one of them ...there might not be any warning. When massive stars die, they explode. If a star went supernova it would be cause for concern. Fortunately, more than 90% of the stars within None of which are at risk But some supernovae can still pose a threat It's a gamma-ray burst. Produced by only the most violent explosions Instead of a spherical blast, into two highly concentrated beams. More energy is released in a few seconds than The biological effects of a nearby supernova We do know that the atmosphere would absorb But this may also strip the Earth If so, harmful levels of ultraviolet radiation Certain chemical reactions may also darken A cosmic winter of sorts. This could last for years and would be lethal In fact, a gamma-ray burst that killed roughly 70% of all marine species Now, humanity could easily protect itself but living through a mass extinction While some authors with one hemisphere These findings have been The latest research identify ozone depletion Nevertheless, a gamma-ray burst sniping the Earth All of them have so far Much too distant to pose a threat. While there are a few none of them appear to be Apart from impact events and stellar explosions, Other eventualities are either too improbable Ample time for us to prepare... ...other calamities permitting. Around 74,000 years ago, It is the most powerful volcanic eruption For up to two weeks, it spewed enormous quantities Enough to block out the Sun A volcanic winter. But there's great uncertainty about the effects It ranges from severe to mild. With the latest research supporting the latter. In either case, this is good news. It means that supervolcanic eruptions After all, if early humans stood a chance, But there is something even more destructive It's known as a flood basalt event. The largest one occurred An enormous outpouring of molten rock And it just so happens to coincide The good news is, flood basalt events Instead of a singular event, taking place over thousands As such, even if one began tomorrow, it might Throughout the centuries, Among the worst was the Black Death. In less than a decade, it killed between The total death count is unknown. At least tens of millions. The Columbian exchange of diseases and the The tragedy of these pandemics they never came close to extinction. None of them killed more than a few percent For instance, the Spanish Flu yet the vast majority of cases A pathogen that not only infects but also is difficult to imagine. In fact, there are very few examples of infectious With that being said, it's not inconceivable. For instance, pathogens that can can be far deadlier The H5N1 avian influenza, So far, it's transmissible but it can't sustainably However, laboratory experiments have shown through natural mutations. If so, it could easily become the worst pandemic But even this horrifying proposition In a worst case scenario, Pandemics are complicated. It's a topic that's more relevant now and can not possibly be done justice But in the narrow context of human extinction, to stumble upon that perfect storm. Apart from volcanic eruptions the Earth has no inherent means No other form of natural calamity As such, the most immediate threat to humanity ...humanity. While nature may struggle to devise Biotechnology has now advanced to a point While this can greatly benefit our understanding it's not without risk. Accidental breaches of containment And these experiments These engineered microbes are concerning because their destructive potential They can be deadlier, And the rapid pace of technological progress His biggest concern was- He said it in so many words, That a small group of dedicated scientists that could wipe out Technically speaking, The real question is, will you end up with a microbe the concerned person at your hearing said. Namely- Essentially wipe out everyone Again, that's... ...conceivable, although it's inconceivable. But it is, in fact- It would be very very difficult to do that. Extraordinarily difficult. Even in the best of hands to, not only do the engineering... ...to get a microbe that has the characteristics ...in which it has virulence, transmissiblity, Not impossible but very very difficult to do. A nuclear holocaust is among the most Since the end of World War II, been driven to the brink Sometimes by accident. Sometimes by very intentional brinkmanship. The nuclear stockpile currently stands at The vast majority of which are owned by In the event of an all-out nuclear war, these hundreds of millions. But the explosions are only the beginning. The real danger of a nuclear conflict Much like an impact event a thick layer of smoke and dust A nuclear winter that not only blots out the Sun Firestorms, radiation poisoning, could easily claim the lives of billions. However, because humanity is not some regions would be Island nations like New Zealand, for instance, While the effects of a nuclear holocaust are it is not typically regarded Artificial intelligence has had a profound From self-driving cars and virtual assistants But some experts are concerned about the future. A future in which intelligent machines The concern is not so much about evil robots A misaligned intelligence is one that's not A system that becomes dangerous, but due to an oversight An unforeseen loophole that allows it to do If such an entity was sufficiently intelligent, Another concern is known It's a machine that can upgrade itself and thereby increase its own intelligence Moments after creating such a system, it could of all humans that have ever lived. Such an entity may have little to no regard Not unlike humanity's disregard With that being said, In 2016, a survey of more than On average, they gave a 50% chance of an But as you can see from these there's tremendous variation Some think it will happen in a few years. Others believe we're more than a century away. When asked about the impact of this technology, believed in a positive outcome. Extinction was only given Artificial intelligence is not the only emerging But the problem with assessing their risk We can estimate the likelihood of an asteroid and our cosmic neighborhood. But there's no historical context for artificial When the first nuclear device was detonated in 1945, that it would ignite the atmosphere In fact, one of the observers was so taken that, for a brief moment, While this doomsday scenario did not No one really knows what the future will bring. All we can do is proceed with caution Over the past few decades, have been disappearing Some 10 billion trees are cleared While animal populations are rapidly declining. Many species are also going extinct. The global rate of extinction is now tens than before humans conquered the planet. And it's accelerating. Upwards of one million species At the core of this immense loss of biodiversity Humanity is now depleting three quarters as Meaning, we will soon need a second Earth From deforestation and defaunation no shocking graph nor depressing slideshow Our relationship with nature is so utterly broken That this unraveling of nature While some of the most do indeed paint a truly None of them forecast We may turn the planet into a living hell, However, some scientists argue that these the gravity of this crisis. That the sheer magnitude of our destruction Some have also voiced their concerns A threshold that, once exceeded, of ecosystems around the world. A global ecological collapse from which But it's not all doom and gloom. While the rate of deforestation ...it has been slowing down While the transition has been infuriatingly slow... ...more and more countries are phasing out fossil fuels So, in no way should human extinction, be regarded as inevitable. Climate change mitigation and nature conservation But, at the same time... ...that's how low we've set the bar. What surprised me while making this video is just how difficult it is Many catastrophes but all of them struggle to cross the finish line. So that should be somewhat reassuring. Even if humanity was reduced to a few hundred It would undoubtedly take many thousands of And the more we expand extinction from any singular catastrophe Perhaps the apocalypse but instead a gradual faltering decline. One disaster bleeding into the next silently fade away. Regardless, it won't happen anytime soon. After all, we made it this far. Millions of years of evolution, That is perhaps the best reassurance Thanks for watching :)