Bread has been a staple on the But for the last few decades, good. And bread has been taking Total U.S. sales have been stagnant growth leading up to 2020. And on average, Americans spent less money just four years earlier. Not to mention the fact that manufacturers are complaining about the rising an industry where small players battle The bread business has to consolidate Sara biggest names in bread. Both were bought out by publicly traded respectively. And another big It's facing increased scrutiny for Things like chemical dough conditioner's, GMO's. Those additives helped manufacturers produce prolong a shelf life and But bread is making a comeback. Well, specifically, this preservative sourdough bread sourdough was made with loaf of Wonderbread has Another big difference sourdough can take up scratch versus just a few There's also a price difference. From 2015 to 2019. sourdough bread sales have Sourdough is also growing more popular at 14.3 percent of restaurant percent ten years earlier. Even DIYers craze. Now sending days baking bread Instagram is full of DIY self-taught Even coders out in Silicon Valley graphs of their sourdough starters. And perhaps most importantly, health of adding sourdough bread Between sourdough is almost cult like following health focused consumer base looking for bread is more popular than ever. According to a survey, almost nine out and another seven out of In the U.S. alone, sourdough is and 2018. Sourdough's market value million dollars to 2.4 billion dollars. The question now? Is the sourdough market Or is it just another Sourdough was made with just two You mix them together. Leave it at same amount of flour and That m ixture when exposed to the that bubbling is actually a What's happening is that microbes essentially colonizing the dough t Basically turning it into a medley yeast, which is a The bubbling mixture is called a sourdough it as a living thing. All that yeast is actively feeding It pumps the resulting carbon dioxide The carbon dioxide expands the gluten network in alcohol is what gives It also digests this gluten network and flour to do their job, like cutting sugar for the yeast. Though sourdough, whose origin story has the first written record of sourdough in ancient Egypt. The first written evidence on and there are hieroglyphs showing people making hieroglyphs. So this The sourdough starter was discovered when a exposed to the elements over time. The mixture began to bubble and rise, fermentation. Rather than throw out mixture. The mystery cook The result? A large round, spongy loaf sourdough. Since ancient Egypt, this method down from civilization to civilization, Greece all the way to Using a sourdough starter was pretty much thousands of years. But things started to change for sourdough 19th century. Now, as the population kind cities, we always had to feed a we had the creation of It wasn't until the mid 19th century microbiology behind what Once they knew about wild yeast and how out how to make it Brothers Charles and Maximilian Fleischmann were commercial use to the market on a product to 10 million people at 1876. The only problem it was perishable and would fridge. It wasn't until World War II revolutionized. As the wall came side. They contacted the Fleischmann brothers, originally discovered that you could And in the 1940s, the push soldiers. The Fleischmann Company improved by creating the first It didn't require refrigeration and could water. Fleischman's active dry yeast was bread business as well. After the war ended, active drug use the mass production of bread in the US the slow-bake sourdough bread. Out went the use of sourdough starters in commercial bakeries filling grocery stores bread wrapped in cellophane that By 1944, 85 percent of the bread that from large commercial bakeries, according to time. From the 1950s up through add extra ingredients to its products in ever and to prolong its shelf life. But the same chemical additives and cheaply brought on a laundry Well, why not post World War II situation. And so this very fast which was really, I guess done out actually causing issues across the blood sugar management, calorific management nutrition they get from 2000 was the year of peak pounds of grain in a year, mostly in goods. According to the USDA, per pounds per person in 2000. In 2018, it had fallen to 132 pounds. It's all been downhill from there. The timing dovetails with the rise of low 90s and early 2000s. This decline has also come as more an allergy to gluten. Remember gluten? It's the protein that plays to rise. The number of Americans from 2013 to 2018, according to appear to be virtually everywhere. Nearly 30 percent consumers are now and sales of gluten free foods reach double the amount spent in 2011. All this may seem like a sourdough is actually proving to be one to eat the real thing without facing commercial bread rivals. So why is that? sourdough is It's easier to digest and is a control. The reason it all comes down starter. What makes the sourdough starter micro-organisms derived from Commercial bread misses out on that. It uses an active dry yeast makes bread rise. However, it lacks bacteria that sourdough bread has. Here's why that matters. Sourdough slow easier for our bodies All of those micro-organisms and health. Sourdough also doesn't lead to It actually slows down the speed at bloodstream, which is a great thing for insulin levels. Sourdough has another Store-bought bread has been put under ingredients manufacturers add in order These include everything from extra emulsifiers enzymes Some U.S. commercial breads, along with a grocery stores, were slammed for using in yoga mats. When I first even the best bread I was It had 38 ingredients in it and yeast. And I make a lot of it And we're not getting fat from it And my friends that have thought they with it. And it wasn't that it was chemicals and fake processed food. Sourdough's surge in popularity isn't consumers. It's actually developed a cult and has drawn attention from a In 2019, one of the founders resurrected a sourdough starter dating back Egypt. Blackley used dormant yeast pots. He mixed those samples with this sourdough loaf with its origins Blackley isn't alone in his affinity sourdough. Silicon Valley coders are their starter cultures to try to understand its microbes. Since sourdough starters it requires constant attention, If a startup is probably taking care of sometimes generations. N one of us has something that is that's a hundred years old, it's given to you. It's a set of or some vase that came from the old Imagine having something alive that's So the stories that come with I think part of Maintaining your own sourdough starter It requires constant feeding to ensure that over and over again. Feeding It's just simply adding a little bit And over time, it becomes like taking There's a whole schedule. It's like a pet. It's like, you know, then leave town for three months. It's like you need Like this is this is mine right here. And this is one of two. And when I take off, I'm When I'm on the road, I'm constantly it? That's where unique sourdough into play. Jakobsen has been baking for five years Jakobsen has been He takes care of people starters with flour and water a The questions I ask as part of the how how they currently feed it. And, you know, just so I understand So they told me like they would prefer every five days and generally And this one is a very, very low generally that the sourdoughs have had had requests. And then other than that, I that are passionate about something. So I always ask about people, you and why. According to his website, Jakobsen services and also runs a training a starter for about $60 per session. The idea for sourdough Hotel in sourdough hotel that There is a sourdough hotel in advanced bread culture. So in Stockholm, obviously there was teasing and well, because you bake bread Matias, start a Brooklyn sourdough hotel. You really you really need Some bakers could bring Chocolat. It's a bakery based in Swedish krona or roughly $10 per week February 19th 2020. And about a 1,000 miles southwest of several starters are looked after And it's in the world's The collection last week was 115. But now we have up to 125. So I will. So these are the fridges and they s ourdoughs. This is Karl De Smedt . He's the head baker of Puratos and starter library. And then here which was actually my very first sour Back in 2013, the company Puratos Vith, Belgium. The library develops, biodiversity of different sourdough And while they're just 125 starters in 1,600 starters registered in the company's the world. Each new starter that arrives to for analysis, a process that can cost to analyze a single starter. So every sourdough that we get into with whom we work together. That can be in Italy And there the sourdough is actually placed grow the cultures. And as such, it takes about three average. You can select the different grow and grow and grow them further. Then we we are actually taking have these little test tubes where we there and that can be a And as such, the sourdough strains In the library, there are some The baker who gave me it is said that Then we have this one, That's a sourdough that we have from And that was a sourdough that Kimura, and he was one of the a baker, and one of his friends was converted his sourdough into rice. And so this is now the only rice dates back to 1875. And then this one is And she was the first mayor And this sourdough dates back to participating in the So why spend thousands just to says the research that they're providing today and the future. Through DNA analysis, t And as such, we have discovered now already from two from six genus of acid bacteria. Since its discovery, sourdough across different cultures and Bread has been a staple food for the be the staple food for the next is a fantastic product that can be set unite all the good things. Sourdough has survived the invention of carb diets, and some analysts say sourdough growth. But with the rise of sourdough, &quot;sourfaux&quot; bread. Sourfaux is a term used for retail sourdough, but in fact sourfaux has flavoring as a cellphone As impostors flood the market, some worry street cred as a locally produced healthy alternative to But sourdough experts like Tom The reason why we're the first generation we're heavier than ever before. We're being told that You're being told that all It's not the case. The cases that four in my lifetime we've we're not food. They So I really think that processes and making things, making real food is stronger.