Explosive fights, name calling, and Cusimano have been together since 2005, Although Rachael Ray is now a household name, Ray got her big break in the television specialist to a national treasure. At a successful cookbook writer as she had sold her true fame arrived that same year host the cooking show &quot;30 Minute Meals.&quot; ran for an impressive 11 seasons. The series was When Ray first met Cusimano in 2001, she was country considered her a key source when and Cusimano was an enthusiastic home tips. Despite this, Cusimano apparently Ray revealed on her podcast, &quot;When we met, he had no idea what After Cusimano told her about a &quot;There's no way a straight guy knows what tilapia homemade tomatillo salsa and he made maque Not your average meet-cute, that's for sure. Although Cusimano and Ray's first encounter may dating. They fell in love and began to discuss Cusimano decided that it was time to pop about it in the most romantic way. Ray admitted that Cusimano didn't organize a until Ray was in tears to make his move. Ray said apartment was under construction, and it wasn't &quot;My sweet John chose my homecoming to break it Desperate to change the atmosphere, however, he didn't get down on one knee. &quot;And I burst into tears, and he so he threw the ring box at my head. As unorthodox as Cusimano's proposal &quot;And I don't remember what he said, but I told In 2005, Ray and Cusimano said, &quot;I do&quot; far as outsiders could see, the newlyweds happy, and deeply in love -- or, Just months after Ray and Cusimano's wedding, the National Enquirer insisted that the couple was a Florida woman by the name of Jeaninne five-year-long affair with Cusimano. Part of had already married Ray. The National Enquirer services of a sex worker. Ray and her new husband Speaking to Extra, Ray denied any sort &quot;I don't know where they come from; I The television star also revealed, &quot;You know when I read the interview I was toasting my husband on the first about six months of work. We were having Although Cusimano and Ray insist that they are they have clashing personalities. In fact, and her husband are very turbulent people -- a &quot;We're both really volatile, and She went on to explain that she and her hubby &quot;Yeah, we have, like, a steam valve. We let it Because Ray and Cusimano are so volatile, they often find themselves involved most of their disagreements do not take place the pair are known to grow quite heated and Chatting about this matter on the I'll &quot;It's very hard, especially for hot-tempered or just calm it down. John and I don't calm it down but I think that's healthy. I really do. And Ray and Cusimano may not even be able &quot;We pop that zit every morning, at some point during the day, one All the frequent fighting between Ray and Cusimano the couple still manages to work together despite &quot;We have volatile personalities but we're both and the domestic side of me. We're like, 'These Ray and Cusimano may fight constantly, to each other often. Ray says that her marriage. As she shared on the &quot;I don't know that we ever apologize to each kisses me on the head, and that's just sort understood. 'I still like your ass.' 'I still As much as Ray and Cusimano have insisted that has not been able to prevent the tabloids from Accusations of infidelity have haunted them time claimed Cusimano had been spotted at a swingers &quot;After a bit of socializing at the buffet and back room. And every time he was observed in the Once again, Ray and Cusimano denied the said the National Enquirer's stories were actively Ray even told Fox News that Cusimano was &quot;John's lawyers have been in are exploring legal action against Many couples believe that living separate lives is don't take things so seriously. The couple has time focused on their own individual that isn't a bad thing. Speaking on &quot;I can't give a man an enormous amount with that. When men I have dated you make no time for me' -- see ya! I just dumped Rachael Ray and John Cusimano's marriage is releasing all of their negative label their volatility &quot;healthy.&quot; And, sometimes, Ray even calls Cusimano names. On the occasion &quot;When we are mad at each other we scream. then I feel better. And John does the same thing. The married couple also appears to enjoy many of engage in these guilty pleasures together. &quot;We find it sexy to share bad behavior, like and listening to loud music 3,000 records -- wherever we are. We love &quot;And we have a sense of humor, Although it might be fun to stay up until 2 hit dishes, this behavior is not necessarily partners who facilitate each other's unhealthy always beneficial to anyone in the relationship. &quot;Enabling happens when you justify a loved one under the guise While Ray and Cusimano may think that they may also be encouraging each