The concept of personality is something which What makes us who we are? Why do some people behave and act in certain How is our personality different from the In a previous video, we talked about the Myers-Briggs If you haven't already watched this video, But in this video, we'll take a closer look and categorizing different personalities. Curious about what personality type you identify Let's take a closer look at each possible ISTJ - The Inspector. The first result is known as &quot;the inspector&quot;. The letters in this results stand for Introverted These people are serious and highly logical. They might even be intimidating to some people But overall, ISTJ individuals are proper, Funnily enough, these people are often misunderstood, In reality, they value social responsibility INFJ - The Counselor. Next we have &quot;the counselors&quot;, who often have look deeper than what's happening on the surface. The letters in this result stand for Introverted Intuition. Also known as the advocate, these people are These people are usually very creative with way than others, and they never accept things Sometimes other people see INFJ types as a INTJ - The Mastermind. INTJ types are seriously deep thinkers. A more traditional introvert type, these individuals handle long periods of time without any human The letters in this result stand for Introverted These individuals love to develop elaborate go according to their carefully laid out plans. ENFJ - The Giver. Our next personality type is famous for helping These people are often extremely ethical and They love to connect with others and flex The letters in this result stand for Extraverted These people trust their gut instinct and a little disconnected from the real world ENFJ types constantly have one eye on the ISTP - The Craftsman. This is probably one of the hardest personality They're also famous for being very hands-on. They keep their cards held very close to their their inner feelings and motives. People have a hard time figuring out ISTP The letters in this result represent Introverted Sometimes these individuals suddenly act with around them. Often, ISTP types secretly want to be a lot ESFJ - The Provider. Hen most people think about what the word ones that come to mind. They don't just excel when it comes to social They love being in the spotlight, but they're The letters in this result stem for Extroverted If you're at a party, ESFJ types are the ones organize the event too. Out of all the personality types, these individuals common as well, making up roughly 12% of the INFP - The Idealist. These introverts are usually pretty superstitious, life. They prefer to be alone where they can contemplate They are extremely imaginative, often diving The letters of this results represent Introversion These people are seriously reluctant to talk On the other hand, they're more willing to ESPF - The Performer. Tons of actors are ESPF types. These individuals don't just enjoy being in They're usually very good at capturing our conversation for hours on end. The letters of this result stand for Extroverted Apart from being great performers, ESPF types and are extremely friendly. ENFP - The Champion. This personality type is a born winner. They dance to the beat of their own drum and If these people don't have the chance to fully they won't be very happy. They're also very sociable and they love spending The letters in this result stand for Extraverted These people are guided by their feelings ESTP- The Doer. These folks are all about getting their hands life. They don't like rules and they won't let little all that life has to offer. These individuals don't worry about abstract now. ESTP stands for Extroverted Sensing Thinking These types tend to make decisions without in trouble. ESTJ - The Supervisor. These are some of the most organized people ESTJ types are often strong believers in traditional As natural-born leaders, these individuals Out of all the personality types, these people ESTJ stands for Extraversion Sensing Thinking These individuals love a challenge. ENTJ - The Commander. These people also thrive in leadership positions, and intuitive. In many ways, this personality type enjoys their problems while still being extroverted. ENTJ stands for Extroverted Intuitive Thinking These individuals are capable of making quick judgment. INTP - The Thinker. These individuals are often responsible for Understanding logic is second nature to INTP miss. Never attempt to lie to an INTP type, they'll Give them an outlet for their high energy what they'll accomplish. INTP stands for Introverted Intuitive Thinking The little mundane details tend to bore INTP ISFJ - the nurturer. These are some of the most helpful people ISFJ have hearts of gold and they're always These people usually radiate positivity and ISFJ stands for Introverted Sensing Feeling People love being around these personality because they bring out the very best in those ENTP - The Visionary. Honestly, you'll probably never even meet These people are completely rare and they the world. The personality is something of a contradiction; meaningless conversations and like to get They also love to play the devil's advocate ENTP stands for Extroverted Intuitive Thinking Of all the personality types, these individuals the most complex concepts and theories. ISFP - The Composer. Here's another personality type that might At first glance, these people don't seem introverted Although these individuals are warm and friendly, their own personal goals in life. These introverts understand that meeting new much more charismatic than other introverts. ISFP stands for Introverted Sensing Feeling These people love experiencing new things. They're also known for being talented artists. Sometimes they struggle with self-esteem issues. So there you have it, all 16 personality types Who knows, maybe you'll be able to classify in this video. But remember, some personality types are harder to jump to conclusions. If you enjoyed this video, be sure to LIKE personality type in the comments below.