This is one of the hardest countries There are only a almost fully closed off We've got our usual suspects, landlocked in Central Asia, just that few and I bet most of Turkmenistan ...vast natural gas reserves ...remains one of the world's most closed and appressively governed countries By many experienced travelers, it's been named the with a capital city unlike Ranked as one of the top and a powerful oil nation as well, the fully state-owned to erect a vast and new capital city, made up of almost all with gigantic structures With their previous like changing the names and days of the week to use names of his family, like his mom, people he admired, and just random words he this isn't a country like any other. Needless to say, this place has But the country's secrecy and surveillance makes it complicated Characterized by international observers as an authoritarian regime with a strong concentration of there aren't too many positive Which for me always who are the people who live there? It is one of the top 10 hardest and thus countries to enter, which requires getting an official And so after weeks of uncertainty they finally arrived. And so although we'd we decided to not miss to enter this unusual in the hopes to discover a corner of On Matt's episode Literally the weirdest... one of the strangest places in the planet. Yeah, I mean, it's considered the Thomas's vibe is just and talking about how he feels. Yeah, you're in my dojo now, son. Bow down. First stop, Istanbul. How we doing? I think Thomas, because he's is way less nervous than we are. I'm kind of freaking out. Staffan's kind of freaking out. You know, I turned for my mom and dad I don't know if you can see on He did call me last week, basically asking if we True, but I don't want fear But yeah, I've been feeling So I had like some bad Obviously, you know, Turkmenistan, here we go. Turkmenistan. It took us over an hour and final visa steps at the airport. We got through at and at this point what we had just - Hi, nice to meet you. Hi, you have golden teeth. Braces First official steps in Turkmenistan. It took like an hour There's like 19 different steps. Crazy, I've never been Hi, what's your name? There's a lot of like color That's what we were talking about when we were flying in It was like all these colorful buildings Wow, it's massive. Look at that beauty! That's a hotel? You are staying in the red one What?! We are stayingin that red... - I don't believe you! What is this symbol of the squares? The squares they symbolize the 8 main tribes Or the 8 ways to paradise I cannot even predict Well, we've just and this is what it looks like. Everything looks really luxurious, but the lamp is falling apart. Dude, there's no... That one doesn't Nope. There's no light bulb here either. We're here for four days, boys. A lot to take in. That's a very good summarize. It's a lot to take in. Is there nobody else here? No, no one else is here. We walk up and we're like, where's breakfast? And they're like, oh, right there. But it was completely empty. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. After our first confusing we set out to explore the city with the hopes of answering about this unusual place. I haven't seen anyone It's literally midday, too. This is midday traffic. Are all the cars white? Yes, white and silver People are not allowed to drive a black car -Oh, really? But every building is white. Yeah, every building is white. It's interesting because at night there's so much color, but during the day it's all white. I just continue feeling like I have never seen anything even Places in Italy or France where you have impressive they're crowded with tourists. But here, it's just only us. This whole area and monument is a memorial for the earthquake where, according to the UN, The mother and the brother of It's the boy in gold with saving him from the earthquake. Like, everything is perfect. Like, every tree is perfect. Every flower is perfectly maintained. The trash cans and benches. It's the most beautiful trash Yeah. It's hard to process because you don't see a leaf It's just very pristine everywhere. The only people we see walking keeping the place clean. You see some women some men mowing the lawn, chopping the trees, A couple of soldiers are standing (We weren't allowed to film the soldiers) After just a few hours on the ground, our hopes for meeting Would this be the first where we just float through it or would we actually get a At this point, we weren't sure what to do. It's like so overwhelming. The buildings are so huge, And also, what city are you ever in where you intensely notice the The one bird that's chirping. It's the only sound around us. We drive to the biggest indoor ferris wheel, Which has entered the Guinness Records book The biggest indoor Let's go! That is such a Are they turning it on for us? It's not on Really needed all of this. This is really interesting. We're the only ones doing It's so weird what we're doing right now. Just four grown men as a bunch of Don't describe it like that. I mean, we're inside that huge the golden white thing, And the streets are almost empty. Like, literally, look down there. Please Thank you so much. Thank you. Oh, wow. The foundation base and the tower itself 91 meters high. That's symbolizing the dates of Independence from the...? From the Soviet Union In 1917, the Bolshevik Revolution led to the establishment of Soviet power During the Soviet time, the that had defined the country And the way of life was mostly lost, with all the nomads being With the dissolution of the and a country now looking very Turkmenistan declared its independence. Since that day, its tribal past has and actually still plays a role within the cultural and Today, interestingly, Russian citizens have to pay the highest visa fee out of Have you seen anything Never before. Yeah, there's only us here. 15th century leader of the tribe which is called Qara Qoyunlu which means tribe with black sheep That's why there is a black Thomas is coming running Well, there's nobody else here, but Yeah, what are they doing? Playing music. And I think it's like a Your prayers were answered yesterday This is what we asked... This is what we were Oh my! But you think we Yes. This is the opposite of what I while walking around. They're dancing. -Let's go! Congratulations, sir! We heard the music, we Dance, dance! Can we dance? Yes you can! Two weddings are Two weddings? One over here You can take the photo with them also We can take a photo with them, yes. You yourself, we can shoot it. Yes. For memory. Yes, yes, please. - Hi,what's your name? -Yes. Wow! Bro, I love this. I love this. This is exactly why you travel. Look at how beautiful the traditional outfits are They are so beautiful outfits. Everyone is very welcoming too The mission should maybe be how do we get invited to the actual wedding? Do they have the wedding party tonight? Tonight Do you think it's possible to get invited? - No? No. We can always ask, right? Yes, we can ask. They want us to dance. Alright, here goes Staffan. Hi, Thomas, nice to meet you. Beautiful wedding Thomas, Thomas! There is a big wedding in the restaurant In the center city You can come Really? No way! - Are you serious? If you give me a piece of paper I'll write it down this Yes please. Okay, so we got invited to a wedding. We didn't have to ask, they invited us. What's happening right now? We are two hours into and we've already been 7pm, everything ready. Amazing! All come, even your girlfriends can come So great! - Amazing, Thank you so much. - Thank you. - See you guys. - Nice to meet you. Wow, Max. 7 pm I know the place You do? I know the place, Are you kidding me?! That guy was so friendly. Yeah He brought it up, we It's very hard to enter a You said it would be impossible. - Yes, it is. Do you think it's possible to get invited? What does impossible mean? It means I'm possible. Max is like, I need a raise. Who are these guys?! - What?! For eating? Yes. Thank you so much That's so sweet. She just gave us bread. The question is, what are we Does that mean we have to go shopping? Let's go shopping! What are we doing? We're getting shirts for the wedding tonight. So we're just getting prepared. No way that's real. What's the name of the brand? Wait, can I look? How do you think we pronounce this? - Are we all trying to look the same? We've got to look exactly the same. Max said yes to look the same as us. -Really? -Wow. What a handsome guy. Max is going to quit after this. Look at our driver He's actually been the one Cory had nothing to do with it. We have a new This is true love right here. (the best giggle of all time) Turkmenistan! (Checking their shirts fit) -Good This is an incredible venue. Two hours of sleep. Say that again, this is very Unusual I come to a wedding, and I don't know anyone Yeah I don't think it's normal to go to a Max is a little uncomfortable No it's fine Oh, that's... We are waiting for you And then, somehow, who's guided hundreds, if not thousands of said he's never seen or heard we may well be to ever attend and When you're here enjoy your night If anything you need, we are there You're so kind Thank you so much We're right next the wedding party Is this our table? What we will drink?? VODKA Good russian Vodka Okay? Are you ready ? Yeah!!! ARE YOU READY?!? YEAH!!! ARE YOU READY?!? *disgruntled nod* If you don't keep on eating you will get drunk We haven't even been here 24 hours (Taking photos with the wedding party) We've lost control of the situation! I love Turkmenistan people! Pitbull! We maybe live far apart But after this evening We will always be close at heart Thank you very much Thank you so much and We gave a speech at the wedding Yo what is happening? The world is a magical place BIG LOVE!!! Salute, thank you very much. Respect your guests More than your relative Thank you brother! What's he saying? He said please promise me there will be no afterparty after this And we said Afterparty? Yeah yeah yeah Okay no problem Dude! He paid for these If a Turkman person would have I don't think they would have I think this is just a form of Ultimately, we're all one, and... I think we forget that My best friends Right now, you are my best friends I love you man The night's continuing I think this is the best night of my life. Okay, so we are going We've lost control of the situation. We are passengers now. We are no longer drivers. What is going on? (scene missing) After a total rollercoaster of a first day, we shifted gears the following We'd first head to a and would then later go up close to one of the strangest human still existing to this day. This castle was apparently as the Persians were the main This place served as the local back when it stretched all the Well, as we're exploring I'd like to tell you about what I I've come across in recent years that happens to be MAGIC And I have to say that travel is really the ultimate gate and helps you show that the is never the full picture. Planning trips, however, can take forever, and it's very easy to get MAGIC, however, uses artificial to help you find exactly As you begin the planning of MAGIC uses its AI technology to scan through all the descriptions to give you an unbiased view of all of about every hotel helping you ultimately find what much faster than Once you've found the you can chat with MAGIC helping you come up customized to your or even your dietary restrictions to ultimately help you find activities, everything customized to your needs. And if there's anything you can just tell that to the AI, and it will automatically adjust Not only is MAGIC free to use, but we've also teamed up with them to do a huge giveaway of $21,000 for some of you to All you have to do to enter is leave a comment down below on subscribe to Yes Theory on YouTube, and click the link in With a comment, you get one entry. By booking a trip or experience We're giving away valued at $7,000 each. I'd be betting that your chances so I would not miss the opportunity. MAGIC's AI tool has so I highly look forward to that many of you Check the link in and maybe end up in And now, back to exploring What's happening here? 11th graduation It's our... We are 18 - Graduation. Cory is taking photo Congratulations to everyone 18 year old school?!! Okay, guys, thank you. Bye-bye. So where is the hospitality Hospitality comes from the nomadic past. When Turkmens were they were creating &quot;A guest is as important as your father.&quot; I also don't think that's that many people know about. Hospitality is so deeply Yeah, and it's made our travel Wow, so many... Congratulations. Before we were heading to one of out in the desert, Matt had a surprise for Staffan. You're doing Abandoned in. (Abandoned in = Abandoned with $0 for 24 hours) I'm just kidding Yeah, dude, your support and just this whole and us getting closer through And I don't have many but I brought one for you. Here you go, dude, I love you so much, bro. I swear, like, I don't think that I'm looking forward And I know day and night how and also the help and support. So thank you for putting your story Thanks bro! And as I said many times, no so can't wait to read this one. - Yeah baby! - Let's go boys! Does anyone want a book? Staffan, he just gave it to you! Our next destination is hidden deep where we'll visit one of the most Oh my god! Is this hell? It's called a door to hell. Really? How did this happen? The Darvaza Gas Crater, is a natural gas field crater that has been burning In 1971, while drilling for oil, a Soviet drilling rig releasing natural gas into the atmosphere. To prevent the emission the crater was lit on in the hopes of The engineers expected this solution would put an end to the However, the crater has now with no sign of stopping. This is insanity. It is so warm right here. This doesn't exist Just another strange Wow it smells like When you turn on a barbecue at first and the gas So welcome to the Door to Hell, man. Thanks, dude. 10 years ago, there was a research here 40 to 400 Celsius inside. It's like going to Yeah, man. Did you just take a British We were so mesmerized by this that we stood there, staring As the sun set, this massive and it truly felt like at the door to another world. All the viewers are are you a big Lord Yes, I am. Are you ready? Action. Action. Destroy it, Sam! Destroy the ring! Frodo, not Sam. Action. Destroy the ring! Destroy the ring, Mr. Frodo! Destroy it! I'm sorry, Sam. I can't. Give me the ring, it's mine! It's mine, my precious! And cut! We're now out in a little two hours outside of the capital. We're gonna see how they make some We just arrived and we wanted to but this is like a whole... It's more ambitious than I thought. She's making like It's just a village across all the way. We just pulled over and he asked Shout out to our guide Max. Oh my God, it's so warm. Wow, thank you. Wow, that's warm. Freshly made bread, bro. Wow! Very delicious. Very delicious. -Hello. -How are you? - Hi. You speak English? Wow, very good. How did you learn English at school? English school Vocabulary A, B, C, D... Wow. - Very good. - Nice, man. -Yeah. Challenge Thomas for pull-ups. Thomas, yesterday you told me, actually, that you're really He's challenged me to do 20. Are you ready? 1, 2, 17, oh my god! 18, 19, 20. Let's do this. This is why travel is the best Ultimately, coming to a place is when you're most present because it's also people that that there's the raw humanity and the interactions that you have and the curiosity is so vivid that you get to truly connect not speaking the same language, somehow still finding each other and still having a desire to And I think that's Everyone wants to be friends. Everyone wants to connect with Anytime we stray away from that is when we've lost touch They became our friends here. These are our local tour operators. After a strange and the curiosity and hospitality completely changed our view I can't possibly pretend that I'd understand what it's But I did feel everywhere we went that there was an eagerness from It would have been so easy for based on its politics. But once again, I'm very We live in a time in where fear has been slowly dripping pulling us further The rhetoric of us versus them is rampant. The dehumanization of entire And in the meantime, it feels like the Neighbors and cousins are forgetting we all once On trips like this, I do what are we really A few days before we although we just rushed Staffan legitimately after a terror attack targeting To fear travel at a time like But in reality, what An opportunity to see what the I'm not blind to the violence But I believe that the in response to that is To reach across the aisle, to breathe in within ourselves that builds bridges between I do not have the answers to All I can say is that my own looking at the state of the world Out there. This story is the first out of we've decided to donate a as well as a portion of the sales of our to charities helping children like currently happening in Because despite all the it makes me believe once that light will ultimately prevail.