Vishen: So what I'm gonna talk about next Fest and the whole idea of mind hacking, hacking It's called the theory of awesomeness. This is a speech that I actually created about Some of you who were in Bali have already You don't have to stay if you wanna go out Some of you who were here last year will already I modify things every year. I adapt it, I refine it. So if you wanna stay, I would strongly recommend Okay, so anyway, if you need to go out and it's not a problem. Just go on ahead. It's not impolite at all. Let's get started. Now, let's go with the start and how things It was 2003. I mentioned a while ago that I was working from 0 to 20 million in two years, but it I was living in New York. I had a girlfriend who was living in Europe I was literally putting on weight. My health was a complete mess. I wasn't exercising. I wasn't meditating and I was making decent time. That is me 10 years ago. Now, you can see I could barely afford to I'm a lot chubbier than I am right now. The chair and the table that I'm working on street. I literally went out a winter stay in New My neighbor had tossed out that chair and table. It was a lack from Ikea, brought that in. I was really, really, really broke. See, what had happened was, I'd taken some my girlfriend. When I came back, my boss in New York said, I had you replaced.&quot; And I said, &quot;What? But I came all the way back.&quot; And see, I wasn't an American citizen. If I lost that job, I couldn't stay in the He said, &quot;Don't worry, you can keep the visa, So now I had a wife who was a European, she I'd just come back and now had a family and That was how I started. But as we all know, when shit happens, right, do something bigger. So I decided I can't work for this company Need to start my own thing. Now, I decided to start a little online business It wasn't even my own stuff. It was simply other stuff that I found on I was doing what we now know as affiliate That business grew, that business is what It's what spawned Awesomeness Fest. But I want you to know that 10 years ago, that little apartment in Times Square, New That's the Playwright Tavern. It's on 8th Avenue in New York. That is Times Square and I don't mean Disneyland That was hookers and crack Time Square from See, before I founded Mindvalley, this great apartment, that place, two years before I means Mindvalley was actually founded in a friends. Now my background, okay, I want you to know My background, I was a C+ student. I did study computer engineering at the University Great school. Unfortunately, I wasn't as great as most of My GPA was 2.5. I almost dropped out. When I graduated. The only company that would hire me was a below the poverty line. I tried to start a business. I completely failed, lost everything I had, At that point, I was living in Berkeley and so I was renting a couch from a college student It was a two-seater couch. So I slept every night with my legs dangling The only job I could get it, it was April, burst. I came to Silicon Valley with big dreams. I thought I was gonna start a dot-com, build Nothing happened. April, 2001 the bubble burst, 14,000 people of those people who were laid off were hell am. So I had no luck at all in getting a job. The only job I could get was a commission There was a little tech company that was hiring but we aren't gonna pay you nothing. You close a deal, a technology deal, you get That's how I started my career. One of the guys I joined the company with, Jamie are you here? We are friends from like 10 years ago. That's Jamie. We both joined this company together. I proceeded to then work for that company and got demoted and had my salary cut in half. Then I tried to start a business, ended up things started out for me. But wait, it gets worse. This was shortly after September 11. Somehow I ended up on a terrorism watch list. I don't know how that happened. Maybe it's because I'm brown and unshaven. But technically, what happened was I was put which means that I could only leave and enter Now that was fine. I couldn't go through certain airports. So my trips were obviously longer than normal. When I arrived I had to be escorted to a private And so it always took me like three hours Sometimes my bags would go missing in that But the worst part was this. Every four weeks, I had to report to the U.S. I lived like I was on parole. Every four weeks, I had to go down to the long line, even during winter, a long line and interviewed and get them my credit card if I bought, you know, anything suspicious So, I remember I was standing in this long it was cold, it was a long line. The guy in front of me was some North Korean The guy behind me was some shady looking dude They were nice folks though, but, you know, And as the line got shorter and shorter and immigration official, I did everything I could You know, I wore my Michigan College t-shirt. I had a baseball cap. And I would time it. So just when, like, the North Korean's turn turn to the Iranian behind me, put my baseball It didn't work. I was on that list for five years and that's So, I wanted to settle in the U.S., I wanted We couldn't because of the paranoia that happened As a result, I moved back to Malaysia. Now again, I do believe bad things happen because we ended up starting Mindvalley in But I want you to know that it wasn't an easy And I started down from like crazy, crazy, I'm sharing this with you, not because I want because I know many of you have probably been You've been beaten down, you've been in shitty And I wanna know that when things click, massive Now, five years later, Mindvalley was fully Today though, let's step forward 10 years. As I said, we're celebrating our 10th birthday Today we have a beautiful company. We have tons of amazing products. We are highly profitable. I have an amazing team that comes from all in our office in Kuala Lumpur, 130 if you And we have an office that according to &quot;Inc in the world in 2012. We have our own auditorium in the city of Kuala Lumpur which are sharing entrepreneurship. I have you guys at Awesomeness Fest whom I I get to share the stage with inspiring people beautiful vacations and I have as of 10 days old. I just got that photo today actually from A photographer friend of ours took it. So I feel really blessed right now. But 10 years ago, my life was an absolute 10 years ago, that was who I was and if any had to salvage used furniture from the streets I can totally relate. So the fact is, how did I bounce back so fast? Right? One of the things about me is I am a really engineering training. I like to analyze, to tear apart, to put pieces things work the way they work. And so I tried to figure out what was it that I think I got it. And I think I understand it and I think it's learn. I call it the theory of awesomeness and it It has to do with Starbucks, coffee, and Subway See, my first year starting my business, right? I started Mindvalley for about $700 and it profit. That first profit was a grand total of $4.50 that. I remember going out to the bars with my friends crazy online business. I make $.50 a day. That's a free grande Starbucks Mochaccino.&quot; I was proud of that and that continued for In month four, the business grew. Now, I was making $5.50 a day. You guys get that means. That means I'm now upgraded to a venti with That was epic, but it continued growing. By month seven, I was making $12 bucks a day. Now I could get my Starbucks coffee and a I was ecstatic. My life was wonderful. I would come back from my day job and spend little online business and seeing just how for about a year. But then one day, it got so big, I found out I remember that day I realized that I'd made this little business called Mindvalley. And so I called my boss and I said, &quot;I'm gonna I'm gonna figure out how I wanna be an entrepreneur. And I think I have enough right now to make And I did that and Mindvalley was born. Now we moved back to Malaysia at that point. That's me and my wife and some of our early It looks nice, but really it was a decently grungy warehouse in a downtrodden neighborhood But that's how we started. And the thing is, things didn't go well. The first year was wonderful. The Starbucks and Subway. Yes, absolutely amazing. The business was like a game. Every single day I was trying to see how much four and five, oh, my God, the stress started All of a sudden I have to worry about office and growth, and business plans, and all these as a result, Mindvalley was growing like this We went through four years of struggle, year that month I mentioned earlier, May, 2008 in revenue, but were making a loss of 15,000 within a few months, we were gonna have to What I didn't tell you is that in May, 2008 what? I was poorer than I was when I started. I was earning a salary. So as a business entrepreneur, I was paying I was making in New York five years before. I was still ridiculously in debt. My business partner at that time had a Stanford He still had to pay his college loans. We were not making money. A lot of people think if you're an entrepreneur, Not True. You can be an entrepreneur and you can be employees. That's where we were in year five. If Mindvalley had folded them, I'd go actually nothing and being poorer than if I'd never That was how bad it was. That was what caused me to dive into self-exploration what was this shit going on in my head that I poured myself into books. I studied with many amazing mentors. Neale Donald Walsch, Esther Hicks, Bob Proctor, Make some sounds if you guys have studied when things started clicking. I started to realize that the fundamental had nothing to do with the right marketing It all had to do with your models of the world, In April, 2008 I wrote this. That's the actual piece of paper I photographed. So remember, I was losing money May, April, 2008, Mindvalley does $300K in sales. I knew that that was the magic number. If we could hit that, we could be profitable, It didn't happen in June, but in July, 2008 We surpassed that magic number $300K but then It started accelerating. By December, as I invested more in my personal It was really weird. It was as if the company and me were inextricably In eight months, we grew 400% from a quarter that is the Mindvalley that we have today. It only took eight months. The point I'm trying to make is not that I The point I'm trying to make is that I fricking and when that shift happened, everything changed. And that shift, once you get it, it changes In fact, the biggest surprise I had was how my mindset. That's an actual chart of our growth rate. You can see the first five years very slow And, in fact, we went from $700 of my own to $20 million in revenue and a valuation with no investors or VCs or angel money. We took $700 we turned it into $40 million. That's over 65,000 times ROI in 10 years. And to this day, I still own 100% of the company in a dramatic scale. Question is, what changed? What was it? And as I said earlier, I really believe this to share with you guys. So here's the theory I had, right? And again, this is just a theory. As I said, with all belief systems, with all You choose and decide, is this going to serve If you believe this model that I'm about to take it into your own life. If you think it's absolute bollocks, you're But this is what I think happened. Now, I believe that there's a delicate balance to live in this balance, really cool things The balance is this. It's a balance between being happy in the Happiness right now and a vision for the future. Two things, happiness in the now, a vision Sounds simple, right? But actually it's not because based on these of mind that any of you could be in. You could have no happiness and no vision In that case, you are in what we call a negative In short, somewhat of a depression. If you're on this case, you probably need It's really, really, really hard to come out But there's another state and that's where You don't really know how you're gonna grow right now. This should be great, but I don't think it I call it the current reality trap because Happiness and fulfillment are two completely Happiness is something you can get from a Fulfillment comes from something different. So if you're just happy right now, but you you want to develop and how you wanna serve not really fulfilled are you? If you aren't growing, you're doing a disservice You've got to dream big, play big, push your In the words of Marianne Williamson, by letting others to do the same and that's why purely isn't the best state to be in. But there is a third state and this is the We call it stress and anxiety. This is where, watch my hands, you have a happy yet. You have that vision for that new grand office you wanna hit, that new product you wanna decided happiness will come when I get there. In other words, right now I'm gonna toil and those goals, then I'll be happy. Problem is that isn't the optimal state and actually hit happiness. Think about it this way, right? This is where you are. This is where you want to be to be happy, as you get there, what happens? You extend that line. There's another vision of your future that So happiness becomes this elusive thing that right now. Then there's the final state, which is what Now I'm not using the word flow the way Mihaly means engagement. I'm using it to describe something else and The state of flow is when you have a vision now. In other words, your happiness and your vision Your happiness is not tied to your vision. Your happiness comes from the journey, not I define the flow state like this, a mental by big goals, yet happy where you are now. It creates a feeling of growth, a feeling The weirdest thing about the flow state is feels as if the universe has your back. It kind of feels like there's this wind blowing that everything you touch seems to turn to opportunities fall on your lap, that even quickly. It almost feels as if you can bend reality. It feels as if you have conscious control Can anyone relate to this? Have you ever felt like that? Isn't it funny that it's almost 80% of the know what I'm talking about? Now, I'd like to be very scientific, but the fall into and whether it's mythical or it's I believe that if you believe that this state to be there and more likely to reap the benefits. Now, this doesn't mean that I'm always in All of us are gonna have our ups and our downs, The goal though is to expand the amount of amount of time you're having a down. So you expand the ups, you reduce the downs. So you're more up and when you go down, you So based on this model, you can exist in any Current reality trap, depression, stress, Where do you wanna be? Together: Flow Vishen: Let me ask it again. Where do you wanna be? Together: Flow. Vishen: Okay. Here's a very important paradox, though, which It comes from a book called &quot;Quantum Success.&quot; You must have goals, but your happiness cannot You must be happy before you attain them. So how do you disentangle happiness from goals? The beautiful thing though is, is that there's is truly possible. But before we get there, let's talk about existed in this state. There's Steve Jobs. If you read the book &quot;Jobs&quot; by Walter Isaacson, they mention the Word &quot;bending reality&quot; three Steve Jobs as you know had a rather strong He spent some time in India, he meditated. He believed in experiential wisdom or Prana simply always being purely logical. This is another quote which I really like. I go into every situation expecting to win. Thinking like this often turns into a self-fulfilling Does this sound like a man who is in flow? I go into every situation expecting to win. Thinking like this often turns into a self-fulfilling That was Sam Walton. Before Apple became the most highly valued that goal in the 1980s thanks to Sam Walton Then there was this poem that was written I was early thought to work as well as play. My life has been one long happy holiday, full I dropped the worry on the way and God was That was written by John D. Rockefeller of Again, if you look at the words in that poem in this idea of being in flow. He was one of the most ambitious man who ever the way. Then, of course, there's Richard Branson whom So, me and a few other entrepreneurs, some about sometime in 2009. And we got to actually interview Branson and One of the questions we asked him is, &quot;How You have 300 different companies. How do you stay productive?&quot; And he goes, &quot;you know, I don't really use I just make lots of lists. Every morning when I wake up, I make a list This is one of Branson's actual list from And you'll see it's not small stuff. It's not pick up milk on the way home from It's ring Steve Fossett . It's start an airline. He wrote the word Nigeria, probably starting It's really epic stuff. In short, it's a list of visions, of goals. Now we also remember that we asked Branson, Surely your life isn't always happy.&quot; And this is what he said. &quot;I can't remember the bad times. I only remember the good things that happened He's a guy who always had big visions, but I remember one particular situation where table and Branson came and joined us. And as soon as Branson came and joined at that had bombarding him with boring business So Branson, what do you do about in this situation? Branson, I'm thinking about getting investment What do you think I should do? And Branson simply dismissed all of them. He got on the table, he gently moved plates Then he grabbed my wife by her hand, pulled her. And that's the kind of guy that he is, always I love that about him. So we've talked about the theory, right? And we've seen that a lot of successful entrepreneurs Big goals, but happiness in the now. But how do we take the theory and put it into These are systems that I'd like to teach you. So we've now been talking about the model Let's talk about systems that we can put into Let's start with the first ingredient of flow, Science is telling us that happiness does Sorry, that happiness does not come from outside And happiness is actually something that's It's easily adjustable once you learn the I wish we were teaching these to our kids There would be so many less cases of depression Schools haven't caught up yet, but here's really boost happiness. But before that, before I go there, why happiness, Here's some scientific evidence that talks we function and work. Doctors who are happy make 19% better diagnosis. And you know, the scientist who did this study, Happiness Advantage.&quot; You know how they make the doctors happy, doctors went in to see the patient. And the funny thing is the doctors were not because that might mess up their sugar content empirical so they couldn't ingest any sugar. Which according to Shawn Achor begs the question, or should we be giving the doctor the lollipop? And then you have salespeople, optimistic 56%. In terms of students, students prime to be We see this evidence almost everywhere we It turns out our brains are literally hard are negative or even neutral. but when the a positive. One of the craziest studies though, is happiness So they did this study with nuns. They took a bunch of nuns who were approaching And they divided these nuns into four different These nuns had been journaling. So, in this particular nunnery, it was normal So they went back through all the journals categories, most negative, happiest, and then Now, they looked at the bottom 25%, the most And this is what they found. By age 85, those in the top 25%, 90% of these Those in the bottom, 34% were alive. Happiness can literally increase your lifespan So how do you inject happiness in your life? I love the word embodiment practice because into our lives. These are some beautiful systems you can bring happiness. The first is meditation, you will be learning Studies are showing remarkable things about From &quot;Time Magazine,&quot; not only the study show but brain scans suggested it maybe we wiring Meanwhile, the nonbelievers are becoming the Ten million American adults now say they practice much as a decade before. Now, this was written in 2003. Right now, I believe it's now 2013, it's probably How many of you here meditate every single Now, here's the crazy thing, right? That's 15% of the room. Science is saying that if you meditate every minutes, you more than make up for that time happiness, better health, more focus, more It shifts your entire life. Yet only 15% of you meditate on a daily basis. How many of you here brush your teeth every How many of you have your shower every single So here's the funny thing, and this shows do not operate rationally. Meditation will probably have a bigger impact It will. I'm not saying I skip my shower every day. I do both. But the fact is it probably will have a bigger it is. Yet only 15% of you meditate. We all shower, we all brush our teeth, we And this is where sometimes our current culture reinforce others, which are equally important. It's surely important that you do at least If there's one thing I hope you can get out We'll be teaching you specific meditation And one of the ways you can do that, by the app, Omvana. Many free meditations are available on Omvana Now, the second thing which can dramatically so really, really, really powerful tool. You can do this while meditating. You can do it while in commute. You can do it while sitting in the tub. And all it's about is really visualizing how What does science say about creative visualization? Some pretty amazing things happen. There's a study called the finger abduction I want all of you to raise your finger. You cannot do this with your finger. Okay. So the study basically involve that. You can put your fingers down right now. Thank you. The study found this, in the finger abduction if they took a controlled group and they made every day, after about a month there was a That's pretty cool. But the other group they used was a group Their fingers were down. They just visualized themselves moving their That led to a 35% strength increase. Visualization alone cause physical changes It's pretty amazing stuff. And if you study the work of doctors such O. Carl Simonton runs the Simonton Cancer He's had incredible success teaching people by visualizing these cancers disappear. Visualization does amazing things for you. I do it every single day. Then there's intention setting. This was kind of popularized by Esther Hicks. She called it segment intending. Intention setting is simple. It's simply the act of telling yourself how Every single day, I tell myself exactly how I pretend, delusionally or not, that I have myself when I go in and get breakfast today healthy choices that I like. I'm gonna have an incredible workout. I'm gonna have an incredible lunch conversation. The waiters are gonna be super friendly. I'm gonna come here, get on stage, do my speech. Everything is gonna go flawlessly. I pretend I can command reality. Funny thing is, it starts to feel that way. I love segment intending or intention setting. Number four, inspirational reads. One of the things I do if I don't get a chance I read something inspirational. I love biographies. I love philosopher's notes. Inspirational reads also prime you for happiness the wisdom of an unofficial mentor, someone but through reading about their goals, their it's Steve Jobs, or Benjamin Franklin, or in a different way. Then there's mookie, which is morning nookie. Science has shown that this has remarkable There's gratitude . Studies in gratitude show Martin Seligman did a study on gratitude and days straight, writing down the things they were 2% happier. Now, 2% doesn't sound like much, right? But here's the crazy thing. After six months, they were 9% happier. That seven days of journaling was causing down the road. Six months down the road, 9% happier. They were not 9% happier because they got mookie. They were 9% happier because of something Science shows that gratitude causes more energy, attitudes, less depression, less anxiousness, and better sleep. My question is, how many of you here practice That's good. Slightly better than meditation, 20%. Awesome. Now, what if you're doing all of these things We're gonna teach you a technique where you You'll be learning that at Awesomeness Fest, going to be crazy amazing. This particular thing I do, I call it the It goes through all of these things in 15 thing I do every single day. I'd rather skip breakfast than skip my six The act of doing this every single day is of bliss. The most important discipline, I believe, can put yourself in a happy state every single than being happy and being able to know that Are you guys with me? Paulo Coelho, any Paulo Coelho fans here, Paulo Coelho said this. There's one great truth on this planet. Whoever you are, whatever it is that you do, the desire originated in the soul of the universe. The soul of the world is nourished by people's When you want something, all the universe Beautiful quote, isn't it? But let's try reading that quote backwards. Look at the last line. When you want something, all the universe We get that, but the line before that, the happiness. Nourish the world with your happiness and you truly seek. So we've talked about happiness. Let's go onto the second big ingredient, vision is great and you will have amazing health that we call fulfillment that comes from having The problem with most people is that their Here's what I mean by this. You're worried about that guy who won't call paying a little bit extra for groceries because a decent flight for that business trip, or All of those are silly, stupid little problems. The happiest most amazing people in the world They're worried about cleaning up ocean oil an orphanage, or teaching a group of kids to be truly amazing individuals, or writing Those are the problems you wanna have and the little shit doesn't really bug you anymore back. Perhaps, the guy I know who has demonstrated That's a couple of us from the XPRIZE foundation. We are visiting SpaceX where Elon Musk is Elon as you know, runs a number of different That's him. So we were in that group. There are a couple, a lot of A-Festers were Elon has three major companies, SpaceX, which cargo to space. Tesla, which is the electric car company that's Tesla stock has soared and Tesla is changing City, the most successful solar panel installation So we were at this event and we got to ask So I asked Elon this question. I said, &quot;Elon, if we could take you and, you and distill you until your pure essence, what And after he laughed at the fact that I just I'm gonna paraphrase this, right? This is what Elon told us. He said, so when I was a kid, I moved from And so he decided he wanted to go work for at that time. He went straight to Silicon Valley because That company was Netscape. So he went to Netscape with his resume in He sat in the reception area and he waited you like to interview?&quot; But again, Elon was slightly shy. He was an engineer. He didn't have the best people skills. And after waiting there for hours, not a single like to interview?&quot; So he sat there, he got frustrated and then own company.&quot; And he went on and he started a company. He started a little company that brought the proceeded to sell this to major American newspapers. They ended up selling it for a lot of money. Elon pocketed close to $20 million from the He went on to start his second business, PayPal, When PayPal was finally sold to Ebay, he pocketed Now, he was in his late 20s or early 30s at And he said at that point, you know, I could pretty big island, but I wanted to do something So I decided wouldn't it be cool if mankind You've got to be kind of a crazy person to Right? But that was the big problem Elon picked. He could have retired to an island, he could he wanted. He decided, screw that. I wanna solve a really major problem. How can I make mankind an interplanetary species? How can we put men on Mars? And so he proceeded to get on the website the red planet. And he said there was nothing there. So Elon told me, he said at first I thought I realized it wasn't the website. NASA hadn't been updated. There'd been no progress on the space program So he decided, well, if NASA can't do it, So he had $200 million in the bank and he ship company. Now, while starting SpaceX, he decided there's right now and that's our reliance on fossil And yes, people say global warming isn't real, It's real. We got to do something about it. So he said, if Detroit isn't gonna do something car company. So he decided to also simultaneously while take men to Mars, he was gonna solve our dependency successful electric car and doing it in Silicon auto makers in Detroit had failed to do it But he didn't stop there. His cousins came up to him and said, &quot;Elon, We wanna make people more, less dependent What if we could tap into the power of the Maybe we could start a really successful solar So the third company he started was Solar He became the chairman of Solar City. So simultaneously now he had a rocket ship a solar panel company, and everyone thought Even some of his biggest supporters in Silicon He was a guy doing all three things simultaneously But the crazy thing is when you dream big, did have, and the problems were massive. So with SpaceX, he built his first rocket first rocket. Guess what? It was launch time. The rocket shot up to space and it exploded but he still had some money left. So he redesigned the rocket, they launched exploded again. Then there was rocket number three. This time he was lucky. He got someone to invest in it and pay him That's a pretty major deal to get that money, went up and promptly exploded. Now he was down to his final $20 million and Tesla models. He had hired amazing designer, an amazing car. That designer stole the design and launched Tesla at that point, he had some major issues He had to discard the CEO. The CEO sued him. Then Elon had five kids with his wife. They went into a divorce. He had to pay millions of dollars to his ex-wife City wasn't doing very good either. Elon said that there was this one day in December, He did not have enough money to pay rent and It was December, 2008. There was one bet left, the fort rocket. He persuaded a couple of investors to invest He took his final, the last dollars he had with that final rocket. If this rocket failed, Elon would fail. There would be no SpaceX. There would be no electric car. Solar panel installations would not be at That rocket succeeded and it went up to space few months, NASA signed a contract worth over In 2009, NASA decommissioned the space shuttle. Today, Elon Musk and SpaceX sends America's It wasn't just SpaceX. Tesla models took off like wildfire. Today, Elon Musk and Tesla models makes electric Daimler Chrysler and other aspiring automotive And third, Solar City grew and grew and grew, panels in America. One man decided that the world had too many so that we could be an interplanetary species. We could end our dependency on fossil fuel good for the earth and he pulled it off. When you dream big, your problems become small. Think about the stress and the challenges The divorce, custody of five kids. Having all this success and selling PayPal to borrow money for rent. But again, when you dream big, your problems And if there's one thing I can leave you with, form of pessimism. We all owe it to ourselves to dream big, and put yourself in that flow state, those crazy of this bizarre shift in your reality where you and the universe has your back. Now, there is a contradiction here, right? Science says this, good goals are realistic, Realistic, meaningful, and possible in the This is when people tend to have the best problem with this. I have an issue with the word realistic. I believe that there was a flaw in this study. Now, again, this is my personal belief. The flaw in the study was this. The scientists are suggesting the goals are other ingredient and that is happiness and If you can untangle your happiness from your The people who were setting realistic goals up. They had to set realistic goals because their Their happiness was tied to that goal, so it was realistic. They would stay happy, they would be in flow. But if you can learn to untangle it, to be we just show you, you can go crazy big and inspiration, ideas will come to get you there So don't be realistic. Screw this study. Now, what is a framework for balance goals? Here's what I'd like to share. While it's important to set really big goals, The other issue that many of us have is that So we might be looking to build a massive Or we are looking to get a great body but with our children. One of the guys I know with the best balance Now, take a look at that picture of Jon Butcher. How old would you guess he is? Forty? Jon's about 50 right now if I calculate right. He's a grandfather. He's a grandfather. He's about 50. He was telling me he has a six pack. He dresses really well. Once a week he runs 10 miles just to keep He has lived a beautiful life. I've visited Bill Gates's home and Branson's And the other cool thing he does is he just trained to live life. For example, three months every year, he plucks and moves to a foreign country and just lives He said he believes his kids can learn more the regular schooling system. That's how Jon lives. But what truly makes Jon successful and he's an amazing home, an amazing business. His business is precious moments. You know, they make those little porcelain They do about $600 million a year, so it's is Lifebook. See, his friends would ask him, how is it And he would show them this leather bound pictures, quotes and ideas on the kind of And he didn't just stop at business or health He went into 12 different areas. I want you to take out a pen or an iPhone These are the 12 areas of balance. If you can, think about your life in these beautiful lives like Jon Butcher and you don't You don't end up the guy with the billion So the first area is health and fitness. If you are thinking about goals for health how many pushups do you wanna be able to do Do you want a six pack? What type of waste size do you want? How far do you wanna be able to run? Then there's your intellectual life. A lot of people forget this. How many books do you wanna read every single What new languages do you wanna pick up? What new skills do you want to have? How do you wanna grow yourself and your skills Then there's your emotional life. Another area that many people forget. How do you deal with stress? With anger? How do you maintain happiness in the now? What embodiment practices do you live with? Then there's your character. What are your values? What do you believe in? What type of person do you want to be? Do you wanna be the kind of person that people That's your spiritual life. How often do you meditate? How often do you go to church or synagogue There's your love relationships. Who do you wanna wake up with every morning? What does that relationship look like? What do you do together? How do you spend time together? There's your parenting vision. How many kids do you wanna create? How would you be a parent? What values would you imbue our children with? How do you spend time with your kids? There's your social life. Who are your friends? Who do you hang out with? When do you hang out with them? How do you guys support each other? Your financial life? How much cash do you have in the bank? What can you afford? What are your financial goals for the next Saving, retirement plan, business, investments. Your career, what do you wanna create, build, What's the next promotion you're aiming for, next blog or book you want to produce? Then there's your quality of life. It's amazing how many people forget this. What type of hotels do you wanna stay in? How often can you travel business class? What would your house look like? What does your apartment and your office look How do you dress? How often can you take paradise beach vacations? How many times a year do you wanna attend Then there's your life vision. On the day you die, what do people say about What mark do you wanna leave on the world? So those are 12 areas. Now, if you can think of your goals in those this is when you truly become a well-balanced The problem isn't just setting big goals. The problem is setting the right big goals anything out. I love this matrix of these 12 areas because little bit deeper. So if you're doing Lifebook, right, or if about the vision of what you want in these Jon also teach us certain things. Now, for each of these areas, we're gonna Reformatting your money beliefs. The first thing is he has you write down your Your premise is your beliefs or as we used of reality. What are your models of reality around money? Do you believe that money is the root of all good? Do you believe that you are entitled to all Do you believe that money is even important After beliefs, you go on to your vision for about earlier. How much money would you have in the bank? What would your investment plans look like? What would your net worth be like? But you don't stop there. Then you go on to your action items. What are you going to do now to make that How much are you gonna start saving every What new passive streams of income are you So your premise, your vision, your strategy, purpose. Why is money important to you? What do you plan on doing with this money? So for each of these 12 areas, you go deep on this? What do I wanna create? What's my strategy to get there? And why do I wanna get there in the first Now, let's talk about one of the biggest schools Entrepreneurship. Here's something I want you to realize. Entrepreneurship is not a goal. It's too vague. It's too fluffy to be a goal. Entrepreneurship is the side effect of having Nowhere on my list did I ever say I wanna that mean? What I want though is a gorgeous office, a Employees I love coming to work with every I want a great body. I wanna be amazingly fit. I wanna be a good speaker. I wanna write four books. The entrepreneurship is never a goal. It's the side effect of having the right goal. You'll learn more about this later on when goals and end goals, is one of the ultimate But now as we wrap up and you understand this, Okay? So the secret, the grand secret of awesomeness things, the secret that I feel I accidentally threat to the United States and broke and of life I can build today is getting in that And to get in that state of flow, what I shifted not accepting stress as being part of that of blisscipline to have the right embodiment make sure my happiness was in check, to make for myself, to make sure I was motivated, a visualization and all those other systems When I could do that, massive shifts could I could go from that and miserable existence right now where I kind of have my own cool out with you guys. All expenses paid in a paradise island and And do this twice a year and raise hundreds because I'm fricking rich anyway, all because What's gonna happen in Awesomeness Fest, people, every hour of this entire event. But more than that, we're gonna teach you So as I said earlier, your ups stay and last really narrow. And as you can see, a lot of this is scientifically I don't like teaching the woo, woo. Almost all of this is scientifically proven. And once you accept this model, if you so level. My greatest wish for you is that you can continue and knowing that, you know, even if you failed, continue aiming big even though you know you Thank you.