Hi, I'm Esttik. Today I'm in a special place, because They have an Instagram account where They make the biggest slice of pizza This place is called Pizza Barn, Come this way, gentleman. Look, it's clearly not life size, but it's So now I'm going to order it I don't know if people usually Come this way now. Very nice car, eh. I like it a lot. Apart from my bullshit, let's go inside and ask for it and once I order it and let's see Here are all the types of pizza. And this one that says here &quot;our famous Here you have all the flavors. I'm looking for the biggest slice of NY. The biggest? Yes. Is there anyone who has eaten That Spaniard ate 2. A Spaniard! That's him! I'm gonna ask him something crazy. Do you think it's possible? You'd beat the record. He ate 2 and had to call an Uber. And what if I eat 3? He'll carry you. Would you hang my picture there? - Are you sure? It's recorded, huh? I should be calling an Uber. Can you repeat? He says it's impossible. - You gonna eat 3 SuperSlices? - Never. Don't look. Close your eyes. Put it there. Open your eyes. It's huge, huh? It's very big. One more. Where's the other one? - Look at the size of the plate. I've already got the biggest It's huge. I've never People are looking at it like it's Normally this is ordered For each one a piece more or less This is the challenge. Not because it's Javi Atienza. Spaniards leaving their mark in the USA. He challenged me to eat 3, You know I love a challenge, Let's see if I'm able to leave Here we go. It's a bit done at the bottom, eh. Do you want to do the countdown? Whenever you want. 3, 2, 1. Okay. *such skills* It was very hot. You beat the guy. - 6 minutes? - I beat the guy? So you set a record. New record. 3 minutes and 51 seconds. - Amazing! God bless you. The new local record is 4' I had no idea, I was trying to get it I could have shortened it It was super hot. It was very good. Underneath for my taste, too toasted, Pretty good amount of cheese. and I've eaten it because He has already told me that he wants This is hard to beat. I think it can be beaten by 20-30''. Let's go for the second portion, I'll eat it more calmly. Another one? Another one! He's flipping out. This one is to test it I'm going to let it cool down, I don't want to breathe fire. - Here we have Felipe. It's just that people order this pizza Those have ordered 3 for 12. Normal people share it. We are abnormal. I have sent the picture to Javi Atienza He also does food challenges. javi_atienza_ on Instagram . A guy who does quite a few stunts, There's his profile, if you want someone grow, I didn't since I can now and it's free. I hope the girl doesn't make the camera Let's go with the 2nd portion. from beast mode to calmer mode. Cheers. I'm noticing that the dough I hadn't noticed. I burned my mouth. It's just crazy. This dough is no small thing. If you come, the price of the giant Or 26, depending on the ingredients. It's very good, but that there is almost more dough than Be careful if you order this This pizza is better made The previous one was kind of If they'd given me this one first, It's funny because you might think and then they slice it, but they They don't make a giant pizza, I could drink a Coke Zero, For its sweetness. The contrast between It's funny, the Asians I have Europeans, because they are not They haven't seen the challenge from I'm eating a piece by myself. If they It would blow their minds. There's a problem. I don't like that. 14' without beast mode. To show you the change. Not because I There's a problem. I'm saturated I'm about to order a regular Coke But I don't want to get Our Willyrex, Who art in heaven Deliver us from creepers in Ender. I'm ordering another one. We've come to play. I must have eaten 2.5 kg Now it should be 3 kg. It's so noisy here! I've been told each slice That's 5-6 lb, 2.4-2.5 kg. I must have eaten... Should I ask for another? I'm explaining this, it's important. I don't actually need to drink just this much. In the 1st one, a whole If I had done it slower This happens when you eat fast. and my picture will be there anyway. As there is only one life, That's my stomach right now. Look, they ordered one for four. what I've eaten twice and I'm going to try to eat three. I'm posting stories on Instagram so you can see these things instantly, Maybe 1, 2 or 3 weeks... Girl you can't cry now, Are you doing a vlog? - For my channel on YouTube. What's your name? - What's your channel's name? - Do you have your phone? How to get subscribers. - This is me. Thank you so much. *new subscriber* Here we go. 3rd slice of pizza. Look, the triforce! Superslice-Man. What? They haven't subscribed Can I get a kiss? If you see me fooling around Like when you were in class and your This is the same. The teacher: &quot;You Those children are fighting. Hey, you can both subscribe, It seems like I've been here for 4 This is so crazy. 5 x 3 is 15 pounds. I mean, I'm eating 15 pounds! Some people will tell me that it's not But I made it. 2 because no one has eaten that much. And 3, the corny part. Since I'm with you, I had a great For me, I've made it. I've never eaten I can't move right now. How much did each slice weigh? The dough weighs 2.7 pounds plus one pound of cheese. Almost weighs about 3.5-4 pounds. About 4 lbs or so each slice. And I've eaten 3. 12 pounds. I deserve the picture, don't I? Tell your friend he's going No, man. Underneath you.