- [Will] That's hot. - All right, so this is and really frightening at the same time, and it's hitting me in ways So do you remember Will Do you remember when this was what AI generated videos looked like? Remember when we said, &quot;Okay, &quot;but clearly there's a long way to go &quot;before there's any need for concern.&quot; Well, welcome to the future people because this is also And so is this, completely by computers. This one too, this is not real. Absolutely ridiculous how far we've come in literally one year. This does feel like another And maybe I'm overreacting because, okay, I am a video creator, so an AI that's actually doing my job, maybe that feels a little more threatening so I'm particularly impressed by it. But also this stuff is really good. So today, Sam Altman and called Sora and it can generate full up to one minute video So the same way DALL.E was able and turn it into a photorealistic or stylized image or whatever you want, same thing with Sora but it also needs to understand how all these things like and materials and physics over time to make a And of course, right away, on their website that are crazy. Now, before I show you these, I just need you to keep this in mind, you're about to watch a and you know that you're about to watch a bunch of AI generated content. So your brain, you're already and it's not perfect, you but not everybody who on the internet knows So also keep that in mind. This is also the worst is going to be from here on out. So, okay, here's one of the videos. There's no audio to any of these clips, but the prompt for this one is a stylish woman walks filled with warm, glowing, She wears a black leather jacket, a long red dress and black boots. This video is already miles It has accurate lighting, it has skin tones, movements, even has reflections all over the place. Now, of course, if you look at it for more than about 10 there are lots of giveaways. Like this dude in the background kinda looks like he's The frame rates and the are for some reason lower The camera movement overall and it just, I don't know, it just kinda feels a little bit off. But then again, this is So just keep that in the back Okay, how about this one? This is another one about a camera following with a black roof rack as it's This is also, again, really good. It kinda looks a little more video gamey because of how rock solid but clearly very usable. Here's another one, a litter of golden retriever Their heads pop in and out it's so good. It feels like the physics and everything with the snow is incredible. I've looked through all on OpenAI's website, and clearly these are that they chose to share where they just put in some text and then get a video and don't modify it. But there's really Some of it has humans, some of it doesn't. Some of it is more realistic feeling like the truck driving one, but some of them are more A lot of it is slow motion, I just have to say how insanely fast these models are improving is genuinely, like that's the shocking part. Like I remember not even that really, really high end, and you could always still Like especially if you ask it for something like a something about like the hands or the ears would always just be a little bit off, nevermind the physics. But even this video here The prompt for this AI generated video is a young man in his 20s is sitting on a piece of a This one feels like 90% Like it's beyond the uncanny valley of like apple's personas, which are actually based on humans. This is a made up person. I mean, his eyes are kinda weird, and the motion of the pages And yeah, obviously, he's in but like, the lighting and and then all the realism of and the way the shirt and they're all really impressive. And then for this one, they typed in a movie trailer featuring the adventurers wearing a red wool knitted salt desert, cinematic style, And the closeups of his face, the film grain through every this is one of the most I've ever seen, minus of that dude walking So Sam Altman, if you he's going through a whole bunch more of like people's requests and posting a bunch more generated videos. And so if you wanna check out his profile, you can see those. But here's the thing about as good as they've gotten to this point, they can and will pass as real videos to people who are not looking Now that is obviously insanely sketchy during an election year in the U.S. and also terrifying for a bunch of other but it's also perfect for stock footage. Like there are already and advertisements and then PowerPoints that are in need of oddly And these AI generated videos to 100% pass for that purpose. Like look at this one, at Big Sur, this drone shot. Honestly, if I saw this on Twitter, I wouldn't even think twice. I'd be like, &quot;Oh, nice drone shot, dude.&quot; Wouldn't even think about at like the way the water was moving. Like this is a totally for some California based product. And that has all sorts of that no longer needs to be hired, for all the photographers whose footage no longer to show up in that ad that's being made. It's already that good. There's other stuff like this wall of TVs, which would be a totally to shoot with a camera and but if you can just generate and the environment and I mean, why do it any other way? It's also very capable of So this is supposed to be It's AI generated but for the opening scene in an old Western with the right music over it. How long until an entire ad, every single shot is Or what about an entire YouTube I'm tempted to say like we're because you know, this and there's no sound, and there's a long way to go to iron these things out. But then again, the spaghetti Now actually like that they show some of the downfalls too of this particular model. And because who would know better than the people who have been using it? This is a very private It's in super limited access, so it's in the hands of red teamers, which basically means people trying to break it, and But they have found plenty Like this clip here of a looks normal at first but then it's pretty clear with the way they're just and walking through each other. That's kinda weird. Or this clip of a guy which I mean, I don't about why this one is weird. But this is my favorite one, again, so again, just try to put who's not expecting AI. You're just scrolling through Facebook or Twitter or something, right? So you just see this video. So first I just want as if it's just a stock video you found of a grandma celebrating her birthday. And just try to think like, I wonder what birthday I don't know, how old do you think she is? 60? 65? Maybe it's the big 70. She seems to really like that cake. Now, did you see it? Did you catch that? I'm gonna play it again, but this time, watch the video knowing that AI generated have trouble accurately doing hands. I'll play it again. And now it feels super obvious watch a different set of hands, You can watch it like five after dead giveaway, not even mentioning the with the direction of But even as I'm saying all that, even as it's coming outta my mouth, I can't help but remember we were critiquing this. (Will laughing) So what does this all mean? Well, I mean, there's what it means now and there's what it means for the future. Now, Sora, this thing that they've made is clearly a really impressive that is both going to fool There's also a watermark of every video generated by it. So if you see one of those videos and ideally it hasn't been cropped out, then that's at least a that it's AI generated. It's a Sora video. But also, I do think they're with this, they're gonna have to keep in mind. I think they'll probably than DALL.E. Like you shouldn't be able to Like you shouldn't be look like they're doing especially this year. You probably won't be able to make Will Smith eating spaghetti, but it also definitely is absolutely going to take a Like I can basically guarantee that. Like logistically, why would pay for footage of a house in the cliffs when they can generate one for free or for a small subscription price? Like that is the real scary But in the future, it gets I mean, okay, if this that have ever been made by humans, then surely it can't be in ways that humans haven't I don't know. Either way, I'll have all the links below for all the Sora stuff, for OpenAI stuff, and I guess I'll talk to you next year when we look back and go, &quot;Remember that first version of Sora &quot;and how bad those wolf pups looked &quot;when they spawned out of nowhere?&quot; Just remember, this is the is going to be from here on out. Thanks for watching. Catch you the next one, peace. (bright upbeat music)