Ya know, Herbert Hoover once The vacuum guy? No, the President. I'm Mr. Beat who this video is about. (turns) As I've said before in previous videos, I odds are, what little YOU know about him revolves But he was only President for 3.6% of his life, and in that other 97.4%, (Squirrel- (Squirrel- 96.4%) He accomplished quite You see, I'm secretly hoping (turns) opinion about Herbert Hoover forever. -Childhood- Herbert Hoover was born on August 10, 1874 in the of three children...the middle child...of Jesse was a blacksmith who gave that up to open up originally from Canada, raised the family but was Hulda and Jesse were devout Quakers, members by a belief that God can be found in everyone. generosity, and simplicity. I'm standing in front of Herbert Hoover's his life in this house, a very tiny, modest house. might add. Look how small this house is. He lived Despite his modest upbringing, Hoover always He may have had fond memories, but dang, I imagine When Herbert was two, he died. Well, he while suffering from croup, but his uncle, John his father suddenly died from a heart attack. This siblings on a very meager income. She was able the kids an education, thanks not only to Jesse's sewing and her basically turning her small home even traveling throughout Iowa to preach. never got better. She died from typhoid fever who was only 9 at the time, was now an orphan. lived with different family members. For a year Millie and Allen Hoover, at a farm just he moved way across the country to live with his the same uncle who saved his life. Minthorn, his to Oregon a year before after their own son had And now I'm standing in front of the home where Hoover lived during Hoover had a hard time adjusting Minthorn was particularly strict with him and was educated, enrolling him at the Friends Pacific academically, failing pretty much all subjects but Minthorn was like, "if you're not gonna young Herbert became an office assistant for Over the next few years, he quite enjoyed making Herbert did continue going to school at And then one day, he found out about this brand University, located in the beautiful town Well Herbert got in, despite failing mathematics. He was also a mediocre student passionate about geology after working all the head of the university's geology department. as part of the first class to graduate after in Stanford's geology department where a fellow geology major and the school's -There's gold in them there hills- After Hoover graduated, he sadly left Lou as she He had barely made any money while in college, States being in an economic recession. He finally Mountains in California, but the hours were long scout, or someone who goes around and finds In 1897, Hoover got a HUGE break after the hired him as an engineer for their gold mines which is like $170,000 a year in today's money. It was out in the middle of nowhere in the Great time, though, he never stopped staying in graduated from Stanford herself in 1898, Hoover She wired him back "heck yeah I'll marry Hoover made Bewick, Moreing &amp; Company First of all, he convinced the firm to invest to Bewick, Moreing controlling around half of ALL made them money as a seemingly ruthless immigrants to work those mines since they unionized workers. He also fought the Oof, not a good look there, Hoover. But they promoted him to be a partner and Herbert first made the long trip back to 1899. Literally the next day they sailed from in a big house in Tianjin, which was the nearest Hoover completely immersed himself with and attempted to become fluent in Chinese. Herbert unfortunately ALSO learned claiming they were bad workers Despite the racist beliefs, he did He might have been influenced by the ongoing uprising of the locals that put the Hoovers' lives the Battle of Tientsin. In late 1901, Hoover partner of Bewick, Moreing, &amp; Company. In this to various gold mines that needed extra help, When they weren't traveling the entire planet, were born. There was Herbert Hoover, Jr., born they traveled with their dad on his work trips Plus, Bewick, Moreing had gotten into In 1908, he sold all his shares in the firm and money handler, still based out of London. operations, earning a reputation by this time as he made investments on literally every continent Paris, Petrograd, and even Mandalay, in modern-day a company which mined...wait for it...zinc. You with companies that mined silver, copper, and gave lectures sharing what he had learned his lectures. In 1912, Herbert and Lou made the no not that Metallica...yes that one...which is By 1914, Hoover was a very wealthy man, money. Throughout his travels, he had wealth inequality around the world, and had He now came to realize the extreme importance of unions and called for an eight-hour work third-party presidential run in the He also figured by this time that he had So he dedicated the rest of -Going Public- One week before Hoover's 40th birthday, World the United States government asked him living in Europe to help evacuate the more during the war. After Germany invaded Belgium, to organize the Commission for Relief in Belgium, any government, Hoover raised millions to provide Not only that, Hoover worked 14-hour days out than TWO MILLION TONS OF FOOD TO NINE MILLION Sea 40 times to meet with German leaders there to with what the CRB was doing, the French government "Heck yeah players", sending lots of Northern France. Later, the journalist and as "probably the only man living who has negotiated understandings with the British, After the United States entered the war in asked Hoover to run the United States Food Instead of rationing, Hoover to avoid eating certain foods to save For example, he's a big reason why -The Great Humanitarian- By the end of the war, Herbert Hoover was a the newfound fame, though. Oh, and by back to the United States, having places President Wilson even brought Hoover to Versailles the director general of the American Relief widespread famine that had happened in he even gave aid to Soviet Russia. After a Hoover responded "Twenty million people they shall be fed!" Altogether in tons of American food and supplies to people in Due to his popularity, both the Democratic to run for President in the election of 1920. mostly since he figured they had a better shot at their nominee since he had been so loyal to the U.S. Senator Warren Harding, but after Harding of Commerce. Hoover was so good at the job that become as powerful of a government agency as the Hoover called for the government to be MORE hands government regulations on stuff like airplanes and were "non-useful" to the public. He convinced a tools. He also got standardized rules for cars That all said, he favored businesses working the And he WAS able to unite all kinds of business the time of day. He also, more than anything, more efficient, and therefore any government yo. After Harding died while in office and he was so impressed with Hoover that he In my opinion, the most impressive thing was not in his job description. After displaced some 1.5 million people from their than 100 tent cities and got more than 600 but he somehow managed to raise more than Hands down, he was the most effective has ever had. (turns) Due to that, after Calvin seeking re-election, Hoover was the frontrunner The Republican Party did select Hoover as their Curtis as his running mate. At Hoover's nomination are nearer to the final triumph over poverty than shall soon with the help of God be in sight of the Uh....yeah man. Little did he Hoover easily defeated his main opponent, Democrat DOMINATED. In one of the most lopsided Hoover got 444 electoral votes and even won states that hadn't voted for the Republican Hoover had hoped to govern in the progressive Roosevelt, and things started off great....but -From Hero to Villain- Similar to when he was Secretary of Commerce, his which he called "volunteerism." influencing business, again The first concern President Hoover making money anymore. To fight this, he the first big bill he signed as a matter of fact. having the federal government simply buy up kind of a failure, as the government couldn't keep Regarding growing concerns of extreme wealth Street, eh Hoover kind of just ignored that. Oh, and Black Tuesday. October 24, 1929, aka Black Thursday, and October which the largest stock market crash in American Hoover tried to put a positive spin on it, but with both business and labor leaders, asking hoping this would be a quick recession like He did what he could to make loans easier looking any better. Prices and profits were or GDP, was shrinking. Stocks continued But it is a myth that Hoover did nothing to respond to what became known as The Great The problem was, almost everything he did First of all, he had a hard time to pass effective legislation and he had a hard trying to ease anxieties. The worst law Hoover which was supposed to encourage people to buy increasing the cost of imported stuff, including partners retaliating by raising THEIR tariff causing companies' sales to drop everywhere. Soon after the law passed, the banks began and $550 million of deposits were GONE. Poof. By along with $1.7 billion in deposits. By then, bank in which depositors pull all their money out of ALL of their deposited money if the bank fails. Of Millions of Americans became homeless as they lost and critics of Hoover called them "Hoovervilles" To most Americans, Hoover seemed apathetic why. When a bill came to his desk to sign that he vetoed it, afraid Americans would But again, Hoover DID try to do THINGS It's just that much of what he did failed. In an attempt to prevent more banks from failing the National Credit Corporation, a voluntary but the organization was extremely ineffective. of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, Congress approved the RFC's creation, and while it didn't increase banks lending Not only that, Hoover was fixated on keeping standard. Today, many economists agree that then Americans could have been saved but Hoover was too worried about just means the government spends borrowed By the end of his Presidency, he began to some deficit spending." He signed the Emergency $2 billion for public works, and he was a big which separated commercial and investment banking, was 25%. The Dow Jones Industrial Index, had gone down 89%. Bread lines like this And of course, even though the President Hoover got blamed for all the devastation. To add Bonus Army. The Bonus Army was a group veterans who marched on Washington, D.C. cash redemption of their service bonus They camped on the National Mall and clashed got their promised money early. And how did all the veterans off all government land and No one knows what Hoover's approval rating was then like they do today, but it couldn't Hoover was like "I think I'm gonna run for want to even bother running anyone against Hoover was doomed. In the presidential election of Franklin Roosevelt, received the ever for a Democratic Party nominee. Hoover Hoover's last moves in office were sort of a Hoover went from being one of the most popular Bitter about his loss and how Hoover retired to his Palo Alto home. He and Lou in 1944. For the rest of his life after that, Astoria hotel in New York City. Between 1933 and he stayed very active. Believe it or not, he but his popularity wasn't so good for the rest of public policy organization known as The Hoover Today, it's one of the most influential Most people don't know that during a 1938 trip Adolf Hitler and told him he didn't appreciate how Take that, Hitler. That said, Hoover invaded neighboring countries in Europe and thus Hoover became friends with President Harry Truman, conservative who disagreed with most of Truman's Allied-occupied Germany and Italy to take Once again, this was Hoover's time to shine. His school meals program in Germany By the end of the 1940s, Hoover's popularity Thomas Dewey even offered him a Senate seat, but declined it. Still, Hoover remained politically Republican National Convention. When Hoover made often regarding his association with the most of which criticized the New Deal policies of he offered Hoover many positions, but Hoover would outlive even Kennedy, up to that point to reach the age on October 20, 1964. The official cause of -Legacy- Hoover's historical reputation Even today, the Great Depression and But again, despite his mistakes Hoover was only in office four short him as one of the worst Presidents in often acknowledge he was an amazing humanitarian single handedly saved millions and millions In my opinion, we should remember Hoover but for feeding the world. The fact is, few human beings have EVER as Herbert Hoover. That's a pretty crazy I am a man, and if you are, too, you may be dramatically decline the older you get. (turns) This can cause you to lose muscle mass and So this brings me to the sponsor LetsGetChecked is a worldwide leader in at-home you easily and discreetly test your testosterone arrives at the laboratory, confidential results within 2 to 5 days. LetsGetChecked laboratories the highest-ranking levels of accreditation. without leaving your home, go to trylgc.com/beat yeah mr beat 25 will get you 25 off i've also put plan on doing a video biography of every single far i've done herbert hoover obviously george up i'm thinking about doing either bill clinton leave it up to you which one should i do next bill comments and i'll try to go to their presidential