How are you? How about you? I'm doing great. I wanted to ask-- when we it was prior to the pardon of the FBI, and the new AG. And I want to thank you-- I noticed that, by the way. Yeah. Thank you for not I have COVID, which [LAUGHTER] How hard is it-- you - 27 years. But who's counting? None of us. Yeah. What is your impression now? Tell us a little so crucial about the DOJ. What do they do? I think we don't necessarily of the nuts and bolts of it. Yeah. Well, thanks for asking that, get their vision of the on the high profile things JON STEWART: Right. But I can tell you is a group of and Democrats, who absolutely devoted to justice. And I know that sounds but these are people who They want to make this country And so they prosecute cases, and human trafficking, gangs, and-- JON STEWART: This is the Absolutely. This is the majority of the is done in a non-partisan way. And, I had the privilege of many years and saw them not just whether they or get the conviction, but in fair and just, because that corny, that is the of the Department of Now, not everybody's going to actions about whether those but that is the responsibility. JON STEWART: Did you see, in did you see the mission Did you see it while you were there? When you first started, was Because I guess of the Department of Justice I think about after 9/11, John of Justice to justify is there another there's another Department you guys are working but they're there trying to what you would say, Yeah. Look, the vast at the Department they call career employees. And that doesn't mean JON STEWART: I've Deep state. I know what this is. I'm not even entirely sure It's a state Don't play dumb with us. But that's the-- I mean, there literally well, if you count a few hundred out of 113,000 employees at There's 113-- Thousand. Now, because, not just the folks who are It includes investigative and the ATF, and DEA, It includes all of It's a lot of people. So it's a very, of people who change and change depending So, yeah, the hallways who don't even know. I mean, I worked in the Atlanta US I had no idea whether were Democrats or Republicans, I prosecuted public You were down in Atlanta, were Republicans or-- so. Yeah. OK, Atlanta is a blue dot But there were plenty of I'm sure. Yeah. No, there were plenty I believe that. Yeah. Are you going to JON STEWART: I do. JON STEWART: The way you can You walk in and you go, [LAUGHTER] Whoever raises their hand, then So-- [APPLAUSE] That's such interesting-- it's very difficult for me to these alphabet agencies-- FBI, ATF, the other ones because so often they are, and they do, but after 9/11 through of Homeland Security-- I know they're not all related. So we're in this sort of of saying, the rule of law is agree it's often bent against-- it is a rigged system just maybe not rigged but rigged against that don't have the means. When you look at crack at a different level than of the populations that were how do we have faith-- we're being asked that my whole life I've sort From Hoover on up, you can't go Luther King without damn, we weaponize the So, what are the What is the checks and balance? You clearly believe I do. Yeah. And I think some suspicion think it's really important and the people who work there them accountable. But you're right, our our fundamental promise that is a promise of equal justice. That is a promise our country There have long been our criminal justice system. There are economic disparities. I would agree with you that to guard against that, between those defendants and those who are not. But it has always it's always been the aspired to be able to of equal justice. And that's what I fear is being I'm not here as a I am a Democrat, but I could tell what we had I know. Now, I've totally lost No, no, you're not here-- you're here-- It was going to be so good. The importance-- You're right there. Come-- bring it to me. Bring it to me. No, but-- what [LAUGHTER] Sorry. Damn it. I am so sorry for because you were getting to-- I think what you it's a system that has flaws, worked towards-- Oh, yeah. Boy, you hate to say a but that you've worked Absolutely. And that has been the goal. And so-- So why is this a threat-- like, the threat now. The threat now. And this is not because Donald Trump poses to our criminal justice of equal justice. He's made really again that he views the as his own personal goon squad, to go after the people that whether those are folks who whether it's people with him, whether it's people that he wants to use to literally criminally to send them to prison. And he's been really Now, as devil's advocate-- Yeah, I figured All right. Wouldn't he say that's That because he was a in his mind-- and I'm not suggesting but that's what he believes the what he believes whether we believe them what he would suggest of the Department of been operating against him? And so that been breached, in his mind. Well, first of all, if he convinced he genuinely thinks that doesn't make it true. Right. Are you telling me that an insurrection, as he just look away from that-- No. - --and not investigate it? Yeah. --my belief was always, I wanted more alacrity was a candidate again. Why were those wheels so Yeah, look, people have think that my understanding as a bottom-up approach of you know, actually I mean, I think in retrospect, and say those folks probably of direct conversations so maybe that wasn't the way and that's me from JON STEWART: Right. But look, I don't should be the least bit And I agree. If anything, I think we all Right. And then the documents case in the difficulty was in they go down there, they raid the whole place, like, oh, yeah, Biden's got a And you're like, OK, not ideal. I will grant you that. That's not-- yeah. But do you understand But I also think it's And-- [GROANS] --I can tell you Look, yes-- How is it a false he cooperated less, you know there's a go into classified documents. We have a terrible We over-classify everything. We redact everything. Very clearly, they line approach than with any other president. Look, I'm no fan of this guy. I think he absolutely runs Democratic checks and balances, it's hard not to see that there weren't a lot false equivalence or not-- that it would give you pause. Well, I will say there was appointed to in the Biden administration. I seriously doubt was too thrilled about that-- --but-- But isn't this thing part of the whole thing? Like I remember Whitewater. When we set up-- I think maybe part when you have a system employees, and talented lawyers who isn't there always the danger on anything will and crevices and cracks to find I think that is a risk I mean, you should never That's a problem. You should never turn the can I find a crime? Because there's probably you could find something out Why are you staring [LAUGHTER] Well, I was with DOJ for Yeah. All I'm saying is I thought, were legal. [LAUGHTER] Once they put him I think that technically I think. But that's my point to the-- there is a lot of fear of this department. And I think possibly justified. I guess we're not There's certainly enough They're certainly but I do look at as overreach has been a part I hate to keep going but it's difficult when you like that, is it not? What are the checks on that? Yeah. And that's where I wish so much sit in the conference US Attorney's office when We called them indictment Sounds really And-- [LAUGHTER] - Only at the end. That's it. And people would come in and And oftentimes, of whether the evidence The question is, even when is this the kind of worthy of federal prosecution? Is this the kind of conduct our resources and this felon at the end of it? Because there's not resources nor should you every single You're supposed to use that to make sure that and that that you're using the And people really JON STEWART: So that seems Sure, it is. So it's not where It's also the evidence leads of our time and effort? Is that-- Yeah, that's a portion of it. It's worthy of And is this conduct significant where this person should Like, for example, drug cases. JON STEWART: Sure. JON STEWART: Makes up --street-level drug cases Does that make any sense? No, we should not be using And a person who's involved really doesn't need to So if that's prosecuted to diversion or that should be Technically, is it Yes. But is that a good and is that necessarily JON STEWART: So that Absolutely. JON STEWART: So many people in federal Well, part of that is [LAUGHS] No, seriously, where epidemic in sentences way too long were and they are still Now President Obama did-- They're still there. Some of them are, yeah. President Obama had to try to adjust those and were just imprisoned long, longer than public JON STEWART: Mm-hmm. And the guidelines but there are some But also, DOJ prosecutes major here in the United States. That's the major distinction So you're going for-- not the little now. Right. They used to do the - Absolutely. What about financial crimes? To me, that's really should be focusing It's-- JON STEWART: Is that a lot of the resources? Yeah, there are a It's the only game in town. Local DA's can't do that. JON STEWART: Mm-hmm. And these are, like, crimes where they on people's hard-earned money. JON STEWART: You're talking that kind of thing? Oh all-- I mean, range of white collar stuff. I say that, I used prosecutor, so that's a-- Yeah. Why was it so Why didn't anybody After the financial crisis? Yeah, that's a tough one. Yeah. [LAUGHTER] It is. Yeah. [LAUGHTER] Yeah. All right. So, you know what I'm seeing Two steps forward, Yeah. Two step forward, So in your mind, that need to be done there, Who would reform the Is it the nation's Is that who would make these Like, who's in charge? Well, the Attorney OK. --but when you say, would reforms are you talking about? Letting people cocaine versus powder cocaine. Putting more resources into that launder money and yet only pay happened numerous times over All the things that we look at for establishment poor people being sent to Who comes in there and Yeah, that's done at the Department of Justice, General and the Deputy and the heads of the like the criminal division, JON STEWART: They'll And then each there are 93 US attorneys in charge, broken and they're in charge and the civil defense of the prosecution in that particular district. And within that district, one attorneys are is looking at that district and serious crime threats here? And mine was the Northern JON STEWART: OK. What's the most Where should we be using and what should be And districts are different. My district is going to be or some place like that-- JON STEWART: Right. --but that's done And then that has to be carried who are within the Department. JON STEWART: Now, if they comes in there and says, I want and Democrats and short Jews-- [LAUGHTER] --purely hypothetical. What if it's a three-fer? Go for all three. Yeah. So what is the Do they just argue say, we keep hearing about they Which, but for Donald Trump, He would want people who and he'd just fill Right. Well, look, first of all, are career people at the who are looking for jobs about being in a that is weaponized in this way And if you were told to you have a few options. You can say no. Maybe they find another You can resign, which You can also raise it. If you think something you can raise it to what General within the if you're being told-- Yeah. [LAUGHS] Michael No, I was a rhetorical [LAUGHTER] Sorry. --I mean, what's the role The Inspector and abuse and misconduct within JON STEWART: Oh, I see. Like an inspector-- Right. [LAUGHTER] Hence the name, in-- yeah. Yeah. Is it hard talking [LAUGHTER] At times. --who don't seem to And so in your mind, are If the worst case scenario do you believe that that system that type of thing? I think it has to be. I mean, we don't have a choice. It's going to have And look, I am hopeful the President has identified of his criminal defense to be in top four slots That's not a great coming from a guy who is-- JON STEWART: Don't pick, like, lawyers or people that they know? No, they pick people usually like their Happily, we've not had that criminal defense lawyers. But look, there's nothing wanting someone in whom they that they trust. The problem is here that about Jeff Sessions. Where's my Roy Cohn, is sort of infamous or Yes. He expected the as his personal henchman. That's what he's looking for. So when he puts the were his criminal JON STEWART: So what's the --but I'm hopeful-- Still, I want to JON STEWART: Yeah, yeah. That they, despite of how that they're going seriously and recognize they They represent the people And the Constitution. And the Constitution. Your mouth to God's ears. [APPLAUSE] Former Deputy US Attorney