The ---- ---- uprising in 2011. We saved a lot of Libyan lives. Now, could we have done more after the ---- ---- was ended? Well, that's always, you and I'm sure that there's but let's look at what we did do. A complex and highly ---- situation. The international effort We finally have hope that our Welcome back to Tripoli, Check out this view We've got the port over there in and then a huge sprawl The country of Libya has a total population considering I think it's like the so relatively that's The country's huge Today we're heading out of the city. We're heading to a place called so we're gonna get on the road, drive out explore more of the coastline, hopefully. It's always hard to kind of film off the but I'm gonna do my best to meet So, let's carry on, explore It's very odd at times, but I'm It's always an honor to be in a country like It's a real privilege. Enough talking, on the road, let's go. Okay, so we have arrived in Leptis, Boy races on the street. So, we've driven an hour and a and we've followed the Mediterranean coast. We've come out to Leptis, It's interesting to see there's actually there's little souvenir shops. Apparently, this has all This place was completely closed you and slowly start, things are families and things that want come and have a look at so it's quite interesting. So, we're going to go, and We might ask him how because I'm sure over the past decade or so it's been very up and down and but also check out the historical site I mean what we're about to see if this was If this was in Egypt or Italy, or anything, So we entered this world heritage to be able to walk around this ancient An unbelievable experience, if you were anywhere else in the world but whilst we were we didn't see any other And then we went to the theater just with nobody around is really something that This city was very significant It was known as the second Rome. Okay, so we're here with Fousey, What's it like being a tour guide because We're trying with the ministry of - Cruise ships? But now, what about now? At the moment, it could be hard sometimes, but we'll try to make it easier, Do you think that the Ah, better yeah, Libya will have a better So you're saying Many, many things change - What's changing? Can you give an The electricity, you know. - Less power cuts. Less power cuts now, yeah. So more services, Yeah, we have many foreign and they had a contract with the you know, under construction, you know. So you're positive Libya will have a very - Okay yeah, right. And do you think it's safe for Yeah, very safe, yeah, we met and they're from New Zealand like you. And Italians, Brazilians, What about two years ago? Was it safe? Always safe, but we had the So you think the western Many Arab media, they Once European people and they found people are very safe, Very friendly people they Shukran. Thank you. So, we've arrived back on the outskirts and we've come to a We're gonna see what It's super hot. This is like mid-afternoon. You don't want to be so normally you kind of try and at least in some kind of shade, It's a whole new way of living here, but even up here in Tripoli on Let's see what we can get to eat. So what do we have here? So what we have is Rishda we call this. It's like homemade pasta, and quite a popular and then we have what's known as Borden, which is cooking the meat over about could be five or six Thank you. And then you put your and you put it under the and you let it cook over a few hours, and it comes back very tender, And I got the couscous, right? Yeah, you have the couscous So, we've arrived in downtown Tripoli here, We just had coffee in a really nice Really nice setting, beautifully not the first image that comes to So we're going to go keep in mind that I have to be really careful so I'll do the best I can to give you a bit of a taste Not sure what that was. Let's There's a mosque here, there's but we're going to go further in Okay, I've got to be really quick here. This is quite a high-profile place, but we're right in this square, basically the center, Look at it. It's pretty spectacular It's extremely high There's a building over there that's But generally, it's you and you know, lots of families people selling food for the birds, It feels completely calm to me, but it's because I'm walking if I wasn't with a camera I There's even like horses and like little cars, toys Little shops and this Remarkable to be able to get anyway beautiful place. Back at the hotel. Something just unfolded. It was quite up there, it You're probably wondering what happened Well, what I was saying... I was saying I'm filming in one of in the country almost, probably. We started to leave the square, a guy came pulled us aside, took my passport, he was questioned in a different This went on for half an hour or so and then come down more agents in civilian they take us in the back of a ---- car, escorted by another to this base that was then the guide was I will say though, I have to say this, and they were very kind to me, Anyway, so I was left The guy even left the car They did treat us very well, After a while of waiting and waiting, because you know filming and stuff trying to do anything sinister, it's just and anyway, a guy comes out, He actually tells our driver to get out of the car and It was an interrogation at the beginning. He was asking me certain questions and my plans and what and he had already, like obviously and he wanted to see He was quite intimidating in the beginning, tell him where we'd been, and and he was like, I just want to you haven't done anything wrong because the security situation these were his words, what he told me. He said because when there is a foreigner that they are looked after and safe. Because if something like sadly it would probably and that's the last thing they want especially they don't want any So he was saying, are you comfortable? You know, if you ever have any problems He was really, really kind, to the authorities of Libya, You've seen in the last video how Today was another example of them seeing me filming in the main about what's going on because relatively to what, you know, has they were all doing their best but also get to the bottom because you never know, right I He said, don't worry, you're You're going to continue This is just a routine check. I have been in situations like and I know, I'm taking risks doing this. You know, you don't just go to and think that you're not I'm fully aware of that, and you know, It's not taken lightly, I do but this was, this wasn't I really have to reiterate how how kind the authorities of and going so far to welcome me and It's really nice, especially after what reach out to that degree for and it says a lot about the people I think, so big thumbs up to the That whole escapade lasted one, two hours. We did get to see the old city though, We might be going back in the next video but of course, you know, have to adrenaline still pumping you know. You know, again the common narrative especially in the last one to Maybe even less, one year even last six months it's been even some like services, and maintenance, I mean, this is the common so it does sound very positive, but you can definitely see what I'm about how you know difficult It's one of the most stressful and out of all the places I've been to, and I'm talking more It is really restricted and very and there's a very fine line, and I totally respect that, and I understand It's just foreigners are so, so rare here that when a foreigner is here, which is an absolute privilege to get access on the hinge of, you know, what looks like It's a very, very privileged position for me to be And thank you to all the Libyan And I just want to say thank you and joining me on these crazy one minute you're just next minute you're in the back of a ---- I'm going to be answering some so if you have any questions, leave and I'll answer some of Anyway, thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next I'm sure, you know, who Thank you so much for watching, and in case I don't see you, good afternoon, good evening,