It is one of the highest inhabited regions on the planet. Ladakh, in the north of India, is nestled There reigns a monastic silence. But like a bad spell, this tranquility is disturbed every morning, when the great city of Manali wakes up. From dawn, its narrow streets are stormed Here there is only one highway code, On the outskirts of town, two men and an old truck Or rather, the highest track in the world. Before leaving, Adjai, the driver, and Ali, the co-pilot, try They contain a precious liquid in Ladakh, tar. In the country, very few roads are asphalted. This cargo must be used to restore one 500 kilometers away. The journey promises to be perilous, Adjai leaves nothing to chance. When the road is steep, the engine heats up quickly and as there is a lack of oxygen up there, the engine can break down straight away. And does this happen often? If you're not careful, it's a failure. Ali checks each wheel. If a tire bursts, If there are stones in the tires, you risk getting a puncture. They must be removed before taking Adjai and his mechanic will only travel 500 kilometers. To go from Manali to Leh, it takes three days. But if the road is too bad or if we fall into It takes me longer to pass the passes because On the flat, I do 20 km/h, but in And sometimes, when my engine gets too hot, We can have a lot of problems up there. This road is only open three months a year. In some places the thickness can reach up to 20 meters. In winter, frost blows the tar several kilometers. When the road reopens in July, Trucks and cars can get stuck for days, If the road is narrow and wet, it can Ladakh is a stuck Indian province The road that connects Manali to Leh, the It takes more than courage for the driver of It passes through the highest passes in the world. No protective parapet, crossing And this ravine which constantly extends its arms to them. The pitfalls are numerous. On the high plateaus of the arid mountains live the Shangpas. These nomads are constantly moving to find They are doomed to certain disappearance, Life is very hard here. It is very cold, So now, out of 70 families, it The road that leads to wisdom is often long. You see these little stones, if I slip on them, I fall. And in winter, when there is snow and Tenzin returns to his monastery located 3000 kilometers away. His composure will be severely tested. Arriving at the foot of the mountain, the tar gives way to earth. Road narrows. Adjai and Ali, his co-pilot, 50 kilometers of switchbacks along the edge of the ravine. How do you do when the road is So there, it's haphazard luck. In fact, it mainly depends on the space there is. The first crossings are made to the nearest millimeter. It's okay, go ahead, go ahead! Without his mechanic co-pilot, Adjai, the driver My job is to check the condition of the wheels. I check that they are not punctured. And then when you double, you don't have to It is also necessary to pay attention to Because the driver can't see if a car is coming. I'm here to warn him. I make sure the road is strong enough otherwise This bridge is very dangerous! Look at the height and then it moves a lot. I hope it doesn't collapse. I'm a little scared. I am going anyway Before passing, all drivers check This bridge supports just nine tons I'm really going to have to move forward slowly. Look at these boards. They are really very damaged. Above all, I must not corner a But your truck is very loaded. Are you still going to pass? I think I can pass. It's true that the truck is Unlike the rest of India, the It rains very little, which makes the Without the roots of the plants to hold the soil and stones, these peeled mountains continually collapse onto the road. To avoid disasters, we must constantly consolidate them. There was just an accident there! We are in the process of expanding it with a People were carried away by the These workers come from poor regions of Entire families perform work We come from Jharkhand to work and earn some money. We work here for five months. We arrive There is little oxygen here. At the slightest effort, It's a very dangerous job! Two weeks ago, a worker died These works save lives, but they paralyze traffic. Adjai lost a lot of time in the If he is a day late, his employer To make up for lost time, he will have to take risks. Tenzin is a walking monk. The road, he prefers to travel it Here, people have died in road accidents. On this memorial, in addition to their name and their Much too narrow a road. After a short vacation with his family, Tenzin A journey of 3000 kilometers that he You see these little stones, if I slip on them, I fall. And in winter, when there is snow and For Buddhists like Tenzin, death Only a violent death scares them because it announces Every person is dependent on their past lives. If I slip and fall, I could die. It's very dangerous. Everyone has to die one day, At the same time, if I disappear while falling That's how Buddhists think! If I have done wrong in a life So if I die here in an accident, Villages are rare in Ladakh, The walking monk resumes his journey towards the temple How old are you, Grandma? I must be around 100 years old! - Do you know where the temple of **** is? - Ah, it's over there. After several hours of walking, Tenzin finally arrives at the summit. Before joining the temple, he performs This pile of stones is called a latto. If temples and monasteries are perched on mountain tops, it is not to test the faith of the faithful. The reason is actually much more down to earth. The temple and far from the village, because the noise It is written in the sacred texts. The temple must be away from the village. You have to climb up there slowly, don't go too fast, Because the coast is very steep and it But when we arrive, we feel really good. The temple is located at an altitude of 4700 meters. However, it contains objects of great value, often made of gold. But here, no one would risk Would trigger a lifetime of suffering in the next. Tenzin will meditate here for several days Because he knows, the rest of the road will not be easy. For hours, Adjai has been driving there in torrential rain. Come on, it's dangerous. The rain hides them from me And then there is another problem. The road is narrow and wet. It can collapse at any time. The road gradually turns into a muddy track. Ali and Adjai are not very reassured. However, this They approach the Rohtang pass, at an altitude of 4000 meters. And as if the rain wasn't enough, Damn, we'll have to back up. Extreme conditions which make maneuvers delicate. The ravine is never very far away. Now I'm starting to get tired. That makes two We work a lot but we don't earn much. Well, I don't do this for fun, Daily risks for a pittance. At 38 years old, Adjai risks his life every day for barely EUR160 per month. Just enough to pay for college There are still eight kilometers before reaching the summit. More hours of trouble. What is happening ? I don't know. Come on, move forward! I have the impression A few meters further, it is a spectacle of desolation. Dozens of vehicles are stuck, blocked by mud. It no longer starts! - For what ? How long have you been stuck for? It's been 30 minutes in this damn mud! You won't get there like that. You have to pull it. Open the hood! Hook the rope from underneath! It's the month of July. In this Indians flee the stifling heat of the cities Some already regret having embarked on the adventure. - Have you already taken this route? You didn't know she was in this state? No, I have never done a route like this. Sometimes it takes several days to That's it, the road seems clear. How many more kilometers are there in this state? With the mud, between three and four kilometers. Do you think I'm passing by with my truck? Yes, don't worry, you'll get there, that's for sure. Not so sure. When it's time to leave... You have to put a stone. Wait, I'll ask for help. Quick quick ! Come on, let's push, let's go! Go ahead, go ahead, it's okay. Move forward, move forward! After 5 hours of waiting, Adjai and Ali finally leave the quagmire. Today they were lucky. There When they arrived at the top of the Rohtang pass, at an altitude of 4,000 meters, the crew was half a day late. His friends are worried. Hello ? Yes I'm coming. I just What did he tell you ? He asked me where I had died, that idiot! To make up for lost time, the descent will be done on the floor and blindly on a road transformed into an ice rink. Deserts are not necessarily born under an arid sun. The lack of oxygen and the little precipitation have As in the Sahara, vegetation is rare there The Changpas live in extreme conditions. They raise yaks, sheep and above all a precious animal, the changra goat. It produces one of the finest wools Nomads call it fiber gold. A wealth that has driven them for generations to live in these high mountains. Because the higher the altitude, the more Today, the tribe breaks camp. The Changpas are forced to move constantly to find something to feed their animals. In 3 hours, the camp was dismantled. Each departure for transhumance is a great day for the tribe. Come on, hurry up, we have to leave! There you go, here I come! The women take out their Peyracs, headdresses decorated with turquoise. They begin making it as soon as they are old enough to marry and throughout their lives, they add stones to it. These adornments are considered protection They are also an external sign of wealth. The more turquoise, the richer and more powerful the family. Grandpa, I can carry your bag if you want. No, no, it'll be fine, thank you. According to ethnologists, this way of life Because as soon as they can, young people take to the road But some people hang on, Barkam himself, Life is very hard here. It is very cold, Before, there were almost 70 nomadic families. It's more comfortable to live in the city, And even if you find a job as a worker, it's also very hard. I have always lived in these mountains, I don't miss anything here. For us who were born in the mountains, it is better to stay there. - What do you say to your children? And what do they think? Oh, not much. We pass on our knowledge to them After 6 hours of walking, Eldorado is in sight. A small river and thin strips of green They know this camp well. Thanks to the waterways, the grass grows back quickly. The abundance of food irritates the animals. Everyone participates in the reconstruction of the camp. Dolma and her husband gradually abandon the tribe. They only come in the summer to take care of the few We sold almost all our animals, our goats and our sheep, During the winter, we live in a small house in Leh. Do you want a big rock? No, you just have to pull the rope. These nomads will soon get bigger One day, the high mountain desert There will always be the sound of an old man Adjai tries to catch up. When they pass another truck, he and his Go ahead, you can move forward a little. Oh no, it's not possible, we'll find ourselves stuck. Courageous but not crazy, he steps back. Thanks for stepping back Adjai! You took a risk! Dependent contrast ! Adjai rushes forward but something unexpected stops him in his tracks. Damn, it's a friend's truck. But what is happening to him? It's been almost two days since his Generally, between drivers, it's every man for himself. Delays cost too much. But for a friend, it's not the same thing. Pass me the key! - What key? It is this simple bolt which is the cause of the failure. He was that big, he broke. This part should fit here. The trucks are old and patched up, worn to the core. The mechanics never resist very Be careful not to break anything else. Since last night, I have lost at least 17 hours due to this outage. This delay will cost me dearly. This will cost me at least EUR150. - How long does it take you to earn EUR150 per day? Poor reward for unnatural color. What is that ? ****, chips! And how are these colors made? I don't know, it's made in a factory. Nobody knows how they are made, Adjai must now face one of the The Taglang La, The passage is located at an altitude of 5000 meters. And Adjai may be able to catch up. Ladakh is crossed by the Indus. On this river And the paths that lead to nirvana are dangerous. In this small pod, Tenzin, the walking monk, will have to apply what he has learned for years at the monastery, Know how to stay calm whatever happens. It will take three quarters of an hour to cross the river. It's really, really hard to do that. And then the rope is not really suitable for this kind of thing. I died of thirst! And I'm tired. It was really hard! I thought I was going But I have no choice. There is no bridge. And it's the same for everyone. Leh, the capital of Ladakh. The city is perched at an altitude of nearly 3,500 meters. Less than 40 years ago, it was still a big village. Today, thanks to tourism, the We meet all nationalities, all Every day they spin clockwise They are called prayer wheels, according to belief, Tenzin does not pray for the salvation of his soul. He prays for humanity, to try to make man and the world better. Because among Buddhists, God does not exist. The Monk regrets this race for For him, these new riches do more harm than good. He believes that a simpler life would save more lives. Once, while going to Manali, I was The passengers in the car were People believe that they will make it easier for themselves Cars kill them. When we buy something, it is Faced with danger, if he could do otherwise, He didn't choose his life as a driver. And his license cost him too much to stop now. For once, the ascent of Taglang La went smoothly. At 5,360 m above sea level, this pass is one of the highest in the world. Adjai, takes a short break to There is very little oxygen at this altitude. We run out of steam quickly. Sometimes it causes a terrible headache and sometimes death. Come on, it's too cold. On the way, we leave again. It's almost the end of his journey. Last mystical stop before arriving in Leh. There is no question of passing this mausoleum without paying homage to it. A few years ago at this place, a Since then, according to truckers, his ghost To gain his good graces, the drivers But sometimes the dead have special requests. Sometimes he gets thirsty and asks us for water. So we give it to him. Cigarettes too. He was a mechanic. He died doing his job. He is here to watch over us. I too was a mechanic and then I became a driver. He didn't have time. His truck wouldn't start. So the driver asked his mechanic But the stone was too small and the He was crushed. Since leaving Manali, Adjai has been driving under After 500 kilometers of broken roads and seven days of travel, Adjai and his co-pilot finally arrive at their delivery location. No question of hanging around unloading the truck. Come on, we have to hurry and empty the truck! The nine tons of tar were unloaded in no time. But these few minutes scrounged will not prevent They took two days longer than usual. I went to get the receipt signed. He told me to give him EUR15 otherwise he wouldn't sign. It happens often ? Yes, it's always like that when you arrive late. Two days late which costs them 10% salary. They go back to Manali, to get a new one The road will be favorable to them. For once, Tenzin, the least walker, - Is this place free? He wants to go to the big religious festival He doesn't have time to go there on foot. Why are there so many people on this bus? To serve all villages, it -And you, where are you going madam? To attend this religious ceremony, The bus is packed and even though he's a monk, The trip lasts 2 hours. The Hemis monastery is stormed This ceremony takes place once Some people are not always respectful For a beautiful photo, they are ready for anything. These sacred dances commemorate the birth of Until recently, these dances were celebrated in the secrecy of monasteries and limited to a small circle of initiates. For Tenzin, there are too many tourists. He doesn't The monks who dance here do not give themselves For tourists, these ceremonies Now, if the meaning of all this escapes you, it's In recent years, certain agencies Many places are reserved for tourists, but unfortunately, this is to the detriment of Buddhists. It is not an attitude that fits into the And money should have no place here.