When did animated movies start selling themselves Because it wasn't always like this. For most of the life of feature film animation, done in America today - career voice talent and animated features were sold on pretty much every facet but their celebrity voice talent. And then came... And post-Shrek celebrity-driven animated feature world, well it's not ALL there is but in terms But you know where this is going - Shrek might off the thing - that dubious honor goes to But here is the thing - the big celebrity want this to happen. This current hellscape of James Corden playing this is a hellish mirrorhouse version of what went down with William's experience with Disney. Williams did not want to be the celebrity off of which Aladdin was marketed. His name being used to market the movie and rift between himself and the Walt Disney Company just couldn't resist ignoring this man's for Aladdin. This. Is the story. Before the Disney Renaissance of the 1990's and the prestige value that came with being rarely the playground of A-list actors and and voice actors with the occasional B-lister and C-lister thrown in. For instance, Ralph Bakshi's Lord of the Rings had... The Rescuers snagged Bob Newhart and Eva Gabor The Fox and the Hound had...Kurt Russell? The same year as Okay. Point being that voice casting for animated more of "people you might see on Nick at Then comes 1986's The Great Mouse Detective, Eisner and Katzenberg oversaw most of the And while Mouse Detective had Vincent Price it wasn't what one would call a star vehicle. It did, however, turn enough of a profit to convince its new studio heads that there was still money Enter Oliver and Company, whose cast not only but whose marketing also heavily relied on pushing said cast as Oliver and Company's $31 million budget because of the voice cast--but it also earned The big takeaway here for Eisner and Katzenberg: adult move-goers. Howard Ashman, one of the lyricists on Oliver and rising star in the stage world with Little next two movies, The Little Mermaid and Beauty And while they are (obviously) financial and charm comes from being much more traditional cast with stage actors. The biggest star in the Little Mermaid I guess Buddy Hackett? And Beauty and the Beast's ... Jerry Orbach. Can't believe they got Mrs. Lovett But then came Aladdin. Robin Williams became famous through his stand-up And his starring role in television's Mork and Mindy, but he initially struggled His first major starring role, Robert Altman's by the Walt Disney company, had... yeah, it was a disaster. Which led to a film career slump that lasted throughout the early 80's for Williams. But right around the time of the Eisner ascendency at Disney produced under the Disney umbrella. His darling passion project, Good Morning, of which garnered him Oscar nominations. Robin Williams as an A-list, bankable star. But none of these are so relevant to the story the name of-- While it seems on paper that this should be Williams's popularity as the Genie, Ferngully development for years before Aladdin. But it only really got off the ground after culture referencing, bigoted against humans, And, believe it or not, Williams was signed for Aladdin. Ferngully's screenwriter, Jim Cox (who had treatments of Beauty and the Beast), had seen clubs between his two Oscar nods, and wrote frenetic energy. Williams agreed to do it, according to Young, green message." So while Ferngully is going into production, by pure happenstance, we have a nearly mirror Williams's involvement did not originate with the studio cynically wanting an A-list celebrity to draw in adult audiences - Williams had a very cartoony persona, studio at the same time. Not only was the part written for him--but vehicle before the actor had even been approached. Said Musker: "'Yeah, we wrote this part We didn't know if he would do it,...We were If he said no, we were going to be in big was built around Robin." Williams was hesitant, but was convinced to animator Eric Goldberg create a sample reel standup routines. Williams is said to have "laughed his ass off" and then signed up immediately. According to Goldberg: And so, a deal was struck between Disney and the Genie at SAG scale pay (about $70,000) He specifically requested that Disney and marketing material for the movie. Part of the reason behind this was because Williams audience for his upcoming film and passion after Aladdin. Which um... arguably is what happened. But more important for Williams was something of an ethical bent: He did not want his voice being used to sell merchandise. Said Williams: &quot;I love animation, and Disney But I told them, 'Don't use my voice to sell When Disney went ahead and used his voice &quot;it was like a violation of a trust.&quot; Williams said To Disney. Initially, Disney stuck to their agreement, Here's the initial teaser poster. And there's no mention of Williams or the Genie in sight, just this classy, backlit lamp. But Disney quickly found a *cough* clever interpretation pushed its limits while still being technically...eh... within reason. But that was nothing of a broach in agreement We can only surmise why Disney went back on to say that it probably had a lot to do with the fact that he did not back out of being in Ferngully. Studio President Jeffrey Katzenberg, petty drop out of Ferngully to be in the bigger, So Katzenberg, petty asshole, actively sabotaged Ferngully. Said Ferngully writer, Diana Young: "Twice we paying more. When we found space in the brewery, Disney One day Katzenberg and eight or so others scrambled to cover everything up! But it was also really about Robin." According to Jim Cox, Ferngully screenwriter: voice! You can't stop me.'" It also didn't help that Williams's own you, Ferngully signed me first, I'm rapping the batty rap So Disney's like, well, *bleep* you right back, we're going to renege on our promise And thus began the now-infamous feud between Williams was more than happy to start shitting use the Genie to make money. Moreover, the moral implications of what his work was being used for irked him: &quot;The one thing I said was I will do the voice. I'm doing it basically because I want to be I want something for my children. One deal is, I just don't want to sell anything--as Not only did they use my voice, they took stuff. That was the one thing I said: 'I don't do That was the one thing where they crossed A Disney spokesperson lobbed back that they and that they had reputably ran every piece Martha Marsha. Said the spokesperson: &quot;We did not use his agree to[...]He agreed to the deal, and then he made the movie and then he didn't like the deal he had made.&quot; The bridge had been burned, that even when award for playing Genie, he gave a 3 minute acceptance mentioned the Disney company not one time. Although he did throw shade at the petty asshole. Eisner attempted to mend bridges with Williams But Williams, asserting some big dick energy, So of course, the real dramatic irony here is not that Williams's involvement in Aladdin as marketing strategy, which it totally did, man would have wanted. However, for better or worse, lessons were learned from the success of Aladdin. Cynical, cheap lessons. We saw it begin to some degree with the Lion King, was one of the biggest stars in the world movie had a Genie knockoff featuring some But of course the most shameless, egregious But these examples are just from the Disney side of things Let us not forget all of the other haters and losers out in the non-Disney animation world who were Don Bluth saw not a lot of success in the 90s until Anastasia. Which is not only a bald face, shameless rip off the Disney story formula, but also in and MARKETED. THE. SHIT. OUT OF IT. Meg Ryan is hideously miscast as a plucky Hank Azaria is our Genie, I guess. And Christopher Lloyd Yeah, that'll be a yikes from me dawg. adult interest in children's entertainment us at the hands of ... biggest post-Disney successes by sniping Disney asshole, with his first shameless rip off ANTZ! Featuring uncanny valley nightmare versions Sharon Stone! Sylvester Stalone! Wow those are some hot tickets in 1998 but Not only was it rumored that Katzenberg had Pixar project then-titled Bugs, but also that to do everything they could to make sure it Right after that we have The Prince of Egypt, Wow Val Kilmer just really loves playing And then..... Yeah, I get that you love Shrek, but it is cheap, shallow digs at Disney to its totally not Michael Eisner-inspired villain, to its shameless pop culture references to a celebrity-driven marketing campaign that makes Aladdin look downright SUBTLE And joining Dreamworks were the knock-offs Woof. Of course there's Illumination Animation. And even further down the totem pole, Sony Pictures Animation, with even cheaper shittier movies Most of the time, yeah, they have the one exception. Like incredibly cheap. Probably more than half the budget goes to the voice actors. Like, what the hell is What? How did that get Oprah? By the time Lilo and Stitch rolled around, Disney was casting based on a roles, as opposed to writing roles for a celebrity. And ever since Disney's animation studio got back on track, let's say starting with Tangled, the company's more or less fallen back into the spirit it originally started from Both Disney's animation studio and PIxar they don't necessarily want for lack of to get asses in seats and more of creative character and the actor inhabiting role. Whether they're super famous or not. But, hey, Disney now totally owns Blue Sky Animation own shit like Epic now with its Aziz Ansari slug. Hey--if you can't beat 'em, buy 'em! But hey, I think we're forgetting the most important question. What about Return of Jafar? Was the big feud the reason Williams was not in beloved direct-to-video classic, The Return of Jaf? Yeah, it was. Pretty much. Williams declined to reprise the role of the genie in the not good and quite bad direct long, sad trend that would last more than Not because he thought a sequel was necessarily beneath him, but because he was still furious about the way Disney handled Aladdin. So Disney went ahead and made it and replaced Robin Williams with Homer Simpson. That was probably also the reason why they didn't bother giving that movie a budget. Or making it look like not ass. But in the end, the feud wasn't mended by money or Picassos, but by sincerity, or at least, And by firing the petty asshole chief, issued a heartfelt apology on the debacle, &quot;Robin complained that we took advantage of had a specific understanding with Robin that (Nevertheless) we did that. We apologize for it.&quot; &quot;I've known Robin for years and know that They are simply about principle.&quot; And with peace reinstated, Williams went on Including the slightly less shitty threequel. And boy, did Disney want you to know that I mean, of course they did. Williams was decidedly not paid scale this time around, netting a cool $1 million for reprising his After that, Williams did reprise the role of the Genie a smattering of times, but only in educational content. along with starring in other Disney produced Well it was through a Disney subsidiary that he did eventually get his Oscar for Good Will Hunting, through Disney-owned Miramax, which was owned by Bob You could argue that Disney's attempts to they might have been lucrative for the company, about the part: that it was molded for Robin, that a magical entity was the perfect animated vehicle So Danny DeVito as a satyr or Jason Alexander losing to a bird... It jsut doesn't jive in the same way. Having Jason Alexander do bad 14th century just such a shoddy attempt to recapture the magic the genie work in the first place Musker and Clements wanted Williams not because he was famous, but because his persona was And on some level, with art, people can tell rather than a place of corporate cynicism And while that's not to say that Disney has never been able to replicate that kind of performance with an A-list celebrity since, there's a reason why Robin with us after almost 30 years and will most cash-grabbing messes. Genie isn't beloved because Aladdin was successful. It wasn't about money. It wasn't pop culture references. It wasn't because our animal brains go "oh, It's heart.