On a chilly day in 1955, an unremarkable scene history. Aboard a segregated bus, seamstress Rosa Parks man could sit down. It was a moment that had already played out city languishing under racist Jim Crow laws. But this time, things didn't follow the Parks refused to move. It was a decision that changed everything. Removed from the bus and arrested, Parks became through the South. Led by Martin Luther King, Jr., Montgomery's for a staggering 381 days. It was African-American activism on a scale It kickstarted the Civil Rights movement. And it was all down to one woman. Born at the nadir of US race relations, Parks fact of life. But rather than keep her head low, she fought Even before she boarded that bus, she was Think you already know the real Rosa Parks? We beg to differ. Strange Fruit When Rosa Parks was born Rosa Louise McCauley it was into a time and place designed to make Ever since Reconstruction, the South had existed to inhabit different worlds. Famously, this meant African-Americans eating at segregated fountains; and living in separate But the discrimination went deeper. In the world of Parks's childhood, white whatever - while Black people were "James", As an African-American, you were expected To give up your seat on the bus. To never speak back. Those who refused could find themselves fired find work. And that was just in the cities. Out in the countryside, things could get much When Parks was two years old, her parents' her mother was forced to move in with her rural Pine Level. It was from her grandfather that young Rosa Sylvester Edwards' had a mixed-race background, Yet his exterior masked a well of trauma. As a child, Edwards had been a slave on a He'd been mistreated even by the lamentable he nearly starved to death. Now a free man, he hated whites with a passion; sitting out on the porch with a shotgun in It was a defiant, admirable attitude. It was also one that could've gotten him Jim Crow was also the era of lynchings, when - were murdered by their white neighbors for At their height, these lynchings took place smiling whites, who held their children up It was murder as a party, a carnival. One with a very clear message for Black people: You could be next. The same year Parks moved in with Sylvester in Georgia, after four decades lying dormant. By 1916, it had spread to Alabama. By the time Parks was ten, it would boast For Parks, that meant a childhood lived beneath As a girl, she would lie awake at nights, She heard lynchings. Once, she even witnessed the Klan parade right impunity. On that occasion, Slyvester Edwards stood the crowd. Just daring them to try something. Yet, despite this backdrop of fear, Parks There's a great story from when she was the sidewalk. Parks calmly stood up, dusted herself off, The little wuss burst into tears. His mom shrieked at Rosa, demanding to know Parks calmly replied: "I didn't want to him at all." It's kinda great that, even from this early Her refusal to be a second class citizen. But make no mistake, it was a hard life. On her way to school, white kids would throw During the summers, she was forced to work make ends meet. In short, Rosa Parks' early life was just under Jim Crow. But this time, the system would meet its match. Rather than let herself be ground down, Parks the whole rotten edifice down. The Activist Although she was intelligent, bad luck conspired of formal education. Aged 11, she'd joined Miss White's Industrial teachers and mostly Black students. But even this amount of mixing was too much Although Parks would start again at a new to care for her dying grandma and ill mother. As a result, the only job adult Parks was factory. Still, something must've gone right, because to Raymond Parks. A barber by trade, Raymond was also lacking But that didn't mean he was stupid. Always well dressed, and always read-up on as a pin, and he knew it. In his spare time, he organized defense meetings African-American teenagers who'd been falsely It was dangerous work, and most meetings took But it was also the coolest thing 19-year Raymond completely swept her off her feet. He proposed on their second date and, before But if Parks had dreamed of getting involved soon be crushed. Raymond thought it too dangerous. The whole lot of them might get lynched at So Parks was forbidden from attending the on the porch as the men talked inside. Still, Raymond was a supportive husband, encouraging she did in 1933. After that, it was a series of menial jobs, an Army Base. As it became ever-more apparent that another issued an order desegregating Army bases. When Parks began working as a secretary at was shocked at life in a fully integrated She could sit next to whoever she wanted on Eat in a mixed canteen. Have white women serve her coffee. She later claimed: "You might say Maxwell base opened my eyes Yet the moment she stepped off the base every Back to riding in the "Negro" section Back to being a second class citizen. Back to a world where being Black meant always As the decades ticked past and Parks turned wife doing activist work. In 1943, they both joined NAACP, working long For Parks, this was a crazy time. NAACP charged her with recording racist violence This meant going out and collecting graphic doled out by whites. The most horrific was the Recy Taylor case. In September, 1944, a married Black woman her and took turns sexually assaulting her. In the aftermath, Parks was sent to take her the entire time she was in town. Although Parks succeeded in making Recy Taylor she lived in. An all-white jury dismissed the case in five Although the names of Taylor's abusers were Come 1947, Rosa Parks was famous across Alabama She even gave a speech that year at the local standing ovation. But it wouldn't be her Civil Rights work It would be a single bus ride. Waiting for the Spark In the entire history of the Civil Rights as such a petty dick as James F. Blake. (NOTE FOR EDS: The first Google search images in color) are from an Australian satire show. Let's please try not to use them!) A Montgomery bus driver, Blake was charged Or so he'd have you believe. In reality, drivers were given discretion So while you got some jobsworths who always whites, you also got some who turned a blind But not James Blake. To those who'd ridden his bus, Blake was He forced Black people to come through the off again and get back on via the rear door. Not only that, he sometimes drove off as they leaving them penniless and without a ride Congratulations, James Blake. You're being discussed on a channel that somehow the pettiest tyrant we've ever encountered. Rosa Parks actually had a run-in with Blake In 1943, she boarded his bus through the front get back off and go to the rear door. The incident ended with Blake grabbing her the bus. Given what we know of Rosa Parks today, it bus incident 12 years earlier. But that's only because we're looking In 1943, or even in 1952, there was no evidence from segregated buses. 1943 Parks wasn't all like "Great! I'll do this again in a decade and watch It was only in 1953 that activists started powderkeg. That's because 1953 was the year Baton Rouge That June, a sudden reversal in bus desegregation action. Black churches organized an 8 day boycott of dollars. Although the gains made by the end of the prick up across the South. If it could be done in Baton Rouge, why not By now, it was clear something was building about to erupt. In 1954, the Supreme Court ruled in Brown desegregated. While this was a victory, it was one met with Just a year later, 14-year old Emmett Till to a white woman. Clearly, whites were still ready to use violence But by now, the Alabama NAACP was already They nearly succeeded in November, when teenage to a white person and was arrested and roughed But NAACP discovered she was both pregnant case. Knowing the broadsides that would be launched simply couldn't risk using someone without Another near-miss was Jo Ann Robinson, an Not long after the Claudette Colvin thing, in a "whites only" seat. It seems she was trying to spark a confrontation, But when the driver started screaming and She left the bus. And so December, 1955 arrived with the activist Still waiting for the test case that would open. Fortunately, Rosa Parks was about to become that spark. Battleground December 1, 1955 was a chilly day in Montgomery. It was also a busy day, at least if your name By now, Parks was working in a department With Christmas approaching, it was already on top of that. She spent her entire coffee break making NAACP to discuss a case. By the time she left the building at 5pm, The line at her regular bus stop was crazy, By the time she came back, the queue had thinned A bus pulled up. Parks got on, and took a seat beside a African-American Land." These were the undesignated seats, the ones nor Blacks. In practice, though, the drivers would often were forced to stand. Especially if the driver just happened to Care to guess who was driving Rosa's bus As the bus moved on, it got busier. Two more Black people came to sit in the same Eventually, the bus was so full that a white It's at this point that James Blake did The driver came to the row Parks was sat on, When everyone refused, he threatened to call One by one, the other three wearily stood But not Rosa. Instead of leaving, she slid across to the To this day, it's uncertain what was going The Rev. Jesse Jackson once claimed she was "Rosa said she thought about going to the But then she thought about Emmett Till and The popular story is that she was just tired Another view is that Parks was all too aware it would be her. Blake ordered her to get up. Parks refused. He threatened to call the police, to which "You may do that." So Blake did. What's interesting is that the policemen as everyone else. They tried to defuse the situation, but when led Rosa Parks away. Parks later said they asked her: "Why didn't you just stand up?" "I don't know," she replied, "why "I don't know. The law's the law." After that, it was a trip to the local jail. There, Parks used her phonecall to notify be assaulted in her cell. But no. All that happened was that Parks was fingerprinted, As she slept, though, the wheels were already Through Raymond, NAACP and other groups found Across the night, some 35,000 flyers were calling for a bus boycott. Children brought the flyers home from school. Black churches urged their congregations to One of the preachers doing that urging was New in town, and virtually unknown even in becoming a household name. Yet the stage was now being set for his own By Sunday evening, the citizens of Montgomery As he went to bed that night, MLK confided if only 60% of Black riders participated. Little could he have known that the real figure Direct Action On Monday, December 5, 1955 Rosa Parks went The proceedings were fairly undramatic. Parks was fined $10 and ordered to pay $4 But the real action was happening outside. That morning, Doctor King had awoken to a Nearly all the buses in Montgomery's Black Far from stopping at 60% of riders, the boycott And so began the most-legendary boycott in For 381 days, Montgomery's Black citizens get to and from work. At first, cabs charged African-American riders law forcing them to charge a minimum of 45. So the Black community organized a community town, acting like a sort of back-up bus. But while the boycott affected the whole of all. Usually, when the story of Parks is told, bus, then skips straight to that famous photo boycott. There's a good reason for that. Rosa's life during the boycott was Hell. At work, none of her Black colleagues would troublemakers. She was fired for her activism in January, At the same time, Raymond's work brought Rosa Parks, so he quit in disgust. Penniless, unable to find new work, the two death threats. First, the slander. Barely had the boycott started than fake news Segregationists said anything they could about was actually Mexican, that she had a car and It was the same old crap you still see today: to hear the message. But in 1955, some people went further. Parks and Raymond started receiving death to have a minor breakdown. Then, on January 30, a segregationist bombed were inside. Luckily, no-one was hurt, and MLK used that peaceful protest, telling supporters: "I want you to love our enemies. Be good to them, love them, and let them know But Parks wasn't some saint. She was just a regular woman, and the violence Nor was her test case even going ahead. Although Parks was the face of the Montgomery by organizers when they realized they had All that violence, all those threats, and Finally, in November of 1956, the case made In a major decision, the Justices ruled against Although the city of Montgomery tried to appeal, On December 20, Montgomery was issued with on public transport. The very next day, the Boycott lifted. Martin Luther King and Rosa Parks both separately Parks was even photographed, looking wistfully to show the old system was now gone. They'd done it. Against all the odds, one lone protest by It had shown Black people what they could It was everything everyone had dreamed of. A happy ending. Wasn't it? Aftermath Normally, the story of Rosa Parks ends here, and the Civil Rights movement gaining steam. But sadly life isn't a prepackaged Lifetime goes skipping off into the sun. Life after the bus boycott was hard for Parks Unbelievably so. Thanks to Rosa's notoriety, neither of them Even Civil Rights organizations wouldn't Most were run by men, who took one look at "This isn't work for women." By 1957, Parks couldn't even afford medicine She tried moving to Virginia to work at the her lodgings so she quit. On top of economic worries, the threats of end. There was a real, urgent danger to Parks's In 1957, her family convinced her to relocate But while that took care of the danger, it bit. By 1960, Jet magazine was describing Parks "tattered rag of her former self -- penniless, a throat tumor, compressed into two rooms It was a painfully low point in Parks's Luckily, this was also the moment things began The Jet magazine profile seemed to stir some NAACP paid off Parks's medical bills, allowing Shortly after, Raymond finally managed to sound financial footing. That meant they lived to see Lyndon B. Johnson of 1964. It meant Parks was able to join the campaign part by convincing Martin Luther King to endorse As a reward, Conyers gave her a salaried position her retirement. Interestingly, by this point, Parks was tired She preferred Malcolm X, once saying: "If we can protect ourselves against violence That's just self-protection, trying to keep Sadly, Parks would live to see both of these MLK in 1968. Ten years later, in 1977, Raymond died of And, suddenly, Parks was all alone. Sad as this was, though, Parks also lived an icon. Right into the late 1970s, she was still receiving But at some point, the tide began to turn. Things began to change. In 1996, she was awarded the Presidential grown up in the segregated South. Three years later, in 1999, she was also awarded By the time Parks died, on October 24, 2005, Her story was told in textbooks. Kids heard about her in school. After death, her body was placed in the Rotunda respects - only the second African-American Eight years later, in 2013, a statue of her of a Black person to ever be placed in the Today, Rosa Parks is no longer a mere person, One who encapsulates an entire era, an entire Children learn about her. Her name is everywhere, on buildings, streets. And yet, the real Parks is sometimes almost In telling her tale over and over, Parks has a symbol. Easily understandable as the tale of the tired be, it's important to remember that the parts. Leaves out the violence Parks grew up with, her ground, all the things that would've It's uncomfortable to hear, because we all We'd all like to believe Parks was recognized that taking a stand nearly destroyed her. And yet, in a way, this bleaker version just Here was someone who wasn't a saint, wasn't but an activist. Someone who saw the degradations suffered to speak out - no matter what the consequences. By recognizing this darker side of her story, right thing. To fight the good fight. Because, as the tale of Rosa Parks proves,