Hello everyone, today I'm sharing how to resemble orchids from flower branches. This simple method will be very easy to do at home. Use cinnamon powder to apply here to help keep the cut from getting infected. Select the protruding parts. The top of the flower branch, and the flower parts that have bloomed we cannot use, use 2 spoons of rice, which contains a lot of Vitamin B to help the plant bud very quickly, add 0.5 liters of water, use 2 cloves of garlic, garlic has antibacterial properties. bacteria, sterilize and help plants grow quickly, put all this garlic in a jar, add rice water here and leave for 1 hour then filter this water and this flower branch needs to be cut again and cut a diagonal cut here to remove the skin. This helps small plants grow faster and easier. Small orchids will grow right in this part of the flower branch. Add this water here and leave for 30 minutes. Use this water to wipe the leaves of this orchid, helping Your orchids will always be green, free of fungus and insects, and it will help the orchids grow very quickly. If orchids are cared for in this way, the plants will always be green and lush. Water the roots of the plants. It will help your orchids grow very quickly, then take them out and wipe them dry. Using a candle and candle wax will help keep the cut from drying out. Use floral foam and pin the orchid branches. Put it in like this, use tap water that has been left for 3 to 5 days, add only this much water, when the water is low, add more and place the plant in a cool, dry, well-lit place . will be sucked up to help keep the base of the flower branch moist but not too wet. Use a sealed plastic cup like this to cover the results. After the next 3 weeks in a miniature greenhouse environment, the humidity is properly maintained and the plants grow well. The small orchids have been revived, growing very well and healthy. The results are great for the orchids revived from flower branches. At this stage, you can use misting water to moisten the plants every 5 days to help. Keep the small plant moist and grow faster, continue to cover and put it in the same position and the result after the next 2 months, when the humidity is always maintained, the small orchid has grown and the orchid will always grow very well. When applying this method, it is a great method to create small orchids that grow very green and healthy. Please see more methods that I have shared on the channel and I always have more subtitles. , please take a look and choose the most suitable subtitles. Now you will feel secure to replant the plant, helping this small orchid to grow faster when in the outside environment and with small orchids should be used. Put the orchid in a small pot like this, add a little moss to help the plant retain moisture. Hello everyone, today I'm sharing a very quick way to help a rotten orchid recover faster and this simple method can be used by everyone. If you can do this at home with orchids like this, don't rush to throw away the very wet growing medium, which makes the orchid very susceptible to rot. These roots are damaged. This is a very favorable condition to help the plant grow. Bacteria grow very quickly . Check carefully and cut off these damaged roots. This top is completely rotten, so cut it off. You can only recover when this cut part is still green and the roots above are still healthy. Please wash thoroughly, I advise you when restoring any orchids, if not cleaned , orchid roots like this are very difficult to restore because usually orchid roots like this have very poor resistance to use. 4 spoons of rice contain a lot of nutrients to help plants recover and grow very quickly. Add to 1 liter of water and use 2 small cloves of garlic. Garlic has antibacterial and antiseptic properties that are very good for orchids. Crush them. Put this rice water in here , filter out the residue , put the roots in, add this water and leave for 25 minutes orchids will be revived very quickly, use the remaining water. Take care of other orchids, it will help the orchids stay green, the roots will grow faster and the flower branches will grow a lot. Apply this method once every 2 weeks, it will prevent worms and Mushrooms on orchids watered at the base of the tree will add many nutrients and help the roots never rot . The tree will always be greener than after it is removed. The tree stump is still very green. Tree stumps like this are restored. very fast and easy to replant with this dry moss growing medium which is also dry moss do not water the plant for 5 days after 5 days water in, to help the growing medium stay moist and leave for 15 minutes after 15 minutes take it out On normal days, just water just enough moisture, do not water too much, place it in a bright place, avoid direct sunlight, use plastic cups like this to cover, and after the next 25 days, the orchids have been revived and the plants have begun. Develop very healthy roots and with this method it is very easy to help the orchids always revive, the roots become healthier, cover these roots, use water regularly and only moisten enough. Like this, it will help the small plants grow faster and continue to grow. As a result, after the next 3 months, the orchids have grown very well and are healthy. You can see more with the methods that I have shared. Please choose one of the most suitable methods. The roots have grown very quickly and the plant is very healthy. A great method to revive orchids that grow quickly and easily. Add a little moss on top. The pot surface helps keep the roots and expose the plant to light, so the plant will grow very quickly. Hello everyone, to be able to easily take care of an orchid plant that always grows green and healthy, the plant always There are many flower branches. Today I share a very simple and easy way. The first is to immediately stop using fertilizers and do not water the plant for 1 week. By this stage, the planting material and roots of the plant will have been damaged. If it 's dry, add plenty of water and for orchids, absolutely do not fertilize too much fertilizer in too short a period of time, because this will cause the plant to not be able to absorb the necessary nutrients and the orchids. It is very difficult to grow like this for 35 minutes then take the plant out and water it again to help wash away the white salt residue and long-term fertilizers that remain inside the planting medium and roots of the plant when doing this. Old fertilizers will be removed to help keep the roots of the growing medium clean, new fertilizers will be more easily absorbed and is also a way to help the roots grow quickly. This is one of The reasons why orchids grow poorly and never have flowers use 1 spoon of rice containing a lot of B vitamins and minerals such as Calcium, Potassium, Phosphorus, puree and use the peels of 2 onions if the bulbs are small. If you use a large onion, just use 1 bulb and the onion skin will always help orchids grow roots very quickly. It is one of the organic substances that helps plants stay antibacterial and sterilized very well. Add 300 ml of boiled water. Cover and wait for this water to cool. If the orchids you buy have yellow leaves like this and the growing medium is dry, immediately remove these yellow leaves from the plant and place them here. Add a lot of water, wait until the moss is soft, it will be easy to remove the moss from these roots. After the water has soaked in, it is very easy to remove the old growing medium from these roots . For this damaged root, use 1.5 liters of water and mix it with this water and spray it on the entire orchid plant to help keep the plant free from fungus and insects very effectively. Use soft cotton to dry it. This is also one of the ways to help. Put the green orchid leaves in this water here Leave it for 25 minutes to help these nutrients be better absorbed by the roots. For this orchid plant , use this nutrient, put it here and wash again. With this method, the orchid plant will grow again when planted. Grows very quickly, just use a soft towel to dry it, then use pine bark that has been soaked in water for 3 days and washed, use well-drained pots to place orchids in. With this method, when repotting, the orchids will quickly take root and grow. grow very quickly, helping the plant to have flowers faster. Then take the plant out and place the orchids in places with moderate light to avoid direct sunlight on the leaves. Don't forget to like, share, and subscribe to the channel. and press the bell to easily follow. Hello and see you again. Wishing you all success