Can YOU Beat Big Wave Beach surfs up, am I right guys...? we're When stepping foot into this world, I already knew "Big Wave Beach" WHO WROTE THAT ONE? Hood Luck, All The Hood Hate Big Wave Beach. thank you to NONE of my fans for believing in me- but you guys don't realise is I'm the PVZ KING What's one extra chilli anyway? nothing in this world is gonna- MMMmmmm...nah I could take it- Look at this beeee... -UTIFUL BEACH! CAUTION USER DAVE- my sensors indicate there ...where? who THE FU- no problem-o! we'll just lay down some lilypads, well last time I checked dave, this plant...and if he was he'd probably be very shi- and considering the whole not having Lilypad on the team definitely ...which is all of them- but I simply ignored this future brando with only having access to four rows I was very limited with how damage I could cause but thankfully torchwood you mean nothing to me- when the tide comes in, it'll be a WIPE ...WIPE OUT- for our plant friends? That's right Dave, but fortunately for us, I thought lily pads come from ponds...am I pads just chilling in the ocean, I swear frogs "torch-shooter" managed to get us by the level well peawood just sounds like when fighting zombies from the deep, we oh my goodness, CHOMPER MY BOY- Hey I have an idea too! we could call this chomper whole world chomper month, all 32 days, just we'll all just have a big chomper party- what do you think penny?- ...HEY GUYS- Day 3 was yet another conveyor level, but we also get peashooter, I don't know what you guys The only issue we faced in this level is the who were also wearing Viking helmets, Don't judge day 4, something triggered me to put protect the stronger plants that are worth more- yea i get it guys shut yo mouths- but it was also a way for me to &quot;pre-order&quot; the torchwood to make sure zombies don't just eat but in the midst of me using to force feed my sunflower this plant food and... what in the "shadow clone so it turns out plant-fooding not only activates their super lilipad to duplicate in all four directions, and with this small piece &quot;informacion&quot;, we great- just what i needed right now- day 6, survive with...most plants given SHROOM? Licki-tung? Literally sunflower and peashooter, yea okay that's fine- peashooter for the majority of this being able to take out every hawaiian however one zombie that peashooter snorkel stalker"...who has this zombie only leaves the the shore OR choosing to eat plants out at sea but by sending out chomper to act these guys aren't a problem at all so using our new lilipad strat, we threw and we got given gangstagrass- day 7 was the first level that because i'm over there drowning with hyperthermia- but the whole of the lawn was leaving all of my plants not on a lilypad &quot;don't leave me jack! i will always love you...or something- AHHHHH&quot; the snorkel zombies returned and they literally just eat their way to the end and the best part is, the snorkel dudes will eat every zombie EXCEPT...say it with ...shut yo stupid- nightcap, of course, can't be but this also means they don't even bother but rather go underneath nightcap whilst this isn't necessarily too much of are you thinking what i'm thinking penny? I find your thought process BOWLING TIME- I can't remember the last time where there me protect a plant from dying or produce seven but we ended the level with and moved on to day 9...send me back to the despite only being able to eat 2 zombies before in protecting the lily pads from being eaten, I started to sub out peashooter for cactus...who we finished out the level with our chomper army as well as one singular torchwood who Oh!....oh- despite peashooter showing day 10 forces these Christmas baubles on my lawn- In fact, I was given SO MANY BAUBLES that I KILL ME... You ungrateful ass- day 11 saw the return of my chomper army, I strat that I invented myself, i've been smooth ...okay- day 12...plan your defence and when I read it out doesn't it- JACKTUS CITY DAY 13, produce at least 2000 sun...they and also, &quot;never have more than 35 plants&quot;... who's greedy ass is planting THAT MANY you might as well add &quot;shoot as much as this level did seem straight forward, the ocean took up literally every tile except the but after seeing how many i knew that one row of plants wasn't gonna cut it the only strategic method i could think of to this sunflower to get ONE extra lilipad and then and thankfully this level was VERY generous and by the final flag, the tide went back by the way, the sun challenge was both of these challenges you would have to ban half nah that's on me to be honest- thankfully with chomper being given to us, we can continue our strat but this time Fortunately the shore line was So we created a whole ass sunflower which let us plant chomper in the safe zone ...is THAT AQUAMAN?! DAY 15, protect oh... oOHHHHHh- first of all, who the hell on the beach as if we're in the middle of D-DAY but WHY did the shore line have to be RIGHT surfing dudes before they explode, and to literally hidden from being shot at, all until however, all of this is simply an illusion, the first zombie in the bottom lane, which leads fund a whole row of nightcaps to take out every you should have enough plant food from taking and take them out way before they reach the flag where the tide goes back down, letting a bingo card. who's bingo sheet is this bruh, BINGO, USER DAVE. IT'S BINGO- oh so it was your dumbass who was playing wrong- You already won, Penny? Wow. You're good at this! yea penny, look how good you are what just happened...penny Who is this dude pointing at, is he dancing? dude's like you're totally in for it now! ...stop talking like that- you can run! you can swim! but you can't escape their scaly day 16 gave me "bowling ball" and Nut... #blessed- day 17, who the hell- squid face, what this lanky zom-fish launches octopi which however unlike the sheep in the dark ages, these as long as you get rid of these guys rather fast, the octo men aren't really an issue, but everything turned into an octopus and it i tell ya penny, these surf-loving Hmm. Pits...very User Dave, you are a genius! I am? No. No you are not- goddamn penny, dave like that- YOU'RE the one hmmm- day 19, survive with most, oh very scary! I there it is, THERES THE BULLSHI- every time dude, they do this EVERY i chose to bring them myself but did which did help to to stop squid face- we unlocked mr alligator man day 20 had the ocean flooding the lawn once once the surfer dudes reach the shore they look its not my fault that you suck at surfing- we took down the octo-bros day 21, you look like cactus's lil brother day22 is this dude fishing in the OCEAN?! ay how about you catch yourself can't do nuttin, THAS WHAT I THOUGHT- as long as you have a nightcap at the front of stopping my plants, but it ain't the cheapest day 23 protect the bla bla, who is it- hHHUUUHHhh- nana. whilst i can't necessarily PLANT banana face- he's already on the lawn, letting me instantly day 24 HOLE IN ONE- oh you big bich- day 25 spend NO MORE than 3000 sun, oh i mean what did you expect guys, you think day 26- day 27, oh you just love choosing my plants PISS OFF BONK CHOY- Thankfully a few lily pads so with sunflower and nightcap Remember when I mentioned how the naked snorkelers yea this level is gonna suck- the worst part is, i mentioned earlier how chomper is the best counter to these guys and his ass aint doing unfortunately i can't cheat my did back in day 15 where the final as the whole ending of this level whilst these idiots are having there is physically no way to stop and just ordering a cocktail from the tiki hut- because even WITH a plant in front to the fisherman just see this as CRIKEY THAT'S A BIG this level took a STUPID amount of trial i started off with these 5 sunflowers which lasted all until the very sunflower with nightcap to this is followed up by lane 2 and 3's sunflowers this one to garner enough sun to replace him in very last second to target the first lane contains a plant food, which is used to power allowing me to protect this lane by this point every lane has one night cap however in the 5th lane and triggers the first lawnmower, which is actually part of my strategy as you see, nightcap is still triggering her poison zombie being wiped out as sunflower waits this also acts as a countermeasure to the immunity to being grabbed, but also acts as leading to this lane essentially being safe of the lilipads are destroyed meaning my but you might be wondering what's the purpose but this is actually ANOTHER countermeasure as but can target sunflower, which means that stupid orange candle holder- which lets the after using more plant food to the final wave hit and FORTUNATELY all of the letting us beat the level that had NO RIGHT being so hard bruh- day 28, don't lose more than- yyaAYyyyy- day 29, peasheap- at first i was slightly worried when meaning these guys could but i forgot they just give you a so i made use of torchwood to tank any but then i forgot octo-dad existed nightcap somehow solo'd the whole level, i just had to wait for the tide to wh- is that a thumbs up? are you you sore loser? ay get a better fishing you middle-aged inflatable day 30...oh boy- do i have a LOT to say about this level...nah i'm just kidding...nah im kidding if you thought day 27 looked like of the dark ages seemed like an impossible takes the top spot for HARDEST LEVEL &quot;but brando, what could be so difficult level (you say out loud ignoring the of hard levels both involved gator man, let's start planting some flowers and deal with and what why's the screen going you see, these small pieces of the fisherman can reach OVER gator with his fishing hook, resulting in but I thought nightcap protects well so did I but that would just be TOO EASY, not i would break down step by step what i did level but first of all, i would have to would be so fun considering this video and second of all, i couldn't even nightcap isn't able to protect the green bait to tease the fisherman into pulling field so we can switch her out for nightcap other plant as they somehow only however as soon as the second flag hits, plants as well as the SURFER DUDES basically impossible to juggle so after doing the same thing over and for 3 hours STRAIGHT (which, by the i went to discord.gg/pvz and and when i mean my community i mean emi- emi to which she told me you got this... which after forcing her at squash-point she and then she said i'll have to lab this one and then she said i'm gonna do it without but then all of a sudden YOUTUBER 660NJ do you use a windows...which made me but then i realised HE wanted i now have 2 PEOPLE helping me beat this, but then whilst we were all attempting told me they ALMOST BEAT IT, and i was and she was like snapdragon- and i was and whilst ALL THIS CHAOS IS HAPPENING the inspirational quote &quot;do you ever use mower and then they just vanished into the void paha- so then whilst im trying to comprehend everything BRO IS PLAYING THIS IMPOSSIBLE ASS LEVEL ON so then witch hazel sent a video that the whole of the early game, and with so after 7 TRILLION AND 2 ATTEMPTS...i every plant in that lane chose to cosplay i was down to the final gargantuar who in the very last two seconds i had before it was where i tried to spam torchwood over placed torchwood as many times as i could AND with the help of everyone in the and with that we can finally, day 32...BOSSFIGHT TIME- Have you noticed that chomper and bikini what? chomper you got game Could a beachside plant-zombie okay, whoo..at popcap..was fantasising relationship...like this isn't the first tv of peashooter and zombie just kissing like am a plant- zombie romance? penny...my mind is- user dave, do NOT jump to conclusions...i bro if crazy dave starts getting on with you don't bring me joy anymore- WE took out zomboss after a LONG 32 DAYS... and he dropped the key...to modern day- the final world in this series guys is WHOLE GAME with only garden warfare plants...35