What would you like today, Ryan? So I'll do a split combo. Would you like five, six, eight, ten or twelve? Eight, sounds great. What began as a Buffalo chicken wing restaurant in restaurants nationwide. Right now, we're just dropping some chicken. I love this. I don't know any other flavor. Hi, honey. Oh, man. I'll take it. I'll take hot honey more than anything. Ever. Mm. That's the lemon pepper. It's one of their most It's delicious. Since initially going public in 2015, 100% over the past five years. It's up nearly 300%. And in the past year alone it's more than doubled. So Wingstop's growth is really unprecedented in the You know, if I went back to Chipotle in the 2000 when almost at Chipotle at Wingstop's levels. But what's different about Wingstop is the fact that You know there's no other brand grand scale to the The company's systemwide store count reached over 2300 That's about a thousand more locations than it had in Consequently, revenue has more than doubled in that On average, our franchisees invest about $500,000 to and they're basically getting that entire investment the income statement is so strong. With chains like Starbucks and McDonald's facing hottest restaurant chains in the country? Across fast food chains, chicken has been a hit, And with school coming back around, football scaling They love chicken in the morning. They love chicken in the morning. I love chicken. But you know I love chicken in the That's good news for Wingstop because well chicken is Its menu also lends itself well to an experiential football game. If you're thinking about someone who has to make a the likelihood that they're going to give up something social event is much lower than, hey, I'm going to Wingstop is is an is a special occasion. Our frequency over my ten years has really averaged month, a low frequency occasion. And we're just now, for the first time, starting to about. Going beyond just wings has helped drive that uptick. The chicken sandwich wars took off right before the share. Wingstop eventually got in on the game. The chicken sandwich This was introduced in the middle Chicken is a very popular protein with the consumer, And so the ability for Wingstop to offer their chicken opportunity for continued utilization of the company. Wingstop has seen an increase in new guests visiting introduced, and those new customers are visiting more The company reported same store sales growth, of this year. That means that the company generated The company says that this growth was driven by I would say depending on the day, we will receive 400 transactions. Investors look at same store sales is the key metric Wingstop has experienced same store sales growth for 20 The stores themselves require relatively low We run a very efficient labor profile. You can run that Wingstop that's doing on average $2 You can run that with with as few as four team members We run in a very efficient box on average about 1600, feet. And so our occupancy cost where we target B, B extremely efficient. So this Wingstop in Neptune, New Jersey opened a few And I initially thought it was a very interesting It's set off from the main road across from a grocery But that's exactly the type of real estate that It doesn't need to target prime real estate, because from digital orders, meaning people were not just intentionally. The use occasion or the consumption occasion for the consumer coming to them. And so I don't care if I have to go next to the pet I'm going there to pick it up. Whereas like I said, if a McDonald's was in the middle purchases because it's, you know, there's not a drive Brand awareness is growing. Franchisees contribute a percentage of sales into the So as system sales grow, so does ad spend, which 2023. From about five years ago to now, not a lot of people Wingstop. The viral nature of the brand and how it's cropped up times on social media has really helped feed into the, acquisition and hashtag. Wingstop has been tagged in over 150,000 TikTok videos The company has leaned heavily into marketing with It has official partnerships with multiple NBA teams with top athletes. Giannis wants the chance to get the QR code to get his Although the chain saw its U.S. same store sales grow over 28% last quarter and beat the stock price has actually fallen more than 10% from Wingstop is still one of the best performing restaurant You've seen a big divergence in the valuations of So a stock like Wingstop, a stock like Sweetgreen, a varied premium valuations relative to the overall And then other more mature restaurant stocks like Starbucks, have seen their stocks have their valuation Take a look at Wingstop stock price. Now look at the company's earnings per share. Over the last 12 months. That price to earnings ratio is high. Now take a look at the same valuation for stocks like Trading at a higher premium means more volatility in The rest of the story, though, is really macro. That the consumer base for Wingstop historically basis. It's just cheaper to go to a quick service However, Charles says that Wingstop is seeing a shift transaction on third party delivery apps. Plus, unlike its fast food competitors, Wingstop has 2019. Wingstop has only increased prices by around quick service restaurant category fall into the 30 to Reasonably quick service is underperforming. Wingstop is really about the amount of price that discipline relative to what Wingstop has done in In 2021, wing prices soared, so Wingstop pushed chicken combat this type of volatility. Going forward, the company changed the way it sourced They shifted from a spot where they're just buying for the whole bird. They'll use the parts of the bird they need for their and they'll effectively sell the remains to either a part of the birds. And that's allowing us to create predictability. And most importantly, it's minimizing the volatility see on their income statement within their food cost In its most recent earnings call, Wingstop raised its 6000 locations. That would be about triple its current total and more the U.S. however, that kind of growth could be a long TD Cowen anticipates the chain to have about 4000 5000 locations globally by 2030. You know. I don't think this is going to be the new Kentucky another 2 or 3 years of packing on 250, 300 stores start saturating America. The company also says it has room for growth within the On DoorDash and on Uber Eats. Our awareness levels are still really low. Our delivery channel mix is about 30% today. When we benchmark delivery channel mix to other, more heavy off premise businesses. Think big pizza. Their delivery channel mix is north of 50%, so we see Wingstop is still relatively low awareness, even as the broader consumer is maybe pulling back from on food away from home. Wingstop has the opportunity to gain incremental Skipworth says that Wingstop has a goal of Does that mean, like you would eliminate that face to And it would be more of just kind of a pickup model? Is that the goal? We're not holding chicken that's been previously We're making it to order. And on average it takes about 18 minutes to get your So training guests to order ahead through our digital just a better guest experience. But then from our perspective, we tend to see a higher The average annual sales per store is over $2 million, $3 million about 98% of Wingstop's are franchises. And as we grow our average sales per restaurant, it's income statements for our franchisees better. And that's going to make them want to open more And that's how I think we'll continue to be able to become a top ten global restaurant brand. In order to be a top ten restaurant brand, you're And so this is an ambition that getting to $18 billion themselves pretty solidly there. And just to give you some perspective, the $18 billion and Taco Bell. In terms of what that would mean for