TheJellyBeans.net The Dutch Caribbean island of Curacao -- known architecture -- is located in the Caribbean Sea, about Cruise ships dock in the Capital city of Willemstad, as a UNESCO world heritage site in 1997. While some smaller ships dock in the harbor Both are within walking distance of the city's If you'd like to know where your ship is online. In this video, we will explore Curacao by Before you leave your ship, be aware of a First, Curacao is typically very windy, so to wear while in port. Second, bring your ID and Ship's Card as the port area. And -- finally -- many merchants close their are only open from 10 to 2 in the afternoon is on your to-do list. When you exit the ship, you'll quickly find If the photo op is crowded early in the day, An information desk with a taxi rate sign The sign lists fares from the cruise terminal of interest. Other signage directs visitors to restrooms, A handful of shops are also located in this Be aware that the waterfront seating for some the shoreline. Before you exit the cruise port gate, you'll getting your bearings. From there, follow the brick path along the full of shops, restaurants, and bars. Along the way, you'll pass the start of Seven signs present the story of Curacao in There are more than 30 shops, over a dozen in the Renaissance Mall and Rif Fort area. The Rif Fort -- easily identified by its large and once housed 56 cannons to defend the city It was transformed into a shopping and entertainment Signage is plentiful and helpful for exploring by many stairways and pedestrian bridges. For a scenic view of the water and the city, You'll find signage pointing the way. As you exit the fort, you'll be on the western Otrobanda which means "The Other Side". Several waterfront shops selling clothing, Pay attention to the splashing water from To avoid getting splashed, we recommend avoiding Ahead of you, you'll see two bridges. The bridge in the background is the Queen bridge in the Caribbean. It is not open to pedestrian traffic. The other -- closer -- bridge is the Queen connects Otrobanda to Punda, the oldest part Also known as The Swinging Old Lady, the bridge open for marine traffic. We saw the bridge do this quite often during In fact, one of the highlights of our visit opened to allow boats to pass through. If the bridge is not operating, free ferries of the bridge, taking passengers between the Once you're in the Punda District -- which Love Lock Heart Sculpture, located next to Unveiled in 2017, the sculpture is designed written on them. We attached our pink JellyBeans lock and we your love in Curacao. Across the street from the Love Lock Heart buildings in Curacao. The Penha Building, a merchant's store, a great example of architecture from the Baroque From here, continue walking along the waterfront architecture of the area known as Handelskade. The bright, sherbert-colored buildings reportedly It is said that the Governor general at the be painted, because he attributed his headaches Along the waterfront you'll find the other for kitschy cutout photo ops. You'll also pass several pedestrian-friendly As the road turns right near the canal, you'll Boats from Venezuela dock here and sell produce The merchants accepted US dollars on our visit. If you look around the back of the market, Behind the Floating Market, you can see the in 1928 to connect the commercial areas with Continuing down the road, you'll come to The Old Market is roughly a block further However, during our visit, there were renovations on the sidewalks. Turning right and heading southwest from the The park features a few play areas, a statue a large "Curacao" sign, "Dushi" is a common positive phrase in things in life." To reach Fort Amsterdam from the park, continue just before reaching the Queen Emma pontoon The entrance to the fort's courtyard is The fortification was built in 1635 and was the Ministry, and several government offices. Fort Church -- Curacao's oldest Protestant Embedded in the wall of the church is a cannonball a brief attack in 1804. If your cruise ship has a late departure from out after dark. Not only is it a great opportunity to take itself takes on a more lively atmosphere. Although we did find quite a few of the shops still open after six in the evening, as was During our visit, the Queen Emma Bridge was made for a memorable experience. And -- of course -- we enjoyed another bridge