Grocery shopping. I'm at Wegener's and my wife Right. So here's a broccoli. That's two bucks. Not a ton of broccoli. There. Here's some asparagus. That's $4. Yep. Carrots. That's four more dollars. And then we need some guacamole. And she loves salsa. Yeah. Salsa there. $6. Guys, that's $20 for crudite. I mean, it's outrageous. That Crudite loving Turk as the administrator of the centers That was Doctor Oz. He happened against John Fetterman in 2022. John Fetterman won something that he's actually not at all. So he misidentified himself. But nonetheless, who the Senate will very likely confirm. If you ask me for this role. And it's a little bit disastrous because essentially pushing the system toward publicly funded but privately run. Now, let's talk a little more So it's going to have So about a quarter of all federal spending Oz will work under RFK Jr. confirmed by the Senate and Republicans 53 of the senators will be Republicans. And all you need is a simple majority Donald Trump's appointments. And in a statement announcing Doctor Oz Trump said that Doctor Oz would work industrial complex and all the horrible Trump noted that Doctor Oz hosting the Doctor Oz Show, how to make healthier lifestyle choices. There was some kooky stuff in that show didn't watch it every day, so I don't know Trump added he'll also cut waste and fraud government agency, which is a third of our of our entire national budget. Yeah. All right, so proof's in the pudding, let's see what they're going to do. The first signs are terrible, So first, a little bit of, because based on the facts that we had, better than Doctor Oz in that election. Not even close. Right. But it turns out Fetterman So, you know, Doctor Oz's positions Aren't any better today So I've got no regret about everything be the senator from Pennsylvania. I just didn't know that Fetterman you know, basically a war criminal. And thought that, oh, my God, we should send tens of billions of dollars And I have to say, if you know, would have been better than Fetterman in I don't know that anybody could be worse that we kill as many Palestinians as humanly possible without any ceasefire that he cheerleads for is disgusting. So that turned out to be one of the worst of what a giant liar Fetterman was. And obviously, we were not interested So now, in this new role, now we know about it affect this at all? No. Those two things We're not in that race anymore. This is not vis a vis Fetterman. Which then leads him with, Absolutely. He's a great doctor. He even operated on my uncle And so tip of the hat, to Doctor Oz on the medical field. And I appreciate him for that. Yes, we covered it. And so in daytime TV there was a lot of oh Right. So so he has some excellent credentials not agree with at all on his show. So okay, now the most important part in Medicare and Medicaid? Privatize it. And what Trump is basically hinting at, in a longer, segment tomorrow, Don't be don't be putting Don't put that pressure on me. So it's going to be good. You know, the show is live at 6 to 8 p.m. And it's going to do that tomorrow. It's going to be the best segment Okay. All right. Seriously. So they're going to look So since tax cuts are coming they're going Elon Musk promised to cut $2 trillion. There isn't 2 trillion to cut. Right. So we're going to talk about the Pentagon But when you this is not No. Guys, I would like to dispel which is the privately run Medicare program, does not save money. It does quite the opposite They're looking to rip off the taxpayer. So they overcharge for services Please don't privatize No, no to privatizing Medicare Medicare polls at 77%. It's a program That's why you had those ironic signs Get your government hands off my Those are government programs, okay? The enormously successful government privatize them, which is much worse, because then it makes you feel your prices are going to go way up. You're not going to have anything and you're going to go back to being And you basically want to do It appears, What they did We're one of the only developed nation And what has been the result of that? Our healthcare costs other developed nation on average. So we pay trillions more, trillions more can act as middlemen and rob us blind. And we have worse results, worse results including life expectancy. So if that's what they're promising then we were right all along. If you elect Republicans, they're going oh, we are the Populist Party. We are helping the average man so much. No, no, we're we're we're tracking And then we're going to have to see, or do they not care if they go, oh, yay! We'd love daddy to come make sure from my mom or my grandmom and give it Okay, well, then we're all screwed. So one of the things that Republicans, in the MAGA era, complain about And what they're referring to federal government who can unilaterally without any congressional input. And so I actually, to some extent, about the undemocratic nature of that. I mean, obviously, but sometimes I feel that these government to unilaterally act would rather have Congress decide on. But with that in mind, when you look of responsibilities that Doctor Oz would Keep in mind, he would be so he would oversee both Obviously it's He would regulate the health care system. He'd have some say over regulations, sets quality standards for laboratories, and implements the policies that decide companies get paid for their services. Now, Oz has previously chimed in Oz, for instance, coauthored back in 2020 a universal health coverage system in which every American not covered in a private Medicare Advantage plan. The coverage expansion. The column said, would be financed So that would be a tax Right. But sometimes the payroll tax is split - It depends on the category. So real curious to see if this is should he get confirmed for this role. An archived version also suggested that Oz still strongly promising he would expand access to Trump and beloved by seniors for their available to all Americans who want them. That's not a factual statement. That is a quote from Doctor Oz Now, back in 2022, The Lever, a wonderful journalist, found some interesting tidbits there. Oz and his wife own up to $550,000 worth $50,000 in CVS health, which owns Aetna. Both UnitedHealth and Aetna have reported plans, the privatized Medicare plans But remember, funded by you, No. If they're funding, like if they're If they say to you guys, You're allowed to get private health Great. No problem. Of course, if you want more and you want to pay for that, terrific. Nobody's going to argue with that. But if they say, let's take money out of the Medicare insurance plans so that you have to get the private health insurance and pay more because it's not guaranteed anymore. Well, what the hell are we doing here? Well, why Why would that help? There's just a lot of waste Because, again, since it's privately run, Obviously, you want to maximize your responsibility to your shareholders. You should not introduce that system into a program that is funded by taxpayers. Right. Like, to me, it just sets up a system are going to rip off the taxpayers because Yeah. So look, this is going to be one of many, both the Trump administration Are you going to be even 1% populist a highway robbery where you're just going interests that are your either your donors Right. And and then while pretending up on the American people if you do that. I think, I hope there will be hell to pay. But in terms of eventually when people Yeah. And by the way, I mean, First place I would look is, and the fact that Medicare isn't allowed Why are we allowing pharma Okay. Like that's literally Yeah. So what are we talking about Are you crazy? Do you know how much money we could save And so what happened? Donald Trump, are you a populist Are you a capitalist Because not negotiating drug prices It's the exact opposite of free markets. It is crony capitalism to the extreme, They hate Big Pharma. Right. So you're going to go along with Big whatever prices big drug companies want. So there's tons of savings right there Are Trump and Elon and and Bobby Kennedy to do that or are they liars? And they're just going to privatize things get paid off, Well, we're going to find out They are. But the minute they take action the one show that will be honest with you, either give them credit deserve if they go in the wrong direction, and we're going to hold them accountable. Whether anyone in mainstream media we're going to be honest about it So far, the beginning does not look good.