- [Ad Voiceover] At Intel, to the world in a way they've (dramatic music) We will host the world. - [Narrator] These brands paid hundreds of millions of dollars to be associated with the Olympics. And all this money goes to the International Olympic which runs all the marketing But it takes more than marketing. The IOC powers one of the in the world through media deals. - The International Olympic Committee has tried to monetize these games since the very first Olympics And they've evolved every time to get more TV broadcasters, for instance, and other sponsors. - [Narrator] So how does the IOC generate billions of dollars in And what do companies get in return? This is The Economics of The Olympics. The IOC generates billions in revenue through the sale of broadcast It made a total of about $4 billion from the 2006 and 2008 games, over $5 billion from 2010 and 2012, and almost $6 billion from In comparison, FIFA, made about $4 billion from and marketing rights In London in 1948, the IOC for the first time to the BBC. Today, the sale of broadcast of the IOC's total income. This year, the Beijing in more than 220 countries. China Media Group is Discovery is airing it across Europe, and CBC is airing it in Canada. Since 1997, North American for broadcast rights than the according to IOC data. NBC has televised every and every Summer Games since 1988. - I've come to associate NBC as being the channel of the Olympics, and I'm sure many other - [Narrator] In 2014, NBC to secure exclusive broadcast That means the company will pay an average of over $1 billion for each Olympics. The deal covers all media internet, and mobile rights, and also restricts other the opening and closing ceremonies and athletic competitions. - When it comes down to getting it comes down to one thing which is money. - [Narrator] These include both Summer and Winter Olympics. For example, NBCUniversal made about half a billion from the 2016 Summer Olympics than it did from the 2014 Winter Olympics, according to the company's - The Summer Games are a lot bigger than the Winter Olympics. There's about 200 countries that compete in the Summer Games, about only 100 in the Winter Games. There's a quarter of the compared with the Summer ones. - [Narrator] After broadcasting rights, brand partnerships are the The Olympic Partner Program, grants exclusive marketing rights to a select group of corporate sponsors. There are currently 13 top - So you have companies like So give me a Coke with a smile And I promise To pass it along - But you also now have tech companies like Airbnb and Alibaba in in the past decade for to be one of the elite sponsors. - [Ad Voiceover] Alibaba We are proud to be the worldwide partner of the Olympic Games. - [Narrator] According top tier sponsors collectively for the 2014 and 2016 Olympics. So what do these brands get in return? - They get to use the Olympic logo so the iconic rings, the are probably the best example, but also there's an official logo for the Beijing Games and the Tokyo Games, and all that, too. - [Narrator] But buying sponsorship rights is just the first step. - They spend a lot of money, tens of millions of dollars per Olympics just to get the rights to And then they gotta spend even more money, maybe triple that, to tell everybody that they have these rights &quot;Hey, look, we're helping to that brings the world together.&quot; Or if you're Coca-Cola, to go around drinking And it also costs money on a can or a bottle of Coke. - [Narrator] These brand often spanning four or five Olympics, which means the IOC to find a new sponsor every two years. - Airbnb just a couple of years So that'll take them through the 2028 Olympics in Los Angeles. - [Narrator] This year, are keeping a relatively low profile around the Winter Games in Beijing due to escalating tensions - In a normal Olympic that already spent a lot of money to be a top Olympic sponsor would be normally be bragging about it. The 100-day countdown - [Narrator] For example, Coca-Cola put figure on a billboard in Times Square to mark the 100-day And Visa, which sponsors athletes through its Team Visa program and promoted its wearable payment devices in the weeks leading up to the 2018 Games. - [Ad Voiceover] You dream of amazing. We dream of amazing ways to pay. - [Narrator] Companies make in these sponsorship deals. But this year, sponsors may risk missing global marketing opportunities that money bought them. US officials, some Western lawmakers, and human rights activists have said Beijing's years long campaign a forcible assimilation against in Xinjiang amounts to a form of genocide. Beijing denies the what it calls attempts - These top tier Olympic sponsors are trying to balance their with their reputation in the And they think the smartest is to just not bring any attention to the fact that they're - [Narrator] Coca-Cola, any major advertising campaigns except in China, according He declined to say why the Visa and NBC didn't respond The IOC says it recognizes but it takes no position social circumstances, or in the host country. The committee says it must remain neutral on all global political issues. Looking ahead, NBC is promoting its streaming service, Peacock, especially as more and and TV ratings for the Olympics continue on a downward trend. In January, Comcast said were paying to watch Peacock. The company said it would on content for Peacock, double The Beijing Olympics are for Peacock, which has as being slow to gain traction. Viewers have also complained that Peacock didn't have during the Tokyo Summer Games. This time around, NBCUniversal said the entirety of its Olympic broadcast would be available live for the Beijing Games. - Next step will be to see whether these online broadcasting are gonna become a bigger part of Olympic deals in the future. (bright music)