This video contains a heckuva lot of flickering imagery throughout, and if that is a problem for you, Hello and welcome to No Effort November, a series of -- what? It's December!? Oh no, I'm not prepared for this! Uh, uh, uh OK well... mmmhmm I'm not doing that thing where I paint I know, it's devastating to me, too, but in light of the season I will talk about a certain kind of light of the season. Some folks like to decorate their homes all But real candles are annoying and also a fire hazard so some people will use these definitely convincing and put a little night light bulb up there, and have electric candlelight. And honestly, on the right sort of house it does look pretty festive. At least from outside. But what if you want something that's just a little less subtle? Well, you get yourself one of these things. Ain't it a beauty? It replicates the bright orange glow I mean, take a look at this side-by-side comparison. I can't tell the difference! OK, I'm being a little hard on it. This thing is actually pretty cool, if not exactly faithful This is a "flicker flame" lamp, It's a rather clever exploitation of a flaw This is one such lamp. It's dead simple, just a glass envelope filled with a bit of neon with a pair of electrodes floating in the middle. Put a fairly high voltage across these electrodes, and you'll get current to flow between them. And thanks to neon being neon that will cause Why exactly that happens we don't need to get into but importantly, once you have exceeded the striking voltage and you get that glow discharge, you need a current-limiting resistor to keep the current in check. Without it, the lamp will basically short circuit and often explode. Fun! Wanna see that happen? Why not! Good thing I've got those switched outlets in this room Contact! That was significantly less violent than I was expecting. OK, we're doing this one more time. Contact! [rattling as glass bounces on table] Much better. Now because AC line voltage exceeds the striking voltage of these lamps, all you need is that resistor to keep 'em from, y'know, splodin' and they'll work. They also have very long lives and consume very little power. So, they are often used as indicator lights Since LEDs are so stinking cheap now we don't but they're definitely not gone. Simple kitchen appliances without electronics, for example, if you don't need a low-voltage power supply for logic circuitry, Oh, and there are also versions of these filled including a bit of UV which when combined with a phosphor coating on the glass means you can make pretty much any color you like. Blue and green are quite common. As a matter of fact here's a blue one in the switch of my cheap Walmart kettle, and there's a green one in this hot plate. These are not LEDs - they're tiny little discharge lamps. Another fun use of this principle is in novelty lamps like this. Here we find electrodes which are shaped in I mean... it worked! And in here we don't find neon but instead something else. I'm leaning towards mostly argon but I'm not sure. Anyway, whatever it is produces a violet discharge on the turtles which conveniently also causes a phosphor on the Hawaii script Could have even more if we wanted. Anyway, back to the neon ones. Earlier you might have caught me saying that But here, both electrodes appear lit. That's because this is powered by AC, so which electrode is the cathode keeps flipping back and forth really fast and both appear lit. If I put a diode in series with the lamp we'll keep one of them from glowing, and by reversing the polarity we can make the other half glow. Making cathodes in a bunch of different shapes, then stacking them together is how Nixie tubes happen, by the way. How have I not done a video on Nixie tubes yet? That's weird. Uh, anyway, as these indicator lamps age they can start to become a little unstable. If driven lightly they can last practically forever, but if they're overdriven by a resistor that's too low in value Sometimes doing this is OK; for appliances which only get used occasionally, it's not the worst thing to squeeze some extra brightness out of the lamp in exchange for longevity. You just don't need it to last that long. But for something like the switch of a power you'll start to get problems eventually. The glow discharge will often become unstable with damaged electrodes, causing the indicator to flicker. Wait a minute... This thing flickers! It flickers a heckuva lot! And if we look at it a little more closely, We've got two electrodes separated by a gap connected to wires leading out of the envelope. Really the only thing that makes this different They're meant to mimic a flame, so they're shaped like a flame. The shape of the glass itself is also evocative of a flame. And inside the base of the lamp is that current that. So why does it flicker? Because it was built wrong! On purpose! The electrodes in here are not trying to create a uniform glow, Now, details into how exactly this is made flickery are sketchy. I've found conflicting information in a few places, for instance a patent for this lamp design claims to use a barium azide coating in order to enhance the flicker effect but an earlier patent for an unrelated device claims the same substance That doesn't make sense! Plus the turtles in the novelty lamp appear to have a very similar coating, A different source I found claims the sides of the electrodes that face each other inside the lamp are coated with an insulating varnish in order to force the And, y'know, I suppose makes a little sense Plus, it's not like the electrodes on the indicators only glow on the halves that face each other so I don't see why that's necessary. Wait a minute, Through the Magic of Buying Ten of Them, I can afford to sacrifice one of these and find out! [pop] Nope, there doesn't appear to be a difference at all between the two sides. Though interestingly, these electrodes quickly I don't know what exactly I was just touching Oh, uh, if there was an insulating varnish on one side (which again - doubtful) the leads on my multimeter scratched through it so, you know, I don't think it's there. Given that information around these is contradictory my explanation here on how it works is more than a little If we have any subject matter experts in the Whatever the coating is on the electrodes, it's not uniform. That's clear just by looking at it. And this is probably going to change how easily a gas discharge can happen In fact, we can see that the pattern in the so clearly those affect what regions will glow. When the lamp first strikes, then, only some parts of the electrode can light. The electrodes are not, I guess, pure enough for a neat, uniform glow. But I don't think that's the only thing going on. Looking back at the novelty lamp, however, they do glow uniformly and (importantly) stably. Perhaps this is a better coating than in the Firstly, this ain't neon. So the gas composition is different. But I think more importantly, this is a very large envelope and the electrodes are nowhere near as close to each other as in the flame lamps, and in fact they don't even overlap. In the flame lamp not only do they completely and that is probably causing instability due to Paschen's law. Or &quot;pass-kins?&quot; However you pronounce that. See, once lit the area near the glowing discharge will heat up. And the electrodes are sandwiching a small quantity of gas between them. That gas is going to get warm very quickly once there's a discharge, And thanks to science reasons, the voltage required to maintain the discharge changes based on the gas pressure. That's going to cause the area that's most likely to glow to move once the gas expands, but every time it moves that next area gets warm, too, so the gas in that region expands, and the spot most likely to glow gets pushed somewhere else. This just keeps happening over and over again, and while it is somewhat random it is also very clearly cyclical. And again, these patterns seem to follow the so while I don't think that's the only factor here, it probably matters a lot. I think the strongest argument for that comes exhibit this same phenomenon. And luckily, I have one right here! After looking over all my power strips I finally found one with a flickery lamp. I had to destroy the switch to get a good look at it but hey, For Science! Speaking of science, this lamp's flickering is so borderline Believe it or not, photons entering the glass envelope and even just a tiny bit of light from my phone flashlight Ain't that neat? Anyway, if we look at this thing up close we can see that it's darkened. This lamp was almost certainly being over-driven at least a tad, though to be fair it's probably been on for well over a decade at this point Now, though, one of the electrodes can't quite maintain an even discharge and sure enough, at least with the lights out, the spots that glow move around in a similar fashion to the flicker flame lamp. With the darkened glass a sure sign of material loss from the electrodes, it's likely that the instability is being caused by damaged which seems to give more credence to the uneven coating However, it might not simply be the electrodes causing the flicker - the original patent for the flame lamps claims and that could also explain what's going on with the flickery indicator. Perhaps after years of service the gas mixture But regardless we know for sure that neon lamps are not *meant* to do this, but over time they often start. So in a sense, Through some combination of a non-uniform the shape and spacing of the electrodes, the size of the envelope relative to them, and even the specific composition of the gas mixture, this thing is deliberately bad at being a neon lamp. That just happens to look kinda like a flame, so make the electrodes flame-shaped and you've done it! But I had one more theory which I thought to test. What if the current-limiting resistor of this lamp is deliberately too restrictive? Maybe it simply doesn't have enough current flowing through it and so the spots moving around is just a side-effect of that. Well, I rigged up these indicators in this definitely You can see that they decrease in brightness from left to right. The first lamp is powered through a 33 kiloohm resistor, It glows quite brightly, which is nice, but it would likely become damaged over time and darken like we saw with the power strip. Generally, you want to drive this size of lamp with about a 100 kiloohm resistor The next lamp is driven at that correct value (or close, anyway, I don't have a resistor of that exact value on-hand). But the next two lamps have very high-value resistors, with the one on the right having about 500 kiloohms of resistance in total. Although it is glowing very dimly, it's not flickering So it appears increasing the resistance value and not how complete it is. In fairness, these are really tiny indicators with a small fraction the electrode surface compared to the flame lamp, so this may not be conclusive. Honestly, this entire video isn't conclusive. There's things about these lamps that seem to make perfect sense But given how they're built to behave essentially exactly I think the most likely explanation is simply It's probably not the best idea to put two The gas mixture might be just a bit off to ensure And the coating on the electrodes is certainly less-than-perfect. But I do know there's one thing we can learn from this: Sometimes things that are a little bit broken have a beauty all their own. Thanks for watching. inconclusively smooth jazz Hey, so I had forgotten that I have this other novelty bulb where the glowing electrodes are in front of one another, but here there's a substantially larger gap than we find in the flicker bulbs. That could just be because whatever factory but the electrodes going through the stem Perhaps if these were too close to each other we'd get that flickering - I dunno, but I thought I'd bring this up. Aloha! Sometimes doing this is OK. For appliances which only get used occazzzzzzioonally what the heck was that? [coughs] So, this might no be concplusive. Conclusive! These are really tiny indicators with a small fraction the electrode surface compared to the flame ramp... Did I say &quot;frame ramp?&quot; I did, didn't I? So, of course *after* I made the video I find out Big Clive covered these a while back. I mean, that seems so obvious in hindsight and why didn't I look for that? Although we're mostly on the same page - he also thought there was an insulating coating on one side but destroying the lamp put that into question. However, a higher resistance did make the glowing spots smaller so that probably has something to do with it. Anyway, Happy Decemberween!