rescript.txt Activity 7:15 AM You uploaded an item rescript.txt Two years ago I, Suggestive Gaming, along the 2-Bit Players, went over the story of Since then, we've seen the release of the Resident Evil Village, and an animated series Since many have been asking, and to get ready we've decided to make an updated version Like the original video, we will only be covering (which means the Paul W.S. Anderson directed film series is off the table, Netflix series), and given the breadth of can play out differently depending on which some things out (so feel free to fill in the We're also treating the Remakes as canon, Now, without further ado, this is what you Our story begins on July 23, 1998, where a Umbrella, called the Ecliptic Express, is it's passengers, while a mysterious figure Two hours later, the Raccoon City Police Department's send in their Bravo team to investigate a Arklay Mountains. However, on their way, their helicopter is There, they find a military police transport dead. The team then split up, and their field medic, Express, stopped in the middle of the forest. Rebecca enters the train, only to find it zombies due to their exposure to the t-Virus. This virus was a creation of the Umbrella Created from the Progenitor virus (an ancient was to mutate biological cells for the betterment into a military product. After exploring the train, Rebecca eventually was the prisoner the military police truck The two begrudgingly form a partnership when train. Shortly thereafter, it begins to move once The two are able to stop the train before up directing it towards an abandoned Umbrella There, they learn of the history of the Progenitor founders, Oswell E. Spencer, Edward Ashford, Marcus was responsible for the discovery of it's regenerative properties to help the as a biological weapon and began creating Meanwhile, Umbrella employees Albert Wesker and they realize that the t-Virus has gotten Wesker decides to leave Umbrella to join their implosion. Birkin, however, decides to stay behind to Wesker then explains that he's planning Alpha team, which Wesker has joined as a double has already spread, to collect data on the Birkin then decides to arm the training facility's After getting separated from Billy, Rebecca her team, and he informs her of Bravo team's Rebecca to find Billy first. Just after, however, Rebecca is attacked by by the t-Virus known as a "Tyrant". She is able to temporarily subdue it before help her defeat the creature. Shortly after, Billy and Rebecca finally meet outbreak on the train, who turns out to be would seem. He reveals that he was assassinated by Wesker prior, but the queen of his experimental leeches to regenerate him, obtaining his memories He then splits into a mass of leeches and Meanwhile, Wesker makes his way to the Training on the way. Once there, he comes across Spencer's lead After an argument, Sergei sends one of his Tyrant units after Wesker, who is able to Their battle is brought to a halt however, Wesker then escapes to meet with the S.T.A.R.S. Alpha Team to make their way to the Mansion. Elsewhere, Billy and Rebecca are able to defeat Afterwards, the two find the Spencer Mansion, S.T.A.R.S., while Billy leaves, being declared Rebecca finds her way into the mansion, but Eventually, fellow Bravo member Richard Aiken off to find their captain, Enrico Marini. On their way, the two witness Sergei Vladmir prototype away from the mansion. Later, the two are ambushed by a giant snake-based called Yawn, which gives chase. It is able to corner them in the library, She is able to shoot the monster to scare infected with the creature's poison. Shortly after, S.T.A.R.S. Alpha Team arrives to investigate the disappearance They find Bravo Team's downed helicopter, finds all the other members missing. Shortly after, they are attacked by mutated Joseph Frost. Alpha Team's pilot Brad Vickers takes off, Redfield, Jill Valentine, Barry Burton, and the mansion. Inside the mansion, the team split up to search The Bravo team members are found inside, but injuries, including Richard, who sacrifices Jill works with Barry, while Chris meets up They learn that the mansion is actually owned It was built for Oswell Spencer by George on to research the Progenitor Virus. The daughter, Lisa Trevor, is still alive, is forced to avoid her as they progress. After destroying a giant plant and some giant eventually finds Captain Enrico Marini, who before he is shot and killed by an unknown S.T.A.R.S. finds the basement of the mansion to be a Epsilon virus, which had leaked and infected Wesker is finally revealed to be a double to the mansion to test the B.O.W.'s effectiveness He then intends to destroy the facility to Unbeknownst to the others, he had also injected to strengthen his body. It is then revealed that Barry was working murder. Wesker eventually admits to his true nature, Umbrella by handing over their research to He then awakens the T-002 Tyrant to attack impaling him. The lab's self-destruct system begins to members (Jill, Chris, Rebecca, and Barry) in Brad. He arrives, just as the Tyrant reappears. The S.T.A.R.S. team is able to defeat the creature with a as the mansion explodes in the distance. While the mansion exploded, Wesker was able his body, and secretly escape. Fighting Lisa Trevor on his way, Wesker traps out of her misery with the mansion's destruction. Two months later, in Raccoon City, eight patrons violence in the city. Shortly after, an infected man walks in and him. The others escape, discovering the city to They eventually reach the Raccoon Mall, where kill a massive group of zombies. Two of the police are killed, however, forcing using it to kill the zombies. They then leave, as more police reinforcements Elsewhere in the city, two firefighters investigate it explodes, trapping them and the other survivors After fighting a mutated civilian, called into the city. Later, Cindy Lennox (the waitress of J's a note indicating an evacuation chopper's The survivors enter the zoo and are attacked to escape to a tram. However, as the tram is leaving, it is brought killing another group of survivors nearby. Elsewhere in Raccoon City, Jill Valentine been investigating the Umbrella Corporation. Unaware of the ongoing outbreak, Jill receives her to get out of the city immediately. Before she has a chance to react, however, crashes through her wall and attacks, forcing while the B.O.W. gives chase, destroying everything in its Jill eventually escapes the monster, emerging of chaos. Brad finds her and tells her the monster has members in the city, which now includes just They are soon swarmed by the infected and Knowing what comes next, he stays behind, Jill continues to run to find safety, eventually himself into the trailer of a semi truck. Jill makes her way to the roof of the garage, She flags it down, and the pilot calls her As she approaches, however, the B.O.W. from Jill enters a nearby car and drives into the and down to the streets below. This proves to be only a minor setback for Jill, even as the car explodes around him. As it reaches her, however, a man nearby shoots the creature. The man rushes over to Jill, introduces himself subway station, where his fellow Umbrella established a makeshift shelter. Despite Jill's hesitation to trust Umbrella to the shelter. When they reach the shelter, Jill is introduced Platoon Leader Mikhail Victor, who recognizes her help in getting the subway car moving. She agrees to help the civilians in the shelter, supplies and find the substation to get the On her way, she finds an injured U.B.C.S. member, and she runs to help him, but suddenly him in the head. The man claims the member he killed was infected, The two quickly go their separate ways, and forced to avoid spider-like mutated creatures After she turns on the power, Jill calls Carlos, office to enable the traffic control system On her way, however, she is again ambushed escape once again to reach the traffic control She inputs the route into the system, then encountering her Nemesis once again on the Back at the subway, Jill regroups with Carlos, his own man, Nicholai, arrives. He expresses his frustration that Jill is begins to break in. Carlos closes the security gate, while Jill time. She lures the creature away from the train, After fighting through several fish-like B.O.W.'s, her they've been waiting for her return As she reaches the surface, however, she is a flamethrower. She is able to escape it again, but only temporarily, nearby. After defeating it in battle, it's flamethrower's rooftop, where she meets a rough landing. On her way back to the subway, she stops by She offers to take him to the subway, but building to deal with an unseen issue of his. Not long after, Jill is once again ambushed launcher. It fires at her, which blasts her away from Carlos then calls and tells her he has a plan, back to the station, which she does. It trips a claymore set up by Carlos, and explosion as he and Jill escape back into Carlos sends Jill into the subway car on her Mikhail to join another operative named Tyrell could stop the outbreak. During the train ride, Mikhail expresses his is cut short by an explosion. When they investigate, they find the B.O.W. chasing Jill has destroyed part of the train Jill runs, but finds that Nicholai, knowing in the train car to deal with it. The B.O.W. grabs Mikhail with it's tentacle, but he charge, blasting the train car off the tracks Meanwhile, Carlos and Tyrell reach the Racoon an infected Brad Vickers attack and bite an The pair then enter the station and find the office to contact Dr. Nathaniel Bard, who He asks for their help, after revealing that up the operation. Tyrell tries to track the doctor's location, the train derailed before their communications He then rushes off to return to the subway Meanwhile, Jill reaches the surface, watching river, and calls Carlos again, who informs betrayal. However, the B.O.W. emerges from the water, now mutated even larger, outside the city's clock tower. Jill is able to take it down with a grenade her. She is able to close a gate to separate the away, leaving a tendril in her arm and infecting Nicholai then walks up to the gate and smiles Meanwhile, Claire Redfield is searching for Her and rookie RCPD officer Leon S. Kennedy they find to be under attack by zombies. The pair meet and take a nearby sheriff deputy There, they overhear an announcement encouraging shelter. They are forced to continue to the station and carry on independently. Claire and Leon do reunite, but are separated A nearby rescue helicopter is shot down and Another Tyrant, the T-103, appears, and begins Claire finds an underground tunnel and traverses Sherry Birkin. However, shortly after she is attacked by She is able to temporarily defeat the creature, Station's parking garage, but there they Irons, who kidnaps Sherry and takes her to He then calls Claire demanding she bring him agrees. After she heads off, Lean finds his own way Wong. In the station's cell area, they find a by Irons for investigating Umbrella's shady However, Ben is killed by the Tyrant, who The two then agree to work together, and head takes his infected daughter aside before a Ada head to the city's sewer system. Meanwhile, Sherry attempts to sneak past Irons to escape him. However, the creature in the lab coat reappears Shortly after, Claire arrives and finds Iron, with. Claire then finds Sherry in a facility under Tyrant. During their escape, the creature appears its attention towards the two. It attacks an elevator they are in, causing and forcing Sherry to head off on her own. Claire is awakened by Annette Birkin: Sherry's She informs Claire that the creature chasing She also reveals that she took Sherry before Claire heads off and eventually finds Sherry, Through her travels to unlock the compactor, had escaped with the G-virus, hoping to sell He was discovered by Umbrella soldiers, who However, in order to survive, he was able moments. He then hunted down and killed the soldiers, and causing the outbreak in Raccoon City. Claire encounters William and fights him once Inside, she rescues Sherry, but finds her her due to her DNA closely matching his, allowing Annette tells Claire that she can heal Sherry Meanwhile, Leon and Ada also come across Annette. Ada informs her that they're there for the be possible. She then ignites an infected corpse before Leon tackles Ada and takes a bullet for her, Ada follows Annette, eventually finding her Leon awakens and rescues Ada, and the two the virus. On their way, Leon and Ada share a moment, is too injured from her fall into the compactor. Leon obtains the sample, and battles William. Afterwards, Annette reveals that Ada is not who plans to sell the virus. Leon confronts Ada, and she admits her deceit, the virus. Annette shoots her, however, and she slips Leon reaches to catch her, dropping the virus Leon loses his grip, however, and Ada falls Meanwhile, Claire finds the vaccine for the She also battles William as Annette administers Claire emerges victorious, and Annette succeeds incurred by William. Afterwards, the facility begins a self-destruct train, where she successfully communicates After fighting and defeating William once Elsewhere, Leon encounters the Tyrant again, him a grenade launcher to help him defeat He does so, and escapes to find the moving inside. The train is again attacked by the final remains The pair are able to defeat him once and for They leave the train to continue on foot, fight to take down Umbrella, and the three at least for now. Afterwards, the sole survivor of William Birkin's HUNK, escapes the city with a sample of the At a temporary shelter, Dr. George Hamilton Jenkins, asking him to help at the nearby George takes some survivors to help Jenkins find him dead by gunshot to the back of the They find his notes, referencing an anti-virus t-Virus. The survivors then set out to find the materials Elsewhere, a team of mercenaries working for B.O.W. Called "Thanatos", created by rogue Umbrella Nikolai arrives to collect a sample of Thanatos' and causing it to kill all of Nikolai's The canister of blood falls, and the survivors Daylight components. They then obtain the two other components Upon doing so, however, they are interrupted before he is shot dead by Nikolai. The survivors then escape with the sample, of C4 charges throughout the university. The survivors escape and battle Thanatos, A helicopter then rescues them, as they escape Sometime later, Carlos finds Jill and carries to look for Dr. Baird and hopefully his vaccine. After fighting off several "Hunter Beta" he is dead, with a bullet hole in his head. He investigates a nearby computer, finding Umbrella's involvement in the T-Virus's In the video, he explains that he has a sample of it downstairs. He again warns that Umbrella plans to kill the entire ordeal. Carlos grabs the vaccine sample and heads After injecting it, Carlos and Jill both rest, barges in and wakes him up. They then hear an emergency announcement that a massive missile strike the next day. Carlos then fights off an onslaught of infected to look for the rest of the vaccine before Afterwards, Jill wakes up and speaks with She heads to the underground storage facility Later, Tyrell arrives, telling her that he the missile launch if they can deliver the When they arrive at the storage facility, forcing her to run off. She finds the vaccine facility, but learns She collects the samples required and places it and obtaining the vaccine sample to turn Just after, she is grabbed by the B.O.W. and tanks. She drops the vaccine and falls off a catwalk, Nicholai arrives and grabs the vaccine, telling the combat data from her battles with the He then kicks her off the ledge, and she is Carlos arrives to provide support during the to defeat the creature. Jill escapes and comes across Nicholai, who He refuses and runs off, leaving her to fight Carlos arrives shortly after, but Jill sends Nemesis for the last time. After their final battle, Jill obliterates rushing off to the elevator to find Carlos On the roof of the facility, she finds an ambushes her. He then throws the vaccine to her, but shoots He then reveals that his unnamed employer They then hear an announcement that the missile impact, but as Nicholai starts to leave, Carlos The two fight, and Jill shoots Nicholai in Carlos enters a nearby helicopter, and Nicholai motives if they take him with them. Jill refuses, however, as she enters the helicopter figure out the truth on her own. The pair then fly off, leaving Nicholai and Umbrella. Elsewhere, we find an Umbrella Security Service the city in an aircraft with a stolen B.O.W. He is with Umbrella researcher Dr. Linda Baldwin, to the R&amp;D center to retrieve a drug that As she enters, experimental Hunter B.O.W.'s lockdown. Baldwin is able to obtain her sample, but is released. Another researcher, Dr. Carter, begins to it can kill the Hunters and allow their escape. The Tyrant R succeeds in killing the Hunters, by activating a bomb hidden within the creature. However, the Tyrant R interrupts this plan, Baldwin down into the water treatment facility There, she is found and rescued by survivors, they emerge outside the Apple Inn. After fighting the Tyrant R one more time, city before its destruction commences. Meanwhile, we find Ada, escaping the sewers the Apple Inn. There, she intends to meet her contact from dead from suicide. Suddenly, Albert Wesker calls her on a nearby and defecting to help Leon, but she shows to recover. Wesker then informs her of the city's imminent carrying an Umbrella Executive to escape in. Ada makes her way, fighting the Tyrant R on the helicopter and attaching her grappling her to escape the city. Afterwards, the U.S. Government carries out a thermobaric missile blast. One month later, private detective Ark Thompson investigate an Umbrella facility. Ark is able to infiltrate the Umbrella controlled Umbrella Commander Vincent Goldman. However, Ark is seen by a child, Lott Klein, Vincent, believing Ark to be sent by Umbrella his position, then triggers an Outbreak, hoping operation. During the Outbreak, Vincent discovers Ark The two have a quick fight, where Vincent escape to the helipad and commandeer the chopper Vincent grabs on to the landing skids, and causing Vincent to fall to the ground, and inside. When Ark recovers, he wakes up with a gun He fights through the island's infected body, holding his dog tags. This causes Ark to believe that the man in Eventually, Ark finds photographs of him impersonating in fact the Commander, and the perpetrator Ark continues through the island, finding and his sister Lily (whose parents were employees They initially fear him, believing they'll Vincent, but he protects them and earns their identity to him, which sparks him to regain The facility suddenly triggers a self destruct railway station where he will meet them. However, on his way, Ark encounters the prototype After fighting the Tyrant, Ark heads to the tram to a helipad for evacuation. There, the Tyrant attacks once again, but However, still not quite done, the Tyrant at it, finally killing it. The three then fly off in the distance, not Three months after the destruction of Raccoon still searching for Chris. Claire is captured by Rodrigo Juan Raval, facility. While unconscious in her cell, she is awakened Rodrigo arrives and releases Claire from her anyway. Outside, Claire discovers that an outbreak Shortly after, she comes across a fellow escaped that Chris has been under surveillance by Claire uses a facility's PC to contact Leon surveillance. Claire continues on and finds the Ashford twins Alfred and Alexia Ashford, who try to The pair eventually discover Alfred to be a dual personality disorder, before they are During their flight, they are attacked by fend off, before the ship's autopilot activates Antarctica. There, they are again confronted by Alfred, fall into an abyss. Just after this, the mutated remains of Alexander of Umbrella Co-founder Edward Ashford, awaken as they reach a helipad. Claire fights the creature and kills it, allowing and head off to a nearby research outpost. Meanwhile, Alfred crawls to find his sister, was put under after she injected herself with 15 years prior. Now awakened with mutated abilities, but her a tentacle to capture Claire and Steve. She then cradles her brother as he finally In the meantime, Chris Redfield arrives on message from Leon. While searching the island to determine where Wesker, who was hired by a new organization virus. Surprisingly, Wesker now possesses superhuman Wesker reveals Claire's location to Chris, Chris heads to the Antarctic and discovers hang by Alexia. Chris is able to defeat her defenses and reach within the base. They are separated by Alexia's tentacles, Claire finds Steve, but he is unfortunately He then mutates into a giant axe-wielding One of Alexia's tentacles captures Claire, her. Steve then reverts back to his normal self from his wounds. In the main hall, Chris watches Wesker confront She refuses to turn herself over, and mutates He then leaves Chris to handle the situation Chris fights Alexia, defeating her then heading However, Alexia arrives again, and Chris is sister. Alexia then mutates further, and Chris uses to take her out once and for all. As they attempt to escape the now self-destructing gives chase. Outside, Wesker releases Claire, revealing t-Veronica Virus remaining in his body. Wesker taunts that maybe Steve can be revived Chris convinces Claire to leave as he fights After the fight, the exploding building causes Chris that the next time they meet will surely Chris then reaches a plane that Claire found, as it explodes, with Chris vowing to destroy Two years later, the US Army sends a taskforce engaged in a civil war. In an attempt to combat a supposed threat US Army Major General Wilson conspires with t-Virus in hopes to create super-soldiers. Unbeknownst to the public, Wilson has a team virus, and uses this mission to test its efficacy, to stop the cannibalistic effects of the t-Virus. When Alpha Two's helicopter is shot down, in an attempt to rescue them. While they are able to rescue one member of Dogs are then attacked by insurgents. Later that night, the rest of the corpses aflame. The dead bodies then awaken as zombies, setting while a young boy watches. The Mad Dogs retreat into a building where no response. On the other end, a radio operator named Shen is commanded by Wilson not to respond to their The Mad Dogs are then attacked by a horde but not before all of them are bitten in the As he lays dying, Jun See gives the Mad Dogs them to use it before they turn. The Mad Dogs then return to camp with the discuss their next move. Believing they might be murdered to cover but are interrupted by Shen May, who discovers A Mad Dogs member named Jason and Shen May to his family. Afterwards, Wilson uses the Mad Dogs as his the inhibitor in return. Two years later, Leon S. Kennedy (now working is sent with USSOCOM soldier Jack Krauser a former drug lord who had gone missing, but In a nearby village, they find the inhabitants, They fight their way through the village to brought devils to the village before he is Leon and Krauser find the girl, soothing the with a song. The duo are able to fight it to scare it away, Unconscious, they take her on a boat and head When she awakens, they head into a dam, where He reveals the girl to be his daughter, Manuela, virus obtained by Wesker to hopefully cure She is able to avoid his capture, however, Eventually, they come across the B.O.W. again, and it is revealed to be Manuela's at curing the disease with the virus. As they kill her, she shoots out a spike from him with the virus. Javier then merges himself with a plant harboring the power of the virus inside of her, and of her father. Afterwards, the three escape on a helicopter. Manuela is taken in by the government, and his injuries... but inside his own mind, he power now inside of him. Sometime later, disgraced former Umbrella Umbrella owned Spencer Rain ship, holding the virus unless he receives a ransom from Bruce McGivern is sent in by a United States Umbrella, and a Chinese agent named Fong Ling Bruce is confronted by Morpheus on the ship's Fong Ling surprises the both of them with into the ship, and injuring Morpheus. To heal himself, Morpheus injects himself Virus and a G virus antibody. This causes him to mutate, but he is able He battles Bruce in his new form, but Bruce The two then work together to return power discover the ship's collision course towards Bruce then fights an escaped experimental and is able to defeat it before jumping into the island. There, Bruce and Fong Ling find that the island facility for B.O.W. Experiments. After defeating some, they learn that Morpheus his ransom if they kill Fong Ling. Bruce cuts out a tracking device in her tattoo, strike. Bruce defeats a large B.O.W. Called Pluto before Morpheus arrives and sends to the sea floor. They are able to survive, but later, Fong Bruce is able to finally defeat Morpheus after allowing Bruce to deal enough damage to kill Afterwards, Bruce and Fong Ling escape using Fong returning to the US in a rescue helicopter Months later, Jill Valentine and Chris Redfield a town in the Caucasus region of the Russian Activity. They quickly discover everyone in the town that Umbrella's to blame. They find one survivor, a girl named Anna. They find Wesker, who doesn't take responsibility an accident. Wesker escapes, and Chris and Jill are forced launcher to kill attacking Hunters. Anna then gives Jill a pendant to protect The pair then find Wesker in Anna's house, Umbrella research. Anna gives Wesker a pendant, which he is able However, it explodes, having been a trap for Wesker survives the explosion and finds a Chris and Jill later determine that there the B.O.W.s in the area. Chris and Jill find, and storm the facility There, Sergei Vladimir unleashes the t-Virus, Defenses inside the facility. They are able to take all of these down, as powerful Tyrant, the Tyrant-Armored Lethal facility. Using Chris and Jill's attack as a distraction, met by Sergei, who sends one of his Ivan bodyguards Wesker is able to dispatch of this threat, with the t-Virus. After he mutates, Wesker kills him, and steals supercomputer. He then erases the machine and leaves with Afterwards, Umbrella is tried and found guilty City outbreak. Wesker testifies anonymously, implicating manhunt. Wesker then uploads all of the stolen data again... A year later, the floating Mediterranean city outfit "Il Veltro". The Federal Bioterrorism Commission calls Security Assessment Alliance (co-founded by care of the threat of B.O.W.s in the city, of the FBC, Morgan Lansdale, to call for the power satellites the city used for energy. Despite the BSAA's leader, Clive R. O'Brian's all operatives from the city, and assigning to protect the building for evac. At the same time, a human rights organization before the city's destruction. One member, Neil Fisher, finds and rescues in the outbreak, and he gives her a teddy After the evacuations complete, Parker and the satellites activate, altogether destroying Disappointed by the FBC's decision to destroy leave the commission to join the BSAA. Months later, Leon S. Kennedy is sent to an Graham: daughter of the President, who was Iluminados. There, Leon encounters the villagers, infested Plagas". At the same time, Ada Wong (still working Albert Wesker to gain information on Las Plagas. She sees Leon battling the villagers, and the bell to lead the villagers away. Leon then meets a captured Luis Sera, who by Wesker's organization (who Ada is currently The two are then captured, and the Cult's the parasite while he is passed out. When the two awaken, they are able to break Leon then makes his way towards a nearby church, On his way, he is accosted by Los Iluminados shoots him, distracting him to chase her instead. She is then shot with a tranquilizer dart to escape easily. Leon fights a giant Plague-infected creature nearby cabin due to his exhaustion and festering After waking, Leon makes his way to the Church However, upon leaving with her, the pair are only has Leon been infected with the parasite, Los Iluminados plans to allow the two to return Plagas to infect and subsequently control turn. The two are able to escape the church and meet Luis. After defeating an onslaught of attacking Luis steps out and speaks to Ada alone, who sample of the parasite for her. Leon and Ashley then head off to reach a nearby extract. On their way, they are again confronted by his artificial eye, using it to activate a Inside the castle, Leon meets Ramon Salazar, Salazar, a 20 year old (despite his appearance), plagas, but the dominant species that allows hosts'. Leon and Ashley leave to go to the center up blood due to her infection. Distraught by this, she runs away from, Leon, Leon searches the castle for Ashley, and is He asks her about her employment, but she escaping in a smoke screen. Leon finds Ashley, and as he is about to arrive suppress his and Ashley's infection. However, he is quickly killed by Saddler, Luis obtained for Ada. Saddler leaves, and with his dying breath, that he must retrieve the sample from Saddler. Ada witnesses this, and informs Wesker of Leon reunites with Ashley, but the two are Leon fights his way to Salazar, who reveals on a nearby island. Salazar then fully mutates, and Leon is able Leon then finds Ada in a speedboat, who offers Once they arrive, Ada escapes from Leon once Krauser, now working for Wesker as well. The two discuss their plan to obtain the sample, that Krauser's mission is to kill Leon. In the research facility, Leon finds Ashley, reveals that their virus has progressed to Ashley join him as he leaves Leon incapacitated. When Leon regains his ability to move, he attacked by Krauser. Just as Krauser is about to kill Leon, Ada She then leaves Leon once again. Leon fights his way to Ashley once again, infected arm fully mutates before the two continuing on. Ada reports Krauser's death to Wesker, who killing Saddler, with Ada on cleanup duty Later, Leon and Ada's paths cross once again, over Leon, causing him to attack Ada. She is able to stab him to snap him out of Afterwards, Ada is attacked by Krauser, who The two fight, and Ada is able to kill him Leon finally finds Ashley's containment able to overpower him. Luckily, Ada arrives and shoots Saddler, providing from her pod and escape. Ada then fights Saddler on her own, eventually However, when she goes to retrieve the sample, Leon and Ashley find a room with a device They use the device to cure themselves, then Leon leaves Ashley behind, and goes to the captured Ada. Leon is able to free Ada from captivity, and During their battle, Ada finds a rocket launcher, defeat his foe. After killing Saddler, Leon obtains the sample, She then escapes in a helicopter, throwing island. Leon and Ashley make their way to the jet island, narrowly escaping the blast as they Months later, FBC agent Rachel Foley is sent cruise ship called the Queen Zenobia to investigate Il Veltro, responsible for the Terragrigia The pair get separated during their mission, engineered t-Abyss virus who ultimately kill Later, BSAA director Clive O'Brian sends as it was reportedly the last known location Sherawat. Jill and Parker reach the ship, and fight Chris tied up behind a locked door. When they unlock it and enter, however, they surprise attacked and knocked out by a Veltro Meanwhile, Chris and Jessica are in the mountains operations at the Valkoinen Mokki airstrip. Just as they reach it, however, they are finally sent Parker and Jill to the Mediterranean with them. Believing them to be captured by Il Veltro, On the ship, Jill and Parker awaken and regroup, FBC agent Raymond Vester, who immediately Raymond refuses to answer why the FBC is there, Later, they find him once again in a communication The equipment to call out is destroyed, but Il Veltro leader Jack Norman who threatens supply with the t-Abyss virus. O'Brian then sends agents Keith Lumley and Il Veltro's motives. On the ship, Jill and Parker head off to restore On her way, Jill finds a now mutated Rachel Her and Parker then find a lift which takes Meanwhile, Keith and Quint arrive at the airstrip, hunters, as well as a security token to allow freight plane. Parker and Jill reach the engine room and quickly flood into the room, trapping the Keith and Quint find the crashed plane, but They are able to fend off the attack and access Quint finds the coordinates of the ship and it to Chris and Jessica. The pair board the ship and begin to search However, they find the ship to be missing They then discover that they are on the Queen On the Zenobia, Parker and Jill are able to to call O'Brian. He informs them that they were set up, but that the energy satellite used to destroy and pointed at the Queen Zenobia. Quint helps Parker and Jill find and operate to use to divert the satellite's targeting While the explosion misses the ship, it creates ship. Meanwhile, O'Brian speaks to FBC director with Il Veltro. Chris and Jessica reach the real Queen Zenobia, by the Veltro operative that was on the ship. He begins to reveal the secret behind the Jessica, much to Chris' disappointment. They rush to unmask the operative and discover He whispers something to Parker before seemingly Chris and Jill then reunite to search for and Jessica go to find a way to buy time by Meanwhile, back in the mountains, Keith and that Veltro was never back in effect after all a show orchestrated by O'Brian to convince The FBC discover their presence and order are able to avoid. Chris and Jill reach the laboratory where it. They are then contacted via video phone by the Terragrigia incident in order to gain Meanwhile, Parker pulls a gun on Jessica, is a mole inside BSAA working for Lansdale. Just then, Raymond arrives and confirms, having Raymond proclaims that Jessica is currently mechanism to destroy any evidence of Lansdale's Jessica confirms these suspicions by grabbing self-destruct sequence. Raymond then runs after Jessica, leaving a Jill and Chris find Parker, and Jill helps However, when a catwalk breaks, she is unable While Chris helps try to pull him up, he ultimately Jill and Chris race to get to the helipad the ship is attacked by a giant mutated creature. They are able to fight it off and await a the creature, which sinks the ship with it. Chris and Jill then debrief O'Brian on the Lansdale into revealing his affiliation with He also reveals that before Kirk and Quint ship, the Queen Dido. Meanwhile, on the sinking ship, Raymond finds the ship, before picking him up and helping At the BSAA headquarters, the FBC, led by his involvement in the new Il Veltro as a Chris and Jill then submerge in the sea and Jack Norman inside. However, they discover that he had injected but had been resisting it's mutation through Jill obtains a drive containing recordings they try to leave, he injects himself with the "Final Form Abyss" Tyrant. The pair are able to fight and kill him, bringing all. Jill then broadcasts Norman's video of his involvement with the terrorist attack behind Seeing this, the FBC agents immediately release Afterwards, the FBC is dissolved into the under the United Nations. Parker is found and rescued on the shore and O'Brian, however, steps down, knowing that Later, Raymond delivers a sample of the t-Abyss secretly been working together for TRICELL Later that year, Claire Redfield, now working arrives at Harvardville Airport to meet with Meanwhile, protests break out over an outbreak by pharmaceutical company WilPharma's experiments Suddenly, a t-Virus zombie attacks the airport, In the shuffle, Claire sees a surprisingly Suddenly, a landing plane carrying an infected Claire is able to rescue Rani, as well as and the four make their way to a VIP lounge. By nightfall, the city's Special Response and set up a quarantine for any survivors Leon S. Kennedy is sent in to assist two S.R.T the situation. While the two initially disregard his advice, airport, fight off several infectees, and The group are able to escape with Leon and and infected in the process. Outside, Leon calls his contact at the US who informs him that a member of terrorist which will hopefully lead to a link between airport. Meanwhile, a fleet of WilPharma trucks arrive, However, WilPharma researcher Frederic Downing the t-Virus vaccine. Leon arrives and confirms that WilPharma's the outbreak, but rather an attempt to stop Claire then feels remorse for TerraSave's of the vaccine that could have prevented the Moments later, the trucks explode, destroying the vaccine. Believing this to be another bio-terrorist to check and make sure the raw data is safe. Claire remembers seeing Curtis Miller at the Curtis to be her brother) to take Leon to Claire then goes with Frederic to WilPharma. Leon and Angelia find that Curtis has lit Angela then takes a nearby photo, featuring died in the Raccoon City outbreak. At WilPharma, Senator Davis calls Frederic is in possession of. He doesn't follow this order, however, and of the G-Virus that William Birkin created a similar vaccine. Frederic then leaves to check on a server, G-Virus discovery. Just then, Frederic calls the office phone bomb and she needs to leave immediately. She then sees Curtis holding a briefcase before Leon and Angela arrive and split up. Leon goes upstairs and finds Claire, telling Angela then finds Curtis, who injected himself the truth about the Raccoon City incident, Marines arrive and begin to swarm Curtis, Claire reaches the elevator, and takes it Leon arrives in the main area and shoots down Leon and Angela help the surviving marines to spray flammable liquid to begin a self-destruct Curtis mutates once again and escapes from Marines. Like Birkin before him, Curtis seeks someone and he turns his sights on Angela. Leon and Angela then dive into a nearby pool They fall into a system of underground labs, Leon and Angela get separated, but Angela allowing his consciousness to regain a bit He tells her to run before the lab falls from Leon arrives, however, and grabs her to save Curtis uses his mutated tail to take hold, him falling into the abyss below. In the control room, Claire discovers that the entire ordeal with Curtis and his mutation, Davis. Claire then accuses him of being behind the to produce the vaccine in order to raise their Leon then arrives to reveal that the terrorist that the true mastermind behind the outbreaks so he could escape with the t-Virus, the vaccine, to General Grande. Leon, Claire, and Angela arrive at the intended the Virus from getting into terrorists' The next day, Leon, Claire, and Angela meet Leon reveals that Frederic was in fact a former with the viruses before it's destruction. Leon then leaves in a military helicopter, Later, Senator Davis is dead in his office, companies being erased from his computer by TRICELL, revealed to have bought what remained and collects the severed tip of Curtis' The next year, TerraSave sends Claire to a which has been devastated by the country's There, she meets a young boy who gives her outbreak, leading her to wonder what happened Meanwhile, Leon S. Kennedy, having recently travels to the White House to join with a These agents include a rookie named Patrick, Mad Dogs member Jason and radio operator Shen President Graham and his aide, Ryan, meet Leon, tasking them with investigating a cyberattack sensitive, classified information. Believing it to be an inside job, the group on premises in the past 24 hours. As Leon arrives, the power suddenly goes out. Patrick goes to investigate and finds Press the darkness. Spacer then goes into cardiac arrest before Patrick. Leon arrives just in time to protect him, Fearing an outbreak inside the White House, to a bunker for safety. Once there, Patrick is tasked with protecting the other three head out to take on the zombie After they clear out the mostly infected White up the corpses and cover up the incident, Claire Redfield then arrives at the White When she's shrugged off, she spots Leon, gave her. He isn't able to give it much thought, as as the "hero of Penamstan". The US Defense Intelligence Agency determines Facility in Shanghai. President Graham then decides to secretly stealth submarine to search for evidence regarding House. Meanwhile, Claire decides to investigate the believed the US only intervened in the civil She also learns that seven of the surviving home, but five of them since committed suicide, and one other. While Leon and Jason reflect on Penamstan bombing the latter was the right call) the The two then rush to the bridge to investigate, Leon then searches the sub while Jason and Delivery System minisub. There, the two agents find the surviving crew, they lock the hatch before suddenly murdering Leon then comes across more corpses, with As the sub's self-destruction sequence activates, When he reaches it, Shen May holds him at escape the submarine just before it explodes. Sometime later, the three reach a safehouse An oblivious Leon sarcastically asks Jason reveals that he and Shen May are after something a conspiracy by the US Government. Jason tries to appeal to Leon by reminding City, but Leon refuses to help him. The pair then break out in a fight, with Leon Shen May then runs off, and Leon gives chase. Elsewhere, Claire Redfield tracks down the as she investigates his home, she finds that There, she discovers broken vials on the floor, up in a chair with his head blown off by an Investigating the house, she finds a hidden them of the body. Meanwhile, Shen May arrives at her family's There, she meets with her grandfather Yu En, to find a cure for his infection. Leon follows her and holds them at gunpoint, her and Jason's past and current mission the one behind deploying B.O.W.'s in Penamstan. Leon then determines that Wilson must have House, which he forced Jason to stage in order Shen May then reveals that Wilson had a chip all of which he thought were destroyed. However, since Jun See was smuggled without chip from his body, and he hands it over to Suddenly, the mansion is hit by a bombing Leon and Shen May narrowly survive, as the Meanwhile, Wilson and President Graham prepare accords. At Wilson's behest, the speech includes in the White House, and the explosion of the As they prepare to leave, Claire arrives at involvement with the Mad Dogs unit, informing who committed suicide. He simply brushes her off and continues on. Back in the ruins of the mansion, Leon recovers her so she can expose Wilson. Leon initially refuses, not wanting her to He then realizes that Jason, not wanting justice in Penamstan, must still be alive, and also the mansion. Meanwhile, Claire returns to her motel room, agents. Sometime later, while the President prepares him relay a message to Graham, knowing that Claire then awakens to find herself held captive who tries to buy her silence with a charitable She predictably refuses, and he instead reveals His main goal, as it turns out, is to have China so their military can station in Penamstan. Afterwards, he plans to provide his "super creating a market for his inhibitor and thereby Wilson's speech is then interrupted by Jason, recognize. Jason then refuses the inhibitor, instead B.O.W. before he swiftly bites Wilson, infecting Leon and Shen May then arrive just as the its "sterilization" failsafe of dumping pool of acid. Shen May tries to plead with the mutated Jason expose Wilson, but he instead elects to reveal them know fear. Jason, losing his grip on humanity, then kills Meanwhile, President Graham is about to approach stops him and delivers Leon's message. With the knowledge that China was simply set speech with a far more hopeful tone. As Jason heads towards the surface, Leon notices acid. After doing so, the pair work together to launcher while Claire attempts to knock Jason When both their plans fail, Leon is forced able to pull a lever that collapses the section Jason into the acid while he grabs onto a Afterwards, Leon finds the remains of Jason, will be forced to spread fear he's witnessed. The final remains of the man then fall into Leon then returns to the surface to make sure as Patrick commends him for being a hero. Elsewhere, Wilson is still alive, but badly One of his agents then provides him with the with a logo reading "TRICELL". Claire and Leon then meet outside the White so she can expose the corruption within the Leon refuses, however, and the pair agree handle things as they each see fit. As she walks off, Claire notes that Leon's That same year, the BSAA receive intel on E. Spencer. Jill Valentine and Chris Redfield are sent potential information on the whereabouts of Meanwhile, Wesker is in the mansion, speaking The old man reveals that Wesker was actually children, which Albert was made to be the Wesker then powerfully thrusts his hand through While Spencer's security is found to be fight their way through mutated creatures standing over Spencer's corpse. The pair fight the powerful foe, but he evades killing him before Jill sacrifices herself a window and off the nearby cliff, leading to her death. Three years later, Chris Redfield is sent of the BSAA's West African Branch. The two then head off to find a black market smuggler named Ricardo Irving. They quickly discover, however, that most by a new type of Plagas. The two fight their way through the infected the only surviving member of the BSAA's DeChant informs them that Irving set them Team. He then hands over a data drive containing and dying. Soon after, Chris and Sheva are surrounded they are saved by the BSAA Delta Team, led Josh gives Chris a memory card with more information, Eventually, Chris and Sheva find and corner Before they can capture him, however, a masked him escape, unleashing a B.O.W. to distract They defeat it, and Delta Team member Dave with Delta Team to follow Irving to an oilfield. When they arrive at the rendezvous point, dead, and as he checks on one of them, he which Chris and Sheva are able to defeat afterwards. Chris and Sheva are ordered to return to headquarters, instead hoping to find her. Sheva agrees to help, and the pair head to on the way. There, they discover a village with more infected with the TRICELL logo. At the oilfield, Chris and Sheva find Josh, Team. They then find Irving and the masked figure, to explode. Josh secures a boat of his own, and the trio They then catch up to Irving's boat, and Plaga to mutate into a giant aquatic creature, As he lays dying on the ship, he blames his of TRICELL's West African division. He also mentions a new virus called Uroboros, to find the answers he's looking for. Josh takes Chris and Sheva to the cave, then get backup. Meanwhile, Excella and Wesker discuss the now come to its conclusion. She also administers a serum to Wesker to Chris and Sheva make their way through an find a mysterious flower called "Stairway Nearby, Chris spots an Umbrella logo, and that has since been taken over by TRICELL. There, they discover that the flower is the is the genesis of all of Umbrella's bio-weapons. The pair make their way to a cylindrical room which they had seen in the photographs with Chris then uses a computer to hopefully uncover They are attacked by a giant plagas infected the pod containing Jill. However, when it opens, Chris is disappointed They are then called by Excella, who orders one who pushed the BSAA to call for their The pair then continue into the lab, eventually the flesh. Excella then unleashes a Uroboros infected to kill. Deeper in the caves, the pair once again find Again, they are interrupted by the masked on, knocking off their mask. This prompts Wesker's arrival, much to Chris' Wesker then pulls down the masked firue's Wesker proclaims that he only has seven minutes afterwards he hands the task off to Jill. She attempts to break free of her control, the P30 chemical causing it. She then rips open her jumpsuit, exposing Chris and Sheva fight Jill, incapacitating Jill, now back to her normal self, encourages administering Uroboros across the globe. Chris objects, but Jill asks him to trust they enter a nearby elevator. On the surface, Chris and Sheva see a freighter The pair are able to secretly board the ship Jill passes out, but is rescued by Josh, who Sheva after he saw a ship leave. He then takes Jill to reach a helicopter outside On the ship, Chris and Sheva find Excella She flees, but drops one in the process. Sheva then picks it up, noticing Wesker's They chase her, eventually finding her once by Uroboros. Wesker then calls from an intercom, revealing the virus so he could rule over a new race Excella cries out, disappointed that she won't her body, killing her and consuming a nearby Chris and Sheva then call down a Satellite before it sinks the ship. Afterwards, they recieve a call from Jill Jill informs Chris of Wesker's secret: the abilities. She then mentions that an overdose of the abilities. The pair eventually reach Wesker preparing He attacks them, besting them with ease. However, Chris is able to subdue him, and While this stops his onslaught, he is still Chris and Sheva chase it on foot, and are off. A fight ensues on the plane, where Chris is the serum. This causes him to fall off of the plane, active volcano. There, Chris and Sheva emerge from the plane Refusing to give up his plan, Wesker punches infecting himself with a massive dose of the Chris and Sheva get separated in the ensuing to create a path so they can rejoin and fight After one final stand, Chris is able to shoot him into the volcano. Josh and Jill arrive in the escape helicopter, As they finish climbing it, however, Wesker of desperation, grabs the helicopter with Chris and Sheva then shoot him simultaneously Albert Wesker. The four then fly off into the sunset, and The next year, Rebecca Chambers takes a temporary in Philosophy, Western Australia. Another teacher at the school, Bethany, expresses have gone missing, and Rebecca runs off to Ezra Sennett. In his office, a local detective named Barrington the local fossil museum, but she writes this She leaves the room, but overhears Meyer receiving minimal. As Rebecca leaves, she comes across student an outbreak occurs. Bethany and Rebecca coordinate an evacuation notices a man who resembles Tyler Howard (a in St. Cloud, Minnesota). Chris Redfield, now in charge of training best recruit, Piers Nivans, to deal with the There, they meet with the BSAA's Oceania with Becca and Barrington. Chris takes charge of the situation, and sends wing, while he takes Rebecca and Piers to Not trusting Barrington, Chris takes his revolver ammunition. Now separated, Rebecca reveals to Chris that might be involved with the outbreak. She also reveals her suspicion that Dr. Howard the fossil museum, which he directs. As they leave, it is revealed that Tyler was In Ezra's office, he speaks with Howard Russel. Ezra reveals that he hired Dr. Howard to study anyone to become more intelligent. However, Howard used the university, and its bio-organic weapons instead. Chris' team reach the fossil museum, hoping However, they instead find bumbling security instructed by Howard to lock down the museum They then instruct Brown to show them how he does so, a Zombie attacks him, biting his Mary, trapped in an AV room with another student, the fire shutters to allow another student Olivia had not reached the room yet, however, go find her. Outside, Lucas is forced to kill an infected Afterwards, Post closes the door again, and Tyler follows closely behind. Meanwhile, Sophie speaks with Barrington, He reveals that he hopes the BSAA fails so cover up the entire situation. Sophie is able to retrieve his gun, but when that it has no bullets. Piers arrives and kills the zombie, and Barrington However, he comes back with a pistol of his The two then fight hand to hand, until they which they are saved from by Tyler, who proclaims leaving, allowing Barrington to escape as Just then, Sophie and Piers are joined by Mary convinces the two to help them go look Olivia to get her location. Meanwhile, Chris, Rebecca, and Posh are in Giant", the remains of a man discovered to the university to be researched by Dr. They are attacked by zombies, but Posh closes Chris then finds a hidden safe room, and the Inside, they find data relating to Umbrella's Chris then asks why Rebecca was initially that he was in fact Tyler's father. She also reveals that Tyler died 5 years ago her a PDA containing information on former When she found out his father was employed investigate him further. As she finishes telling her story, Barrington He leaves with her, threatening her life if outbreak. As they leave, they see Mary just as a trap Chris and Posh barely escape. Meanwhile, Lucas notices that Mary is no longer on. Chris and Posh find themselves in Howard's Chris and takes the data he found. Tyler reveals that he was recruited by the demands that Chris leave the situation to This prompts a fight between the two, in which father's hand in the academy's outbreak. and instead blames Umbrella, eventually submitting intention of clearing his father's name. Tyler then recalls a conversation he had with Howard would "reset" the world. Piers and Sophie arrive, accompanied by Lucas, Posh then finds Howard's identification Tyler is able to use it, and shutters open experimented on and turned into zombies. Lucas is shocked to find that Olivia is one The group then fight their way to escape through to calm Olivia. Initially distraught when Olivia is among himself, but is unable to before the virus He goes to attack Sophie, but Piers kills The pair then escape with Chris. Elsewhere, Tyler finds Mary, who laments the Chris, Sophie, Piers, and Posh arrive. Posh's leg has gotten too bad to proceed, him so the others can go find Rebecca. Meanwhile, Rebecca and Dr. Howard are both He explains that he was forced to work with income to support Tyler. He then continued to research the T-Virus, a way to resurrect Tyler. However, since he was unable to find Tyler's biological weaponry instead. Rebecca proclaims that she saw Tyler alive, back to his father. She escapes, with Barrington seeing her and Afterwards, Ezra tries to explain his motives find a need to war with one another. Matthew disagrees, believing that with no more. Meanwhile, Rebecca finds Sophie and Posh, first aid spray. However, his virus takes hold, and he begs to grant. Afterwards, Barrington catches up and holds He offers them one final chance of helping deny the offer. Barrington takes out his gun to shoot them, the detective, causing him to turn into a Sophie shoots him, finally killing him before for good as well. In Ezra's office, Matthew has hung himself and Dr. Howard is preparing to kill him. However, Chris, Piers, and Tyler arrive and Howard admits to creating a new strain of Irish Giant fossil, but Ezra is able to distract escaping. Tyler then confronts his father, who releases The three fight the Tyrant as Howard scurries Tyler and Chris distract the giant, and Piers Howard's disappointment. He then injects himself with the virus as and kill his father. Rebecca and Sophie reunite with the group, father apologizing for his actions and revealing to finish reading before she arrives and takes Mary reveals that she isn't truly human, another Umbrella researcher, and Dr. Howard, cure her fatal blood disease. This treatment worked, but required a steady Because of this, Mary considered Howard a for killing him. She also admits that it was her that led Howard his bioweapons. Chris is able to talk sense into her and take in hand-to-hand combat, enhanced by the virus The battle moves to the rooftop, and Tyler true anger lies with the fact that Lucas chose She then asks the group if she can start over She thanks them, saying she will now reset, The team fight the creature, before Rebecca shoots at it, leaving behind nothing but the Afterwards, Chris thanks Tyler for his help, Sophie then gives Piers her number, and they on the next threat together. Meanwhile, Ezra runs off with the sample of next to a bullet-ridden umbrella. He clutches the arm, apologizing to her for promising that he'll carry forward in starting Just then, the briefcase starts beep, leaving A year later, Claire Redfield attends a party her new partner: Moira Burton (former S.T.A.R.S. officer Barry Burton's eldest daughter). Claire is then pulled aside by Neil Fisher, in Washington. Suddenly, the power goes out in the building, who capture Claire, Moira, and several other When Claire awakens, she finds herself in her wrist. She is able to reunite with Moira, and when to be surrounded by mutated humans. As they move through the prison, an unknown the devices on their wrists. Using clever teamwork, the pair are able to by the woman, who refers to herself as the The two then make their way to a radio tower, an unknown island. Moira then sends out a distress call to whomever Claire and Moira then continue searching the members Gabe Chavez and Pedro Fernandez inside The group search the town to find parts to the Overseer activates a siren in the town Claire is able to shut off the siren, but massive fear. The Overseer then informs them that they have that reacts to fear, and Pedro mutates into from. She spots Neil Fisher outside, and he helps On the other side of the tunnel, Claire notices Figuring the Overseer must be there, she leads Eventually, they are forced to split with allow Claire and Moira to escape. As they progress through the city, Claire bear and a bracelet (albeit a different one) The girl, Natalia Korda, survivor of the Terragrigia As they approach it, Gabriel arrives in the sabotages the controls, causing the helicopter fear and mutation before it crashes to the Natalia goes missing. At the entrance of the tower, Claire finds There, they solve several puzzles until the in a waterway that leads to the tower. Inside the sewer system connected to the waterway, Evgeny Rebic who, while refusing to help them, On the other end, they reach the tower, and TerraSave employees that Neil had at the party, Moira then spots a feed of Neil on a monitor, In their conversation, Neil is revealed to he was personally chosen by Morgan Lansdale He then worked with the Overseer to create the re-establishment of the FBC. The Overseer chastises him for his foolishness, Claire and Moira find Neil, just as he begins He overpowers Claire, and Moira is forced using since she accidentally shot her sister child. Moira overcomes her fear and shoots Neil dead, Meanwhile, the Overseer looks over Natalia, kind of mechanism on her head. The Overseer proclaims that in six months, the machine's purpose is to transport the body. Claire and Moira find the Overseers office, feeds for the island, and passing through separated from them by an impenetrable barrier. She gives a soliloquy, mentioning how her his fate before being resurrected as a god. She then pulls out a pistol, and shoots herself the tower. The two then begin to run to escape the crumbling Claire before being crushed under a pile of and jump into the waters outside the island. Claire is later found and taken to an intensive Moira's father, Barry Burton, arrives to Claire apologizes to Barry, stating she did Sometime later, Moira is found and rescued She asks him to help her find a way off the give her shelter and teach her to hunt for After six months, however, the monsters on to food going scarce. As they begin to stockpile food, Evgeny finds with the virus and had since died on the island.This himself away to die alone from a fatal disease Meanwhile, Natalia wakes up in a strange room. Escaping from the contraption, she encounters clothing. Upset that she can't find her bear, Lottie, her find him. After being led by her dark version through Lottie. However, Lottie is revealed to be fake, and be the Overseer's consciousness, using Lottie The dark Natalia disappears, and Natalia finds The boat docks, and Barry Burton emerges, He finds Natalia, and agrees to take her with Barry discovers that somehow, Natalia is able two use this ability to traverse it, finally They proceed to reach the tower, now abandoned, and woman. Barry immediately recognizes the man as Albert is Alex Wesker, the sole surviving member Suddenly, Alex appears, now severely mutated, planned: in the moments between firing the fear took over, triggering her t-Phobos virus form. She tells Barry that she has killed Moira, him. He is able to shoot the ceiling and collapse his and Natalia's escape. Believing he was unable to save his own daughter, Soon, they come across the sewers, and find There, they also find Moira's cellphone, was trapped under the rubble. Barry then vows to kill Wesker for what she After the pair pass through a mine, however, of a cliff. She then expresses anger that her copied consciousness to choke her. However, when Natalia opens her eyes, Alex her to flee in fear. A visibly changed Natalia then finds Barry, never been herself. Eventually, the two reach Alex at her underground dose of the Uroboros virus, mutating into The two fight, but Barry is unable to stop However, Moira appears, having found Barry's a chance to grab Natalia and take her out Alex gives chase, but in the knick of time, a sniper rifle. Moira and Natalia board the helicopter, and Together, Claire and Barry weaken the mutated destruction of Albert Wesker, shoots Alex all. Barry survives the blast, and joins the group the BSAA to clean up the island. Barry then reveals his intention of adopting Not long after, Leon S. Kennedy is pulled of a civil war occurring in the Eastern Slav are in use. However, just as soon as he arrives, he receives informing him that the U.S. government has Somewhat annoyed but also determined to clear presence, Leon ignores the order and goes Leon eventually finds his CIA contact, but He is able to get out the word "Beekeeper" attacks and finishes him off. Leon runs from the Licker, but is eventually However, it stops on command from a man who When he awakens, Leon finds himself in a basement, forces: JD, Alexander Kozachenko (known as Ataman). Soon, the group is discovered by the Eastern Leon to break free. Ataman then falls sick, and asks Buddy to complies with. He then tells JD to go to a nearby church Meanwhile, the president of the Eastern Slav Wong, who is posing as a representative from Ada presents the dominant species Plaga, and have a master-slave relationship with lesser Elsewhere, Leon follows JD, and the pair are This leads Leon to come to the conclusion of the Plaga parasites which allow them to effect of turning them into mutated hosts JD leads Leon to the church, and asks him the Easter Slav army bombed a school, killing Leon comes across Ada, initially blaming her seven years ago. She denies this, but does confirm that her in Eastern Slav. She then leaves, warning Leon that the city Returning to the church, Leon finds it to only survivor. Buddy arrives, much to JD's delight, but been infected during the previous battle. Leon reluctantly shoots JD, and turns to ask Buddy refuses, seeing it as a necessary tool is bombed, causing the ceiling of the church Meanwhile, Svetlana is informed that Ada is When Ada arrives to speak to the president, a hand-to-hand battle between the two. When Ada tries to escape the room, the exits as an elevator that begins to descend below Leon arrives at the Capital, finding it to Buddy's arrival and use of the Plagas. Leon finds the elevator shaft and heads down Meanwhile, Ada awakens, finding herself strung She's able to use a knife hidden in her to find Leon inside of a "beehive" like samples of the dominant species Plaga. Svetlana shows up, surrounded by her army, Leon to deal with the soldiers. Buddy then arrives with his attack Lickers, Svetlana then taunts Buddy behind bulletproof hole, two Tyrants. She then ascends in another elevator, leaving Now forced to team up, the pair attempt to forced to flee. They seemingly find freedom when they enter forcing the pair to climb through the hatch The weight of the Tyrants then causes the jumps up to Leon, who catches him, allowing Outside, the two men are met by another Tyrant, Buddy commandeers a nearby tank and drives Unable to get a steady shot, Buddy controls Leon to shoot it's face, decapitating and Their victory is short-lived, however, as Leon helps Buddy escape, knowing he's the of the Plagas. Having ran out of ammunition, Leon then prepares they are swifty lit up by US Air Force fighters Afterwards, Svetlana gives a press conference but she is quickly informed that they are Russian military forces, intervening in the to Svetlana's resignation. Elsewhere, Buddy and Leon watch the U.S./Russian feel used by the political machine. Knowing the Plaga will overtake him, Buddy on himself. Leon stops him, telling him that he owes it means losing the use of his limbs. He then shoots Buddy in the spinal cord, killing live. Afterwards, Leon speaks with Hunnigan, who Plaga situation, while Leon remains with doubts. Ada then calls her employer, not sure whether buyer offers to wipe out an international After the dust settles in the city, Buddy confined to a wheelchair, but finally content. The next year, Chris and Piers are informed mutual friend and BSAA advisor Professor Doug The two learn that he had gone with his nephew visit it. There, they find the school to already have one survivor: Professor Wright's nephew, They go to save the Professor, but find that Merah believes the perpetrator of the outbreak Bindi, who was given a strain of a new virus or C-Virus, had been infected with it and Merah disobeys a direct order from Chris and student. However, she mutates once again, and catches They fight once more, and Piers kills her. The cleaners arrive and wipe out what remains woman, and her motives, stay hidden from the Meanwhile, after the C-Virus outbreak, Umbrella Umbrella Corporation (recreated as an anti-B.O.W. Umbrella to differentiate itself from it's for one of their agents, codenamed 3A7, led Eventually, Jackson goes missing, and the who, despite constantly setting him up for performance. Because he survives these trials, Betrand and becoming feared by its remaining researchers. One month later, Chris and Piers are again Team in Edonia, an eastern European state infected (called J'avo) as weapons. Elsewhere in Edonia, mercenary Jake Muller He injects himself with a "supplement" but doesn't seem to be doing anything for Sherry Birkin, now a US agent, arrives and the C-Virus, developed and distributed by Believing Jake has the antibodies for the Sherry makes a deal with Jake to pay fifty During their escape from the village, Neo-Umbrella to chase the two. Sherry and Jake eventually meet up with Chris, as Claire's brother. Soon after, Neo-Umbrella releases a giant Afterwards, Chris provides a BSAA helicopter Their escape is short lived, however, as their pursuing Jake. The monster eventually causes the helicopter to the snowy mountainside beneath them. Meanwhile, Chris, Piers, and the BSAA find telling them she was being held hostage by C-Virus. Chris assigns a soldier, Finn, to escort Ada, This turns out to be a trap, however, and Team, infecting all of them, turning them The cocoons hatch, and one of the monsters head, concussing him and making him lose consciousness At a nearby hospital, Chris awakens with no and he secretly leaves the hospital. On the snowy mountain, Jake awakens to find She tells him to pull it out, and when he quickly due to the G-Virus still in her blood. The two find a cottage to take refuge, and her father's actions in Racoon City, as that drove her to follow in their footsteps. The two bond over their respective burdens Neo-Umbrella that attack the cottage. They are able to escape the assault, but are They duck the creature temporarily, but when with more opposition, and their giant stalker The mysterious woman who gave Jake's squad and tells Jake about Albert Wesker's failure Wesker was in truth Jake's father, passing The Ustanak then knocks out Jake, and he and Six months later, Ada Wong receives a call C. Simmons, who claims to have intel on her Following his instructions, she finds a submarine system that curiously already has her fingerprints Inside, she finds a film from Simmons instructing vaccine to be produced from his blood. Ada's surprised to find that the orders them, leading her to wonder if somebody else An explosion occurs on the ship, and Ada is During this escape, she receives another transmission the US will suffer a bioterrorist attack, the attacks will be at the hands of Neo-Umbrella's Confused by her findings, Ada refuses to be escaping the submarine. The next day, Simmon's warning comes true, the President of the United States, Adam Benford, in which he planned to final reveal the true public. However, the president is infected, and Leon Harper are forced to shoot him, putting the Afterwards, they receive a call from Hunnigan, being ordered to leave. They decide to check out the Cathedral first responsible for the outbreak, but will only Cathedral. The pair find some survivors, they escape On the way Hunnigan calls once again to inform the attack. She then asks what's at the Cathedral, as for information. Just then, the bus is forced to swerve to are forced to continue on foot to the Cathedral. Meanwhile, Ada watches from nearby and follows There, they find the entrance to an underground in a cocoon-like form. Leon also finds a tape labeled "Happy Birthday, birthed from one of the cocoons at some unknown .The two make their way through the lab and She asks Leon to help her get her sister out he agrees as the three head out. After some traversal, however, Deborah starts transforming into one of the cocoons. Shortly after, she emerges, but is shot by Helena goes to apologize to Deborah, but she to fight the three. During the battle, Ada gives Leon a ring, They are able to defeat the creature in battle, allows her to fall to her death. She then reveals that Simmons had kidnapped didn't asist his plot to assisnate the president. Ada leaves the two, and they receive a call However, before they are able to warn her He then frames them for the president's death, to him. Meanwhile, Ada finds the lab containing the watches it herself, recognizing this as the Afterwards, she is called by Simmons once the fake Ada the whole time, disguising her The real Ada realizes that Simmons, and the Family"), would never risk exposing themselves politics, so she surmises that this fake Ada purpose of destroying it. The fake Ada confirms this, noting that when on Ada Wong. The real Ada then calls the real Simmons, fact working against him. She then heads off to find the woman as she Leon and Helena make their way out of the to bring Simmons to justice. Outside, they witness Tall Oaks being destroyed in an act all too similar to Raccoon City's They receive a call from Hunnigan, who informs route to China, where another C-Virus attack Knowing that Leon and Helena are on the top death, Hunnigan helps them fake their deaths, Simmons. Back in Europe, Chris (still without his memories) where he's not exactly welcome. Piers finds him after months of searching of his partner. As Piers gives him a pep talk, the bar patrons take Chris back. Realizing this is the only way he can get place back in the BSAA and joins Piers to Elsewhere, Claire Redfield drives to go visit brother, Chris, is on his way to China to tells the person on the other end of the line At the Burton household Barry witnesses some Upstairs, Natalia, now fully overcome by Alex poetry, ending her passage with a crooked In China, Chris, Piers, and Alpha team execute group of hostages from a B.O.W. riddled building. Afterwards, they escape the building, and memories of the events six months prior. Elsewhere in China, Jake and Sherry have been facility since their abduction six months Jake is able to escape from his guards and Sherry's escape as well. The two reunite and get in contact with the superiors are in China as well. The two then find a motorcycle and use it Chris and Piers come across Jake and Sherry before heading off to search for Ada at nearby Jake and Sherry also head out, and soon witness They rush it to find the plane's only two Sherry and Leon reunite, and he reveals that Sherry, who reveals that Simmons is her direct but before the conversation can go any further, to battle it. They are able to drop a tower on the Ustanak the two groups. Sherry reveals Simmons' location to Leon, Leon and Helena reach the facility, and witness They follow her inside, and to their surprise Leon stops Chris from shooting her, arguing it all. This delay gives Ada the chance to drop a Chris leaves to capture Ada, while Leon and Meanwhile, on their way to meet with Leon Sherry are cornered by a J'avo wielding real Ada Wong, who is still searching for Sherry, Jake, Leon, and Helena finally regroup hand in the outbreaks, but justifies that world. Sherry hands Leon a data chip with research potentially stop the C-Virus. Leon and Helena then provide cover for Jake As they leave, however, they are ambushed Meanwhile, Leon and Helena continue their he is ambushed by a J'avo as well, who shoots which he believes is the work of the Ada doppelganger. Simmons runs off and falls onto a nearby moving onto at the last second. On top of the train, Simmons receives a call who admits that she turned him into a monster that soon the whole world would suffer the Helena and Leon catch up to Simmons, who reveals the world from learning the truth about Raccoon the global political order to collapse. He then mutates from the virus, forcing Leon him before the train derails and they are Elsewhere, Chris and Piers have chased the taken over by Neo-Umbrella. They finally corner her on the bridge of the missile containing a massive amount of the City, but on a global scale. Just after this revelation, however, a helicopter Family" secret society, who shoots the fake Piers opens the briefcase she took from the virus. He and Chris then head to try to disarm the Meanwhile, the real Ada Wong infiltrates the of her doppelganger. As it turns out, Simmons' hatred of Ada, to create his own replica of her that would He then created a strain of the C-Virus, fused named Carla Radames. However, this plan ultimately failed when in her new physical form. Ada finds Carla's dead body on the deck plight. Hower, Carla suddenly re-awakens, mutated After a battle spanning the entire ship, Ada finds a helicopter to escape and investigate files. On the ship, Chris and Piers try to stop the it heads towards the City. Leon calls Chris, who frantically tells the explodes over China, immediately enveloping almost all of its inhabitants practically Leon then sends Chris to Neo-Umbrella's and Jake: who he reveals is Wesker's son. Chris then tells Leon that Ada is dead, which of the doppelganger situation. Leon and Helena fight through the infected to Leon's confusion. Eventually the pair reach the Quad Tower, Ada arrives in the helicopter, and Simmons use Jake's blood to make the virus stronger like creature. The three fight and defeat him one more time, and Helena follow. On their way up, Ada is incapacitated by Simmons, Simmons. She awakens, and Simmons eventually knocks and saves him before dropping Simmons below Shortly after, Leon spots Ada, who calls him the roof before parting ways with him one Helena tells Leon to go after her, but he On the roof, Simmons absorbs the bodies of to enhance his power. Now running from a giant mutated B.O.W., Leon present Ada left behind: yet another rocket He uses it once more, and Simmons is finally by a structure in the center of the tower, own blood: one final omen of Neo-Umbrella. Also in the helicopter, the two find a make-up of the evidence incriminating Simmons in the their innocence. They then escape the city in the helicopter Afterwards, Ada is able to enter the laboratory research, including her "greatest work": Now knowing that Carla was no innocent, Ada sets her lab, including the cocoon, ablaze, She then receives a phone call offering her Meanwhile, Chris and Piers make their way and once they arrive, Chris reveals his intentions passing the torch on to Piers. The pair find the controls to release Jake During their ensuing conversation, Jake sarcastically reminds him of his father, Albert Wesker. He then reveals to Jake that he was the one Angered at this revelation, Jake pulls a gun him if he wishes, but he only asks that Jake return. Jake ultimately decides to not shoot his father's situation at hand. As the four attempt to leave the facility, gigantic B.O.W. designed to destroy the entire planet), awakens, while he and Piers fight the creature. Jake and Sherry run off, while Piers and Chris The two fail in the battle, however, with by it. In order to save his commanding officer, Piers strain he took from Carla and using the enhanced and saves Chris. The pair then attempt to escape the facility, where they can find the cure. Meanwhile, as Jake and Sherry attempt their Ustanak. Jake is able to punch the creature into a tram that they use to leave. However, in a fiery eruption behind them, However, with it's weak spot now exposed, to shoot it and finally kill it, allowing As Chris opens the door to an escape pod, Knowing that it's too late for him, Piers opting to die with the destruction of the As Chris's pod shoots towards the surface, moment, Piers shoots a giant blast of electricity, On the surface, a helicopter arrives to extract and returns to command in the BSAA. Afterwards, Sherry flies back to the US, having Nations' top researchers. Jake's relationship to Wesker is kept highly a vaccine for the C-Virus, which helps to Sherry receives a message from Jake, who jokingly off on a motorcycle. Later, Helena visits her sister's grave, her. Helena turns herself in for her hand in helping evidence and the extortion, Helena cannot Her actions are kept classified, and her freedom Helena then tosses Ada's make-up case to time the two meet. Sometime later, Jake is in a small village to his mercenary ways. He then proceeds to protect a young boy, asking The next year, TerraSave sends Claire Redfield the filming location of the "Idol Survival" by infected. Through her investigation, Claire discovers was purchased by Oswell E. Spencer nearly Claire and her team find the survivors of to a safe location on the island: an abandoned There, Claire discovers that the island was into immortality for Spencer. Claire finds Dirk Miller, the creator of the of Alex's), and Claire goes to apprehend However, one of the survivors from the Idol agent from one of Umbrella's competitors: She obtains a final strain of a virus created A few hours later, Claire awakens as Zili Claire is able to destroy the mutation with BSAA extraction, reporting her findings to In October of that year, Mia Winters, researcher "The Connections", is on the cargo ship known as "E-001": the first of the E-Type However, a hurricane hits the ship, and the aged to resemble a ten-year-old child to help Eveline begins to infect the crew of the ship, fungal "Mold" which allows her to control Eveline begins to refer to Mia as her mom, is herself infected with the mold. She then rushes to send an emergency message to forget her and live his life, before the causes her to be thrown into the surrounding As the hurricane settles, Jack Baker rescues in Dulvey, Louisiana. His family, consisting of wife Marguerite, care of the rescuees, until Eveline awakens the power goes out in the house. Zoe then finds her family going insane under She avoids her them, escaping outside to a passed out with a note nearby warning them there's a cure in the form of a serum. When she turns around, she is greeted by Eveline, The next day, Zoe awakens at the dining table, Her hopes are short-lived, however, as Eveline once more. Zoe then begins to spend her days avoiding cure Mia mentioned in her note. At some unspecified time in an unknown location a mansion to escape an outbreak. Inside, they find several uninfected men and Suddenly, they all awaken simultaneously, The survivors who awaken quickly discover got there, nor do they recognize each other. When they open the door to try to escape, that enters the mansion. The nurses then inform the survivors about The nurses then claim that they were sent unconscious survivors, but are met with much They soon agree that they must work together for an escape. Ebihara then remembers something the leader ones surviving and making it to the next round, believe they are part of some sick game or One of the members of the group, an army Ranger reveals he had heard of selection tests like He then takes charge and the group finally Jinno chooses to split the group into teams journalist named Zama. Jinno's team includes Terayama (an unemployed (a human rights lawyer). Zama's team includes Bandou (a housewife), Karasawa's team then includes Ebihara, Abe, They then split up and search for anything as well as escape. Later, the groups reconvene in the main hall medicine, and a box of weapons. The group then argue over whether or not they and Bandou have been trained in firearms use. During their argument, Terayama notices an to check and notice they had been injected Suddenly, Suzuki remembers that he saw another through the front door then never came back. Just then, there's a knock at the door, The man Suzuki saw rushes in with a chainsaw, with no memory of how he got there, but he the zombie opposition outside. The group begins to treat his wounds and he professor at the nearby university, and joins Now knowing what they face, Jinno agrees to caution to not hurt each other. The teams split up again, agreeing to meet Jinno leaves his team behind to scout ahead, the zombies, believing that immortality and potentially be achieved with the research He believes that the building they are in his excitement in the possibility. He also reveals that he lied about being a lied about their occupations as well. Jinno arrives soon after and takes the group Bandou and Zama also get split from their doubts that Bandou is who she says she is, quickly dismisses. The rest of their group catches up, and they Elsewhere, Ebihara notices she got a message Confused, they read the message; finding that herbs they found. Abe becomes suspicious that only Ebihara received they quickly drop it and move on. On the other side of the mansion, Zama comes in a test to gather data on the zombies, which Like the other groups, they then continue As Karasawa's group traverses, he notices found. He confronts her, and she reveals that she of becoming like them. Later, Hashimoto begins to show symptoms of Ebihara offers up the herb to treat him, and knows so much about the herb. Karasawa speaks up and reveals that Ebihara knows of the herb's healing nature. Just then, Hashimoto turns into a zombie, When he begins to swing it at the group, Ihara to overpower him and take him down with the Karasawa then shoots the zombie, putting him Afterwards, the group leave, and Karasawa Ihara also awakens, and leaves the room. Meanwhile, Ando and Suzuki decide to leave However when they go outside, they are met Ihara also arrives with a group of other zombies, The survivors regroup in the main hall and lost. They begin to discuss the virus responsible they're in is to test to see if the survivors virus. Okonuchi begins to show signs of infection, Jinno and Karasawa then take him aside and The group then move on, but Doi stays behind, Okonuchi, now turned into a zombie, then arrives Outside, Jinno, Karasawa, and Zama clear out finally kill. Elsewhere, Ebihara continues to take the medication, her, telling her that eventually Abe will Hashimoto then attacks Jinno, but he is rescued down. Karasawa and Jinno find a key hanging from Zama stops them, revealing that he is infected The three take Ebihara with them, leaving The two then take their guns and shoot each Bandou shoots down the key, and Karasawa retrieves They try it on a door in the front, but find They ask Ebihara to think about anything she that she knows the password, and that she's have made it to this point in the test. Ebihara herself is the key to the last door, there is one sole, most powerful survivor She then prompts them to fight to the death. Bandou refuses, and pulls her gun on Ebihara. Jinno does not allow her to shoot, and stabs his sights on Karasawa. Ebihara commands Jinno to drop his weapons He then reveals to Karasawa that he knew about a military experiment he was chosen to participate The two proceed to fight as Ebihara watches Surprisingly, Karasawa overpowers Jinno, who to stab Karasawa with it, but he is able to with the knife, before he takes it to slice Ebihara applauds Karasawa and reveals that very start, and the purpose of the experiment a Tyrant. She then opens the door, and afterwards, Karasawa Karasawa then closes the door, locking himself Bandou then stands up, seemingly uninjured. She reveals herself to being involved in the abilities as a Tyrant. She then reveals that she works for a private them to militaries across the world, with He then picks up a nearby gun and shoots her He then puts the gun up to his own head, but through the locked door. He offers Karasawa to come with him to rule to become a mindless weapon. He then puts the gun back to his head and Sometime later, Chris Redfield is sent with a bio-weapon arms dealer named Glenn Arias, her son Zack, who were taken hostage by Arias. They find a mansion and split up into groups. One group finds Zack, who is infected and Chris is the only one to escape the building Arias reveals that he has designed a new virus and foe. He then brings forth his enhanced bodyguards, Cathy. Arias then leaves, as Chris is surrounded protects him from. Four months later, Rebecca Chambers is working new viral outbreak that is growing around She sends her assistant, Aaron, to retrieve of her vaccine experiments is reporting a Aaron notices an open vent, but when he inspects The power in the lab goes out, and Maria releases everyone in the facility. Rebecca is able to reach the vaccine she recently preventing her infection. She takes the vaccine data on a flash drive, who she is forced to kill with a fire extinguisher. She takes cover in her lab, but Maria throws and allowing zombies to enter and attack. At the last second, however, Rebecca is saved Later, in a hotel room, Chris and Rebecca presence in the lab indicates that the virus Rebecca then reveals that the virus' genome prompting her and Chris to seek out Leon (who They find Leon in Colorado, drowning his sorrows DC in a bombing he was unable to prevent. Leon refuses to join in their fight, prompting To break up the argument, Rebecca reveals actually infected people all across the United it using an unknown trigger. Arias surveils the restaurant from afar, and Later, when Rebecca uses the bathroom, she Inside the restaurant, Patricio, the man who and tells Leon that his wife and daughter of Los Iluminados who are working to help the US, and pleas that Leon help. Leon refuses, but soon after, Arias' men firing on the restaurant. Patricio hands his phone off to Leon before Chris then sees Maria making off with Rebecca, Later, Rebecca wakes up, now wearing a wedding Arias arrives and reveals that he is recreating a drone strike by the US, which he was the He has reanimated the remains of his family die at the hands of the United States, fueling He reveals that the virus he has created is it consists of three strains: one to infect, He then notes Rebecca's resemblance to his place. She refuses, angering Arias and having her and replace her arm with his wife's, the Meanwhile, Leon and Chris inspect data from had used the A-GUA-A brand of drinking water to trigger it soon. They also learn of the vaccine strain that infected individuals. Arias then triggers the virus, sending A-GUA-G infecting the city at large. Leon, Chris, and their army help split up They are able to destroy them all, and Maria Chris and Leon make their way to Arias' a short fight with Diego. Chris takes Rebecca to the roof of the building, After a short fight, Chris is able to throw he nearly dies upon impact. However, Diego comes upon him, and absorbs both of their heads. The now mutated Arias makes his way to the Chris can search for the vaccine. Arias jumps to a nearby helicopter, and Leon as it flies into him, exploding on impact Chris then arrives and launches a grenade He then cures Rebecca, and the group release and ending the outbreak. Later, Maria (having survived the explosion looks on in a silent rage. In June of 2017, a television crew travel supposedly "haunted house". Inside, the crew are attacked by the Baker captive and the other two killed. Clancy is then toyed with by the family. He almost escapes Marguerite's captivity by Lucas, who begins to force him to play 21 where he is forced to indirectly cause Clancy's final game came as part of a "birthday burned to death. Shortly after, Ethan Winters arrives in Dulvey, there after receiving a panicked message from three years. He finds a house, and underneath, discovers However, this doesn't last long, and she Ethan to kill his wife. Shortly after, he receives a call from Zoe escape through the attic. On his way, however, he is attacked again walking off. In the attic, he is attacked by Mia once again, He is unable to leave, however, as Jack Baker When he awakens, he is welcomed into the "family" woman. Ethan is able to escape from his restraints, A deputy arrives to investigate the house, to fight one-on-one. Ethan wins, with Jack surprisingly delivering Jack's death is short-lived, however, as witnessing his wounds healing and regenerating. Ethan slips away from Jack, and fights his Eveline's Mold in the basement. Eventually Ethan has a second showdown with house. In the backyard, Ethan speaks to Zoe and learns to create a serum to cure both women of their Ethan then heads off to find the ingredients He then learns that Lucas has captured the Ethan is forced to play the same "game" to outsmart Lucas and escape alive, forcing Ethan then finds Mia and Zoe, who creates Ethan provides. However, suddenly, Jack appears once more, Ethan is forced to inject jack with one of state) allows his body to finally die. Outside, Ethan must decide which woman to Naturally, he chooses to cure his wife, Mia, two leave her behind as they escape on a boat. They come across the tanker that Mia arrived This knocks Ethan unconscious, and he has innocence and asking Ethan to kill Eveline Mia then wakes on the ship and begins to search She has visions of Eveline, whom she doesn't Eveline makes Mia watch a tape which details memory. She then finds Ethan and hands him a vial She then resists Eveline's control and allows He then finds a nearby secret lab and learns created to take control of her victims. Lucas, however, was immunized against Eveline about her for her creators, The Connections. Using Eveline's DNA, Ethan creates a toxin to the Baker house. There, she tries to take control of him, but Afterwards, her true current form is revealed aging had been accelerated as a side-effect She then mutates into a giant creature, knocking There, he receives a message from an unknown called the Albert-01. Ethan then uses it to shoot Eveline and finally Afterwards, the "Blue Umbrella" Corps and their leader takes off his mask to reveal The couple are then reunited and evacuated them away from the horrors of Dulvey. Chris then heads into the secret lab Ethan gain more intel on The Connections. Despite several traps left by Lucas, Chris eventually find another one operated by the Lucas reveals that he had betrayed the organization there. Chris is able to corner Lucas, shooting him Chris is able to kill his mutated form then of Eveline's data to an unknown third party. Afterwards, Chris is called back to the camp Sometime later, a pair of Blue Umbrella soldiers Her Uncle, Joe Baker, arrives and takes down for her current condition. One of them tells Joe about a cure in a nearby When he returns, he administers the cure to The Umbrella soldier explains that she needs However, before he can reveal its location, Joe takes Zoe to find the base, encountering Man". Joe finds the base, but discovers the cure Onboard, Joe encounters the Swamp Man, but However, before he can administer it to Zoe, to a nearby church. There, Joe faces the Swamp Man, who he discovers Jack Baker. Jack knocks Joe unconscious, then puts him Joe survives, washing up onshore near the He fights his way through Molded and finds Joe makes his way inside and finds Zoe, guarded The two fight one final time, and Joe uses and for all. Joe then gives Zoe the full cure, and she Just then, Blue Umbrella forces arrive, and Afterwards, Zoe is fully cured of her infection, thanks for keeping his promise to send help. By 2021, Ethan and Mia are relocated by Chris down with their newborn daughter, Rosemary. One night, after reading Rosemary a bedtime puts the baby to bed before returning to Mia. Suddenly, the power goes out, and Mia is shot and his team, the Hound Wolf Squad. Despite Ethan's pleas, Chris delivers a Rosemary and knocks out Ethan, putting them Sometime later, Ethan wakes outside in the He finds their guard dead, and Rose, as well Ethan heads off to examine his surroundings, There, Ethan finds the village nearby abandoned, him a handgun. His house is then attacked by unseen creatures, After passing several dead bodies, Ethan is Lycan which bites off half of his hand. Ethan fights off the Lycans in the village, they are called away by the toll of the Castle's Afterwards, Ethan sees an old woman who informs "Mother Miranda". He then meets with a few villagers who let However, once inside, one of the survivors Ethan is able to escape, once again emerging Outside, he finds Mother Miranda, killing He tries to chase her, but finds the old woman Ethan makes his way to the castle, but is ability to control the magnetic field around The man encapsulates Ethan in a metal cage Mother Miranda and her underlings: the Four These Four Lords include Karl Heisenberg, a vampiric winemaker and countess of the castle, speaks through her doll Angie, and finally Mother Miranda leaves Ethan to Heisenberg, an army of Lycans after him, who Ethan is Outside, Ethan finds himself at the entrance large traveling merchant who offers his services He then enters the castle, where he is captured Ethan fights and kills the daughters before He stabs her with the Dagger of Death's giant creature, which he fights and kills. He retrieves a flask from a nearby pedestal to an underground cave where he finds the on the nearby cave wall, which eerily resembles Ethan finds the Duke, who reveals that the and informs him that the other three Lords insert into a nearby altar in order to reform her essence to remain. Ethan then proceeds to fight through Beneviento, well as Moreau (first meeting with Chris Redfield that the infections in the region are somehow created Eveline), eventually defeating them three flasks, which he takes to the Altar. After inserting the flasks into the Altar, where the man offers to help Ethan save Rose Mother Miranda. Ethan denies his offer, and is forced to fight to escape the factory. However, he soon finds Heisenberg again, who into a massive creature. He then punches Ethan back, and he falls down After he recovers, Ethan finds Chris Redfield, told him to. Ethan confronts Chris about him killing Mia, actually none other than Mother Miranda, who to disguise herself as his wife. Chris finally explains to Ethan that Miranda life, and Chris plans to destroy the village: He then reveals that Miranda has the flasks. He tasks Ethan with taking a tank topside to plant explosives. Above ground, Ethan fights the mutated Heisenberg, The explosion from the factory distracts Heisenberg, re-enter the tank to kill Heisenberg once Ethan then gets a call from Chris, who tells but Ethan is interrupted by Rosemary's cries. As he hangs up and turns around, he is met in disguise once again. Miranda reveals to Ethan that Rose is Eveline's Miranda then explains that the "Megamycete", the DNA of all organisms it comes across, own daughter. Miranda, who reveals herself to be the Old travels in the Village, then rips out Ethan's his blood in the Megamycete. As Ethan lies dead on the ground, Miranda her "true daughter" once again. Shortly after, Chris briefs the Hound Wolf the village to finally kill Miranda. As soon as they arrive, the BSAA arrives as Chris and his team then lead a full-on attack reaching the Megamycete and attaching a neutron Before detonating it, however, Chris elects On his way, he finds Miranda's lab, where Long ago, Miranda's daughter, Eva, died Miranda then discovered the Megamycete, and called the "Cadou", which allowed her When none of them proved to be a suitable The Connections by providing the mold and who also proved to be an unsuitable host for However, her work with The Connections led to use as her host. Most surprisingly, Chris learns that one of Spencer. Although the pair disagreed on their motives world, while Miranda only wanted to resurrect to her after he left to start his own company: from the symbol in the caves. Chris then finds the real Mia and rescues Mia surprisingly tells Chris that Ethan isn't own special abilities. Elsewhere, Ethan finds himself in a frozen who tells Ethan that he is dead. While Ethan assumes he was killed by Mother killed three years ago during his initial was the Mold that recreated him, explaining Ethan then wakes up in The Duke's Carriage, Ethan to Miranda. Ethan thanks the Duke and heads off, fighting When he reaches her, he finds that she has to her dismay, it is not her daughter, but power. A nearby Chris then shoots Miranda, allowing However, Miranda begins to mutate with the she transforms into a giant creature. Ethan harnesses his determination and fights victorious and killing her. The Mold around her begins to disintegrate, As he grabs her, however, he begins to crumble As the remains of the Megamycete begins to Ethan tells Chris to watch over Rose, as he As the mold separates them, Ethan takes the knowing as soon as the Mold is gone, he will Chris heads off, and Ethan pushes the detonator. As Chris returns to Mia in an escape helicopter, Just then, the Village below explodes, destroying sacrificed himself to save them. Nearby, one of Chris' men reveals that he dressed up as a soldier. A confused and frustrated Chris then orders European Headquarters to get some answers, At an unspecified point in the future, an in ice. Inside of it, creatures come to life that One researcher sends a sample to a Dr Dan Gibson studies it to create a vaccine, but A special forces team is sent by the Center Agent Lisa Martin is able to help Gibson escape, Sometime later, Lisa and Gibson are living with a group of other survivors. Supplies are running low in the city, and surrounding the border. Lisa and Gibson hear a rumor of a girl on virus and may be the key to a cure. The team hatch a plan to distract the zombies an Air Base to fly to the island. Gibson is separated from the rest of the group, abandoned. They find evidence that Gibson was there, had seen Gibson. They are informed by Dr Jo Knaggs that Gibson his way to the US to stand trial for his hand He also states that the virus has been sent Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious However, their discussion is cut-off when transferred in, claiming that he hijacked Colonel Maurice Green sends Knaggs and the to Linosa Island to find Gibson. On the way, Lisa learns that the submarine DEAD, which Knaggs explains is a plan by NATO cannot infect the heavily-populated countries The Wyoming is revealed to be carrying over this task. Knowing that Gibson's cure is the only way the widespread execution. Gibson parachutes onto the island, but does Another soldier from the Air Base, Scott, Gibson then tells Scott that Lisa was initially him and steal the sample of the virus, but her plan. Meanwhile, the USS Wyoming is attacked by They surmise that the whales' blood contain off to find Gibson. She finds him infected, and injects him with He awakens, but due to his own experiments his memories of Lisa and his work for the Lisa is then ejected by helicopter to continue In the year 2037, we find a now teenaged Rosemary a man named Kay. Kay offers Rose a way to remove the powers caused her to be alienated since her childhood. He takes her to a lab where they've been a "purifying crystal", and he points her to "enter its consciousness" in order Rose is able to connect with the Megamycete of being ostracized as a child before she Rose soon realizes something is off, and exits There, she is met with a strange sight: a This Rose Copy then leads her to other copies, Rose soon learns what's been capturing these to appear and mutilate them. Rose escapes with the help of some kind of by writing messages on the walls. Once safe, Rose speaks with her "guardian a name the being then takes on. Rose then explores the castle and comes across masked version of the Duke, intent on commanding so he can watch them suffer. Rose then spots the purifying crystal in a she reveals herself to the Masked Duke. Once Rose escapes the Duke's mold monsters, in order to unlock the display case to obtain With Michael's help, Rose is able to unlock (to an extent) and eventually obtain all three Rose then unlocks the display case holding the Masked Duke reveals that it is merely Rose is then enveloped by the mold, and taken to fight his giant, brutish creature. Once Rose defeats the creature, Michael leads She does so, and is taken to a deeper "stratum" There, she enters a house of horrors where she endured as a child. After hiding and escaping from several murderous a recreation of her old home. There, Rose is shown memories of her father when she was a baby. She then finds a letter her father wrote, her. This tender moment is interrupted when Rose Eveline. The girl expresses her jealousy over Rose's Michael helps subdue the girl temporarily. Eveline's frustrations then boil over, and Michael then appears in the flesh and pushes a deeper stratum. There, Rose finds the Village the Megamycete of herself to its core. There, she finds the source of the copies left around that Mother Miranda (who had died had been creating these copies still in an Eva's rebirth. When the copies turned out to be failures, Duke, to exterminate them. Miranda then decided that instead of creating the real girl to enter the Megamycete instead. Soon after, Rose finally finds the real Purification begins to feel her powers wash away. She is soon interrupted, however, as Miranda Miranda not only reveals her plans to Rose, the Megamycete within the girl to make her it was only an illusion to lure her into the relinquish her powers and become weak enough Michael then appears again to take Rose to Rose's father, Ethan Winters, all along. Ethan then protects Rose from the various Miranda. Once in a clearing, Ethan distracts Miranda Crystal to finally rid herself of her powers. Rose instead destroys the crystal, embracing one-on-one. After a battle, Ethan endows Rose with his once and for all. The woman then calls out to her daughter Eva Rose and Ethan then finally share a moment The pair share their love for each other, he is of her. Rose then awakens back in the lab, finding Sometime later, Rose visits her father's happy birthday. Nearby, she is summoned by an agent for an for an ongoing situation, mockingly calling She forcefully grabs him and threatens his even know of) but he apologizes, claiming Rose enters his vehicle, and he notes her The two then drive off, as a figure on the car stops. And with that, we once again conclude our While we don't quite know how our favorite is for sure: Resident Evil will live on forever. Thanks for watching everybody! If you made it this far, make sure you like to see covered next. Also you can follow me on Twitter, @SuggestiveGames More importantly, make sure you click the While they're currently on hiatus, they can find on YouTube, so check it out. Also support on patreon or by becoming a channel of course make sure you subscribe for more Thanks again!