Hello, hello, ReviewMachines is with you, your usual voice-over, and I'm glad to welcome you to the new all-terrain vehicle, now let's look at the most interesting new products in the industry, let's go! Friends, I'm glad to see you at the newest show, the all-terrain vehicle exhibition Vezdekhoder, which is traditionally held in conjunction with the Let's Go exhibition and today, as always, in this sea of technology we will look for and show you the most interesting new products in the industry! We have a snow season ahead of us, which means we will try to pay special attention to different snow and swamp-going vehicles, as well as new products among snowmobiles! And before you start, friends, as always, I urge you to subscribe to our alternative platforms so as not to get lost in the future, all links will be in the description. Let me note right away that if you participated in the exhibition, but do not find your equipment in this video, please do not be offended, there is no way to cover everything, something may simply have been overlooked, or we have already shown your vehicles in previous videos on the all-terrain vehicle, because with each new year, I want to show the newest products in the industry. For example, this bright and already well-known project under the mysterious name P-3, and another, for many, much more familiar voice-over, which I think needs no introduction, will tell about it. On your screens is our new development together with Jagger Garage - a large tracked all-terrain vehicle under the working title Project P-3. I think many have already seen this car in action in one of our recent issues, so here I will only remind you of the basics. The all-terrain vehicle base and almost the entire chassis are entirely of our own design. Engine Cummins turbodiesel 170 hp . With automatic transmission. On land, the all-terrain vehicle reaches a maximum speed of 90 km/h. But the car is not limited to land alone ; it confidently floats on water and can reach speeds of up to 6 km/h. The chassis uses the main gear and final drives from Gas all-terrain vehicles, 400 mm wide tracks, and a long-stroke lever-balanced spring suspension. The cargo space is 2920 mm long and 2150 wide. The loading height of the side is 900. This prototype version uses a cabin from Shishiga, the production version will have a more comfortable design. Thanks to Konstantin for the story about the car and help in preparing this video, and we move on and now let's see what's new in the snowmobile world. We are at the stand of the Irbis Motors company, where two new affordable Russian-made snowmobiles are presented at once. Snowmobile SF200 Superlong, version 2024. The snowmobile is beautiful in appearance and comfortable to use, due to the independent wishbone suspension at the front and the snowmobile skid suspension at the rear with adjustable travel and stiffness. The track is 380 mm wide and has an increased length of 3434 mm. The 180 cc engine, proven over the years, accelerates the snowmobile over 50 km per hour through a V-belt variator. The instrument panel is simple, but perfectly readable and brightly backlit. Comfortable seating for two with a backrest for a passenger and the ability to install a large trunk, like here. There are heated steering wheel and throttle trigger. The cost of the snowmobile is 390 tr. Nearby stands the updated utilitarian snowmobile IRBIS TUNGUS 500. New 20-horsepower LONCIN engine, 460cc, transmission with a Safari variator and a Buran-type reverse gearbox with an individually designed gear drive in an oil bath. Roller-slide suspension at the rear with four adjustable shock absorbers. The track is 3333 mm long, 500 wide. The front suspension is double wishbone, the suspension travel is 140 mm. Much attention is paid to comfort. Heated steering wheel grips and throttle trigger, 12V socket, bright dashboard. Large comfortable seat with underseat bag with a capacity of 42 liters. The cost of a snowmobile is 400 tr. Although it's no longer the season, the affordable new Irbis ATV200 quad is also very interesting. A simple 12-horsepower motor with a chain drive to the rear axle, a relatively light weight of 170 kg, a durable HDPE lining with an impressive design, a comfortable independent suspension and, no less important, the presence of a PSM, which will allow you to officially register the quad. The cost of the ATV is 275,000 rubles. In fact, there are a lot of innovations in the Irbis technology this season, you won't be able to cover everything in this video, but I will tell you all the details in upcoming full reviews on our channel, don't miss it, as we move on. I note that the exhibition is divided into two large pavilions - in one there are all all-terrain vehicles, in the other there are quadra snowmobiles, motorcycles and similar equipment. There are a huge number of people, I am glad that interest in the topic is growing every year. Friends, who was at the exhibition, check in the comments, write your impressions, your thoughts on the topic are interesting. For now, we are returning to the camp of all-terrain vehicles, where one of the most prominent stands is occupied by the Tinger company! Tinger brought to the exhibition all three of his models of all-terrain vehicles, the already well-known Tinger Armor and Tinger Track2 vehicles, as well as the sensational new product of the season - the Tinger TF4 wheeled all-terrain vehicle. A spectacular, beautiful machine that, in a short time since its presentation, has managed to prove its effectiveness at many competitions and other all-terrain events. If you haven't seen our review of this all-terrain vehicle, be sure to check it out, where we test it in a variety of conditions. In the meantime, I will remind you of the main characteristics of it. At its core, the machine is an all-terrain vehicle on a breaking frame; it consists of two sections, the turning mechanism between them is hydraulic. In front is a cabin with a power frame, in the back is a body or kung. Length 4260 mm, width 2240, height 2470. Without kung, the weight of the car is 1400 kg. Under the hood we are greeted by a Chery car engine. This is a three-cylinder 57 horsepower unit with a volume of 812 cubic meters. The engine here works in conjunction with a CVT and a manual transmission. Tires measuring 1400 by 650 with an original tread pattern were developed especially for this all-terrain vehicle. Inside, the interior level of finishing can easily be compared to that of a car. All elements are neatly adjusted to each other, everything looks strict and harmonious. There are two passenger seats in front , and in the back, depending on the design, there can be a cargo body or a cargo-passenger kung, with seats and a folding table. It is very important that Tinger comes complete with PSM and is approved for use on public roads. The cost of an all-terrain vehicle with PSM starts from 1.9 million. I repeat, see the tests in our full review, and in the meantime we move on. How about this cool radio-controlled all-terrain vehicle, which is essentially a highly detailed, scaled-down copy of the Bro all-terrain vehicle from Zhukof Garage. As a child, I would have given a lot for such a toy . And now I'm ready to give a lot for a little more toy like this. As you can see, the new Bro electric all-terrain vehicle can also be controlled remotely! There are many applications for such a solution , for example, it is not necessary to be in a car when overcoming dangerous obstacles, although it is a pleasure to be inside - the equipment is rich, the interior is comfortable. This all-terrain vehicle uses 2 electric motors from Nissan Leaf, with a total power of 210 horsepower. Battery capacity is 80 kWh. Power reserve is approximately 5 hours, wheels are 1600 by 600. The weight of the car is 2350 kg. By the way, there is another new all-terrain vehicle nearby - this is a hybrid, where, in addition to the electrical installation, a generator of its own design is also installed, which significantly increases the autonomy of the all-terrain vehicle. By the way, there is a review of the electric version on the channel, if you haven't seen it, the link will be in the tip. And most importantly, to all buyers of the Bro all-terrain vehicle, this miracle will be a gift, it's tempting, isn't it? Now a little from the world of snowmobiles. The exhibition featured new cars from such industry giants as Stealth and Russian Mechanics. Powerful cars, bright design, large selection of options. But in the shadow of large stands, you can miss the participants, presented on a smaller scale, but no less interesting. A new manufacturer in the snowmobile industry from Kazakhstan brought three new motorized towing vehicles under the general name Sapsan. One of them is in a classic design, one with a front module and another mini towing vehicle. As for the axle box on the 500th goose. The general design feature is a frame made of seamless 25 pipes, an 18- horsepower motor with an 11-amp coil. The base includes lighting, heated steering grips and trigger, and a hydraulic brake. The mini axlebox is equipped with a 7-strong motor with a 5-amp coil. In a rich configuration with reverse and an electronic instrument panel, a Sapsan motorized axlebox will cost about 200 tr, without reverse 170 tr, and a mini axlebox costs 95 tr. How do you like foreign cars from Kazakhstan, friends? Large tracked all-terrain vehicle Plastun Inspector, manufactured in St. Petersburg. Its length is 4710 mm and curb weight 2360 kg. The all-terrain vehicle is equipped with 500 mm wide tracks with independent suspension for each roller. Ground clearance 500 mm. The control uses a friction turning mechanism. The engine is located at the rear - it is a VAZ 78 horsepower 1.6 liter engine with a manual gearbox with 5 gears. With this engine, a large all-terrain vehicle can accelerate to a maximum speed of 40 mph. The car floats, for movement on the water there is a transom for an outboard motor. There is a deck along the perimeter of the body, which is convenient to walk on when the car is on the water. Hinged doors for easy entry. Optionally, a mast with a thermal imager is installed here for use in hunting. Inside there is a comfortable interior for six, you can organize a large sleeping place. There are heated steering wheels and seats, a multimedia system and many other options. Big beautiful tracked all-terrain vehicle, but it's time to move on. And this is a unique, very interesting vehicle - the Kaluzhanin all-terrain vehicle. To begin with, this is a rare case when a completely independent hydraulic drive is implemented here for each wheel. You don't often see such a solution in all-terrain vehicles, right? Hydraulics provide many advantages, including high torque and the ability of the machine to turn on the spot. But that is not all. In addition to the hydraulic drive, an unmanned radio control with video and radio communication with a range of up to 2 km has been introduced here! The all-terrain vehicle can move autonomously along a given route and independently return to the starting point. It uses a 58 horsepower diesel engine, ultra-low pressure wheels with an on-the-go inflation function. The car floats, its curb weight is 1500 kg, and its payload is up to 1000 kg. It will be great to experience what this technique is capable of in practice, but for now let's move on! Let's dilute the all-terrain theme a little and visit the stand of the Tofalar company, which this year presented two updated snowmobiles 500ku and 800ku. And although the engines here remain the same, these are Lifan kp500 and Lonchin 30ka, respectively, there are a lot of innovations in snowmobiles: the frame has been changed, the plastics have been updated, the seats have been modernized, the front suspension has been redesigned, and so on. Today, the 800ka costs 450 tr, and the 500 version costs 325 tr. Another new development of the company is a mobile electric all-terrain cargo platform with remote control. And of course, a classic from Tofalar - their motorized towing vehicle. By the way, according to the organizers of the first days of the exhibition, the number of visitors this year is two and a half times more compared to last year! It's great that the industry is developing and at the same time the audience is growing. Without false modesty, over 10 years of work, I believe our channel has played an important role in promoting small-scale recreational mechanization of the country, I hope there will only be development in the future! What do you think, friends, do we have a future for this industry? From the front it may seem that this is an ordinary Sherpa, or rather these vehicles are now called Arhant, but look a little further and it becomes clear that this all-terrain vehicle is far from the layouts we are used to. And no, this is not just a huge trailer, this is the active part of the machine where each wheel is driven. The all-terrain vehicle is called Arkhant 10. The rear part of 6 wheels is constantly driving in the vehicle; if necessary, the front part is also connected, i.e. there are a total of 10 driving wheels! The machine is designed for use in the harshest conditions, including the Arctic. The unit between the sections is equipped with powerful hydraulics; the front of the machine can actively articulate relative to the rear. Diesel engine Cummins 2.8 l, automatic transmission, ability to transport up to 22 passengers or 3 tons of cargo. The car floats at a speed of up to 6 km/h on water, and up to 35 km/h on land. I wonder if there are any cars ready to compete with this monster in cross-country ability? The Baltmotors company continues to delight us with new solutions in the world of technology for work and leisure. At the stand we see the main models in the company's product range. Of course, the all-wheel drive hybrid electric motorcycle is of particular interest . Have you seen our review of this device? If you suddenly missed it, be sure to watch it, you can talk about it for a very long time. Something new we notice is this one-wheel motorcycle trailer, similar to what I saw at Rokon at one time. Also note a new electric hybrid motor dog. But we haven't tested it yet, we're looking forward to testing it! An all-terrain amphibian with the cute name Gala Baby with an interesting and for some reason rarely seen buggy layout. Let us immediately note that the car has suspension, MacPherson strut in front, wishbone in the rear, the author of the project says the car is comfortable while driving. There is a three-cylinder liter engine from the Toyota Yaris, working with a standard automatic transmission. The transmission is interestingly implemented. One gearbox drive goes to the transfer case, and then to Niv gearboxes in sealed housings. Sealing is needed because the all-terrain vehicle is designed as an amphibious one. The second drive from the box goes to the propeller, which accelerates the car on the water to 10 mph. The machine can be equipped with a central inflation system. Inside there are two seats, again like on a buggy, the interior is spartan but functional. The initial cost of the Gala Baby all-terrain vehicle is from 1 million 380 tr and almost up to 2x with all possible options. Probably the largest all-terrain vehicle with an ATV layout that we have encountered in our practice. The car is called Lynx, manufactured in Tomsk. The quad layout is expressed in the driver's seating in the center of the body and in the type of control as on an ATV. Otherwise, this is a large all-terrain vehicle with wheels with a diameter of 1650. It is equipped with a 140 horsepower Toyota engine working with an automatic transmission. Drive for transfer case from 100th Land Cruiser and gearboxes from Gas-66 with interlocks. To handle such huge wheels, there is a hydraulic booster with a mechanical connection between the steering wheel and the wheels. There are 4 seats on board , the car can float, and on land reach a maximum speed of 60 km/h. At the Charmax stand we see all the company's new snowmobiles this season. We have already reviewed the 200 and 680 models, but we have not yet tested the new SHP-880 snowmobile with a 750 cc 33 horsepower engine and an extended frame. We are waiting for the new product to be tested, just as we are waiting for the new enduro motorized towing vehicle with the declared increased survivability. It will be interesting to test how durable the new enduro towing vehicle is; there are already ideas for tough and interesting tests of this equipment. And here is another beauty, the Envix all-terrain vehicle, already well known to our regular viewers. But this is not a standard model undergoing training for participation in the Baikal mile, so we will still pay attention to it. The layout is quadrocycle, the driver sits in the center, the steering wheel is appropriate. Then the interesting begins - there is a 192 horsepower Toyota engine, on which a compressor will soon be installed and the expected power will be under 300 horsepower! The transmission is automatic, axles are used from Nissan Patrol with pneumatic locks. As a result, this all-terrain vehicle, after completion of modifications, will be able to show a speed of 140 km/h, impressive for such a vehicle... Well, friends, that's all we managed to cover during the filming day this year. If we suddenly missed something interesting, let us know, and in general write your impressions about the exhibition. This is where our video comes to an end, but as per tradition, we won't say goodbye to you, we'll see you in the comments right now! Thank you for walking with us today, subscribe to the channel, as well as to all our other sites, so as not to get lost in the future. stay with us, there is a lot of interesting things ahead, see you!