Hey, it's Marie Forleo and you are watching and life that you love. If you've ever wondered what it takes to in those around you, then today's show is Simon Sinek believes in a bright future and Described as a visionary thinker with a rare a world in which the vast majority of people work. He is the author of two bestselling books: Everyone to Take Action and Leaders Eat Last: He's best known for popularizing the concept talk of all time. He speaks around the globe and has commented New York Times, Inc. Magazine, NPR, and Businessweek. Simon, thank you so much for being here. You're welcome. Thanks for having me. So we've known each other for years and I've shared Start With Why countless times so it's great to finally have you in the Thank you. I really appreciate you having me spread the Yeah, of course. So I want to take you back to when you had for what you were doing. And I was wondering if you could speak a little and the whole concept of starting with why. So a lot of people think that this concept that I went out and studied it, and I didn't. That's not how it began. As you said, it began out of pain. I owned my own small business, it was a strategic life looked pretty good. I owned my own business, I made a decent living, work. Except after a few years of doing that, I I didn't want to wake up and do it again and there are people who had real problems. Like, poor me. You know? And so I kept it to myself and I pretended. All of my energy went into pretending that control than I felt. And it wasn't until a friend of mine came "You're different. Is everything ok?" And it wasn't until I had sort of that safety to sort of not only face the problem but really And it was that that was the birth of this There was a confluence of events. And I realized that every single organization, what I did, how I did it, and why I did it. I knew what I did, that was easy to explain. How I did it was also pretty good. I was good at explaining what made me different But I couldn't tell you why I was doing it, obsessed with. And once I found my why not only was my passion before, but it put me on a trajectory that And I learned a lot of things from that experience. A lot. Well, I know whenever I have mentioned your live events and we'll often share your TED because there's such a sense of alignment. And then, of course, naturally they want to And I just think it's so important and it for your latest book. You know, and I know you've spent a lot around to military bases, and had a profound I was wondering if you can share some of that Yeah, I thought I was a one trick pony. You know, I thought this why thing... it was a good trick, I mean, don't get me It's... are you kidding me? It's an amazing trick. But I even love that you said that, I just so many people have a great idea or we hear it. I'm done. I don't have any other good ideas. My creativity, out the window." That's, you know, I was at peace with that. You know, and people would always ask me what's You know, it's like the first thing was I was like, "I have no idea what's gonna And I was ok, like I said, it was... it is But it was an experience that I had in Afghanistan Last. I did a lot of work with the mobility forces, for all of the big planes like the tankers And the general who ran the mobility forces to know us quite well. Would you be willing to go to Iraq or Afghanistan in theatre? So I agreed and they decided to send me to I didn't tell my family because I didn't want I told them I was going to Germany, true. I told them I'd be out of touch, true. I told them I'd be on a lot of planes, true. I just didn't tell them I was going on to So I had 2 escorts, it was me and 2 officers And we left as basic strangers and we came It was a... everything on our trip basically 10 minutes after we landed in Bagram in the attack. 3 rockets... I heard the first one come in. 3 rockets landed about 100 yards off our nose. So the sirens are blaring and the, you know, I mean, that was how my trip began. Strangely I was relaxed. I mean, for anyone who has ever been in a you would expect to have, you just don't have Anyway, finally the all clear was given and, The goal was to go on an air drop and we found the next morning. And so we got about 2 and a half hours, 3 airdrop mission, which was incredible. We basically got on a big C17 cargo plane, to the middle of the country, dropped down opened, and we sat there and watched as all down to resupply an army forward operating Incredible experience. Then we came back. Now the goal is to get out of dodge. Now the goal is to find a flight home. There's nothing that's regularly scheduled of the pilots anyway. So we found an outbound aeromedical mission, And we asked the pilots can we get on, and And we waited and waited and waited and waited. And we're all strapped in about 5 minutes us and they said, "We need to bump you off And if there's ever a good reason to get So that's when we went to look for another wasn't one and there wasn't going to be It was only Saturday. So at the very minimum I'm gonna be home getting a hold of my family, they don't know getting on that plane. And I just remember every fiber of my being I remember all the energy just leaving me with one thing and only thing only, which I became obsessed with my safety, my happiness, go out of their way to get me what I wanted. There was a public affairs officer there who but you don't have the right visa, to which I don't talk to people that way and I could becoming this boss that at some point we've and doesn't care who has to twist themselves I was now becoming that person. We went back to the... to our housing, to closed my eyes but I couldn't sleep, my I also became paranoid. I was convinced there was going to be another convinced, it was going to land on me. I was convinced this is how my parents would One of the officers said he was going to look And the other one said, "Well, I'm going And on his way out, because my eyes were closed, the light. I was in this room by myself in the dark, And I realized that what I was experiencing life compressed and exaggerated into a 24 Because I had an amazing day. I had an incredibly exciting experience. I didn't want to wake up and do it again. I was full of regret, I didn't... I regretting saying yes to this, I didn't And I realized, you know, a lot of people happiness with fulfilment. You know, our careers and our jobs can be and making a big sale, but that doesn't mean inspired, that doesn't mean we have joy in And I realized this was the mistake I had And so I'm in the purpose business, you I realize that I felt this way because I didn't And so I try to invent one. You're here to tell their story and come then it would wear off. And I had... I ran out of solutions. I was paranoid, I was scared, I was depressed, And so I lay in that bed and I gave up. I just... I gave up. I had... I had nothing else. And having given up I decided that if I was myself useful. And so I was going to volunteer to speak anywhere out some of the amazing people that I'd I don't care if I had to carry heavy boxes It didn't matter how menial, I wanted to serve And upon making that decision, this amazing I was excited to now be there and I couldn't As if it were a movie, it was eerie the timing, it's Major Throckmorton, one of the guys And he says, "There's been a flight that's We can get on it if we leave now. We've gotta leave now. If we don't leave now we're gonna miss it, We've gotta go now. Where's Matt?" I'm like, "He's at the gym." So we run to the gym, we get Matt off the puts his uniform back on, we grab all our As soon as we get to the flight line we can a big C17 again, and as soon as we get there and won't let us out to the plane. And the reason is is because somewhere else ceremony and out of respect when that's And so we just sat on the curb and waited a few moments ago, and I cried like a baby And one thing most people don't realize about Finally the security curtain came up and we we would be the only 3 passengers aboard this What I haven't told you is the reason this carrying home the soldier for whom they just So at the right time when the Army brought end of the plane and the soldiers brought the middle of the aircraft, they gave a slow and we could see them crying and hugging each the Air Force crew got to work and strapped It would be a 9 and a half hour flight overnight We all sort of sat there, the casket was over to take off. As soon as we got into the air we all staked floor, pulled out our sleeping bags to try On every other flight we talked, we joked. Barely a word was spoken in close to 10 hours. On every other flight I hung out in the flight I didn't visit the cockpit once on this flight. And I'll tell you, it was one of the most That having gone through what I went through of those 24 hours, I had now had the opportunity about service than I ever will. Our last flight home was in... we were bringing to America, it was about 30 something wounded. And there was one Marine in what they call His wounds were very severe and he was kept I finally mustered the courage to go talk of him. He had 2 broken legs, 2 broken arms, shrapnel eyeball. He was in bad shape. And they walked me through his wounds and in trauma care that are making their way down unto itself because even when they're injured You know? And the doc was a reservist out of Austin, And I asked him a question I don't think I through what I just went through. I said, "On these missions, do you have back home?" I said, "You're a good guy, you're... And he looked at me and said, "There's He said 90 to 95 percent of the people in That's what lands them in the ER. He says, "There's not a single drunk or And so when I came home it shook me for a environments in which we work. You know, we work with people that we call They work with people that they call brother There's a deep sense of trust and love that have, and I want to work with people like And so my original conclusion was that they're where trust and cooperation comes from mainly like that. And I learned it's not the people, it's And this is why leadership is so important, that can create relationships like that, and That's where that book came from. Which leads us perfectly in what I wanted is the power of environment. And you wrote in Leaders Eat Last, and I so How when we get the environment right, that And that really is true that it's not just That we all have that capacity, and I was Yeah. It's a very basic idea, you know. We're social animals. Our happiness, our joy, our success, everything And we respond to the environments we're You can take a good person and put them in doing bad things. Likewise, you can take a person that the group them in a good environment and they're capable something remarkable out of themselves. We are social animals and we respond to the for building that environment. If you create an environment in which people the natural human response to those conditions Remember, trust and cooperation are feelings, There's no PowerPoint or pitch that you can you. You can't tell somebody, "Trust me." It doesn't work that way. They're feelings. Likewise, if you create an environment where with whom we work, the natural human reaction mistrust, and self-interest. That's what happens. There's enough danger outside the organization, we shouldn't have to fear the people we work And most leaders don't get this. Most leaders think leadership is about being No, it's not. It's about taking care of those in your Most leaders think everybody works for them. No, you work for the people in your organization. It's your responsibility to take care of want to cooperate and work hard and give you your vision. All they ask is you take care of them, make takes care of itself. It's like a parent, it's like a coach. Teach them, train them, give them the opportunity And if they fear the leader then they're the leader. It's pervasive in our world today. If you work in an organization where it's need to send a CYA email after every single are taking time and energy out of their day, themselves from their own leaders. That's what that is. You know, anybody who keeps a file of all just in case they need it, that is people jobs in order to protect themselves from their So you can't ask those people to give you if you've created an environment where they're You know? And this is what I learned. And so it's all about this environment, Yeah, which I wanna dive deeper into and I you write for all of us to ask ourselves, role or not. The question is, how safe do you feel where And I thought that was just so incredible me as the owner of a company, it speaks largely How are we interacting? How have we set things up and do I feel safe? Do my people feel safe? And I just think it's such a brilliant question And I'd love you to perhaps unpack circle Well, let's be crystal clear in what I mean It doesn't mean that you can't get in trouble. Doesn't mean that there isn't discipline. It doesn't mean that it's a charity and That's not what we're talking about here. What we mean is that there's enough pressure of an economy, the uncertainty of the future, that is sometimes trying to put you out of at the very minimum they're frustrating Like, there's enough pressure over which These things are a constant. The only variable inside an organization is That is entirely within our control, and that's And if the leaders make the people feel like their job, the opportunity to try and try to build their confidence and become their build strong relationships. This is what I mean by feeling safe, that I work, I enjoy going there. Work-life imbalance has nothing to do with Work-life imbalance means I feel safe at home That's the imbalance. And no amount of yoga or free snacks in the You know, it's leadership. It's a leadership problem. And so when that... when that circle of safety is provided, two First, the people feel safe, so they will vision is advanced. But they will also in turn take care of their So if a leader doesn't feel safe from their taking care of their people. Remember, we call someone leader not because first. First into the unknown, first towards the Because everybody just stands there and says, It's the leader who says, "I got it. I got your backs." That's why we call you leader. I know many people who sit at the highest They have authority. We do as they tell us because they have authority wouldn't work to keep them safe and advance And I know many people who sit at the lowest but absolutely are leaders because they've the left of them and to take care of the person That is what it means to be a leader. Having a position of authority simply means influence more people, but a leader can never That's the responsibility of the leader, So a concept that you share in the book is And Bob Chapman, incredible human being... Spectacular human being. ...and I think I read in the acknowledgements I do, I have... he has become a friend. Yes. I was wondering if you could share a bit of him. Bob Chapman is the CEO of a company called It's a... it's about a 2 billion dollar So it's not like, you know, "Oh, it's family." No, this is... this has some scale and it's And Bob made a realization a bunch of years is someone's son and someone's daughter, to him with the hope that their son and daughter And he as a responsibility to take care of And he realizes this and it completely and his company. Because he used to run his company like anybody He saw people as a disposable resource and And I think it really, really came to bear We now live in a world in which the concept perceive it as a bad thing. You know, that's like being a functional Sure, you can get through the day. Doesn't mean you're healthy. Mass layoffs, in other words, using people business practice in the United States prior Did not exist. Right? Only as a last, last, last resort to save Right? But the way we use it now, like, we're gonna can no longer provide for them because we You know, I mean, that's nuts. So Bob, his company in 2008, and it's a blue collar. Right? And they lost 30% of their orders due to the And so not only did the business dry up, the And so the board got together, they needed longer afford their labor pool. And so as is normal in this day and age, the And Bob refused because Bob does not believe and it's very hard to simply reduce a heart And so instead what they implemented was a regardless of their position in the company, They could take it whenever they wanted and And it was how Bob announced the program that He said, "It's better we should all suffer a lot." And morale went up. And, as you would expect, when a circle of human reaction is not selfishness. The natural human reaction is to take care So behaviors started to show up that weren't People who could afford it more started trading So someone would take 5 weeks so that someone And when the economy improved and business They repaid all the 401k that they had frozen, You cannot steal their employees. They are happy and fulfilled. I've met some of them. I've met people who come to tears talking It's amazing. It's amazing what he's built and he wrote Matters, which really takes you through some It's... it's really remarkable. You have another line in the book that really "When we feel... we feel good when we look That's not an accident." And what I love about your work and particularly like we are all designed to be leaders. You're not giving us a prescription it's this, and this, and then you're gonna be And I was wondering if you could unpack a feel really good when we look after people of one another, natural outcome is leadership. Yeah. We are designed to take care of each other. As social animals it is in our biology that This is why it feels so good when somebody expectation of anything in return. We've all had the experience where somebody my God, thank you," and then they put out, It kinda, like, ruins the whole experience. Right? Completely. It ruins it. But when they just do it and they're like, "No, no, no. It's my pleasure." You know? Not only does our esteem for them go up, but Likewise, it feels good when we do something in return. When we give our time and our energy. Money actually doesn't work, believe it or Like, if I told you I gave 500 dollars to That's great, Simon. But if I told you that last weekend I gave in the inner city you'd be like, "Nice. That's really awesome." Now, the value of my labor was worth a lot Right? That's the point, which is we are designed And there's a chemical called Oxytocin, feelings of love and friendship and trust. When you look at somebody you adore and you When somebody touches you and says, "Oh Touch creates oxytocin. So good to see you. Yeah. You know? It actually makes us feel closer to each other. You know? When oxytocin is released in our bodies, not it boost our immune systems, but the more makes us more generous because the human body And it gets even better than that. The person who does the act of generosity, of anything in return, they get a shot of The person on the receiving end gets a shot And even witnessing an act of generosity or It feels good to see somebody do something And the more oxytocin we have in our bodies, something nice for somebody. This is the biology of pay it forward. It's the human body's desperate attempt And so when we create environments where we It just takes care of itself. It's just biology. When we create environments where we restrict It releases a chemical called cortisol, which Cortisol actually inhibits oxytocin, which not only do we have high stress, but we actually... it actually inhibits empathy. In other words, I'm less likely to even poor leadership and the poor environment that's Right? And the more cortisol we all have in our bodies, our immune systems. Happy people live longer. Happy people have lower rates of cancer, diabetes, in a position of leadership you're actually people. Get the environment right, they will live and they will probably have happier families Whereas if you're a bad leader, over the people working with you. Our jobs are actually killing us. So leadership is this awesome responsibility. It's not about the company, that's not You can't lead a company, you cannot. It's a human enterprise. You can run a company, you can manage a project, And for anybody in a leadership position who of people. That's how it works. And the problem is is we have to go through Some people make it quickly, some people make it. When we're junior, the only thing we have That's it. The company trains us how to do our job, some job, accounting, engineering, whatever. And if you're really good at doing your you'll get promoted into a position where do the job you used to do. But nobody teaches us how to do that. So they put us in a position of leadership us in front of the machine and demanding results, machine. And so we fumble our way through and we break we have no clue what we're doing. And of course we manage people, because I That's what got me promoted. We have to go through this transition where you are now no longer responsible for the You're now responsible for the people who I love talking to CEOs. I say, "What's your priority?" They say, "My customer." You haven't talked to a customer in 10 years. There's not a CEO on the planet anywhere You're responsible for the people who are As a solopreneur, that's a... I mean, you're chief cook and bottle washer. It's a hard... it's a hard job. And when you have a very small enterprise, have a responsibility as a worker but you they have to be separate. So when you do work you're a worker, you If you're out there consulting or pitching But when you're the leader, you're taking natural best, so that they can thrive. And you know that their work is not your responsibility, Their work is their responsibility. And so it's... it's a really hard sort you gain size and as you gain, start hiring of extricate ourselves, we struggle. Like I said, that transition is really hard. It takes practice, it's hard work, it requires Just like you study how to learn the machine, All the great leaders I know are students None of them consider themselves experts. We're all students of the subject and when genuinely interested in it. You know, golfers talk about golf, leaders Because they're constantly in learning mode. So, yeah, it's a human enterprise and it So this was just genius. I'm wondering if there's anything that I took away from your book, and I love this it, but the simplistic idea that if we look that is something anyone can do whether they're at their family or their friends. Is there any closing thought that you wanna It's... it takes practice. And it's a daily practice. You're not going to be an expert tomorrow. Leadership is the practice of putting the So practicing leadership is like driving to in your lane. Do you pull forward or do you pull back? That's leadership. Like, we don't know, maybe they're running unemployed for 6 months. Maybe their boss is an ogre and they left getting out to school today. I don't know why they're late, you know, Or maybe they're just a bastard, I don't But we can sacrifice being at work one car That's leadership. You're standing in the elevator, you're to close. You see someone rushing towards the elevator, Sorry. Like, we've all done that. You know? No, lean forward and push hold. That's leadership. You pour yourself a cup of coffee, it's It's empty, the next person who wants a Or when no one's looking you make the next This is leadership. And if you practice the little stuff, when when you ask someone how are you doing, you Right? If you don't care, don't ask. So these are little things that if you practice the pain starts to go away, you start to get easier, you start to take those kinds of risks start to recognize that you've changed or different working here. It's a daily practice. Don't be intimidated by the fact that it's Just do little, little things to make the And if you practice a lot, you get good at Thanks again so much, Simon. You're welcome. Thanks for having me. So now Simon and I would love to hear from What's the single biggest insight that you're Now, as always, the best conversations happen so go there and leave a comment now. Did you like this video? I loved it. If you did, consider subscribing to our channel with your friends. And if you want even more great resources plus some personal insights from me that I MarieForleo.com and make sure you sign up Stay on your game and keep going for your gift that only you have. Thank you so much for watching and I'll on MarieTV.