Morning. Morning. Morning. Hey man. Hey! Hey! Time for coffee. I can't believe they let Jonathan continue his work. He is the worst manager ever! He didn't want to raise my salary because I am never at work in his eyes. Total nonsense. We should be paid better. We are indispensable for this company! And they should also give us better coffee. Free coffee isn't enough when it's garbage. Just like how they give us these carbon cups instead of plastic cups. I understand all that sustainable hassle but it's so inconvenient. Yeah, as if these cups will save the world. As if we will still be alive when the world ends. These young kids will come up with some technology that will fix everything. In the meantime, please let me enjoy my meat. Michael can you come over here? Suzan is having issues with her computer. This is the fifth time already. I don't understand her problem. Me and you we understand technology. I learned computer science as soon as the first Macintosh came out. Thank god you're here. I can't do my job because my computer is broken. You had your computer turned on but not the monitor. There you go. Thank you so much kid. I'll remember it for the next time. Unbelievable right. Is she retarded? Even I could've known that. Of course you have a monitor power button which is different from the computer power button. Did you give it a try back there? No, but that's because it's your job. Not mine. I'm giving you an opportunity to present yourself. That way people will remember you and maybe one day you'll become an IT manager. But I'm the only IT guy in this company together with Jared. And if you make sure that people can do their jobs, we will grow into a bigger company with more IT personnel. Shall we take a lunchbreak? Are you joining us outside? No thanks I have some work to finish. I'll see you later. Typical, always working. Don't get stressed out Michael. Lets go to the gym after work? Heah sounds good. See you there. Hey Michael. Long time no see. Hey Jared. How was your vacation? Great. I have been grinding League of Legends for days and even played some Minecraft. Great. Did you know that if you game for 48 hours straight, you start getting hallucinations? I'm not surprised. At a certain point I saw princess peach laying in my bed. If you know what I mean. Incredible. I'm so sorry Michael. This time Caroline can't get her email to work- Who is that? That's Jared. Do you work here? Yes. Jared works here for 6 years now. Never seen you before. Anyways. Michael can you come and help me? On my way. And then all you have to do is to log into your account. Now you can enter your mail. Thank you so much dear. I was so stressed out. Thanks Michael. Hopefully I won't need you anywhere else today. How can people be like this. This is so disgusting. Hey Michael. Hugo from sales retires tomorrow. We'll buy him a gift with everyone he has worked with including you. This is 10$ which we will take from your loan if you don't mind. Also can you write a personal goodbye message before the end of the day? Thanks! Who is Hugo? Jared could you turn off that music or listen with headphones on? Sorry. Michael sorry for interrupting again. This time there's a problem with Amy. Amy? [Voice fades away] Yeah something with her internet connection. [Voice fades back] She's waiting for you. Say no more I'm going to help her- Would you mind if I take this one Michael? I've been thinking about earlier today and how I'm kinda living in the shadows in this company. I think it's good to show my face sometimes as well. Totally agree Jared but maybe its better to take the next one. Actually Michael, this kid has a point. Plus we've been asking so much from you today. It would be good to split the effort. Thanks guys. Wish me luck. How did it go with Amy? Not so good. The moment I came close to her, she said it smells like shit and because I didn't know how to respond I farted and laughed. Then she got so disgusted she left the room. Jared, we have received a complaint about work intimidation. Can you follow us to the HR department please? Michael, can you delete Jared's account in advance? He's going to be fired. We can't be in the news with this incident. Sure. Hello. Is this the IT department? Yeah. I can smell. Could you please help me with my laptop? It's not connecting to the wifi. Yeah sure. It looks like your WiFi was connecting to some other device outside of this building. If I do this and this it should be fixed. There you go! Thank you so much! I must say I lost my faith in IT guys but you are not like the others. I might come by every now and then. Thanks. And I'm sorry for what happened to you earlier- Michael?! what is this? Are you applying for other jobs? After everything I gave you here? This is the worst form of betrayal you can give this company. Everybody, initiate procedure 66 on Michael Davids. Stop investing in any form of relationship, because he is leaving this company soon. I repeat, stop investing in any form of relationship with Michael Davids.