May 5, 2000, a very average day for the very Though in just a couple of hours, it would Nearly every install of brand-new computer pieces of malware detected in just one office seen all across the world. What happened? These catastrophic events were the work of internet: "ILOVEYOU." Quite an ironic name, but it was derived from as a love letter coming from a secret admirer. The worm would eventually enter the Guinness computer virus of all time." What exactly allowed it to cause this much The virus originated in the Philippines and and his friend, Reonel Ramones. It was allegedly developed by taking other and putting them all together. The success of the virus relied on Visual and the gullibility of non-tech savvy computer hiding file extensions by default. The brand-new OS, Windows 2000, was the first The option to hide file extensions goes all to turn this on voluntarily. Microsoft made this change to increase convenience created the golden opportunity for malware This was something that they could greatly Recipients of the ILOVEYOU worm would receive contact list, reading as follows: "kindly The actual worm was listed as an attachment, the creators carried this out. Although the file ends in .vbs, the extension When average Windows 2000 users downloaded on the desktop, giving the impression that This alone is why the virus mostly affected like 95 and 98 could still get infected, as saw the .vbs at the end just chose to ignore The moment the file was actually opened, it Make multiple copies of itself, some of them replacing and hiding personal files such as jpg's, and other script types. Modify Windows registry keys. Send itself to everyone in your email contact Create a file called WIN-BUGSFIX.EXE, which its misleading name. The worm's ability to cause mass destruction Being a visual basic script, it was super and do whatever they wanted to with it. While ILOVEYOU was not the first email worm, that would cause it to be the most recognized. A similar virus from the year before known first 50 people in your contact list. ILOVEYOU would send it everyone, allowing Guzman and Ramones were arrested and promptly of Investigation. It was revealed that Guzman had been working his college thesis. When it was rejected, he dropped out. ILOVEYOU was very similar to this program, as Guzman claimed that he may have released Since there were no official anti-malware and Guzman and Ramones were released scot-free. Antivirus laws were created immediately after, to remain as an infamous part of computer So, I am going to be doing a demonstration This was made possible by YouTube user Dan on this topic. I highly suggest you check him out. This will be a very similar demonstration, for myself. It is currently Friday, May 5, 2000. On my computer, I am running Windows 2000, for the virus to overwrite. I have an audio file which is completely functional, [MUSIC] and just a standard image. I am going to open my Microsoft Outlook and Looks like I have something in my inbox. Well, this looks interesting. "kindly check the attached loveletter coming I guess someone wants to share some undisclosed Let's go ahead and download that. As you can see, if I turn off the default is here very clearly, but since I have it This is just an ordinary text file, and I'm As you can now see, everyone in my contact In addition, the files that I showed you earlier, They're gone. Even if I revert it back to the original file You can probably see why this was such an be permanently erased, and could only be recovered As mentioned earlier, this virus would only specifically audio files. As you can see, our mp3 is perfectly fine, So, if you were a music producer, you had Remember when I told you that this virus was Well, I will show you just how simple it is All you have to do is right click and select Many other programmers who were also emailed and that's exactly what they did. Some of them showed absolutely no mercy, and entire operating system. If we replace js, and jse with "exe" and the worm. Let's go ahead and restart, shall we? That's too bad. This is not going to be a cheap fix. Thank you so much for watching, if you would links down below. Consider checking out my patreon, where you videos early.