Eraclio is a llamero. He leads llama caravans. To make a living, Eraclio twice a year. He comes down where he trades blocks of salt for goods. Eraclio owns over 100 llamas. A few days before setting out he brings his best animals down and composes his caravan. About 20, no more. Hilaron is the oldest llamero He had to give up long crossings because he couldn't walk anymore. Hilaron suffers from a deep wound. His son, Roberto, ever since he was born, The villagers say If Eraclio had a son, he would show him and how to tighten the straps He would take him along the trails and teach him how to look at the sky Roberto is oblivious to all of that. Roberto has only one friend, There are no roads in these mountains. No mailman. When Eraclio sets out, everyone in the village asks him The llamero is privy to all the secrets. He is the confidant, He's in on every love affair For this woman, who works in the salt mines. Eraclio chooses his words well, [Quechua spoken audio] For this woman, a gift to her daughter Eraclio will carry it [Quechua spoken audio] Eraclio travels to the most remote houses The weaver lady in exchange for the shawls she has made. [Quechua spoken audio] Old Hilaron He'd like his Roberto On these barren plateaus, you never leave, without first making an offering the mother of Earth and mountains. The old llamero has made up his mind. He's going to ask Eraclio However, Roberto has to agree Late that night, words fly up the Inca tongue. Simple words. Those of a worried father. Words that say, &quot;Tomorrow, you will leave with Eraclio. The caravans always have a leading llama. It is always the bravest and strongest. Also, the one On the trip, the other animals follow him [Quechua spoken audio] Eraclio has doubts. The journey will be rough However, between llameros, Eraclio and little Roberto [Quechua spoken audio] The lamas undergo severe conditions They walk for hours Eraclio considers the llama, Pachamama has also blessed the animal that makes it as silent as the puma. The days go by. Roberto walks. He doesn't complain. He doesn't smile. Eraclio feels alone with his llamas. Them, he knows. However, this fragile little creature, is beyond him. Every time the herd stops, It is the only place Men and llamas have lived together Five centuries ago, across the Andes Nowadays, Eraclio runs the same routes. [Quechua spoken audio] A woman is about to give birth. The doll represents a male baby. It will grant the wishes Roberto didn't have a mother. He has never been near a pregnant woman. [Quechua spoken audio] Before crossing the salt desert, Carlos makes shoes and glasses He says that the Salar drives one crazy, to burn the eyes and feet of any living Eraclio has heard it all before, as if it were the first time. The Salar is not a laughing matter. The Incas built entire cities Like all his people, Eraclio [Quechua spoken audio] Like them, he reads his path in the stars. He reads the llamero's fate. Up there, all aspects of life are written. He sees the llama and its enemy, the puma, the weaver's shuttle, Far from there, old Hilaron to talk to him of the great white desert of the nights and of Pachamama, The Salar de Uyuni is the only possible Three hundred kilometers of White Desert, punctuated here and there Eraclio was Roberto's age Eraclio buys his slabs of salt This is where Elias works. [Quechua spoken audio] The Salineros out the crystal crust [Quechua spoken audio] It has been six months Eraclio will bring back a little money [Quechua spoken audio] The salt is loaded Two blocks per llama, 24 kilos per animal. No more. Eraclio warns Roberto and how to avoid them. They will be alone. They will have to be strong. Walk, walk, A hungry puma At night he can kill a llama slit its throat and drag it to the edge. Eraclio, like all the llamero, to stop the big cat. The puma is sacred. The sun burns the eyes. The salt eats into the flesh. This is no place for living things. Llama wool absorbs sun and salt Llameros use it A man never crosses the Salar In the Salar, you walk at night Eraclio has read something in the stars. Legend has it that a starving llama in order to spread darkness Pachamama alone A few coca leaves and some alcohol Eraclio prays until nightfall. Roberto has fallen asleep. The llamas have fled. [Quechua spoken audio] In the Salar, and without the llamero, the llamas always head because they know they'll find food. However, in this desert, even if it seems close by, For the first time, Roberto leads the way. He wants to recover his llamas. The wound isn't serious. The puma made off with one animal, [Quechua spoken audio] In a week's time, The black sun has not been forgotten Roberto is welcomed like a hero. The people have been waiting for months now. [Quechua spoken audio] [Quechua spoken audio] On the homeward journey, Eraclio It took them a month to get back home. On their way, they paid another visit She had a little boy. She called him Roberto. With the money, the wife of Elias, She needs wool. [Quechua spoken audio] The weaver had been dreaming The whole village The voyage is over. Little Roberto has become a llamero. [Quechua spoken audio] Now Roberto can lead a caravan. Hope has returned to old Hilaron's heart. The village has found a new llamero. Roberto, of course, but everyone will rely on him. He is still the child of the gods.