The McDonnell F101 Voodoo is a supersonic jet fighter which served in the United States Air Force and the Royal Canadian Air Force. The origins of the F101 actually had little to do with the jobs for which it was used over its long career with the US Air Force, Air National Guard and Canadian Armed Forces. Neither tactical reconnaissance nor all weather interception had been a factor in early 1946 when the newly formed Strategic Air Command solicited proposals for a jet propelled strategic penetration fighter. SAIC's chief criteria at the time had been sufficient range to accompany its bombers, Boeing B20 Nines and the soon the fly. On their B30 sixes all the way to their targets and adequate speed and firepower to deal with enemy interceptors. 4 swept wing designs were ultimately approved for prototype development. The McDonald XF 88, Voodoo, Lockheed XF 90 Republic, XF 91, Thunder Scepter and North American YF 93 a a development of the F86, all of which flew between 1948 and 1950 after being awarded. Contract on February 14th, 1947, McDonnell built 2 prototypes, designated the XF 88 Voodoo. The first prototype, serial number 466525, powered by two Westinghouse XJ 34 W E-13 turbojets, flew from Morocco on 20th of October 1948. Preliminary testing revealed that while handling and range were adequate, the top speed was a disappointing 641 miles an hour at sea level. After fitting McDonnell designs afterburners to the second prototype, thrust was increased to 3600 pounds with corresponding. Performance increases in top speed, initial rate of climb, and reduce takeoff distance. Fuel consumption was greatly increased by the use of afterburners, however, reducing the range when a fly off was held in the summer of 1950, McDonald's XF 88, a an improvement over its 1948 prototype, emerged as the winner of the penetration fighter competition against the Lockheed XF 90 in North American YF 93. McDonald's success was momentary, however the Air Force. Motivated by unexpected budget cuts, abruptly cancelled the XF 88 a program and made the decision to use the Republic F84E Thunderjets as interim bomber escorts. Combat experience in Korea soon revealed that the straight wing F80 fours were not suited for air to air roll and the North American F86 Sabre jet clearly lacked the range to escort bombers to long range targets. Something better was needed, so SAC determined to protect its emerging fleet of. The 36 is issued new requirements for a long range fighter in January 1951, this time adding specifications for parallel development of photo reconnaissance versions of the new type. Lockheed, North American Republic and McDonnell all submitted new proposals, joined by a bid from Northrop for a long range version of its F 89 Scorpion. In May 1951, the Air Force announced that McDonald's entry basically a scaled up XF 88. They upgraded with more powerful Allison J35A-23 engines was the winning bidder, but before construction was authorized, the Air Force specified major changes aimed at improving overall range and performance, the most significant being the substitution of Pratt and Whitney J57P-13 power plants, which required enlarging and lengthening the fuselage to carry more fuel and house bigger engines, plus extensively revising the air intakes and related engine. Updating the greater dimensions of the J57 engines required modifications to the engine bays and modification to their intakes to allow larger amounts of air flow into the engine. The new intakes were also designed to be more efficient at higher Mach numbers in order to increase aerodynamic efficiency, reduce structural weight, and alleviate pitch up phenomena recently identified in flight testing of the Douglas D 5582 Skyrocket, an aircraft with control surface configuration similar to the X. F 88 the horizontal tail was relocated to the top of the vertical stabilizer, giving the F101 its signature T tail. When the McDonald team, led by Edward M Flesh, completed the final design in late 1951, the Voodoo had grown 13 feet longer and weighed twice as much as its XF 88 predecessor. The F88 was redesignated the F101 Voodoo in November of 1951. The F101A would be, at the time, the largest single seed. Fighter ever built, 67 feet 5 inches long and weighing over 48,000 pounds, fully loaded. Although the wing had been slightly enlarged by increasing the cord of the inboard half of each panel, total area was still relatively small, 368 square feet producing prodigious loading of 135.9 pounds per square foot, the highest of the century series in original configuration. Internal fuel capacity increased from 734 to 2003. 141 gallons augmented by two 450 gallon external drop tanks. Provisions were also made for an in flight refuelling either via flying boom or probe and drogue systems to extend the planes combat radius even farther. And APS 54 search radar provided all weather capability and heavy firepower came from 420 millimeter cannons, 3 Hughes G AR-1 Falcon radar homing missiles and up to 12 unguided rockets before the final design. Was fixed, the Air Force expanded the fighters potential mission uses by adding the capability to carry a nuclear weapon on an external rack. In late 1952, the mission of the F101 was changed from penetration fighter to strategic fighter, which entailed equal emphasis on both the bomber escort mission and on nuclear weapons delivery. The new voodoo markup with the reconfigured inlets, tail surfaces, landing gear and dummy nuclear weapon was inspected by Air Force officials in March 19. 53 the design was approved. An initial order for 29F101A's was placed on May 28th, 1953. No prototypes had been required as the F101 was considered a simple development of the XF 88 with the cook Craig production policy, in which initial low rate production would be used for testing without the use of separate prototypes chosen instead. Not surprisingly, a decision was made to limit production to the initial procurement until military acceptance testing. Evaluation was well underway. The 1st F101A was completed in August 1954 and shipped to Edwards Air Force Base, where its maiden flight was on September 24th with McDonnell test pilot Robert C Little at the controls. Early testing indicated impressive performance, a top speed of Mach 1.54, an initial climb rate of 44,100 feet per minute, a service ceiling of 49,450 feet, and a maximum range of 2001. 186 miles. It also revealed aerodynamic flaws that were serious enough in May 1956 for the Air Force to halt production pending resolution of its concerns. The most serious problem was a treacherous pitch up tendency encountered both in high and low airspeed ranges at certain G levels, with angles of attack frequently followed by engine compressor stalls that led to loss of power or total flame out if the pitch up in uncontrollable flat spin condition oscillating between 20 and 70 degrees. Those up occurred below 15,000 feet. Voodoo pilots were understanding orders to eject the pitch up problem was substantially remedied by installing a pitch inhibitor would not allow the stick to be pulled past specific points at specific speeds, and the intakes and engine ducting were redesigned to diminish the possibility of compressor stalling. After what amounted to approximately 2000 engineering changes, the hold order on F101A production was finally lifted in November 1956 and the type was. Accepted for operational service in early May of 1957 development and testing of the photo reconnaissance version, the RF101A followed the fighter version by about 18 months. But due to the setbacks in the fighter program, the photo Recon versions entered the operational service at virtually the same time. The aircraft was fitted with an MA 7 Fire control radar for both air to air and air to ground use, augmented by a low altitude bombing system for delivering nuclear weapons. And was designed to carry on March 28 nuclear bomb. The original intended payload for the F101A was the McDonnell Model 96 store, a large fuel slash weapons pods similar in concept to that of the Convair B 58 Hustler, but was cancelled in March 1956 before the F101 entered service. Other operational nuclear payloads included the Mark 7, Mark 43, and mark 57 weapons, while theoretically capable of carrying conventional. Arms, rockets or Falcon air to air missiles, the voodoo never used such weapons operationally. The RF101A made its first flight in June 1956 and differed from the fighter mainly in carrying 150 gallons of additional internal fuel and having a lengthened nose that housed 3 vertical and two oblique Fairchild cameras. In place of the search radar and 20 millimeter guns. The RFS shared the capability to deliver a single nuclear weapon carried on a centerline rack. And were marginally faster than the F's due to the reduced weight. F101A's became operational in May 1957 with the 27th Strategic Fighter Wing in their original bomber escort role replacing their F84F Thunderstreak. However, by this time S AC had decided to abandon the long range fighter concept. Even with its above average range, the voodoo could not escort the bombers B30 sixes and by that time B40 Sevens and B50 twos. All the way to their intended targets, the F101A's career might have ended then and there but for the intervention of Tactical Air Command, which saw potential in the big fighter as a tactical nuclear weapons delivery system platform. Thus in mid 1957 the 27th Strategic Fighter Wing became the TAC controlled 27th Fighter Bomber Wing, and all F101A's were thereafter retrofitted with the low Altitude bombing system and other apparatus needed to complete their new function. As nuclear strike fighters, by late November 1957 the last of the 77F101A's had been delivered to the Air Force, fifty of them assigned to operational units, with the remaining 27 held for experimental and test purposes. F101A's served in a frontline role until 1966, after which they were phased out and turned over to the Air National Guard units. The first of 35 production RF101A's was delivered to the 363rd tactical. Reconnaissance Wing TRW at Shaw Air Force Base in May 1957. It was the first supersonic reconnaissance aircraft in the Air Force inventory and on November 27th, 1957, as a part of Operation Sun Run 4RF101A's set a new transcontinental speed record. They flew round trip between McGuire Air Force Base in New Jersey and March Air Force Base in California in six hours, 46 minutes and 36 seconds with an average speed of seven. 121 miles an hour in the mid to late 1960s, RF 101 A's were used as reconnaissance trainers and were all phased out of the active Air Force inventory by 1971. A few serviceable examples following the conversion to RF101G standards were transferred to Air National Guard units. Pilots who flew the Voodoo were impressed by its performance, dubbing it the 10 wonder, but they also considered it very unforgiving. Colonel C Robert Osborne junior. Said the F101 was a lady, a fantastic airplane, but touchy, very touchy. It had to be flown properly. Air Force test pilot Richard Baird echoed that sentiment. It's the biggest by the book fighter I've ever flown. The voodoo would bite you. You really had to fly it strictly by the book. And reconnaissance pilot Colonel Jonathan Gardner noted that the first ride you didn't fly it, you hung on to it. The improved F101C and RF101C were both ordered in March 1956. The seas were externally identical to the A models, but had strengthened airframes to accept a higher load limit and in the case of the fighter version, were equipped from the start as tactical fighter bombers. All of the 47F101C's built were delivered to the Air Force in 1957 to 1958, serving with the 81st Tactical Fighter Wing as nuclear strike aircraft until they were phased out. In 1965 to 1966, the F101C was the fastest tactical fighter in operational service until the advent of the Lockheed F-104, and on December 12th, 1957, a stripped down example set a new world record of 1204 miles an hour, or Mach 1.83. The RF101C, built in greater numbers than its fighter counterpart, entered operational service in September 1957 and the last of 166 was delivered. In March 1959, RF 101C's saw wide service with the US based 363rd Tactical Reconnaissance Wing, the Europe based 66 TRW and the Far East base 67th TRW. During the Cuban Missile Crisis in October 1962, RF 101 A's and C's of the 363rd TRW flew low level reconnaissance missions over Cuba. The RF101C was the only voodoo variant to see combat. Vietnam. In fact, as early as 1961, RF 101C's of the 67th TRW operating out of Kadena Air Force Base in Okinawa began making surveillance flights over Laos and South Vietnam. During the same time period, 45th TR. S Voodoos moved to Tan so Nut Air Force Base in Vietnam to cover operations in the South and served as pathfinders for the first bombing mission against the north on February 8th, 1965 between 1965 and 1970. 33RF101C's were lost to enemy anti aircraft and missiles and one to a N Vietnamese Mig 21 starting in late 1967. As more RF4C's arrived to the takeover reconnaissance duties, voodoos were restricted from operations over North Vietnam. They were all ultimately withdrawn from the combat zone by late 1970. Upon their return to the states, RF101C's were retired from active US Air Force Service and many were turned over to the air. National Guards units in 196529 F 101A and 31F101C's were modified under the new designations RF101G and RF101H respectively, to serve as unarmed reconnaissance aircraft with the Air National Guard units. The modification entailed removal of radar and armament and the installation of a nose cone housing cameras and new electronic components. RF101G's And's were operated by three. Air National Guard units, the 154th TRS in Arkansas, the 165th TRS in Kentucky, and the 192nd TRS in Nevada. In early 1968, the seizure of the US Naval surveillance vessel Pueblo by the North Koreans led to President Lyndon B Johnson to activate all three Air National Guard voodoo units. Each served a rotational tour at Itazuke Air Force Base, Japan, and compiled impressive records flying 19,715. Practical hours and 11,561 sorties and exposing 841,601 feet of aerial film. The last single seat reconnaissance voodoos were removed from the National Guard Service in 1976. The most numerically important and longest live voodoo was the two seat all weather fighter interceptor version, the F101B by the end of 1953. The Air Force's ambitious 2 step interceptor program with Convair. The Mark 1F102A, scheduled to be followed by the Mark 2F102B redesignated the F106A in 1956, was seriously behind schedule and aircraft was needed to plug the gap between this so-called ultimate interceptor and the subsonic Northrop F89 Scorpions, Lockheed F-94 STARFIRES and North American F86D sabers serving with Air Defense Command. ADC's expression mission was strategic defense to interrupt and destroy. Soviet bombers on route to the United States before they reached our shores late in 1953, the Air Force asked aircraft manufacturers to submit proposals for a new missile armed all weather interceptor under the classification weapons systems WS-217-A McDonnell offered a single or two seat adaptation of the F101 that would incorporate new fire control and missile systems and use more powerful right J67 engines license built copies of the British Bristol Olympus. That were supposed to produce 22,000 pounds of static thrust each. The Air Force selected McDonald's proposal in mid 1954 specifying the two seat version, and issued a letter of intent in March 1955 for an additional batch of 28 aircraft and potential production of 68 more. The expectation was that the first flight would take place in mid 1956 and the prototype would enter the operational service in early 1958 after the letter of intent. Was issued. McDonnell requested the designation F109 for the airframe portion of the WS-217-A project, but the Air Force, evidently conscious of the funding obstacles associated with the new aircraft as opposed to the improvements to the existing type, called it the F101B. Although McDonnell had the F101B mockup ready for inspection by September 1955, the entire voodoo program was put on indefinite hold while the aforementioned aerodynamic problems with the F101. A were being ironed out. Further delays and uncertainties with the J67 engines led to a decision to use Pratt and Whitney J57P55 power plants, which featured longer afterburners and a thrust rating of PS16,900 per engine. The F101B shared the center and aft fuselage sections and tail group of the F101A series and other than bulged wheel well doors to house larger tires, the same wing planform but the F101. He introduced a completely new 4 foot longer forward fuselage section with a tandem cockpit layout for the pilot and radar operator. Also new was a Hughes MG tracking and Fire control system, essentially an upgrade of the E6 system already utilized in the F89D, and a Rotary weapons Bay that held four Hughes Falcon semi active radar and infrared missiles. The 1st F101B took off from Lambert Field in Saint Louis on March 27th, 19. 57 a year behind schedule, and the Air Force spent nearly two more years conducting extensive tests and evaluations before releasing the Voodoo interceptors to operational service. Flight performance met expectations, a top speed of Mach 1.66, a combat ceiling of 51,000 feet, and a normal range of 1387 miles. But the F101B had other problems that seriously hampered its operational effectiveness. The radar. Operators position was poorly designed and little could be done to improve it other than minor adjustments. Even more worrisome, the MG 13 fire control system did not adequately control the weapons on a platform as fast as the F101A proposal to replace the system with the more advanced MA one developed for the F106 was rejected because of the cost involved. Deficiencies notwithstanding, the F101B's became operational with the 60th Fighter Interceptor Squadron. At Otis Air Force Base in Massachusetts on January 5th, 1959. On the plus side, the two Cedar Voodoos had been extensively tested by the time they had reached a DC, and they finally gave the Air Force an interceptor capable of advanced performance at affordable cost, 1.7 million per plane compared to 4.7 million for an F106A. By the end of 1960. No fewer than 1780 sea squadrons were equipped with F101B's production. Ended in March 1961 with a total of 480 aircraft delivered. Beginning in 1959, McDonnell undertook a modification in which approximately one out of every 4F101B's would be fitted with dual controls while retaining full ADC mission capability used for conversion and operational training. Under the initial designation TF101B, these aircraft were redesignated F101F's in 1961 after 79 examples had been modified. Late production F101B's boasted upgraded fire control systems and the ability to carry two nuclear tipped unguided Genie MBB ones or Air 2A missiles in place of the two Falcons. In a modernization program project Bold Journey completed between 1963 and 1966, most F101B's were fitted with infrared sensors to facilitate tracking of hostile aircraft regardless of radar jamming and also received a much improved pitch control mechanism. That function, through an automatic flight control system, F101B F, began to be phased out of Air Force Service in 1969 without having fired a shot in anger, and the last active duty squadrons operating the type, the 60th and 62nd AFIS, retired their voodoos in April 1971. Simultaneously, F101B's and F's were delivered to the Air National Guard units, starting with the 116th FIS, Washington ANG, in November 1969. And ultimately went on to fully equip 8 fighter interceptor units in seven different states. The Air Force retained a small number of F101B's after 1971 for Fighter interceptor training, and the last of those was retired in September 1982. Introducing the most powerful fighter airplane in the world today, the F101A Voodoo. Its mission to support its strategic bombardment aircraft by escorts and high speed delivery of special stores on long range intruder. Operate. Birthplace of the new Voodoo is the McDonnell Aircraft Corporation in Saint Louis. This integrated defense installation includes over 2 1/2 million square feet of floor area. On the initial flight of the Voodoo at Edwards, the airplane went supersonic and the pilot reported excellent handling characteristics. Air Force evaluation flights were made at Edwards during late October and early November 1954. In long range missions, the Buddha has a combat radius of 1000 nautical miles. It has a maximum level flight speed and access of 850 knots at 35,000 feet. There is no limiting Mach number. The 101 A is the aerodynamic evolution of earlier voodoo model, the XF 88 days seen on the left, which made its first flight in October 1948. One of the major factors in the success of the present voodoo design has been the retention of the aerodynamic parameters of the earlier model. During the engineering evolution of the F101, engineers drew heavily upon their previous experience with the XF 88 exhaustive wind tunnel. Studies indicated certain configuration changes. Wings were made thinner, the size and location of the tail were altered considerably. Engines were moved farther forward in the fuselage. Structural integrity of the new voodoo is being carefully checked and proven by thorough physical tests. This test program is for the purpose of verifying the structural loads analysis and is proceeding on schedule. After the basic voodoo design became reality, the production line took shape. The 1st 31 aircraft are being assigned to an accelerated flight test development program. This schedule ensures that subsequent production aircraft will be thoroughly proven prior to delivery to operational squadrons. Although over 1000 death fighters have been built by McDonnell, the 101 a voodoo is the first major production contract with the US Air Force First flight September 29, nineteen 154 McDonald Chief Test pilot. Not little is shown here. Starting the job of proving the design concept evolved in years of joint effort by the Air Force and McDonald. The two Pratt and Whitney J57 engines developed 10,000 pounds of thrust each with afterburners. These engines make PS28,000 of thrust available to the pilot. Prime performance is spectacular even for the most critical observers. Tests have shown that a takeoff could be completed in a fully loaded condition even if one engine were lost at liftoff speed with the other engine and afterburning. The extremely thin wings and tail surfaces of the voodoo enabled the big fighter to achieve transonic and supersonic speeds with no trim change. Wings and stabilator are swept back at an angle of 35 degrees along the quartered cord line. The Voodoo spans 39.7 feet and is 67.4 feet in length. Its overall height is 18 feet. The first landing of the F101A at Edwards Air Force Base was closely observed by an F86 Chase plane. In addition to the camera plane, landing gear is of conventional tricycle type. Speed brakes are located in the aft utilized section. The flight controls are push pull rod operated with power cylinders located near the control surfaces. An artificial fuel system is utilized to provide proper resistance at the cockpit controls. The horizontal stabilizer is an all movable slap type. The F101 has excellent low speed handling characteristics with normal touchdown at about 140 knots. The landing role is reduced by use of the para brake, which is opened by the pilot during the landing rollout. The big Voodoo handles easily on the ground and pilots have been well pleased with the excellent vision from the cockpit during taxi operations. In fact, pilot visibility has proven exceptional under all conditions of flight. In the first nine months of flying, a total of 404 flights have been made for a total of 381 hours, including 56 flights by Air Force test pilot. Only 29 days after the first flight by the contractor, the Voodoo was turned over to the airport for preliminary evaluation. Here, Brigadier General JS Holzner of Edwards Air Force Base prepares to take the F101 upstairs. As general Holzner climbs into the cockpit, Bob Little follows for a last minute briefing on the control. Air Force pilots participating in the evaluation program, in addition to General Holzner, includes such old throws as Colonel Pete, every Major Gus Julian, Colonel Royal Baker, Major Jim Butler, Captain Dick Harrah, Colonel Ken Schultz, major Stew child, Major Ray Hunt, Major Bob Stevens, Captain Verge Gibbons and Colonel AJ Haynes. An interesting feature of the voodoo is the provision for dual droppable main wheels, which will enable the airplane to operate from steel map fighter strip. As general Holzner eases the throttles forward, the PS28,000 of thrust accelerates the PS38,000 voodoo rapidly. The PS30,000 thrust engine of the squadron aircraft will give even better performance. This revaluation comprised a qualitative appraisal of prime performance, subsonic and supersonic stability, maneuvering, flight stalls and general handling characteristics during formation flights. In the design of the Voodoo, McDonald kept three primary concepts and constant focus. Performance. Second, good handling and stability characteristics and 3rd easy maintenance. A closer area look at the voodoo shows the large fuselage in which over 2000 gallons of fuel are carried. Total fuel capacity is 3254 gallons, of which 900 gallons are carried externally. Firepower of the voodoo includes 4 M 3920 millimeter guns, which fire a total of 1500 rounds, or 375 rounds per gun. The guns are installed forward of the cockpit and the lower fuselage, making them readily accessible to armament crews. An M A7 fire control system is installed. Another of the tactical functions of the voodoo is that of carrying special stores on long range intruder missions. This voodoo taxes out with the Model 96 store installed. The store is a McDonald design supersonic shape causing a PS2700 warhead plus 849 gallons of transferable fuel. This weapon is designed to be used and released throughout the speed range of the airplane. The voodoo accelerates down the runway as Hambling characteristics are checked in high speed taxi runs before actual flight. The 96 shape, which is almost 32 feet long and weighs slightly under PS10,000, gives the Buddha striking power never before found in fighters. When carrying smaller special stores, two 450 gallon tanks can still be carried to extend the combat radius. With all three store stations thus used, the gross weight will be about PS50,000 of takeoff. Shown here is a takeoff with two full 450 gallon tanks installed. This is the external fuel arrangement used in the standard fighter configuration. For missions demanding maximum radius of action capabilities, the takeoff performance speaks for itself. After pregnancy flight tests first with empty external tanks, then with two full tanks. The Voodoo is set for the big tanks, three fully loaded external tanks and a full internal fuel load. The centerline tank is used to simulate a March 7 store, which is both smaller and weighs less than the loaded bank shown here. Although the gross weight of the airplane is increased greatly in the full fuel load configuration, the powerful voodoo climbs out sharply at maximum weight to take off. Ground roll is only about 4000 feet on a standard day. The Voodoos rapid climb from takeoff poses a serious chase plane problem. Here at Lambert, St. Louis Field, General Boyd, commander of WABC lands, after an evaluation, flight improvements have been incorporated into the Voodoo since General Boyd previously flew the airplane at Edwards. Among the accomplishments of the flight program were level flight speeds of Mach 1.5, maximum altitudes of 54,300 feet, and evidence of unsurpassed maneuverability at supersonic speed. The general taxis the voodoo onto the McDonnell ramp and dropped his parabrahma. General Boyd, seen here climbing out of the sleek fighter, is greeted by J McDonald, president of McDonnell Aircraft Corporation. Development of high performance military weapons demands the closest interest and cooperation of those possessing tactical knowledge and of those possessing industrial know how. With the test and development program now well underway at Lambert Field, impressive takeoff scenes of the Voodoo such as this have become commonplace. While within the walls of the plant, the experience must Donald team is busily building toward full scale production of the powerful and versatile voodoo to add further to the striking power of the United States Air Force. Well, here she is. Your briefing told you a lot about her and what makes her go. Now it's about time for that first run. First, you'd better check over form 781. If everything is in order, let's look the airplane over before you climb aboard for your first half. Be sure the PTO cover is off. And the plastic nose is the cure. See that camera windows are clean and undamaged. Check the landing lights and steering unit. Inspect the nose gear doors up latch and color assembly. See the brake system emergency air bottle has PS3000 pressure and the down lock pin is removed. Make sure the split vertical camera doors are closed and secured. Check the inlet duct and the security of all doors which could be drawn into the intake. Examine the wing for dents or disfiguration and that the stall fence is secure. Check the wing tip and position light. The aileron hinge area, the flaps and the flap well area must be clear. Inspect the gear fairing doors and check condition of gear upla. Down locks should be secured. The inboard gear doors should be down and the engine fairing doors secure. Check tailpipe areas for fuel accumulation. Make sure there are no loose rivets and the keel plates are secured. Visually examine the field system RAM Air inlet. The vertical stabilator. The horizontal stabilator drag chute compartment. Position lights and the rudder. Complete the walk around inspection by checking the same items on the other side on the airplane. With the walk around check completed, it's time to climb aboard. The canopy and seat safety pins must be in place. And the canopy and seat initiator hoses should be secured. Once you have settled in the cockpit and have strapped yourself in, the mechanic will pull the canopy safety pin on cross country flights. Take this pin with you. Before beginning the cockpit check, make sure the battery switch is off and that the landing gear handle is down. Now check the shoulder harness and that the safety belt locking key is inserted. Be sure the lanyard is clear of the harness and equipment leads. Connect the oxygen mask. Be sure to double loop the connector. Tie down strap around the parachute chest strap. Connect the G suite and microphone leads. Turn the battery switch on momentarily to adjust the seat. Use the hand crank to adjust the rudder pedals. Then check the drift computer control knob and the photo compartment temperature controls which are on the pedestal panel. Make sure the stick grip is firmly attached. Now let's run through the cockpit check with external power off. Begin at the aft end of the Left console and continue clockwise around the cockpit. We'll take the check items in groups. This is our first group. Set the anti G suit pressure regulating knob. Emergency camera door switch normal. The APS 54 power switch off. Check the split vertical, the Tri Camera and Forward camera station control panels. Then the camera master control panel. The next check items lie in this general area. Fuel transfer selector switch fuselage, fuel quantity selector knob, total. Pitch up, warning horn switch on. Pitch up, warning pusher, switch on. The next group will complete the Left console check. Wing flap lever retract. Landing light switch. Off. Check the circuit Breakers. Tank jettison switch normal. Throttles flow. Speed brake switch neutral. Drag chute handle in and secure. Rudder trim switch neutral engine master switches off. Engine starts switches off. Fuel control switches normal. Antenna selector switch. Upper. Now check the left vertical console. Emergency air brake handle and emergency gear extension handle in and secure. Landing gear handle down. Emergency speed brake switch normal. The next area is the main instrument panel. Check the viewfinder control panel. Turn switch normal. Radar warning switch. Bolt. Set the airspeed and mock indicator. Next, set the altimeter. Than the clock. Check the viewfinder. The accelerometer. And the vertical velocity indicator. Then set the pressure ratio gauges. These items are all on the right vertical console. The boom and probe IFR switches in and retract. Battery switch. Off. The left and right generator switches should be on. On the forward right-hand console, check the following. Oxygen quantity gauge. Oxygen regulator lever normal. Oxygen supply lever on. Cabin pressure switch normal. Peter, heat switch. Off. Windshield anti icing switch on or low. Windshield blower switch off. That the cabin air temperature control knob and the defroster knob, as desired. Farther back on the right console, check the following. VHF navigation radio power switch off. Stand by, compass light switch off. Based heat knob off. Set the ground position indicator controls. Check the J Four direction indicator control. IFF master control knob off. Check the autopilot. These items complete the power off check. Set all interior and exterior light controls. Check that all camera circuit Breakers are in. Then check the supply of spare lamps. With external power connected, check fuel quantity. Turn the selector knob to obtain individual tank reading. After completing the fuel quantity check, return the selector knob to the number 2 cell, because this is the cell you will monitor during takeoff. Check the three landing gear indicator lights. They should be on. The flat position indicator should show flaps up. Check the operation of the UHF command radio voice and DF and VHF navigation radio. Iaff should be in standby until airborne. Check the cockpit lights and the exterior lights. Just before starting the engines, check the operation of the fire warning system in both flashing and steady. Then the warning lights dimming circuit by depressing the test switch after turning the instrument light knob on. Now make sure the throttles are closed. Then to start the left engine, turn the left engine master switch on and actuate the left engine start switch. When the RPM gets up to 12 to 16%. Advance the throttle to idle. Ignition is automatic. If you've got to start, you'll get a rise in exhaust temperature. Fuel flows should indicate 850 to 1100 pounds per start. If flow is less, you may get a false start. If more, you'll probably get a hot start. Normal engine idle RPM is between 55 and 65%. The exhaust temperature should not exceed maximum temperature during transition to idle RPM. The oil pressure should be at least 30PSI. With one engine started, move the stick rapidly to check the hydraulic gauges for a momentary pressure drop. Visually check control surface movement. After starting the other engine, have the mechanic disconnect external power. With both hydraulic systems providing normal pressure, the warning light should be out. Turn the battery switch. On. Turn the Yaw damper switch. On. Now let's check the pitch up warning system. While holding down the test button. Have the ground crew rotate the probe sufficiently to engage the pusher as the stick is moved at. Check for pusher release after short forward stick travel. Also check emergency pusher release by pressing the autopilot disengaged trigger on the stick handle. Open and close, the speed breaks. Extend the flat. Hold the seat safety pin now and you're about set to taxi out. With taxi area clear, signal the ground crew to remove the chop. Hold the airplane with brakes until you're ready to roll. Advanced throttle slightly to get rolling. Taxi speed is adequate with idle power. To save wear and tear on the brakes, use nose gear steering for all taxi. Take it easy going around corner, then don't ride the brake. Use the brakes carefully when coming to a full stop to avoid landing gear chatter. The canopy warning light will go out when the canopy is down and lock. Taxi into takeoff position. Let the airplane roll straight ahead to align the nose gear. When you're squared away, check the safety belt and shoulder harness. Make sure the equipment leads are untangled. Unlock the shoulder harness inertia reel. Cycle the controls. Check the takeoff trim light and the flat position indicator. If pre takeoff engine checks are desired, make run ups in both normal and emergency fuel control setting. Run engines up individually to avoid slipping tires on their rims. Run up to military power and check the pressure ratio indicators for proper preset value. After run up checks are completed for both engines, we're all set. OK, let's roll. Move both throttles to about 88%. Release brakes and advance the throttles to military. Recheck the pressure ratio gauges. Use nose gear steering until the rudder becomes effective at about 70 knots. Ease the stick back at 150 knots to get the nose gear off. Then relax. Stick back pressure to hold attitude. The airplane will fly itself off at about 165 knots. Raise the gear and flaps quickly to prevent exceeding gear and flat placard speeds. Afterburner takeoffs are not recommended on your first couple of flights because the airplane accelerates so rapidly. However, while you're climbing, let's imagine an afterburner takeoff. Advance the throttles to military, then shift an outboard to light the burners. Although she'll get up to speed in a hurry and afterburning, ease the nose gear off at 150 knots and relax. Stick back pressure, just as you did in military. Take it easy though, don't over rotate and get into a non flying attitude. Get the gear and flaps up as early as possible. Remember, you're handling more thrust per pound of airplane than you've ever felt before, so it is imperative that you stay ahead of the airplane. While we're talking about afterburner takeoffs, we might point out that the time from brake release to best client speed is very short. In fact, it only takes about 60 seconds. And when you reach the best flying speed, you'll have to climb at a steep angle to stay at that speed. Use the mock meter to maintain best climb speed and control attitude with the artificial horizon. In military power, of course, attitude isn't as steep and rate of climb not as high. It's up to you, however, to make the most out of the time. You are the one who must get the feel of the airplane, develop correct flying technique. Although she is big, you'll find the Voodoo handles light and easy. In short, she feels like a fighter. After you've flown her around a while, you'll learn to enjoy the comfort of Twin engine reliability. Along with his supersonic performance, the Voodoo has fine handling characteristics. Like any airplane, though, it has its limitations. That's why it's important that you know the placards and fly accordingly. Make it a habit to study the Dash 1 handbook. Hashing over the airplanes flight characteristics with other voodoo pilots will help also. The voodoo wasn't designed for optimal maneuvering capabilities at subsonic speeds. It's a true supersonic airplane and maneuvering capabilities that supersonic speeds are excellent. Maneuverability is of course restricted by structural strength, so it's up to you to know your handbook placards. Let's slow down now and check the slow speed flight characteristics with gear and flap up. As you know, the voodoo, as well as other century fighters, has a characteristic called pitcha. The nature of this phenomenon was explained thoroughly during your briefing, so we need not go into it here. What we want to emphasize is that pitchup is easily avoided. All Squadron aircraft will be equipped with a pitch up warning system just as the airplane you're flying. The warning system sounds a horn as you approach the pitch up boundary and actually pushes the stick forward should you reach the pitch up boundary. While you're flying around at low speeds, drop the gear and flaps to see how she handles in landing configuration. You'll recall from briefing that with either gear or flat down, the pusher part of the pitch up warning system is not operative. However, the Horn warning part of the system does stay operative during landings and takeoff. Subsonically, the aircraft gives good puppet warning. And the horn is a second indication that you should ease the stick forward. Before you head for home, fire up the burners and check level flight acceleration. You'll find acceleration impressive at all altitudes, and you'll enjoy the high level flight speeds the voodoo can reach. On an average day, for example in afterburning, you can accelerate from .95 to 1.5 mock in three to four minutes. Flying qualities are stable and control characteristics positive throughout the placard speed envelope of the airplane. As you approach home base, make these checks before entering the pattern. The camera master control switch should be off. Check fuel quantity and monitor #2 cell. Hydraulic gauges should read normal. Check safety belt and unlock inertia reel. In the pattern, adjust the throttles to maintain speed and altitude. At about 350 knots, make your break. Moving into the downwind leg, adjust power to about 80%. And open the speed brakes. Close the speed breaks when you get below 250 knots. Then drop the landing gear. Lower the flaps at any speed below 250 knots. On the base leg, the speed should be down to about 190 knots for a landing with PS3000 of fuel remaining. You should set up a smooth pattern from this point so you'll flare out at 179. From about 2 miles out, make a straight in final. Use a mild approach angle, holding the airspeed at 170 knots. Be sure to cross the end of the runway before you chop power. Why the voodoo onto the runway and touched down at about 150 knots. Will the drag chute and ease the nose down gently at about 110 knots? When the nose gear is firmly on the runway, nose gear steering can be used. Release the drag chute in a clear area and pull up into the line. Hold the aircraft with brakes until wheel chocks are in place. To shut down the engines, close the throttles and turn off the engine master switches. Now install the seat safety pin. Make sure all electrical switches except generator switches are off before you leave the cockpit. Well, that's it. Your first ride in the RF 101 voodoo. A few more familiarization hops, and you'll feel entirely at home in this airplane. Yes, the briefing was detailed and intensive and it took a lot of work on your part, but you'll find it worthwhile because you know now the voodoo is a lot of airplane. Ron was a demanding takedown for McDonnell RF101 voodoo, their pilot, airman and behind the scenes personnel. It was a record-breaking mission, exacting the utmost in painstaking planning and cooperation. While Sunrun was all of this and more, the mission was nevertheless in line with the preparedness philosophy of today's Air Force, realistic and tough. What was Operation Sunrun test? The readiness of the McDonnell RF101 Voodoo to fly nonstop? Los Angeles to New York and back to Los Angeles. A distance of 4900 miles at top speed, with all photo equipment operating at the same time, plus diffuse speed record 6 airplanes and all four to New York. Two to make the round trip back to Los Angeles and two to act as fair responsibility for operating in Sunrun. Was assigned to the 363rd Tactical Reconnaissance Wing of the Tactical Air Command from Shaw Air Force Base in November 19. 37 pilots were well along in practice with a RDC and tracked tankers over Southern California. This is selected to fly Operation Sunrun were carefully chosen with emphasis on experience and ability. Lieutenant Colonel W 8 Nelson was the commanding officer. Here are the Sun run pilots. Captain Ray W Shreckengost Junior of Sebring, OH. Major Stanley R Sebring of Beverly Hills, CA. Captain Robert M Tweet of Baronet, Wisconsin. Captain Donald Hawkins of Alhambra, CA. Captain Robert E Burkhart of Alliance, OH. Captain Robert J Kilpatrick of Bristol, CT. Lieutenant Gospeed class of Midland, TX. On November 27th, 1957, the stage was set for Operation Sunrun. The planes were ready and the pilots poised for the real thing. After an early morning briefing, pilots and airmen made last minute inspections of their aircraft. Run was on. Pack the out. Remove safety pins and disconnect external starting leads. And roll the wheel chair. The airmen jobs were approved for the time being, except to sweat out each second until the mission was completed. During the briefing session, pilots had drawn lots for their assignment. Accordingly, Captain Schreckengost, sweep Kilpatrick and Lieutenant Flats were to go to New York, with Captain Shreckengost and fleet returning to Los Angeles. Captains Kilpatrick and Platt were to land at New York, and Captain Pumpkins and Burkhart for demand the fair aircraft. The afterburners were kicked in and Operation Fun Run was underway for Kilpatrick and plant. It meant about 2450 miles of flying, while Shreckengost and fleet had to cover 4900. Miles. #2 Voodoo becomes airborne and the others follow at predetermined intervals. The first refueling rendezvous point with KC135 tankers was near Albuquerque, NM. This was the pattern. Why a top speed? Meet the tankers at designated spots, gas up and Blast off again. Meanwhile, navigate, get instruction from GCI, make radio transmission, check instrument. And fly the airplane. The second boodoo slides into position beneath the tanker. And so, operation Sunrun progress has rehearsed the voodoo, taking on fuel according to schedule. In a short time, word got back to headquarters that the Voodoos had made their first refueling rendezvous successfully and four were off to New York. The two spares were on their way back to the starting point. About 3 hours later, Brigadier General Stephen B Mack, commander of the 363rd Reconnaissance Wing, announced that all four voodoos had broken the West to east record, arriving at New York within minutes of each other. Lieutenant Clapp, averaging 781 miles an hour, made the bed time, arriving in New York in three hours and 5 minutes to chop about 17 minutes off the old record. Captain Ray strength was first to get back to Ontario, CA, making the round trip in seven hours and 7 minutes. All the Los Angeles to New York to Los Angeles Dash captain Schreckengost had averaged over 671 miles an hour. General Mack was first to congratulate Captain frequent God News man and well wishers quickly swarmed about the airplane. Reporters, TV and radio announcers, crowd captains reckon got as he explains that Captain Fleet is coming in right on his heels, making steel better time. This information spread quickly and newsmen prepared to welcome the latest breaker of the round trip record, a record which lived only a few minutes for Captain freaking God. They had little time to wait. Captain Sweep soon roared across the finish line. He had covered the 4900 miles in six hours and 46 minutes, averaging over 721 mph. It was the first nonstop round trip Los Angeles to New York to Los Angeles flight made at supersonic speed. Captain Sweet makes a smooth landing, completing his record-breaking flight. Here is Captain Bob Sweet, new holder of the round trip record. General Mack later awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Captain Fleet and Lieutenant plant, and the air medal to Captain Shreckengost and Kilpatrick. In all, seven official world class and national records were established by RF 101 during Operation Sunrise. Three of these marks were scattered in a matter of minutes, each via voodoo hot on the tail of another as they crossed the finish line in New York. This remarkable achievement, where four out of four aircraft completed their difficult assignment, his attribute to the skill and organization of the Air Force and to the reliability and performance of the voodoo operation. Run, Run was a real defense. High heels of operation would not run and equally successful was Operation Firewall, the mission break both the national and world speed record. The McDonnell F101A Voodoo, the most powerful and longest range fighter bomber in operational service was given the assignment offered by two Pratt Whitney J57 engine. The Voodoo can operate under all weather condition and its unique in flight refueling capabilities enable it to carry atomic weapons at extreme. Printer. The speed run was staged at Edwards Air Force Base in California on December 12th, 1957. Over a measured distance of 10.1 miles, in accordance with international rules, National Aeronautic Association officials placed sealed speed and altitude measuring instruments in the voodoo and observer plane before the flight. Timing devices were installed on each end of the speed part. These are special cameras which photograph a contesting airplanes as it passes directly overhead. Major Adrian E Drew, commander of the 481st Fighter Bomber Squadron 27 Fighter bomber wing of the Tactical Air Command, was selected to pilot the Voodoo in the attempt to crack the world and national speed record. At this time the world's record was 1132 miles an hour set by LP Twist of England in an experimental Perry Delta fighters. the United States record of 1015 miles an hour was set in 1956 by Commander RW Windsor of the Navy in an 8U-1 crusader. Major Drew was well qualified to make the speed dash. As the former Strategic Air Command F 101 Project officer. He has logged many hours in test flying the voodoo. And was therefore entirely familiar with its capability. Shortly after 8:30 AM on December 12th, 1957, major drew was planning his voodoo to the Speed run altitude of 39,000 feet, in accordance with the rules National Aeronautic Association officials were writing as observers and P33 to witness the flight. To correct for wind effect, the rules required a run in each direction over the measured court. Here, as the voodoo approaches the court, distances from the first marker are relayed by radio. 20 miles. 20 miles. I got on W outer station 10 miles W outer station. Cameron 27. 5 miles West doctors station, 5 miles 5-4 miles West, daughters. 3 miles W outer. 2 miles. One mile W out of station standby. Mark. Over West. 2/5. 5 miles too far. Formal. 2 miles. One mile too far. Standby. Art. Then Operation Firewall was over. Had he broken the record? Major Drew believed he had, but also realized that his speeds of 1212 miles an hour on the initial pass and 1203 mph on the return path would have to be verified by technical data before becoming official. Later, on orders from Major General Chester E McCarty, 12th Air Force commanding Officer, Major Drew had flown his voodoo to Los Angeles to Meet the Press. He knew then his record was official. General McCarty, acting for the Tactical Air Command, decorated major drew with the Distinguished Flying Cross and the presence of members of the press, TV, Radio and newsreel men. General McCarty announced that the Voodoo had averaged 1207 6/10 miles an hour, breaking the world record. This was 75 miles an hour faster than the British mark and nearly 200 miles an hour faster than the former US record. Like Sun Run Operation, Firewall was a record smashing success. Hello, I'm Colonel Miller Askins of the Air Defense Command, United States Air Force. As I'm sure you know, the mission of the Air Defense Command is to protect this continent from any hostile air attack that might be launched against us. And as I'm sure you also know, the units of the Air Defense Command, which are located here in your community, are a very important part of this operation and a very real sense they represent your personal protection against any such enemy air invasion. My purpose in visiting with you today is to tell you a little more about how we in the Air Defense Command conduct our mission. Particularly, I would like to familiarize you with our newest weapon system, the McDonnell F101B Interceptor, which is now entering squadron duty here. In a few moments I would like to discuss our mission with you all. Our first may I present to you the story of the outstanding McDonnell F101B Voodoo. This is the F101B voodoo jet long range interceptor, the newest and most potent weapon system in the operational squadrons which will defend the North American continent. It's your most effective protection against enemy aircraft which approached the borders of the United States with hostile intent. No airplane in the history of airpower has had better qualifications for a particular mission. For the voodoo is more than just an airplane. It is a complete weapons system, the culmination of a 10 year engineering and manufacturing effort by the McDonnell Aircraft Corporation of St. Louis, MO, in conjunction with the Air Force. Let us examine briefly the basic ingredients of this lethal 2 man weapon system. First of all, the Boodoo has sizzling speed, the ability to get off fast and intercept enemy formations before they can come within range of our territory. Second, the Voodoo has extreme range, which makes it most capable of carrying out missions of both offense and defense. 3rd the BOODOO has great firepower with the ability to deliver multiple combinations of bombs, missiles and rockets which are directed against enemy targets by the radar observer who serves as the Attack director and forth. The Voodoo has been designed with a high safety factor. During its first year of tactical operation, the Voodoo had the lowest accident rate of any operational fighter in the history of the United States Air Force. These four characteristics, speed, range, firepower and safety, have emerged through years of careful experimentation and research. Thousands of engineering man hours were expended to explore every facet of this complex fighter before production could get under way. In the MacDonald Physical Test, Laboratory engineers carried out an exhaustive program to prove the structural integrity of the new fighter. And as McDonnell engineers and technicians perfected the voodoo airframe, the power plant to Pratt and Whitney J57 turbojet engines was undergoing parallel testing. Hundreds of hours of ground testing of these engines took place prior to first flight. The complex electronic weapons control system and radar installation was developed concurrently by the Hughes Aircraft Corporation. This vast coordinated effort was culminated in August 1954 when the first boodoo was airlifted to Edwards Air Force Base in California for the flight test phase of the program. Just one month later, the BOODOO completed its first Test flight, and the MacDonald Flight test crew realized immediately that the Air Force has a winner. Air Force evaluation began just 37 days after the first flight. More than 3000 development flight hours were amassed during the test program, and the Voodoo has emerged as probably the most completely developed complex airplane any operating squadron has ever received. The four basic concepts of speed, range, firepower, and safety have been proven again and again in a series of achievements that have been heralded throughout the world. One of the Voodoo's most notable achievements was Operation Firewall, the successful assault on the world speed record which had been held by the British. The record toppled before the Budos onslaught on December 12th, 1957 at Edwards Air Force Base, California. The Voodoo completed both legs of the measured 10 mile course at a blistering average speed of 1207 miles an hour. The Big Fighter was piloted by Major Adrian E Drew. Less than a month previous, on November 27, a flight of six photo reconnaissance voodoos underscored the long range, speed and dependability of the voodoo in Operation Sunrun at stake with the transcontinental speed records of the United States. The Voodoos range was extended by mobile filling stations in the sky. Giant tankers which rendezvoused with the Sun run aeroplanes. Voodoo performance was flawless. So good, in fact, that the two airplanes that had been designated as spares turned back after the first refueling. The four remaining voodoos went on to make aerial history. Before the day had ended, all three transcontinental records West to East, east to West and round trip had been swept up by the Sun Run Voodoos. Record time from West to east was three hours 7 minutes. The round trip was made in six hours, 46 minutes. Mobile Zebra, another Air Force operation, again proved the operational mobility of the Voodoo. Leaving from Shaw Air Force Base, North Carolina, the group flew to the West Coast and then island hopped the entire Pacific to arrive in Tokyo. During the return trip, a new speed record from Japan to Hawaii of six hours 3 minutes was set. And the records continue to pile up. A flight of voodoos from Austin, TX completed a 5950 mile hop to England in a record 10 hours 45 minutes. Another non-stop endurance flight, this one of 11 hour duration for a distance of 5600 miles, was made from Bergstrom Air Force Base, Texas. In June 1958, the Atlantic was again spanned from Washington, DC to Belgium in six hours, 12 minutes. While voodoo equipped operational squadrons continue to dissolve existing records, engineers and technicians sharpened the boodoo sting. The Interceptor Voodoo is capable of delivering advanced nuclear weapons in all kinds of weather at any target, airborne or ground, visible or invisible and vitally important to any air defense system. The crew of this manned interceptor can distinguish between friend or foe before it's too late enemy bombers. Single or in groups can be vaporized by one voodoo born Genie air to air nuclear rocket. The Voodoo can also pack a lethal load of Falcon missiles. So the end result of 10 years of continuous evolution is a modern weapon system with every basic ingredient for the defense of the free world, the speed to overtake and the range to intercept, the firepower to destroy all types of targets in any weather, and the margin of safety to return from the mission. It is these. Specific concepts designed into every inch of the voodoo that the Air Force has polished to a high luster through the most exhaustive test program ever known. It is these concepts that will help ensure our freedom. The F100 is one of our primary tactical support weapons system. This air has a proven history of outstanding performance. One of the reasons for this dependability is the rugged power plant. But what a high performance aircraft, adaptable to many miss. It is used for reconnaissance. As a tactical fighter and as an interceptor. Approximately PS30,000 of thrust is developed by a twin engine. The F-102 is the first operational Air Force Delta wing aircraft. Performance characteristics of this weapon system are ideally suited for interception. A reliable power plant is essential for the success of any miss. The F, 102101 and 100 are all powered by the rugged J57 engine developed by Pratt and Whitney. The individual engine varies somewhat, but for most parts are the same fundamental design. The J 57 is a dual compressor end. The engines themselves to the following component. The inlet. The low pressure compressor. The high pressure compressor. The diffuser case. Combustion chamber. The first, second, and third stage turbine. The afterburner. And the exhaust not. The low pressure compressor, referred to as M1, is driven by the second and third stage Turbo. The high pressure compressor M2 is driven by the first stage turbo. These two units or spools are not mechanically connected. The J57 operates on the same basic principle as all jet engine. Pressure presented in graph form below. The basic engine outline and velocity are increased by a series of Rovers in the compressor section. A compressor bleed system prevents compressor instability when the engine is operating at reduced power. The compressed air passes through the diffuser into the combustion chamber where the air expands, thus reducing somewhat to velocity and pressure. Fuel is mixed with a portion of the air to form the combustible mass. When combustion occurs, the gases are expelled through the turbo. At this point, power is extracted by the turbines to drive the compressor. The remaining energy expelled through the exhaust nozzle provides the thrust. Since exhaust novel and turbine discharge pressures are relative, turbine discharge pressure is used as a parameter to determine through. What is the measure of force developed by the engine? Force is determined by mass times acceleration. Mass is the weight of air and fuel passing through the engine. Acceleration is the difference between inlet and the turbine. Discharge both of these of this mass. But trust may be expressed by the Formula force equals mass times acceleration. The engine trim charts are based on this formula. Additional thrusters obtained in the afterburner by increasing mass and acceleration at that stage. The basic engine pressure ratio during afterburner operation is maintained by increasing the exhaust nozzle area. The second engine operation depends on correct fuel schedule. The basic components of the J 57 main engine fuel system are fuel pump and fuel pump transfer valves. Fuel control. And the pressurizing and dump valve. The fuel pump is a dual element spur gear pump. One element supplies fuel to the afterbirth. The other to the main end. The fuel control measures the fuel required to operate the engine through its full range. The pressurizing and dump valve supplies the main engine fuel manifold and drains the manifold at engine shutdown. At engine start, fuel enters the pump through the impeller where the pressure is increased. This provides a positive pressure head to the main stage. At this stage, the fuel ratios upward press. The pressurized fuel closes the fuel regulating transfer valve and the afterburner check valve and flows into the fuel control. The main metering valve is closed at this time. A portion of this fuel passes through the minimum flow orifice through the signal line through the PMV valve. Since the control is in bypass, pressure does not build up enough to close this valve until the power lever moves from cutoff to idle. When the power lever is moved to the idle position, the fuel dump valve closes. The main metering valve opens. The cutoff valve moved off its feet. The pressure loading valve opens. The PCV valve inlet check valve open. And the fuel is supplied to the primary side of the fuel manifold through the pressurizing and dumped out. At approximately 74% RPM, the fuel pressurizing valve will open the supply fuel to the secondary side of the fuel manifold. The day 57 engine uses a primary and secondary systems in order to obtain the highest possible fuel flow with the shortest possible flame. At low RPMS, only the primary side is used. When the emergency system is selected, the actuator positions the pilot valve to direct pressure to the shuttle valve system. The shuttle valve blocks off metered flow and provides a port for unmetered fuel to the emergency throttle valve. This mechanical valve controls the flow of fuel. The afterburner element of the fuel pump will supply fuel to the engine in the event of main element failure. The primary function is to furnish fuel for the afterburner. The other components of the J57 afterburner system are the afterburner fuel control. Exhaust nozzle control. Igniter valve. And the mechanical shutoff valve. The relative position of the components varies according to engine models. The afterburner fuel control meters fuel to the AB spray box. The exhaust nozzle control directs compressor discharge air to open and close the nozzles. The igniter valve injects fuel into the combustion chamber, creating a streak of flame to ignite the afterburner. In the event of electrical failure, the mechanical shutoff valve will terminate AB operation at approximately 80% RPM. Rotation of this valve causes AB stage fuel to bypass through the AB fuel control regulator valve. The Fuel control unit is carefully calibrated on the test bench to assure accurate engine fuel schedule. The main functions of the fuel control are to maintain acceleration schedules below compressor stall zone. To prevent over temperature during acceleration. Prevent lean die out during deceleration. And to maintain any selected engine speed within operating limits, regardless of altitude. The people control sensors, engine RPM, inlet temperature and burner pressure to supply the correct amount of fuel for any ambient condition. When calibration has been completed, all external adjustments except the idle and military trim screws are sealed. These fields are installed to protect test bench precision calibrations and must not be removed. The J57 engine will provide relatively trouble free operations when all systems are functioning correctly. However, the systems must be properly rigged and adjusted. One of the most critical engine adjustments is the rigging of the fuel control linkage. Full range movement is obtained only when the fuel control and afterburner mechanical shutoff valve levers are correctly positioned. The levers are set to predetermined angle. A protractor or attached template is used to set the linkage at these angles. The protractor is positioned at the oil pump and accessory housing plug to establish a reference angle. This reference angle would be used to adjust the fuel control level with the fuel control lever and cutoff position. The difference between the reference angle and this reading must be the number of degrees specified in the tech manual. It may be necessary to readjust the fuel control lever to obtain the correct angle. The dual control lever and serrated spacer are ratcheted to give the desired angle. The fuel control position, which when all other linkage is connected will close the afterburner mechanical shutoff down. The power actuating rod is then attached to the fuel control level. Move the mechanical shutoff lever to the detent position. The rod connecting the cross shaft lever and mechanical shutoff valve lever may have to be adjusted to the specified light. The AB mechanical shutoff valve is held in decant position while the lever is ratcheted to the position where the rod, which is already been adjusted to the specified length, will fit. Then all connections are tight. Either the protractor or an etched template is used to again check the angle of the fuel control level. It may be necessary to readjust the fuel control lever to obtain the correct angle. After corrections are made, all connections are then safety. Replacement or adjustment of most components will affect engine operation. Prior to aircraft installation, the engine is thoroughly inspected and tested to ensure satisfactory performance. A fuel at leak check is imperative before initial start of a repaired engine. With the system pressurized, check all fuel lines and connection. The exhaust nozzle opening must also be rechecked before initial engine start. Now go diameter not within specified limits will affect engine efficiency. On some engines of fail safe devices installed to prevent total loss of power in the event of linkage failure, the device will position the fuel control lever to a 45 degree angle setting which will provide approximately 90% RPM, thus ensuring sufficient thrust to maintain flight. After installation in the aircraft, all airframes or engine connections must be checked and adjusted and the engine retreats. Final trim to compensate for aircraft installation losses is preferably accomplished with the aircraft headed directly into the width. Prevailing wind velocity and direction must be within limits specified in the tech manual. The trim pad area must be free of loose objects that could damage the engine if ingested. To effectively trim the engine power control settings must be coordinated. Throttle linkage is operationally tested before making fuel control adjustment. Movement of the fuel control quadrant must synchronize with throttle movement. Power Control movement is transferred to obtain predetermined fuel control setting. The aircraft manual indicates the relative degree of movement throughout the entire throttle range. Both attention to detail is required when trimming an engine. Changes in ambient barometric pressure and temperature will affect engine performance characteristics. True barometric pressure and correct temperature, both recorded within the 15 minutes of the trim run, are used to determine target P7. Target P7 is obtained by tracing the temperature and pressure coordinates on the trim chart. Start engine as specified in the tech manual and allow engine and exhaust gas temperature to stabilize. Retard throttle to idle set. Desired idle speed is obtained by adjusting the idle trim screw. As in all the fuel control adjustments, final trim is always in the increased RPM direction. Proceeding with the trim operation slowly advanced throttle to military power. Allow five minutes for stabilize. Caution do not overspeed or overstamp engine during run up and stabilization. With rattles that have military power record RPM. GDP and the turbine discharge pressure BP's up. If P7 reading is low, return brother to idle and readjust maximum RPM setting as the fuel control. Turn the adjustment clockwise to increase RPM in order to obtain target PPL. Advanced throttles in military power. Stabilize. Then recheck P7. Return throttle to idle. Check egt and RPM. Make certain that RPM is within 2% of data plates speed indication. At the completion of the trim run follows standard shutdown procedure. Accurate troubleshooting depends on a thorough understanding of the J57 engine and its system function. Only by correct analysis of the interrelated parameters can the malfunction be isolated. Professional troubleshooting is the mark of quality. The Tech manual outlines the common symptoms of engine malfunctions, the probable causes, and their remedy. Basic parameters used to determine engine performance must also be considered when analyzing problem. These basic parameters are RPM. V7 and egg. One of the most detrimental engine malfunctions is over tempered or high EGT. Performance static checks with CD7 lines and connections and the exhaust nozzle opening. Make sure the anti icing valves are closed. Then the check for instrument accuracy. All static checks have been performed and found satisfactory. Now the engine must be checked for proper trip. Engine approaches military power? Check exhaust nozzle for creep. Check to make sure the PS7 has not exceeded targets and RPM is within the data plate limit. Is high DPS still exists? The engine must be removed and the hot section inspection must be performed. Inspect the burner can for cracks or hot spots. Check fuel nozzles or loose burned or missing air caps and evidence of seal leaks or clogged air holes. Check the first stage turbine nozzle guide vanes for excessive bull. Turbine veins bowed beyond limits will distort the gas path, causing loss of turbine efficiency. The amount of fuel required to compensate for this loss accounts for the excess temperature. In conjunction with correction of the bold nozzle guide vein, or providing they were within limits, additional checks are necessary to assure the problem is correct. In fact, first and second stage alter airspeeds for cracks, burned areas and damage to outer knife edges. Check the clearance between outer air seals and turbine blade shroud. Check the first stage turbine dislocating dimension. The cause of high egg may have been one major problem isolated at any phase of the investigation. Or the accumulation of minor deficiencies requiring several procedures to isolate and correct. Had the RPM exceeded data plate limits during initial high EGT troubleshooting trim run, the engine would have to be field cleaned before proceeding with other check. This process is intended to restore compressor efficiency. When this operation is completed, 3 trimming the engine may bring all parameters within. When troubleshooting engine performance deficiencies, it is necessary to consider all three parameters, EG T RPM and PT 7. As an example, failure to obtain target C7 can be caused by many things. By comparing the relationship to EGT and RPM, many unnecessary troubleshooting steps can be eliminated. For instance, when all three parameters are low, a fuel scheduling deficiency is indicated. First, check for a full travel of the power lever at the fuel control quad. Military position must not be less than 54 degrees. The next step is to remove the fuel control and check the position of the camshaft. With the camshaft cover removed, lever positioned at 11 degrees and the temperature is sent fold in a 60 degree Fahrenheit pass. Measure the distance from the end of camshaft to the cover flange. This reading should coincide with that on the camshaft depth plate. Tolerances and replacement instruction are included in the engine tech manual. The engine tech manual includes specific instructions for maintenance. Proceed. These manuals represent a vast accumulation of knowledge and experience. Through individual ability initiative and constitute that the tech manual, proper maintenance and troubleshooting procedures can be achieved. This is the goal of the improved maintenance program.