Seventy-thousand years ago, our ancestors The most important thing to know is that they were unimportant. Their impact on the world was not or fireflies or woodpeckers. Today, in contrast, And the question is: How did we come from there to here? How did we turn ourselves minding their own business into the rulers of planet Earth? Usually, we look for the difference on the individual level. We want to believe -- I want to believe -- that there is something special about me, about my body, about my brain, that makes me so superior But the truth is that, I'm embarrassingly similar And if you take me and a chimpanzee and we had to struggle for survival I would definitely place my bet And this is not something I guess if they took almost any one with a chimpanzee on some island, the chimpanzee would do much better. The real difference between humans is not on the individual level; it's on the collective level. Humans control the planet that can cooperate both flexibly Now, there are other animals -- like the social insects, that can cooperate in large numbers, Their cooperation is very rigid. There is basically just one way And if there's a new opportunity the bees cannot reinvent They cannot, for example, and establish a republic of bees, or a communist dictatorship Other animals, like the social mammals -- the wolves, the elephants, they can cooperate much more flexibly, but they do so only in small numbers, because cooperation among chimpanzees is based on intimate knowledge, I'm a chimpanzee and you're a chimpanzee, and I want to cooperate with you. I need to know you personally. What kind of chimpanzee are you? Are you a nice chimpanzee? Are you an evil chimpanzee? Are you trustworthy? If I don't know you, how can I The only animal that can combine and cooperate both flexibly is us, Homo sapiens. One versus one, or even 10 versus 10, chimpanzees might be better than us. But, if you pit 1,000 humans the humans will win easily, that a thousand chimpanzees And if you now try to cram into Oxford Street, or Tienanmen Square or the Vatican, you will get chaos, complete chaos. Just imagine Wembley Stadium Complete madness. In contrast, humans normally and what we get is not chaos, usually. What we get is extremely sophisticated All the huge achievements whether it's building the pyramids have been based not but on this ability to cooperate Think even about this very talk I'm standing here in front of an audience most of you are complete strangers to me. Similarly, I don't really know and worked on this event. I don't know the pilot that brought me over here, I don't know the people this microphone and these cameras, I don't know the people that I read in preparation for this talk. And I certainly don't know all the people who might be watching this talk somewhere in Buenos Aires or in New Delhi. Nevertheless, even though we can work together to create This is something chimpanzees cannot do. They communicate, of course, but you will never catch a chimpanzee to give them a talk about bananas or anything else that might Now cooperation is, of course, all the horrible things humans and we have been doing all those things are also based Prisons are a system of cooperation; slaughterhouses are a system concentration camps Chimpanzees don't have slaughterhouses Now suppose I've managed we control the world because we can The next question that immediately arises in the mind of an inquisitive listener is: How, exactly, do we do it? What enables us alone, of all the animals, The answer is our imagination. We can cooperate flexibly because we alone, of all can create and believe fictions, And as long as everybody believes everybody obeys and follows the same norms, the same values. All other animals use only to describe reality. A chimpanzee may say, &quot;Look! Or, &quot;Look! There's a banana tree Humans, in contrast, use their language but also to create new realities, A human can say, &quot;Look, And if you don't do what I tell you to do, when you die, God will punish you And if you all believe this story then you will follow the same and you can cooperate. This is something only humans can do. You can never convince a chimpanzee by promising him, &quot;... after you die, (Laughter) &quot;... and you'll receive lots and lots So now give me this banana.&quot; No chimpanzee will ever Only humans believe such stories, which is why we control the world, whereas the chimpanzees are locked up Now you may find it acceptable that yes, in the religious field, humans cooperate Millions of people come together or fight in a crusade or a jihad, because about God and heaven and hell. But what I want to emphasize underlies all other forms not only in the religious field. Take, for example, the legal field. Most legal systems today in the world But what are human rights? Human rights, just like God and heaven, They are not an objective reality; they are not some biological effect Take a human being, you will find the heart, the kidneys, but you won't find any rights. The only place you find rights that we have invented and spread around They may be very positive stories, but they're still just fictional stories The same is true of the political field. The most important factors But what are states and nations? They are not an objective reality. A mountain is an objective reality. You can see it, you can touch it, But a nation or a state, like Israel or Iran or France or Germany, this is just a story that we've invented and became extremely attached to. The same is true of the economic field. The most important actors today are companies and corporations. Many of you today, perhaps, work like Google or Toyota or McDonald's. What exactly are these things? They are what lawyers call legal fictions. They are stories invented and maintained by the powerful wizards we call lawyers. (Laughter) And what do corporations do all day? Mostly, they try to make money. Yet, what is money? Again, money is not an objective reality; Take this green piece Look at it -- it has no value. You cannot eat it, you cannot drink it, you cannot wear it. But then came along the big bankers, the finance ministers, the prime ministers -- and they tell us a very convincing story: &quot;Look, you see this green piece of paper? It is actually worth 10 bananas.&quot; And if I believe it, and you believe it, and everybody believes it, it actually works. I can take this worthless piece of paper, go to the supermarket, give it to a complete stranger and get, in exchange, real bananas This is something amazing. You could never do it with chimpanzees. Chimpanzees trade, of course: &quot;Yes, you give me a coconut, That can work. But, you give me and you except me to give you a banana? No way! What do you think I am, a human? (Laughter) Money, in fact, is ever invented and told by humans, because it is the only story Not everybody believes in God, not everybody believes in human rights, not everybody believes in nationalism, but everybody believes in money, Take, even, Osama Bin Laden. He hated American politics and American culture, but he had no objection He was quite fond of them, actually. (Laughter) To conclude, then: We humans control the world All other animals live Their reality consists like rivers and trees We humans, we also live In our world, too, there are rivers But over the centuries, we have constructed on top a second layer of fictional reality, a reality made of fictional entities, like nations, like gods, And what is amazing is that this fictional reality became so that today, the most powerful are these fictional entities. Today, the very survival of rivers depends on the decisions and wishes like the United States, like Google, entities that exist only Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Yuval, you have After Sapiens, you wrote another one, and it's out in Hebrew, but not Yuval Noah Harari: I'm working on BG: In the book, if I you argue that the amazing breakthroughs not only will potentially but they will create -- and I quote you -- &quot;... new classes and new class struggles, Can you elaborate for us? YNH: Yes. In the industrial revolution, we saw the creation of a new class And much of the political and social what to do with this class, Now, we see the creation of a new (Laughter) As computers become better and better there is a distinct possibility that in most tasks and will make And then the big political of the 21st century will be, &quot;What do we need humans for?&quot;, or at least, &quot;What do we need BG: Do you have an answer in the book? YNH: At present, the best guess with drugs and computer games ... (Laughter) but this doesn't sound BG: Ok, so you're basically saying that for all the discussion of significant economic inequality, of the process? YNH: Again, it's not a prophecy; it's seeing all kinds One possibility is this creation Another possibility is into different biological castes, with the rich being upgraded and the poor being degraded BG: I feel there is another TED talk Thank you, Yuval, for making the trip. YNH: Thanks! (Applause)