Gates decision to drop out is now resounding around and that is where we find CNN Lauren, tell us about that reaction Yeah, there's a real sense of relief up And that, in part, is because a lot of lawmakers what was going to be a very difficult to the confirmation hearing for Mac Gates There was a lot of concern about what witnesses told ethics And I think that that fear about what they might learn, what they might be asked That was really weighing on some lawmakers how they were going to move forward You know, one thing to keep in mind is who never said what they thought who were very surprised One of those people who called him Alaska, actually told me that she thought by Matt Gates, that this was something for the body. But, you know, there was a lot of reaction You know, we talked to John Thune, He's incoming Republican leader who told us that he did not get any sense So a huge surprise on Capitol Hill. I'll note that gates did have a series of meetings yesterday And it was really interesting because after those meetings, Senator that behind closed doors, he had impressed He also made clear to this vetting process, really interesting. And now with gates out, Lauren, Hegseth, who is Trump's DoD pick. He's facing this allegation of sexual assault himself from 2017. And he was up on the Hill today meeting with folks that he needs to win What's the reaction been like to him? Yeah. As reporters are asking about gates, and turning to Pete Hegseth believe that he has the votes, And it was really interesting that you kept hearing over and over again is going to play out, that all nominees And I think that that is a telling sign, of Republican members just coming out and definitely going to support because, again, there's that apprehension What don't they know at this point? And we should just point out and that vetting process, There's also questions that these nominees over the course of several weeks. This is not an easy process. And I think that the gravity of that to set in on Capitol Hill but also the Republican senators Brianna. Lauren Fox, live from Capitol Hill, Let's discuss with legendary journalist He's an associate editor at The Washington Bob, thank you so much for being with us. Thank you. You've written a lot about Donald Trump about his transition so far, specifically, about gates had already been out with some of the allegations. And on top of that, gates a very popular relationship. He wasn't Mr. Congeniality up on Capitol Hill. Why did the Trump team move forward Do you think with with all that baggage? Well, Trump likes to do it I remember interviewing him when he was a real estate and they talked about his own rules and his first rule really is never fold. Never give in. And he's liable to look at this to, put his, foot on the gas to do the unorthodox and never fold because he's going to look at this as, oh, gates was pressured. You know, the whole environment Well, to operate in more than Donald Trump. It's a very good point. And you've covered him for for so long, but you've taken such a detailed And I wonder how you think these picks, just more broadly, compare to the folks the first time? Yes. I mean, he's overreaching. He dangerously for him People are clearly unqualified people Justice Department, Defense Department, they are giant management problems. And you can't just walk in off the street oh, run this place. So, there will be more spectacle, And who's going to put in, the place of this first effort? he could go low. Lower, high, medium. probably not too high. I think he's not going to put who is a Democrat we get to. We'll see. Watch. Yes, exactly. Do you think there's a cohesive strategy I asked because some, president elect of rivals. Trump, the last time around was seeking He had unorthodox choices Some of them seemed to pan out. Is there a strategy here? Well, a cohesive strategy from Donald Trump, and lots of reporting, no, that's not the way he operates. He wants to do it his way. So, if he can find a way to put his finger in the eye of the establishment again, I think he's likely to do it. I wonder what you think. As we've been watching the Biden administration grant Ukraine some of these American made weapons because in your book, War, you revealed details about how then President Trump with Putin about a secret shipment 19 testing equipment that Trump sent And you also reported that there have been calls between Trump and Putin Trump has denied those reports. You have less of a credible You don't. how do you see this relationship coming in as Trump has a decision should support this is something to watch. the Trump Putin relationship, is at the top of the list of mysteries and uncertainties. and, Trump if he's talked to Putin, he's And then he said if I did, Mystery not solved. but I'm curious about something because you quite literally change between journalists You're being modest about it, but. But I'm being realistic. I well, I mean, Richard Nixon's, career may differ with you in that opinion. I do wonder, given trying to figure out who was leaking What you anticipate the relationship now, given that he feels empowered and that he's made all these threats about retribution, Stay tuned. You can never tell. But as I say, Trump loves to the American people whether it's a thought out next pick will be interesting. And, that's that's part of Trump's approach and strategy to cause everyone to guess and wonder What is he going to do now? what's the flavor of the month? And we don't know. He knows. He gets to decide. And so we will have more Trump stories and discussion and we look forward to you telling them. Bob Woodward, thank you so much for