I'm Jake O'Neal, creator of Animagraffs. And this is how a Jet Airliner works. Let's start with the Airframe Thousands of specially formed, damage-resistant a lightweight underlying base called the airframe. The panels and frame together make a very Many of these parts, especially the outer material, though traditional aluminum and Vertical frames underpin the cross-sectional from nose to tail. And in between these, a vast network of stringers, At the nose, the radome shields a weather radio frequencies to pass through for proper A double-layered bird strike barrier is situated Floor beams attach to frames, and support Higher grade panels are used in high traffic lower grade panels beneath passenger seating Pressure bulkheads are reinforced metal barriers areas of the plane. Humans are accustomed to about 14 psi of air Passenger planes generally fly between 31 air pressure is a meager 4 psi or lower. As such, most sections of the airplane are These areas include the flight deck and passenger Unpressurized areas are the radome, landing The wings attach near the center of the aircraft. A center wing box ties wing frames together The keel beam offers additional support. A wing-to-body fairing attaches to the keel enclose and further strengthen this critical Sturdy yet flexible spars stretch from the leading edge, and one at the trailing edge A pylon juts out from the wing frame to support Titanium links extend from wing to pylon, plates for an incredibly strong and flexible Moving now to the rear or &quot;aft&quot; of the plane, with their additional frame supports, and unit, or APU. Windows The windshields and side windows are made glass, covered with an anti-static coating. Cabin windows maintain the structural integrity from acrylic. There's an additional protective acrylic pane air gap for pressure and temperature equalization. Doors There are passenger doors front and rear, side. Cargo access doors are also on the starboard Smaller overwing emergency doors are located Doors must be disarmed before opening so the An overpressure light, visible from inside pressure differential would permit safe opening. A vent panel enables pressure equalization. Turning the interior latch handle allows the There's also an externally accessible door The door rides on a hinge arm to swing out bars to guide its path. Wings and Flight Control Surfaces The wings generate lift for the aircraft. The main surfaces for flight control are the The ailerons generally function opposite one Elevators affect forward to back pitch. And the rudder controls yaw, or vertical rotation The entire horizontal stabilizer, which the to hold the plane at a particular attitude To achieve this, the stabilizer is attached down a threaded rod. Secondary flight control surfaces assist these On the wing, leading edge slats and trailing lift flight system. Both slats and flaps extend outward from the alters wing shape for a much steeper climb The curved slat supports ride on gears, driven slat power drive unit. For the flaps, a flap carriage rolls outwards, flap track beam lowers. A row of multi-function spoilers is situated ailerons with roll control. Special ground spoilers near the fuselage creating downforce during landing to effectively down, and put weight to the wheels for wheel Along the wingtip and winglet there are static that discharge built up static electricity through the air. Landing Gear A strengthened portion of the wing has attachments inside the wing and body during flight. A hydraulic retraction actuator is attached to rotate the gear into position for landing. Fairing doors pivot with the rotating action. When the landing gear is fully deployed, a own actuator keep landing gear locked firmly These components unlock and fold with landing The nitrogen and oil filled struts also act attached hydraulic shimmy damper to reduce extreme landing forces. There's a heavy duty carbon brake stack in Rotors match with &quot;keys&quot; on the inside of Stators are keyed to the axle and are stationary. During braking, electrically driven pistons slows the plane down. The wheels have thermal fuse plugs that melt Celsius (390 deg. F). Excess brake heat can bleed into tire air, When the fuse plugs melt, air rushes out of the brakes. The nose landing gear has slightly smaller and operates in a similar way. Engines about the inner workings of a jet engine. For this video, we'll focus on the engine's The rear of the engine case or cowling houses fan thrust to slow the plane down just after parts and allowing shorter landing distances. The cowling exterior is a translating sleeve flaps into an angled position to block and Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) supply energy to things like cabin air conditioning, is grounded and not yet connected to an airport The APU also provides power to the main engines Pressurized air from the APU turns a small the main gearbox and engine internals, starting engines function. The APU itself is a gas generator that runs engine. The APU has an electric, battery powered starter. Air is drawn in through a port at the rear It's mixed with fuel and ignited, and the more air for various purposes, or run an electrical The APU exhausts out the back of the plane. Fuel The center box and most of the internal wing The main containers are the left, center, This plane can hold a maximum 5,681 gallons lbs (17,400 kgs). The same ribs that provide wing structure travel through the tank but also avoid excessive Fuel enters through a port in one wing. A refuel/defuel panel in the wing-to-body also shows fuel levels. Shutoff valves automatically open and close To greatly reduce fire risk, normal air in air after refueling is complete. Bleed air valves on the main engines siphon passed through the air separation module to nitrogen-rich product, which is then pumped Surge tanks at the end of each wing act as a NACA style scoop that forces air into the on the fuel system while allowing pressure plane and the temperature of the fuel. These scoops also allow air to escape from One way flapper valves allow fuel to flow The main fuel pump is located inside the jet is powered by the jet engine. Smaller collector tanks in each wing remain supply to the engine. To accomplish this, many supporting fuel pumps center and wing tanks. These pumps, called motive flow pumps, work parts for simplicity and reliability. Fuel from the engine-mounted main pump sprays lower pressure in the chamber behind the nozzle Electrical boost pumps in each wing can act During normal operation, motive flow pumps wing tanks, to collector tanks, and then to Air management While in flight, pressurized air for crew the low and high pressure compressors inside This bleed air is cooled with outside air fairing before proceeding through the system. There's also a low pressure ground connection source while grounded. There are equalization valves between pressurized an outflow valve on the pressure bulkhead Anti-ice and fog Hot bleed air is also used in the anti-ice Perforated piccolo tubes in the wing slats The air exhausts out the back of the slat. The front engine cowl also circulates hot the bottom. Windshields and side windows in the cockpit Electrical There are two electrical equipment bays in equipment bay is just behind the flight deck, the wings. These bays are filled with a dizzying array many systems on this complex airplane. Generators attached to each engine are the The APU can provide backup power. Three separate electrical power centers control gear, the high lift flight system, brakes, There are two primary flight control computers in the mid equipment bay. Hydraulics There are three separate hydraulic systems. Systems one and two are redundant in case The third system operates only in emergencies. The base components for system one are nestled System two mirrors this arrangement, but on Hydraulic actuators, often fitted in tight, surfaces. For example, the spoilers, elevators, rudder, There are often multiple actuators to operate systems, again for redundancy. Hydraulic system 1 controls the upper rudder left thrust reverser, left and right multifunction left and right flap brake, left and right Hydraulic system 2 powers the middle rudder right thrust reverser, the right and left outboard actuators, nosewheel steering, the slat brakes. Emergency system 3 can power the lower rudder actuators, left and right multifunction spoiler left and right slat and flap brakes, and the Water and Waste This plane has three bathrooms. One up front behind the flight deck, and two There are also sinks at the forward and rear Pumps pull water from a 42 gallon (159 liter) A heated blanket and heated water lines keep A water heater near each sink passes hot water Gray water from sinks is drained through heated of the plane's underside. Grey water drains in flight and evaporates Black water from on-board toilets is stored At altitudes below 16,000 feet, a vacuum generator Above 16,000 feet, the vacuum generator is and outside the plane creates the necessary Emergency systems The forward and aft galley stations have first crew life vests, megaphones, and portable oxygen to crew members. There are also oxygen cylinders in the bathrooms. Oxygen generators are positioned above each If the cabin loses pressurization, masks deploy, minutes of oxygen. An emergency locator transmitter automatically This transmitter emits a signal that can be An aircraft identification module provides data. Door mounted slides are packed into a bottom door. A lever in the door arms the slide so it will itself to the door sill and inflating. The overwing emergency exit doors are always a special compartment near the rear of the In the event of full electrical power failure, and works like a tiny windmill, using the emergency electrical power. RAT power keeps emergency and landing gear hydraulic system number three. Temperature sensitive fire detection loops fire extinguishing bottles nearby. The equipment bays have smoke detectors, and fire extinguishing bottles. Bathrooms have smoke detectors and trash bin Recording A flight data recorder monitors and records can hold 25 hours in its crash-survivable It has an underwater locator beacon that emits An aircraft health management system stores gust, turbulence, and hard landing conditions. Crew, passengers, and cargo There are front and rear galley areas with The flight deck door is made of sturdy materials resistant peep hole to the passenger cabin. The door latch prevents opening when pressure A keypad allows flight attendants to request There's an override code for emergency access. Surveillance cameras monitor the area just Stay tuned to the animagraffs channel, as one, covering the staggeringly detailed flight External lighting and antennas Navigation lights for aircraft visibility out, with green lights on the right wingtip, the tail. Red flashing beacon lights and white strobe one another. There are flood lamps to illuminate the airplane on the ground. Lights on the left and right wing-to-body the runway during takeoff and landing. Taxi lights illuminate the area around the The Weather radar antenna performs multiple Antennas line the fuselage for things like avoidance and air traffic surveillance, GPS, more.