Hi, I'm Andrew with Prudent Reviews. And in this video, I break down the pros and So if you're shopping for cookware but steel, cast iron, copper, and the many other Fully-clad stainless steel cookware is made The layers extend throughout the pan, and This type of cookware is sometimes referred Stainless steel, while durable, is a poor So it needs to be combined with other highly or copper. Typically, fully-clad stainless steel cookware surface, aluminum core, and stainless steel Since stainless steel is non-reactive and all-purpose cookware. There are no ingredients or cooking techniques With carbon steel and cast iron, acidic foods the metal. And non-stick cookware is not the best for But with stainless steel, you can cook anything. Because of the steel exterior and thick bonded can last a lifetime. You don't have to worry about it chipping, If you treat it right, you'll be able to And due to the conductive aluminum or copper and evenly, resulting in faster cooking times The number 1 complaint about fully-clad stainless to clean. Stubborn bits of food, especially if left And oils can bake into the steel, especially Although prices vary by brand, good quality But given the fact that this cookware can Impact-bonded base stainless steel is the major difference: the conductive core material, pan's base, not up the sides too. The main advantage of impact-bonded stainless fully-clad. The disadvantage is that it doesn't conduct don't contain an aluminum or copper layer. So if you're sauteing vegetables in an flat cooking surface won't be consistent And that can lead to uneven cooking. Cast iron cookware is heavy-duty. It's made from one single piece of metal, The material is technically an alloy of approximately Most people don't know this since cast iron makes it less malleable and actually quite So, to make it more durable, cast iron cookware The thick walls not only increase cast iron to absorb and retain heat exceptionally well. So when you slap a cold piece of meat on the allows you to create a nice crispy crust. That's why cast iron is the go-to pan for Thinner pans will drop in temperature and Once seasoned, cast iron is naturally non-stick. So if you want the benefits of non-stick cooking kitchen, this material is a great choice. To be clear, a Teflon-coating non-stick pan next best thing is well-seasoned cast iron. If you want something lightweight and easy On average, 12-inch cast iron skillets weigh them. To create the non-stick barrier between food regularly season your cast iron cookware, Seasoning involves rubbing it with fat or the oven. Once seasoned, you'll want to wash it with Large amounts of soap can ruin the seasoning. Cast iron is reactive to acidic foods. Prolonged exposure to wine, vinegar, tomato down the seasoning layer, destroy its non-stick in your food. Compared to other cookware, cast iron takes However, once it is hot, it retains its heat If you want the benefits of cast iron but Enameled cast iron is the answer. This type of cookware is made the same way to prevent rusting, eliminate the need for Dutch ovens are the most common enameled cast roasters, braisers and other pieces made of The main advantage of enameled cast iron compared makes it lower maintenance. You don't need to periodically season the worry. Another benefit is that the enamel coating foods, so you can cook anything in these pots. In fact, enameled cast iron Dutch ovens are that contain highly acidic ingredients. Unlike cast iron which is typically dark gray variety of colors. The enamel is smooth and glossy, and you can On the downside, you have to be careful when it can chip and scratch. Use nylon, wooden, or silicone utensils to Similarly, if you leave a pot in the sink pans or sharp knives on top of it. Although the enamel provides a glossy, non-reactive cast iron skillet. It's not the best cookware for eggs or other Carbon steel cookware is made from 99% iron to cast iron. But think of them more like cousins, rather Compared to cast iron, carbon steel is lighter, It's been a staple in professional kitchens popularity among home cooks for a few reasons.. Number 1, it's lightweight compared to cast I mentioned the average 12-inch cast iron carbon steel skillet weighs only 4 and a half So with carbon steel, it's easier to pour the stove to the oven. Number 2, it's responsive. When you turn the knob from high to low or for minutes for the cooking surface temperature Because of its thinner walls, it responds undercooking your meal. Lastly, it can handle extremely high temperatures This is why most high-volume restaurants keep Chefs can leave them on the burners for extended Most carbon steel pans can handle up to 600 For example, Made In carbon steel is oven-safe of carbon steel is especially useful when that require intense heat to get a good sear. Like cast iron,carbon steel needs to be seasoned It's an extra step that requires some patience, the layers. Carbon steel will rust if it's not seasoned It can also discolor, which causes it to look It's heavy-duty and rugged, but not the Similar to cast iron, carbon steel reacts It's not the best material for cooking meals or lemon. Copper cookware can be intimidating. Not only is it the most expensive cookware, you to pay close attention while cooking. What's so special about copper cookware? Copper has high thermal conductivity, much But it also cools down quickly. Because of that, copper cookware requires Copper is rarely used for the cooking surface Instead, most copper cookware has copper on the cooking surface. Copper is one of the most conductive materials, around for the pan to get hot. Besides heating up quickly, copper also cools Its superior responsiveness gives you the If you want something strikingly beautiful go. It's elegant, warm, and immediately adds Copper cookware is typically very expensive. Not only is the raw material more expensive copper cookware brands manufacture their products Copper is a softer metal. It's prone to tarnishing, scratching, and You'll need to polish it regularly. Also tin, which is often used to line copper Metal utensils can damage it fairly easily. Although the tin lining can last for many pans retinned. Similarly, copper is prone to corrosion and If you've ever seen greenish-brown splotches I'm talking about. The best example is the Statue of Liberty. Most people don't know it's actually made years of oxidation. To prevent your cookware from oxidizing, you There are two main types of non-stick cookware. Pans coated with PTFE, more commonly known And pans coated with a glossy sand-derived I recently posted a video that covers the I'll link to in the description of this But the main difference is that PTFE non-stick release harmful fumes if severely overheated Most non-stick pans have an aluminum or hard-anodized Both materials conduct heat the same, but corrosion and rusting due to the dark oxide manufacturing. Regardless of the base and coating materials, is, you guessed it, food doesn't stick. It's ideal for cooking eggs, pancakes, flaky Although carbon steel and cast iron pans can builds, these are the only true non-stick And because of that, they are, by far, the Another benefit is the price. Most non-stick pans have an aluminum base, conductive material. Aluminum alone isn't a good cookware material but when you coat the cooking surface in non-stick affordable pan. If you take care of stainless steel, carbon a lifetime. Unfortunately, this is not the case with non-stick. Most non-stick cookware lasts between two Eventually the non-stick coating will wear point, you'll need to replace the pan. Most stainless steel cookware can handle up and cast iron can tolerate even higher temperatures. With non-stick, you have to keep an eye on Super high temperatures can degrade the coating. Most manufacturers recommend cooking on low And never use non-stick under a broiler - direct As you probably guessed, there is no best purpose and comes with its own pros and cons. If you're just getting started and are looking pan for eggs. Get one stainless steel skillet for searing or stock pot for boiling and making sauces. If you have the budget for it, go for fully-clad Finally, I highly recommend getting one cast sauteing, braising, frying, and other high Both are versatile, but you only need one. Keep in mind that carbon steel is lighter it's thicker. Enameled cast iron and copper are nice to If you want to learn more, I'll link to in the description of this video. I'll also link to my favorite brands across Those are affiliate links, so I'll earn no extra cost to you. If you found this helpful, check out this made in the USA. And don't forget to click the logo to subscribe Thanks for watching, we'll see you in the