- What you do the instant an The right decision could save your life, but if you watch the first that capture the exact almost no one does the three things that authorities tell us to do. Drop, cover, and hold on. So we're going to talk to on earthquakes in the In a previous episode he the Cascadia megaquake is likely to be the worst disaster He told us he's not going to follow those recommendations either. Turns out Chris has been looking into where this idea came from, hoping to find studies that back it up. - But there wasn't scientific That's kind of what got me that would work out in a real situation. - With the Cascadia to hit the Northwest US in and the San Andrea's fault about earthquake danger, So if you're one of nearly who live in an earthquake prone area, or the millions more globally, watch this episode because not Some earthquakes shake but others are created And depending on where you are, they can actually give a We're going to learn that warning sign and if he's caught in earthquake again. Stay with us because near and worst buildings to be inside. And you definitely wanna in one of the worst ones. (tense music) Okay, first off, magnitude the strongest quakes on record. They're extremely rare, but Think Sumatra in 2004, and the Cascadia megathrust quake that's predicted to hit They all have something in common in addition to killing tens or hundreds of thousands of people, they are all subduction zone quakes, created when one tectonic That's extremely bad news that is overdue for one of these quakes, like the Pacific Northwest. But subduction zone earthquakes because the vibrations they cause travel at different speeds. - So an earthquake different types of waves. P wave is just a pure pressure wave. It's like an acoustic pulse It travels a bit faster than that are generated and it's very light. You know, it's very light shaking. - And that means the further away you are from the fault line when the big one hits, the more time between the P waves and the next much more - We're not gonna feel the sharp snap and suddenly wind up over &quot;How did I get here?&quot; That's not gonna happen. What we're gonna feel is this where we're sitting there going, &quot;Yeah, maybe that's an earthquake.&quot; - And that's crucial time because most of the bridges in places like Portland and Seattle will collapse. Whole neighborhoods and that were built on liquefiable soil will slough into waterways. Landslides, oil spills, explosions, it's really an apocalyptic scenario. And what type of building you're in when the big one hits plays a big role in whether or not you survive. - 1970, 1980 is really when to build structures in However, we didn't actually discover the Cascadia subduction zone until 1988. So really, in Oregon we're concerned about any building that was - If you exclude wood frame houses, 70% of the built infrastructure is not up to modern standards, But where did this idea of drop, cover, and hold on come from? - What I found out when I that it came from civil There was a turtle by the name of Bert And Bert the turtle was very alert When danger threatened He knew just what to do He'd duck and cover - And so we were trained as in case of nuclear attack And along the way that get was just transferred from nuclear attack to just multi hazard. So now it's now it's taught universally as the protective action for earthquakes. - And there has to be like a better way to stay safe during an earthquake. - In 2011, Chris was at in an earthquake ready building in Japan when the most recent So he actually got to feel They were so subtle that on the camera filming the presentation actually canceled them out. But then the larger waves hit. - And then one of the Japanese &quot;I think we should go outside.&quot; And we all followed him outside. So then we watched the building swaying and the flag pole swinging - That was a subduction zone earthquake. Now let's look at a video You can see people start to feel shaking and within a few seconds things Chris told us that if you it's probably a near crust quake and the best action might But what if you do have time? Most cities in the from the coast and the subduction zone, which means they'll be given a warning before the major shaking starts. - So we're a hundred kilometers back from the subduction zone, which means that I have a I have a full minute of light P wave shaking the damaging waves, get to Corvallis. So a minimum of about a minute. And so I started thinking, and what if the door was right there? Maybe I should just stroll out the door. So this one is the the geology building. That's where my office is now. It's the typical kind of you know, in an earthquake. I'm close to the door on the bottom floor and that was on purpose. So getting out of this I just walk right out. - And looking at videos it's pretty easy to to evacuate rather than But leaving a building especially after the P - The deciding factor or duck, cover, and hold First, should you run out of the building or will you just be safer drop, covering, and holding in the Secondly, where are you running to? If you're running out of where there's a lot of that could be potentially more dangerous than drop, cover, and hold. - So how do you decide what you should do? Well, one of the first parts is knowing what kind We spoke to Erica about and how each will fare The best case scenario is at night because most people and single families stick-built homes are actually pretty safe. - They are very flexible. And so there are very specific details that were concerned about as Our chimneys, we're we're concerned about that could fall, and we're - Because falling objects are ducking and covering might That said, most homes aren't So while you'll probably Next we have non-ductile Ductile means that without losing its strength. - Concrete is not ductile by nature. It is very brittle. It's like glass. It will fail suddenly. You'd see crushing of the concrete at the base of our columns. We would see damage at the joints between our beams and our columns. - And all that could add up - The most dangerous about are the unreinforced All of the timber framing into the masonry wall. So there's no mechanical connection. So as the building shakes back and forth the two will separate. The wall will fall, usually There's nothing holding and those will collapse. - And there are a lot of these unreinforced masonry in our cities. Portland has a map of all of its URM's, so make sure to look up your building if you have any doubts. The safest buildings were or have been retrofitted - A lot of these modern in high seismic regions are in an earthquake, and we're going to see that people can drop, cover, And we are slowly retrofitting and we've seen in these other earthquakes that those retrofits work. - So we are in a building in the late 1800s and it was originally an unreinforced masonry rebuilding. But we can tell that this because we can see the we can see the steel columns, and slab, and metal deck, and we can see the reinforced that are tied into the So if I'm around when the this classroom would be There's lots of desks to for the students and for in a modern building for an earthquake like the - And that's why in countries like Mexico, authorities direct people to evacuate if they are on lower floors of buildings. And in Israel, newly built and hold on while students are being taught to evacuate. Situational awareness if you're on the coast, because there you're not which will destroy buildings and bridges just like in cities, but a giant tsunami will Knowing where high ground is in the way could save your life. - But I think humans are pretty smart. We are capable of learning and learning about what to do than learning about how to drive a car. You know, you have to learn or you may not survive. And I think people have with earthquakes or we - So what do you think? Is it worth exploring that includes situational awareness in our earthquake Do you have a plan for Let us know in the comments. And as always, stay safe. (upbeat music)