Sir David Attenborough: and to my very considerable the place that I've never is a great, great The White House, with the The Oval Office is surely in the whole world, where The home of arguably the So to go to it is a huge rather daunting one at that. All I can say here was that daunting, and the President to me in as friendly a tone Friendly and It was an extraordinary never forget. The President: Well, Sir you so much for being here. As I was telling you on our admirer of your work I have to say, though, that gone down, you had dove into -- 60 years after the Sir David Attenborough: Yes. The President: Sir David Attenborough: But I mean, I was in a very, And we went down The President: Oh, so Sir David Attenborough: And of course. The President: Absolutely. I -- tell me how the Great today compared to the first and what's your -- what about how we're doing in incredible treasures? Sir David Attenborough: population of Australia has So the population up the grown, and so has industry. And wherever there are human industry, there And the consequences on the too good for the reef, And the Australians The real problem on the Reef what is happening with the and the rise in the And the Australians have and they know for sure that degree or a degree and a kill coral, will kill And what they're concerned seems almost inevitable -- they -- can they find the the Reef's population? The President: Right. So really there's a they're trying But what we're seeing is the entire world Sir David Attenborough: Yes. The President: And, sadly, made as much progress as we Given the work that you've is that there are some areas We've been able to -- here example, with the Clean Air, areas that 20, 30, 40 years never recover. And once we took some that nature was But it required us being really go after the Sir David Attenborough: It of the natural world is If you give nature half a and works with it. But we are throwing The President: Right. Sir David Attenborough: And in global temperature is a indeed, it seems to me. And what concerns me is, Europe, we see what you did put a man on the Supposing you said, &quot;In 10 will organize -- and the world to find a solution, energy with no problems.&quot; That is to say, exploiting and finding ways of storing did that, so much -- The President: Well, that's we're going to I mean, we've made We doubled our investment United States; I just last with an agreement from the reducing emissions. But we're not moving And the -- part of what I programs and all the great you know, these ecosystems that if just one country is other countries are not, solve the problem. We're going to have to have Sir David Attenborough: And global; have to be global. And that has been the huge 10 years, that the United two vast, important nations take these steps. That's surely what will as EPOL-making. But it's -- but the The President: No, Not -- but let me -- let How did you get interested record it? When you think back after what is it that led to such the natural world works? Sir David Attenborough: The President: Who's Sir David Attenborough: -- natural history. So the -- I mean, the -- five-year-old turning over a says, &quot;What a treasure! How does it live? What are those Kids love it, kids world, and they're The President: So Sir David Attenborough: So you lose it? How did anyone lose The President: Sir David Attenborough: And The President: Yeah. Sir David Attenborough: -- imagine there are lots of -- may divert your very, very great treasure. The President: They -- at that you wanted to make it Sir David Attenborough: I it was a night's work, started, there wasn't And all I knew is, I wanted way the world works, the a great fascination. And so I took Zoology at university. But then I had to go into the war and I was for a couple of years. And then I got -- when I was cut out to be (laughs) but anyway, I went -- I was going to say, allow me to go and see these what I've been doing The President: When you or your favorite the world that you wish you that they could really marvelous gift we've got Sir David Attenborough: agree with me that the -- on a coral reef, with weightless, that being a memorable event for you. But when you can do it on a multicolored organisms, the seen before, and you can fin, you can go down or you see these great sharks and ocean -- that, surely, has great sensations. It's a new world. The President: Well, the -- -- it was one of the things appreciate nature but also And because we spend so much there was part of the native true of many native cultures care for the environment sometimes we lose when The interesting thing is, find Malia and Sasha, whose They're much more generation than I think They do not dispute, for climate change. They think it's a problem and that we should Sir David Yeah. I absolutely agree. Some of the letters I get -- --from kids of all ages. And the young people -- they the world that they're going to spend the rest But I think it's -- I think They actually believe that has no right to destroy The President: Right. Sir David Attenborough: They very powerfully. The President: They do. Yeah. What -- when you think about are the - what are the marble that we live on Do you get that we're going these problems? Do you think that -- you climate change, rising realistic for us to be able issues and reverse Or are you more pessimistic? Sir David Attenborough: I ways of generating and resources, we will make the and other carbon Because, economically, we these other methods. And if we do that, a huge towards solving the The President: Well, I think that there's got to be an I -- you know, my And I still remember the Mara, and the Serengeti and And it's like going back you see the wildebeest you're transported. But I remember talking to you know, they're dealing other problems. But the principle problem, that the populations around economic incentive And when the National Parks local farmers and saying to to do well while still treasure that we have,&quot; got cooperation. And I think, all too often, development versus than recognizing that those two concerns. Sir David Attenborough: That trouble is that, as fast as those lines, the The President: Yeah. Sir David Attenborough: -- population in Kenya. It is very, very And it's very difficult if you want to grow your own see all that space occupied Say, &quot;What about us?&quot; The President: Right. Exactly. And that's -- Sir David Attenborough: And of the huge problems. The President: Yeah. Well, the -- which is why time, including working with girls' education. Turns out that when young schooling and see likely to have Smaller families, population actually ends up helping not succeed and look after their the -- Sir David Attenborough: The President: Yeah, yeah, Sir David Attenborough: So a literate, informed understanding of what the what's available. And then the population It's not the end of the start for this solution. The President: Right. The internet's been a this generation, I think, wonders of the world. You know, when you were get a program on, Now on your telephone you and the Amazon and -- Sir David Attenborough: paradox, isn't it? That the United Nations percent of the human urbanized, which means that, off from the natural world. The President: Right. Sir David Attenborough: And totally cut off. They don't see a wild dusk, unless it's The President: Right. Sir David Attenborough: And media can get -- inform natural world is, and if -- -- if they don't understand natural world, they won't That's one of the roles that maintaining a link between and understanding what goes Because why should they give that, to protect the natural care about it? The President: Right. The -- have you had a chance through our National Parks You know, one of my Roosevelt, started the legacy that's been. Sir David I mean -- United States was Yosemite and so on, and the National Parks. Yes indeed have I traveled wonderful time And great lodges and great Still, it doesn't matter how and yet you can still be or wherever. The President: It's one of of the United States; it is big chunks of it that And when you fly over the about what a blessing it is. There aren't many places you can just walk for miles. Sir David Attenborough: country the Okefenokee Swamp of Alaska up there, and the over there -- oh, gosh. The President: Yeah, well, why what we've been doing is get more children and young And, as you said, so many of cut off. They're sitting on the video games. If they experience nature, television screen. And just getting them out picking up that rock They're seeing that bird Sir David Attenborough: of self-reliance. I mean, it's very, very been outside, to find I mean, I've been humiliated and losing myself in that. I mean, and you really The local people, tribes think, &quot;You're lost! Where were you brought up?&quot; (laughs) the answer's The President: Yeah. Sir David Attenborough: But love it when they do. The President: And if you could raise awareness, educator as well as a great how do you think we can these issues? Not only to make them aware like climate change, but agency and capacity Another way of asking this are some of the most about nature that lead us front of these problems? Sir David Attenborough: I And I don't see how you can to spend the first 16 years bricks and mortar, and then middle of the rainforest and or know how to live, or find food. So I'm not sure that that is I think what is required is feeling that you understand part of your inheritance. It is -- this is the planet only one we've got. And we've got to protect it. And people do feel that and it is after all -- the go in moments of celebration It is the greatest prop feeling for himself, The President: Well, you you know -- in all the when you're seeking wisdom, you're in the desert or you up to great mountain peaks. You know, recapturing that amazement of the natural You know, that's what speaks And, you know, the -- what's making sure that we're generations -- you and I, able to see it and by it. And I want to make sure children are experiencing