Good afternoon sir. What can I get you? Hello? Hello? Hello what can I get you? -Good afternoon? Good afternoon sir what can- Can I get a box of French fries? Of course, and what size can it be? Can I also get a milkshake? What size do you want your fries? And I'd also like to have a happy meal. Of course sir but what size do you want your fries? Small, Medium or Large? Hello? What size do you want your fries? Small, Medium or Large? Yes Yes what? As in Medium? No a regular fries please And for your milkshake, do you also want regular? What sizes do you have? Small, Regular or Large Do you also have medium? Sure of course. And what happy meal do you want? Just a normal Happy Meal We don't have a normal Happy Meal sir. Do you want a Happy Meal McWage, McNugget or McFish? uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuhm Yeah I'd like MacNuggets. Alright a Happy Meal with McNuggets? No just McNuggets only. Thats it, thank you! That will be $12.- sir. Thank you. Your order will be at the next window. Oh by the way, I have a coupon here. Where can I use this? You were supposed to show the coupon before the payment sir. Oh snap... Can I cancel my order? No. Why is the window closed? Are there no people outside? Sir, I'm getting stiff from standing at the window the whole time. Can I please go to the restaurant? No. If I tell you to work at the drive thru, you do exactly that. Wojak, I want you to switch places with Josh. He is having a hard time in the restaurant so it's better if you go there. Josh get your ass over here boy. But sir, you just said I couldn't go to the restaurant. I said you only do what I say. And now I want you to go to the restaurant. Hello sir. Your order. Thanks. Wait! You forgot something. I don't have a straw for my coke. My apologies. I'll get you one. Thanks. Wait sir! You forgot to put in enough fries. What do you mean there's not enough fries? That box is filled up with fries. I counted the number of fries and there are only 98 in this large box. I looked up on google and found that there should be at least 100 fries in a large box. Are you telling me you want 2 more fries added to your box? Look mate I know it might sound ridiculous, but I'm saving you by getting this order correct. What do you mean? You are literally complaining about a box having two fries to few. I won't make a problem out of it, but you know, my mother will... Your mother? What is going on here? Kevin did you check if the order is correct? Are there enough fries in the box? Wojak, could you please get back to the drive thru again when you are finished? Yes sir. Ok you are finished now. Good evening, what can I get you? Good evening? Everything alright? Hey dude can I please have a water? Only a water? Yeah bro thanks. Here is your water. Damn bro, that's an extremely beautiful bottle of water. That will be $2.-. This is $20.- sir. Thanks bro you too. Hello how can I help you? Give me a double cheeseburger and some fries. And you sir? You can see I don't need sh!t right? Hurry up brah. Ok that will be $5.- sir. I'm not going to pay sh!t bro. Give me that food for free. Say hi to the internet by the way. Sir I can't give you free food. Even if I wanted to, I cannot do that. Shut up. You think you're the boss here? You don't decide what I can or can't buy. Please sir can you- Look at you in your silly clothes working below wage. You probably never made it in life and now you- Dude, shut up. Pay or leave. Look another one of those lose- Piss off bro. you probably never made it in life because you got bullied- -and now you try to compensate by bashing hard working guys like us. You got a big mouth for a small guy. Only small thing is that tiny worm inside your pants. Thanks man for saving me. No worries Josh. Just because we wear this outfit doesn't mean someone has the right to talk us down. You got a big mouth for a small guy. Only small thing is that tiny worm inside your pants. Why does the filmer talk to those employees like he is better than them? People like you are what makes working at fast food so horrible. Fast food chain employees are the real heros of this society. Carefully, he's a hero. You should put this offline, you got totally wrecked by that fast food employee.