Far in the east, there lies an almost limitless, land. People call it The Wild Fields, the vast Ukraine to Mongolia. The Wild Fields were home Though different from one another, they were the life of nomads. Many legends surfaced female warriors of the Amazons - and indeed lived their lives very differently For the sedentary states and empires steppe peoples usually were not a threat -- unless or under the leadership of a charismatic Khan . and could even bring the most powerful of Persia in the south, the Byzantine Empire in the had their encounters with the power of the steppe In this video we paint a picture of how of the most dangerous armies of the world is the world of the eastern steppe. As some have learned again just recently, trying a particularly bright idea. Unconquerable, steppe has always been. Back in the first dubbed the father of history, recounts sent military expeditions into the steppe. The called the Scythians, "decided against a straight any wells and springs they passed and The Persians pursued them through the but all in vain. They exhausted their supplies and became the hunted. The Persians were pitilessly got himself out only by fleeing headlong towards Such an occurrence was not a peculiarity to the for that matter. Pretty much the same scenario when the army of the Chinese emperor Han Kao-Tsu people dominating the eastern steppe from the 3rd Shane O'Rourke notes that expeditions into the any modicum of success since the 18th century. knowledge of the terrain played into the hands even though their way of life would not really society . Their nomadic life style largely from pasture to pasture, a way of life totally The continental climate produces pretty hot moderating influence of the nearby Black and strong and does not reach far inland. If we zoom forms a large horizontal belt from Eastern Europe Tundra or area of Permafrost. Right beneath is south, slowly petering out until there are almost only grow naturally along riverbanks as elsewhere. This also means that there is almost The only vegetation is grass, except north beautiful fields of tulip, peony and sage In the south, the steppe stretches all the way the Black Sea and the deserts and mountains of steppe east of the Enesei River which flows begins at the foothills of the Altai Mountains and passing Aktyubinsk and Uralsk in modern-day the Caucasus before turning north-westwards The steppe really is a wonder of nature. It's A beauty worth protecting. Which leads us to you can calculate your carbon footprint and then projects like tree planting in east Africa or group of friends or work environment offsetting conversation. Many try their best with recycling you can't reduce your footprint to zero anyways. offsetting one's carbon footprint is probably For that Wren is a good starting about how they do what they do and they're also such as the Community Tree Planting, they do in and they actually quantify how many trees they footprint. They also set up systems that put the which I think makes sense. In east Africa, with local farmers and pay them money for how participate instead of forcing rules on them. If a pragmatic and effective way, then check them and description. Now back to the eastern steppe. to wage large scale war in such a terrain, there didn't tend to be large scale war but Let me introduce you to the Franciscan Friar paintings of him exist, so we made our own across the steppe to Karakorum in Mongolia in of bandits that kill "whomever they come across by horses are tired, they come to a large pasture away one or two so they can eat them. ... So, our Despite such danger, William made it all an alliance between Christians and Mongols in However, the Khan was not interested at all. So, their different religions. His work is considered information about the Mongol Empire. The structures of any given society are typically it . In the steppe, women usually played a counterparts in sedentary empires. In the steppe abduction taught women to fight. Besides that, the divided into jobs for women and jobs for men. Not the home of the legendary female warriors, the material of myth, there might be a kernel of truth historian Herodotus describes what he believed to calls the women of Sauromatae: "... the Sauromatian they go hunting on horseback they go to war and wear the same clothes as is a controversial figure. He recorded many in ancient Persia or Scythians ritually cleaning While there are sceptics who do not trust him at For example, he claimed that the that was thought to be technologically impossible unearthed ships that perfectly fit Herodotus' to support Herodotus' claim, another 13th wrote a description of a Mongol woman which "Young girls and women ride and gallop on saw them carrying bows and arrows. Both the men of riding. They have very short stirrups; indeed they take the greatest care of all leather garments, tunica, shoes, leggings drive the carts and repair them ... All the women All of this is by now well supported by the the Middle Ages: many graves were found with women often bearing scars of battle. Now, given these women fought and worked much like men did. Normally, the peoples of the steppe lived whenever the many clans of the steppes formed dwarfing those of any of the settled states in the is, of course, that of Temujin, later called small warlords were constantly fighting and that they all united under one single commander. were required for nomadic societies to transcend "One was a charismatic leader and the other of goods to followers: luxuries for the elite Both were rarely met. Mostly due to the fact that with its limited resources. For example, ordinary large forges or the like which they could only For the elites the settled states offered luxuries of their status and leadership. There was one foreign princesses. A Chinese or Byzantine nomadic leader which in turn could be used The settled states around the steppe often sold in 200 BC for example a Chinese princess was went to war with Rome in 450 AD because they had of the emperor Valentinian III as his bride. often exchanged royal brides: Justinian II for the end of the 7th century Leo III, known as the Besides status symbols, the nomadic states One way to obtain them was by military force, term solution. A more sustainable method than Raids by nomadic confederations were horrible and This was something the Romans, Chinese and empire do when they're under threat? Of course, and pillage the land. Just like that, nomadic often referred to as tributes, from deeply resented the nomadic extortion racket. advised his son: "know therefore that all the in them by nature a ravening greed of money, and hanker after everything and have desires always eager for more, and desirous to acquire For the empires around the steppe, interacting costly, not only because they had to pay tributes but more so because it shattered their very world usually saw themselves as center of In their view, the steppe tribes were mere the actual balance of power, they insisted a cultural framework in which they acknowledged by having them bow before them or receiving Even if this was far removed from the reality of very well have helped the sedentary empires at the royal palaces, many steppe rulers especially when an empire was in a difficult the steppe people in open battle. Then, empires effectively making them look like the aristocracy Once the steppe peoples accepted these conditions as gracious gifts. This had wide ranging and more contact with the elites of the empires of the empire. They became byzantinized of a Chinese royal court were far superior But this came at a great cost: far removed from relations of the steppe peoples and tribes - of their rule. The most complete and best were the Mongols. While Chinggis Khan remained in came closer and closer to the Chinese factionalism and weaking of their power. If you want to keep someone from entering effective choices. The Chinese built as the "Great Wall of China" was really a series nomadic attacks from the north. But ultimately the various forms and locations. Another means to Let's turn our attention westwards. outer edges of eastern Europe, the Kievan Rus. The among many theories is that they started out as This would have had a few upsides such as a tribes of the steppes such as the Pechnegs. Be one century, the Kievan Rus were powerful enough lucrative trade routes of the northern silk road In 964, the Rus under their Prince Sviatoslav the Kievan state to the Volga and, arguably, He exposed his realm to constant attacks of the the Pechneg besieged Kiev and in 972 they from an unsuccessful raid So, getting rid of the buffer zone in form of took another 50 years until the Kievans defeated However, the next tribe, the Cumans was already the Kievan Rus developed strategies that closely warfare, bribes, alliances and royal marriages steppe warriors raiding their borderlands. These century, even though the Kievan state always steppe due to little natural obstacles to hold the them, they quickly crumbled and were subjugated. when they defeated the Khazaras: the best steppe tribe. Over time, they actively recruited their service. But not even this was enough Still, it proved a valuable strategy and all the at some point. One example where it worked out 17th century, when the Cossacks were employed by to deal with raids by the Tatars who were The Golden Horde of the Mongols had lost its Out of the ashes of the Golden Horde many new descendants, such as the Kazan, Astrakhan and Moscow, a small polity under Mongol rule, that had also laid claim to the Khan's throne. left a vacuum of power over the vast area of Nomadic raiders took the opportunities and began Thousands of of people were carried off by Fear of these raids alone led to entire The borderlands were left to the and adventurers. Gradually a wild, harsh Only foolish freebooters, frantic fugitives, to inhabit this region . This was the wild