Social So sometimes you're to connect with family Sometimes you're living It's used to get you a WhatsApp Why would you ban WhatsApp? What's what's up African auntie, They just love a bit of WhatsApp. During Covid Listen, Ben. Yeah, the misinformation Covid during Covid, It's one of the biggest spreaders. But you know why it became that. They were like instead of getting the vaccine. And That's just you've got a That's not my fault. That's that's just talking about No, no. Okay. It's all of the people on my WhatsApp that you're in the wrong WhatsApp Yeah, a bit of the right WhatsApp. You're listening to what now? The podcast about the conversation's taking over My favorite question We love a good thought And this is one of our favorite If you were in charge about anything schools, airports, whatever it may be, Well, we've got three with three massive ideas, Who knows? We'll see either way. Joining me writer, journalist Medina and one of our very own and my good friend Yes, you say soccer fan Winston. Let's get into it. This is what now with Trevor Noah. I was trying to think of like, what The thing is. And how her choice That's actually really good. I think real talent. I mean, it's it's almost. It's almost like you did it. Welcome to the podcast, everybody. Good. Terrific. You paused for such a long time. Do you pause because you're English Oh yeah. Yeah, It really is. Well, I was sort of going, ladies first. Yeah, I know it. Oh wow. And now I'm going to apologize for spoiling Well happy politics day everybody. I mean this is an it's like degrees of colonization. Yeah. We have the colonizer. we have one who was integrated and then one who was just oppressed I'm not going to come across That's how it is. You mean you're the colonizer? Okay, Madame, I know that was fun. this is fun. Actually, this is fun. This is fun, Ben, because you're always, like, off Like, if there was an asteroid you would probably be asked as a as a concept, like, We would like to get Ben Winston The final ending It's lovely to be here, Trevor. When 14 people have said And then I get that cool. It's like he's already the producer of the pod We want to do it in person. Oh, that's that's fake humility. Then. That's fake humility. And as always, as always, I love that phrase. Christiana. How are you, friend? I'm good, I'm I'm normally like the thorn. What? Where are you? The thorn? I just I'm just like I'm It destroys the greenery. It's funny, I feel like you've lived in, like, Because if you were in South Africa, I feel like you would be like the Yeah, of course, because it's Yeah. I mean like, Like our friend from Uganda. Oh, we need to have him There was a group text that was sent they didn't mention his name, Please note and nobody needs to be instructive that they're useless And I sent it to him. And in classic just as a joke, this is just And he was like, oh, first time he wasn't even fazed because I think as Africans, I'm not about being polite How are you doing, though? I'm good. Where have I been? Oh, wow. You always ask that question I'm sorry. And no, it's fine. It's fine because I feel like You know what? You're not wrong. You know where I am in the world is And where I am in the world to ask for our brand new segment. It's time for we're in the world, who can help you experience They have a whole host of travel whether you're on a Okay, I've debated whether or not Oh well, this is one of those moments in life with my friends. Okay? But I also like to be right. By the way, if a man tells you he likes to be honest, But what? I can't believe you'd say that's. It's just that when men are like, No, I didn't say I'm really honest. I said, I like to be honest. All right. What's that got to do with I've been traveling. Yeah, quite a bit. Yeah. And part of my travels, and a conversation with, the, the assistant assistant, director of military So, yeah. Interesting. You've been having conversations I think you've truncated everything I've said clickbaity than than it is. What did you make You've just moved on from. You've now made it I just met an individual. Lovely, lovely gentleman. Okay. And yeah, it was just I. But I wanted to tell you this I would always feel like I'd kept something from you And why did he reach out to you? You see, these are like, It's not like he reached out. We just happened to be in the same place You have a strange life. Where the places that come on I've been to other places We bumped it. We literally Yes, in Dubai. It was in Dubai. You were coming from Abu Dhabi. I was coming from Abu Dhabi, And then we just happened to be Just I've just landed in Dubai. You're like, so am I. And we met at like Yes, we did indeed. And we had like a lovely 20 minutes. I love those like encounters just randomly bumping But you had been in Bhutan. Yeah. The load of monks. And now you like the CIA? Like it didn't involve the CIA. And I was traveling So let's jump into the podcast. But remember, I want to tell you that that segment who can help you experience travel in-flight Wi-Fi so you can watch Plus, you can return your dollar rental car Yeah, yeah, that's pretty amazing. And get this, T-Mobile's of high speed data in 215 with go, 5G plus or next plans. Learn more at T mobile.com/travel plan required Wi-Fi where available Terms and conditions apply. I think it is time for which is really exciting for me because sometimes I think because we think through the lens of And every now and again, what would I do if I ruled the world? And that's That's when the true magic happens. So I'm going to kick it off. so I've been thinking about it If I ruled the world. I know but if I ruled the world, It's done. It's finished. There is no more. Oh! Oh. Oof! Considering watching Yeah, it's done it, being hypocritical You know, All of it. Yeah. Now let's be clear So it is, Instagram, Facebook, Snapchat, TikTok, Twitter. and are there any others Just like, I don't think social. That's I'm big on truth social As the white member, this panel I actually I'm huge is where the truth is. Wow. And it's social. Wow. It's true social. Do they know that you're Jewish? no, I hide that, I hide that, I hide. I thought I was hiding it Apparently not announced yet. So. So you're going to explain Okay. So did. But we also put you at the same time incredible things that happen, So this is what I think we do you know, like there's this idea have have stated this and psychologists, we overestimate And we underestimate how unhappy I think social media is falls We take for granted how unhappy it We take for granted And I'm so I'm not saying it but I think the good things My issue is we talk about TikTok knowing us well, I think the thing we take for granted is that we're creating with the data that we're putting out, that we're getting in, what you don't realize is happening to you is, contracting your view of the world where you like and it's just giving you slight of the things that you like that Say, I do, going to do to us as a society, as a Now, I know oh, but Trevor, I mean, because of social media, Yeah, we knew what was happening did we though? We did, we did. But hold on, we did know when you I'll tell you if I knew I had them. But here Yes. And listen, I one of the things was maybe banning social media and actually just letting them but only have phones and find out where they are. Because I don't think But essentially, back in the day, would get their news. Yeah, from five organizations how to tell that news. And we have to acknowledge that now to tell their story that you're I hear what you're saying, but might not work for the world. I hear what you're saying, and, but you're wrong. So the reason I say you're wrong is because I'm not saying that The internet's still provides in some way, shape or form, share Social media an algorithm that is tasked and that is keeping our attention, So I'm agreeing with you. Yes, there were but I think that would change. You know, cable news comes like cable But then there's also the internet. We can go on the internet, There will be other websites, Because in the same way has given individuals the opportunity I think it's also robbed us of a collective understanding And I know, I know that but the things that I think are the fact that reality starts because your feed can feed you How many times have people like, You want to be delusional? Yeah, yeah, Happy that the thing is I argue, but life is suffering. Like people are going to be unhappy. Like, with or without the social. Now, honestly, And I'd rather than be unhappy then out in the real world Okay, think of it You are a crazy person Yeah, you have a crazy idea. How do you connect with other crazy But people had cults. People So you're so, so it's very hard Is that when you're saying yes a crazy person holding a flier, telling you why you have to join this thing That is what you're saying. And again, I'm okay with it if you want to be But what you're essentially saying, I don't like the fact You will very loudly sat in a room I just said, but I just said, no, Yes, yes, yes. But it says with Trevor Noah with it's small and you are with us, And I think it's important But my point is, who we're giving a voice to, is you want to clamp down on free Yeah. Censorship. You are because you're saying on the street corner, I'm not disagreeing with you Musk paid you, Ben. Oh, no, I'm not. I'm all about the TikTok dances. That's why I don't really think of all of the avocado toast So I'm just saying is because we're unhappy and then you moved on to And now you're saying giving a megaphone to that's a wide because I think it's a widespread So let's break them down So I'll give them to you as a list of It's right in my world Number one, misinformation and disinformation far, far quicker than any other Number two, limiting people's ability to live a life online that is making and feel artificially connected That's fair. Right? Because it presents that isn't, in fact, It's fracturing Now, I'm not saying I'm not saying that. I'm just saying we all have to agree that it happened And I think social media is fracturing that I'm not saying Don't you think? They're like, wait, but wow, you guys are parents. By the way, the reason I don't agree, You're going to wish Listen, maybe the world's a mess. I don't disagree, but how fractured we are already. What most people never had No. How can you say this? Honestly, people? The graphs for loneliness. If you look at it, Yeah, all that's happened like it's revolution, that's But if you look at loneliness it's scary, isn't it? Because we live in this like techno where people have to work very, very, for like holidays and Even if people didn't they wouldn't because we're in this capitalist I can agree with many, Social media is just a reflection angry times we're in. You know what Close friends on Instagram. That little button. Have you ever used Because then it can just that you allow into your world, It's not a opinionated thing. It's just it's just a little close So lots of good things about social I met my husband on Twitter. Where there you go, people. People. Yes, yes, I'm trying to understand Guys, let's go with Are you saying that you wouldn't Oh, I believe you. Just because you met your husband on Twitter does not mean A good thing There are people who've met I don't like prisons. I'm not cheering for prisons. I'm so sorry. He's being separated. I think there's lots of negative One of the things that I was thinking in the things when you said, let's I was going to say, So now let me ask you this question. Why would you ban it and not for over sixteens, if it is I didn't say was such a good thing I said, I don't think it needs to be I think it to be regulated. If we rewind the tape, you will hear It is the best thing in the world. I want to dance with dictators. See, You've made me say that. No, No, but really, Why would you ban it? I would ban it the biggest problem with social media I actually think the biggest problem that kids feel and the bullying And that's what worries me more than like an adult And they should just know that they're getting So if I'm hearing you children are affected by the bullying and the shaping of their reality, I think adults have a freedom of being able And if they want to enter where they're bullied, like this is going to be brutal. And I say this, you know, when people go in the news I've had death threats. I've had death threats on my Twitter, I'm like, what's don't go on Twitter. We're not talking about somebody where they've cut up I'm not just saying who's like, I'm like, if it's so upsetting for you. I was on a flight yesterday I went on TikTok No, I had a lovely time. I looked at Arsenal scores. I watched clips, the algorithm. What is frightening about it is the algorithm Yeah, because like, it started shop. Not not like sexual pawn Which I know it's like from the 90s. This shop, this pawn shop in Detroit and it's decided TikTok And it's right I really do. And now I'm like, I like more than I would Yeah, And now I'm reaching out. Banettes. So the algorithms to precise for such a precise algorithm. Do you not worry that, you wouldn't Would you have become and without people going, I want to hear him talk about this. It's unlikely that you have had We would not be sat here today with with your name on the mugs So are you not worried about the fact cutting the hand that feeds you? I am willing to accept we lose in society, because now No no no no no no no. I mean that honestly, I think sometimes it's hard for us the possibility of a better future And I don't even mean this in Yeah. Like if I didn't I might not be here with you. Right? Are you saying that abuse primed you which in many ways, it did. In many ways it did. Okay, what I'm saying is, I do not think that because there has been good There will always be good But in my world, if I ruled it, and I would ban it. We would still have the internet, I'm not. I'm not like creating North Korea Yeah. No, no, you would just have to Oh in your own world. And I miss it so much. And you'd have to discover TV So. Okay. Votes ban. No. No, I'm afraid no, I think you're I think I know I wouldn't want to ban Because I think Yeah, you create a vacuum And I worry more about what will fill that vacuum Okay. All right. And I also think Christiane You would never been sat here necessarily, because if it weren't But all of you do all of this. Do all of this. Cristiana, are you No, no. And your reason is, I just think that humans are going And I'd rather suffer in a world on TikTok at 1 a.m. in the morning. Okay. Well, Well, okay. On that positive. I'm on that positive note. So let's, we'll take a quick break let's see what would happen And then we got to see what And yes, a great place for. We'll see. We're right after the short break. Okay. So, I created the perfect World, and Although you will send your kids Which tells me a lot. Which tells me a lot. Yeah. Christiana. Yeah? What would you do If I ruled the world, Wow. And say that every child goes to a school So you don't know where in your city where your child would go to school. Because I believe rich parents because you don't know And I would make it mandatory to volunteer in the school. You'd have to get like a CRB check. We'd have to make sure or a weirdo and stuff like that. Abolish private schools. Trevor, without children, or what it would be. I'm sorry I sent 20 years of my life I'll have you know that. Okay, so it's not a lot about school. So a lot of my schools, I'll be honest, my initial instinct I like this idea quite a bit, but Sure. Are you afraid that you'll rob kids of commun? See, because a lot of the time, represent the communities And while they may not be perfect when it comes to the education but I do think we shouldn't what it feels like to be in a school and what it's like to hang out that speak your languages you know, you know what I mean? How would Or is it, like most rich people, school is collapsed for rich people, Rich people like will drive in L.A. they'll go 45 minutes across So a fancy private school I don't want you to be around these, I'm talking about, Oh, that's even better. They need to be able to be like, to be your boss, perhaps, right? They need to be integrated like the wealthy I'm actually where everyone gets thrown because the problem is It happens if you're really lucky, maybe you get to go to an elite And you get because you're like, They've played sports They have references and it's an isolating experience. Or you get to meet them I don't want to be around They like air conditioning, Why do white people want to be cold If you go to school with them, oh, white people like to be cold Okay. Very cold. Yeah. Here's a, here's a here's Yeah, but here's, when I'm making the assumption that your opportunities in life Yeah. When in fact, between who goes to these schools and the opportunities Well, that's that's just a lottery for the school. Yeah, it's a lottery for the school. So you could be like the poorest kid Yes. Sitting next to the kid of, say, Right, right. Bill gates is going to make sure I, I, I hear you on it. The spread of opportunities, that you get, the school, the sports The computers you use. Trust me. I'm just trying to spot You're allowed to parents because Well. So yeah. No, I'm saying no know You know I see what you've done. So I'm I'm just see what you've done because then you're turning it No, no, but that's what a lot of these like good They are privatized public schools Because then your kids you need to be able to afford a $2 jump in with your point. Oh, no, this is like watching a football Wait wait wait wait wait. So what it does, I actually don't care giving their money to parents The mothers and the fathers. Let me be politically correct You know, for the teachers, like that The thing that is like Most parents, I would to be involved in your children's Well, no, I was going to say that the issue on the one hand, we're saying and we don't want extra But then, on the other hand, to Bill gates, his kid. And then they got lucky then funds the school and then You said he put his money. No, no, I mean, to put his money in hold on. And if so, then then that school Now, y'all in charter school. I don't want charter schools. No, but you're actively seeking Oh, no donation, There was no donation. But then you want Bill gates to bake No, no, no, because I'm like, when you go to for primary school, Secondary But I ended up doing well in life. My son goes to a really nice school, Yeah. And the level of investment and the time they can give, I'm like, oh it makes a difference Kids have parents that work nights. So knock on effect for the government If we put your plan into place, if you ruled the world, to get the absolute millions Because where they get the money I mean, you see, those are the, the, the bomb money My point. No, no, no Cristiano, They had the money to take the Covid vaccine shot, I'm not an anti-vaxxer, guys. But before you get on me, The money. I'm saying the money is. You're right, you're right. They spent $6 That didn't work. Such a ridiculous way They going, I'm going. Let's create Then why are we creating the problem? Because investing in children No, quite the opposite. I would say you're actually investing No, I'm investing more. Wait wait wait wait wait wait wait I'll say this and then you speak, So I think what Christiana is saying, if you it can seem But if you look at how we currently many parts of the world is different. But in the US, for the most part, a school success or failure by the zip code Yeah. In Christiana world, if I'm correct I think what Christiana is saying become amortized and you can't just aim rich where they now have like random programs Yeah. Which is excess money vibes. And it goes to all the schools because all schools and all parents will have kids All parents will want all schools because they don't know So it's not more money, it's just the money Yeah, yeah. I'm not sure that's right, because I think that private there is a load of government money because it's taken care of by those wealthier parents who can And I don't know the percentage, would you think go to private schools people of money, not a people. Let's say in America, But money is the thing My point is, is that that amount of It's not coming from the government. But let's say it's 10% schools now. You're taking that 10% and you're So that's that's no. Because now you're having to spread like how much investment and you're not allowing donations So suddenly an education system that didn't have money, you're that were willing So it wasn't our government problem. Now you are. So this is what I'm saying. So like in LA, like in L.A. right now, they are under enrolled leaving California And that's like a lot of This is true. And when we say you can no longer of plucking your child it creates a different set So parents you're going to make sure Forget the money. It's never about the money. The systems are underserved. There aren't actually enough students like the schools are under enrolled. And by the way, I'm it's actually thing that I find a lot of affluent like, have a dilemma about something. I think about a lot that how What's your oldest? My youngest is ten months. And the funny thing is with They're not very diverse. Right. But the private schools So like now it's like, I want to send And in my mind I'm like, okay, But there's a risk you'd be Private school. That's not the case. Asian kid just got the money and Like we care about diversity and Yeah. They're like, yeah, you know, so they're like, we want to have everything like we've got a nonbinary What are you going to do? No, I mean, like, You haven't decided. Okay. I want to ban them. So. So wait, wait, wait. So here's something your your magical world. Right? This is you ruling this world. Unfortunately, you will see that time and time again try to do this type of system, people who are rich, people I'm not even saying racist people. Like, Yeah. Those types of people will find ways to get their kids out of Yeah, yeah. Let's Covid came. Yeah, a lot of parents didn't agree And what did these parents do? They were like, you know what? We're actually taking our kids out of this little zoom system and we're going to create I believe you now Yeah, you may actually create where parents are going species lessons that's happening You know, movement, Maybe you don't think yours Well, I think I think there's always I'm going to pull my kid out. I'm going to try But most humans, This is what you underestimate. People are very lazy and no one wants Oh my god, no no no. It's like if you're like, okay, you have to be a parent rather kill themselves, so they're going to start it. I'm sure some people be like, okay, They're going to be like, send these bastards back and they're going to figure out, I'll throw this last thing Just from history. You would think don't ever forget, America They were everywhere. Yeah. People would go to the corner, See you at the pool, Bobby. See you at the pool, Jimmy. Everybody loved the public pool. You watched movies from back There was always a public pool. I'm going to punch you. And then one day, And America said these pools should And the And initially there was just People being like, You're making the water. Black people peed in the water while they were in it, but even though even that, what happened to the pools? They started closing. They stopped getting funding. people were like, And what happened at that exact time. Private pools started going up. The idea in your house was a crazy concept and now everyone's like, I want boy, because there is no pool. And I think what you may be creating where those same people will go, why are schools Maybe we should close schools down. I mean, we're kind of on the road but I think yours, I think yours in South Africa, Ebony It would just be like an exodus. And we'd look back and go, wow, you know, there used to be a time when there were schools, I can't believe it, And so that is why I would not Wow. I'm fortunate. I think there are many great Yeah, I love, but I would, as much as I would love sitting next to like some other kid who's telling him Ben, I'm I thought people just shut them down from people. Didn't So I was a kid. All that horrible fungus. Oh, I be hypocritical, in a way, As someone and then a private secondary school Oh, what do you see? No, no, no. Before before we go to your vote, It's a it's a tricky one, I think. I think it gave me a lot of, a really big part of my upbringing and our heritage and our history, between the ages of four and where we'd come from, kind of So I think that there be and the way I run my life every day if I hadn't have gone to that Jewish And because I'm happy with, like, and not tied up, I wouldn't really But I do think there is always that children However, that is, especially if but I also think you make what you're saying with the community being part of the same thing So I'm, I'm kind of on the fence. I'm voting more against it them for. Yeah, but I'm closer I'm banning social media like Travis. The thing is, what you said about, when you don't have a child of that It's feels like an abstraction. And that's something I worry about, not just for my child's own identity as being black and Latino, but then other people, if you're only where you don't see here's the one way, the one way If your world was school swap, So if you said for like two months all go to a different school, This is like a premise I mean, we'll make it. That's just it. It's a no vote for me, I think it's an outright but I made a valid point. It's a you've brought up great points as parents like how we approach things everybody else out of the way And there is a sense of community that's needed in the school system Yeah, I feel like we should be children, not just because and rubs you, you're going to have That's every rubber, every child. Don't ever forget that. Okay. Like with that We're going to come back Oh now if I ruled the world don't What now after this. All right. This is it. If I ruled the world so far, Yeah. Ben and Christiana voted against me. Clearly, the Empire Strikes Back. And then, So Ben Winston. Well, I thought about a few things on flashes until it should be like for hygiene. And then I was thinking about, like, They're great. It's much better, like a slow lane That stuff was annoying. And then I saw Japan I love it, you know what I mean? It's like there was stuff like, oh, like the fact that the plug changes depending and they should just be one, And then I had to come up and I was like, So I was quite glad I came last. give me Well, I was going to do, has, I think, been a positive effect which came from religion, And I think that we should make the seventh day and not for religious reasons, or whatever else. I think the seventh day where we go extreme. No electricity, no phones, Where for one day for 24 hours We exist with our family and friends. We eat together, we drink together. We don't go down to the shops we had to prepare for in advance. We don't work. We exist with whatever we've got. We go for walks. We switch off And I think that actually it comes from something I grew up Orthodox Jewish, right. So my family, we wouldn't use phones, wouldn't quite well known He would be working from 7 a.m. six days a week. But from a Friday night as a religious family, The time we would spend together, the switch off that we knew for 24 hours I just had my dad and we would all be together I think is such a beautiful thing Because whatever job you do, whether you host a podcast, whether you do something silly, like make TV shows like I do, it's always the most important thing And if for one day you just turn off I actually think that could be great and family values and everything. Okay. This is this is very beautiful. asking some questions just to follow Yeah. Is everyone resting on the same day? Correct. Everybody does the same day. Because otherwise So what we would have to do on this day is we would go right all day It doesn't matter. We can choose. I'm open to whatever my cabinet feels about it But the one day that we choose, Okay? Everything stops. No. So. So if you are no flights because I'm staying for one day. You get down If you get in a hospital as well, Yeah. So who's working in the life Anything that is life and death shift work, anything No one should die I don't want anyone to die. I know for some people But then they can stock up They stock up like They go get drunk on the Sabbath, but they stock up It would also be incredibly good because for a day Electricity, planes, cars. It would be phenomenal You know what? We all just chill out, okay? Okay. So, Christianity, I have, I have a bunch, so I like it. Thank you. In principle. Let's just vote now. Let's have this is because of This is I just realized something. I didn't want to like it the American on this podcast I should have. In fact, for the next of the segment, I'm just going to be I'm going I don't agree Okay, this is trash. But Christiana, Do you know what? It's because We went to church on Sundays. But the thing is it It felt like work. But why did love us after church? We always have like a family meal and people would be over the house Like Sundays We have 100% apple pie and custard. It just created that. There's something about a ritual that is very grounding that I lack. Now do you know what I mean? Because, like, I don't go to church Yeah, got myself in trouble, but, well, don't observe any ritual if there's a day okay, Sunday I'm going to be free, it's impossible to make plans. And I do feel if there's something we all know that you got nothing Mean we could have them together. And I think I think what religion gives people, right. If you take out the God fearing bit, you take out the going to church, You take out all of those elements and then you're just left Actually, like literally rest. And that can be joy Then you've actually got the really that is beneficial to us. So I think actually just to go Okay, okay, okay, I love it Thank you. Okay. I think And so you just like agreeing So let's let's go through this okay maybe let's start at the top then, because you are ruling this world, What happens Who do you arrest them to do? I'll be here all week, folks. You've been Trevor What do you do? So what happens to somebody somebody a line on your internet I mean, like, are we talking about. Yeah. No, I'm. And I'm being serious. I'm asking. I'm asking Because no one can use my media Okay. So I'm saying, what do you do? Roads are shot You know that. You So they shut them the night before. But now you can't. You just can't drive that. The roads. But how do you What do you. I'm telling driver. Oh you can't drive So this is what I'm saying. So I'm, I'm talking about the you know what It was one of the most powerful that humans will probably And one of the things that showed me will follow a rule, yes, who are just like, whoa, I just so I find just wait Ben. Ben, Ben, this is not remember, But you know the great thing? Can you just saying. Well, Ben, wait wait, wait. Please understand The number one thing I have to do in is I first have to probe an idea, With all the things I've been an optimist. If the first thing you're asking People are going to say, no, no, no, The first thing to do I said was, that's beautiful. That was the first thing I show you I said, that's beautiful, Ben. That was the first thing I said. So I'm just asking you what happens the same thing that I mean, Yeah, that's They find they find the fine. How are they on the Saturday? But who touch money. How do you know that they weren't But then how do you know? No money. Wait. But how do you know? But how do you know that So you can't do online shopping? How do you know who is breaking We've gone like that with the power. Like we shut down the electricity. Yeah, but how do you know So Trevor's gone out. You're really getting in the weeds. There's so many more problems This is industries. Like if you're going to unpick it intelligently, how are people going How are how are businesses survive The reason how is how is sports No. It's self-explanatory. This is why This is why I start with the rule. Anytime you change the world you then have to worry about rule So now you're saying And now what I'm saying to you is if they do not work, Then you're like, well, Then I go, but who's looking at them? We have to get some sort of police that the people in the police to make sure I think there are some parts of, You're I don't want to rest on one day. Why am I say rest on your day? You can rest on all seven days But what if I want to rest What if what I'm saying. What if I like to rest for a week and What kind of dictatorship is this, You're forcing people to sleep. I'm forcing people to have a day They surround themselves What if those were software Most people are far from them I mean, what move neighborhood? What are you saying? You're saying I'm saying the world only existed So therefore no electricity. Prepublication. It was a disaster. Wait, That's a false public Let me explain and it's not the right comparison. Before we have the electricity people would generally confined We now live in societies where people So some people have had to go work not okay. somewhere So now what I'm asking is that ends at night, before the seventh day. Yes. How do they then get to their friends Some people live four hours So at 9:00 By midnight they wake up for I don't know, Christiana. My my only modification Okay. Just for especially for me. Like, to like being the band's world. You better learn guitar. Maybe. I know, but there's something I know I want to be at the dinner play some Cleo Like I said, it said, there's listen, I'm a musician, I play piano, No, I want I so like there's something about like, And so for some people, it's Yeah, we need electricity for that. No, I think so. I couldn't they. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. I don't know a lot of anything I think we should. More Need some modernizing Because for some people, I think electricity. No. Okay. No cooking. No, I think it needs it. So it needs the electricity. You can keep an open fire. Oh, no. I said life and death. Don't try and pull me up on I said life and death said I know you are breaking out in hives still for a day on your own pace the next minute you're in Dubai, the next minute then you're meeting with the CIA I understand that just standing still and human beings But I think you will find And you know what? If you're far away from people, Everybody else will be out People won't be on their phones. There is something nice has been destroyed And what I'm saying is, wouldn't if we all just went back for one day, and we just had a little simple, where we actually had a moment to Love this I love that we have. I love that before you know it, running around on the highway. Can I just say Can I just say, I love the sentiment behind It is fantastic. You know, it is beautiful. Now, I think the road to hell I'm saying if we create where everybody has to do it necessarily get to what you think because there are some people who go, I don't like my wrist And then some people might go, what if we want to do another day? And the reason I'm asking these or it makes us all think about in creating a world where and that is, it becomes So what I'm saying, it's not me What happens when Christiana wants it And Trevor goes, well, And then Ben goes, I like what happens in that world. So you like the idea, The only problem you've got with it to happen. No, no, no. And the same way the Jewish days, a Saturday, I think if I'm right, is you like the variety, You just don't like it Is that what I'm saying? I'm forget I okay? There's no I in this. Okay. Well, what we're looking at does have your name on the mark, I know what it was with what we're We're looking at. Yeah. What happens when your world. Suits some more than others. What happens then. Well that is life isn't it. And who decides then. Well it's I ruled the world. So when you say who decides and you're going to invite me, and you're going to say, what would you do? And then when I give you a very, much better than banning social media we know. And then you go back and then you go, who's going to be in charge? I'm going to say, well, you just told me I am because If You Ruled the World. Well, I'm going to put my vote in if I was voting for the system, because I think it would lead I think it would lead I think it would lead to, we'll call them the first days, and want to know why Shame on you. and I even though and I must reiterate, And I mean, it's not facetiously I genuinely believe, and it's my people. It's so important to take time off But I unfortunately cannot vote which is enforced on because I don't think I think that day will be the day And so my vote But with a caveat. I would need electricity. Oh, so I think that because I think. But then what does that mean? Cause though no, I don't, I don't, Oh wait. So you wait. Okay. So your world's going to have Which electricity can we define I cook, I don't I'm very. So what you do you want you essentially want You want music. I think music is a big part Okay. And having a day of rest No, no, I'm saying finish food now. What is now I'm a day of has been No day of rest to a black where black people can't wash Okay, tell us why you don't want Why don't you want black people on their special day of rest? As, as the as the minority? Yes. Let me tell you about the I as the minority. no. You know, listen, here's the deal. Nothing's past today. Yeah, everything's got shut down. They've been to nos, right? This. I'm about to win the game because It passes You guys you want to get. No, no, You're amending. So please okay. So what I'm going to do now Yeah okay. Go. So unorthodox Judaism what they have is for 24 hours. They plug in a little hotplate And it last 24 hours. It's just what they do. So, so so with that spirit in mind, And everybody can buy You have it in your house. So it's limited because we don't want We don't want like a whole, you know, everyone going wild, And therefore if you want to play music, I accept that will mean that Some people don't want to She can't accept the quiet. She needs stuff in the background. So I think with a little bit of generator, I think in order to get this policy you need a few amendments Yeah, I'm willing to provide this solution amendment. Okay. Thank you. How do you vote? Yes. No. Okay. All right. So now that it's changed, I should be able to vote again Oh okay. Oh okay. I wanted to change you Trevor So now I will vote yes as well. Why we vote yes as well? Because I will team up We will combine our generators It is the only show in town. If you want to come and watch. Trevor With all his friends at the. We're going to call it Come on through. We've got charging. We've got food cooking, we've got because we've got all the generators And the good news is there's because there's a lot of work today. The focus has been, listen, We thank you so much for coming, Welcome to another episode If I Ruled What Now with Trevor Noah is produced in partnership with Day The show is executive produced by Trevor Noah, Ben Our senior producer is Just Hackle. Marina Hankie is our producer. Music Thank you so much for listening. Join me next Thursday