(man speaks foreign language) (jet engine booms) - [Narrator] These are videos released by China's state broadcasters. (bomb explodes) And experts say, it shows the in developing military drones But what's really grabbing large swarms of systems to be equipping these drones - While we were focused China saw what they call that window of strategic opportunity to actually build a force that - [Narrator] China has spent decades, modernizing its military of catching up to the US. AI-enabled drones are key While machines that fight might be a ways off, of these drones could be used So who will make these drones first and how will they be used? (bright music) The first step of is to build machines that The US has long led the world with more combat aircraft, and aircraft carriers To compete, China has copied some of the US' most powerful systems. For instance, its Wing Loong is comparable to the US' Reaper drone, which is used for offensive strikes. Its Soaring Dragon drone is similar to the US' Global Hawk surveillance drone. Like the US, China's been building drones that operate across domains of battle. Both are making unmanned surface vehicles and submarines, which could be used for surveillance, laying mines, or firing torpedoes at warships. And on the ground, both like these robotic dogs, which could be used to assess and potentially even handle explosives while humans stay at a safe distance. And then there are the While experts say America China is the world leader and it dominates the global supply chain to make these systems inexpensively. China's DJI controls nearly The US, meanwhile, has struggled to make reliable small drones at scale, which is why both sides in the Ukraine war have largely stuck to DJI drones, though the company says it opposes use of its drones for combat. Small and mid-sized or as fast as large drones, and they can't carry as much firepower. But in the future, similar when linked to other drones. The US and China are for using AI drones, but they appear to have One of the most sought using large numbers of all linked with AI to or carry out a mission. Even if each individual device swarms work best when some without compromising the overall mission. - The comparative advantage that China has in the smaller systems, they could use for things like swarms as long as they're able to, you know, get the actual technology - [Narrator] For instance, in this video, multiple Chinese drones are to locate and take out a target. Both countries have used drone swarms, but only in trainee exercises. In the future, drone swarms may not require human involvement, but they might be programmed US Pentagon policy says for use of force by autonomous systems. But many worry, America's opponents would not follow the which could enable them to strike faster. - And the United States about lethal autonomous weapons, this idea that a drone would operate completely independent from a human and actually engage targets. But the problem with all of this is that our adversaries in any kind of ban on And the United States, in fact, is not participating in any kind of ban. - [Narrator] A simpler approach to swarms that's actually been battle-tested Here, different individually are brought into a battle and often sequential functions, from a distance and then That information can be who takes out the target. While AI can be used in limited like for collision avoidance, the overall approach is much slower and less sophisticated than a swarm and it requires about as many Because drone swarms and stacks are largely useful for reconnaissance, the more sensors they have on board, the more powerful they can be, particularly in a hypothetical both countries would need as much intelligence about - I think this is a key place where they can contribute in terms of building up our combat capability, which in turn can bolster our deterrence and ensure this kind of conflict never happens in the first place. So I do think that a key capability drones will need to have is sensors in this highly contested battle space where we don't expect to to see things so we can shoot them. - [Narrator] Those could and infrared cameras, but also things like synthetic that could identify ships and or electro optical sensors A third approach to AI to the US, is collaborative using AI-equipped drones For instance, gathering That way, the crude fighter and be less of a target the weapons itself. Both countries are likely of AI-equipped drones. In a confrontation over Taiwan, China could launch drones from its shores while the US would need to deploy from some of its But both are exploring a huge to achieve or maintain Over the past few decades, China has been executing a to the US military. Mechanization, or reducing by emphasizing weapon systems, informationization, building to control battle spaces and intelligentization, and communication with AI. So far, it says it's Truly intelligent drones might - I don't think we're in the sense of drones that operate completely independent from humans in the next five years or so. But I do think we'll start to that have different and reaper that we've all from the last 20 years - [Narrator] Eventually, AI in many contexts. A US Air Force test earlier head to head with human And these systems could A fighter jet can cost about $100 million. A DJI drone can cost But the US has a long way to go to get these kinds of Two key American efforts to develop AI are the Air Force's Collaborative and the Department of but both are just ramping up. The Air Force is funding two companies to develop autonomous in partnership with manned aircraft or connected to commanders on the ground, but it doesn't expect to until later in the decade. In the short term, AI and in limited ways, such as with autonomous navigation. - When new technology pops-up, the first country that can that power, generally if not a great advantage. So timelines or timelines, and actual practical use is more important. (pensive music) (graphic whooshes)