Hello. Welcome to my channel. How are you? I hope you are well. Today I have a very delicious and wonderful recipe for you. If you have some potatoes and meat at home, you should definitely try this recipe. let's start. Enjoy watching. :) 5 potatoes. Chop the potatoes coarsely. A great dinner to suit the tastes of the whole family. You should definitely try it. A delicious and wonderful dinner that will be both sumptuous and appreciated by the whole family. Fill with water until it covers the potatoes. Cook until the potatoes are soft. about 15 minutes. meat (500 grams). Cut the meat into medium-sized slices or strips. The whole family will be amazed by the meat recipe that melts in your mouth. I recommend you watch the video until the end to avoid missing the details. 1 teaspoon of baking soda (5 grams). Rub the meat thoroughly with baking soda. Leave to marinate in the refrigerator for 25 minutes. 15 minutes later. Drain the water from the potatoes. Put the boiled potatoes in a bowl and mash them until they become puree. Which country are you watching from? I will be happy if you write it in the comments. If you want to support me, please share this video . 1 tablespoon of butter (30 grams). 1/2 tea glass of milk (50 ml.) 1 teaspoon of salt. 1/2 teaspoon black pepper. EVALUATE THE VIDEO! This is nice for me and important for the development of the channel!. The whole family will love it. Vegetable oil. Apply the oil all over the pan. I would be very happy if you write in the comments from which country you watched it. Apply oil to your hands. Shape the potato paste into 8 equal balls. easy and fun. This delicious recipe is addictive. If you haven't subscribed to my channel yet, subscribe. We will be happy to see you among us. Deepen the middle part by lightly pressing it with a suitable spoon. Don't forget to oil the spoon from time to time. Share this video with your friends on social networks. Network + recipe will be saved on your site!. 25 minutes later. Rinse the meat thoroughly. Delight your family and guests with this dish! Dry the meat with kitchen paper. Drying the meat is important. If any water remains in the meat, it will splatter while frying. I recommend you watch the video until the end to avoid missing the details. butter (40 grams). Put the meat in the pan. Fry on high heat for about 3 minutes. If you are watching my channel for the first time, you can subscribe to avoid missing my other recipes. After 3 minutes, remove the meat from the pan. Cook the remaining meat in the same way. Looks great doesn't it? 1 onion. after the onions turn slightly brown. 2 red peppers. 2 green peppers. Fry the peppers until soft. 2 tomatoes. 2 cloves of garlic. It will be a great dinner. everyone will be amazed. 1 teaspoon of salt. 1 teaspoon of red pepper flakes. 1/2 teaspoon black pepper. 1/2 teaspoon dried mint. mix. Cook for 3 - 4 minutes. If you followed my recipe this far, don't forget to leave 1 like. Add the meat back to the pan. Mix 2 tablespoons of soy sauce (10 ml.) . Fry for 5 minutes and remove from the stove. Wow, this is amazing! let me know how it goes when you try it! We need to prepare sauce for the base. 1 teaspoon of tomato paste. 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil. 1 teaspoon of salt. 1 teaspoon of red pepper flakes. 1/2 teaspoon dried mint. 1/2 teaspoon black pepper. 1/2 tea glass of water 50 ml. Stuff the potatoes with the meat mixture. Your guests will be amazed. Pour the sauce you prepared onto the bottom of the tray. cheddar cheese (60 grams). A wonderful dinner that will suit the taste of the whole family. Bake in the oven at 180 deg C for 15 minutes. Here it is ready. looks great, doesn't it? What do you think? Wow, this is amazing! let me know how it goes when you try it! I would be very happy if you write your opinions and thoughts about my recipe in the comments. If you want to support me, please share this video . Thank you in advance for your support. See you with new delicious recipes.