So, guys, And it's a pleasure to see you again. Last night's premiere was quite special. How's it feel? Like the next day after? I mean, no idea. I remember getting out of the car and I was just like, in a daze to be on that scale But meeting people like you, Dave, and it was just felt different from being from the States And I it's just an experience I hope we keep premiering here It was, yeah. Yeah. It was amazing to see all of the press I realized how the reach it's you know, all these different countries There were so many countries. And for you guys, feels like a word for for me, Season three. How does it feel for you as characters I don't want to say too much Yeah, I mean, Matthew began you know, with his parents But I think it really teaches us a lesson to really take into what, And, you know, sometimes we're scared of it, And you see all that through Matthew's journey And and, you know, it it will give You'll understand what it looks like, Yeah. And it will help you. HeyUGuys - My outlet has been running We've done I looked this up this morning and I've never seen as many comments the premiere last night to this morning, But they really care about you How does that feel for you you want to say to the fans as well, Thank you. I mean, this this show, the fan base and the audience, it's It started out as crowdfunding So so we've from the very beginning, And to see that grow You know, we're like a family, like as the cast and crew, And, you know, So I would say thank you the audience knows how much of an impact And that can come in many forms, the support, the prayers, anything. We film a very tough schedule. And so knowing that's moving us but will move And, you know, how much of a hand they have and is going to be a Chosen WhatsApp Like there's There's different We're like this tree. But yeah, there is the main one. We're all just really close and we all And he's the most active on the website. Little James Yeah, yeah. I mean, he's keeping everyone up There's got to be someone. Someone always sends I was like, I think he's like, They say that he's looking for something. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know either. I just thought I heard gift, But yeah, I would say Yeah, I'm a big emoji guy. I like to put an emoji in everything. Yeah. Which is the best one. The melty smiley face. That's so because it just describes the season It's a journey, but you're going to be And this season Like previously, I think the miracles are the bit this is on the Christian is for me, So but this next season coming up So I think there'll be tears Yeah, I think yeah. On to something. You know this this season is kind of we're past so it's kind of the beginning of the end And it becomes hard for us to as the cast and we're so close. So when we know we have to live it's it's Of what's to come. But I think this season was like a So but I think we realized this together And I've been going to church since I was born, basically, the Bible in the way that you guys tell it The writing is genius. So when you get the scripts, you know, what you read as well? Yeah, from day one, from the audition. I remember we talked about this about I didn't know it was a faith based show. It was just written so beautiful. Even in the audition I had, it was just It was with Matthew and Quintus. So just the writing is Yeah, Yeah, these characters Yeah, I forgot the question. yeah. Sorry. I know it's melting. Yeah. Melty emoji face. How do you. How does it feel? How, how is your character's affected So Matthew wasn't Matthew, so I was And it's okay. We spoke last night about the fact see him through your character. And so it's special to me. And how has he affected you personally? I've learned so much in portraying yeah, he's present who even aren't on the spectrum because of of who he is and his journey. And I think anybody in the world or just kind of not, I think at some point in our life you go through that, you know, in your own family So when you see Matthew kind of move past that and become who he is slowly becoming to this leader, you know, He's finding his own presence It's it's very inspiring. And for me, it's it's I've kind of stepped And that's I think that's something that When you find a role that's changing you you know what happens your characters do not how, how does that We have to remember that. Yeah, that's such an interesting, when you're in the moment, so present and really focus on Season four There's so many, and even violence and, and aggression from from society against the disciples. And the following that there's just constant moments of like, are We don't know that we're going to survive you know, these moments some some, you don't And you realize in that moment, And it's it is terrifying. And we don't So we really have to kind of lean into like what the character's faith I have to trust that Jesus knows what he's Yeah. It never ceases to amaze me disciples are, even though they see They still don't know Jesus is fine. Yeah, it takes time. Yeah. Guys, Thank you. And look forward Thank you very much. Thanks. Tell your son I said Hello. I said all I thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, you are watching. Hey, you guys. Yeah, you guys are you guys? I That's what they all say. You guys.