Thirteen point eight billion years ago, the universe as we know it and everything that we know and are Fifty thousand years ago, our brains underwent which resulted in the biological Some scientists call this Others call it &quot;The Great Leap Forward,&quot; which I prefer. It's so much more poetic. This is when Homo sapiens began to evolve The Great Leap Forward activated abstract thought, planning, cooking, competitive labor, language, art, music and self-decoration. After the Great Leap Forward, there was an explosion more sophisticated weaponry and, 32,000 years ago, the creation of our first sophisticated It's not a coincidence that we've gone on the cave walls of Lascaux to the walls of Facebook. And, in a very meta experience, you can now a book a trip on the walls of Facebook. Approximately 10,000 years ago, men and women began to array They started to self-decorate. But this wasn't for seductive purposes; We wanted to be more in the eyes of something or someone that we believed There is no culture in recorded human history that has not practiced which we now call &quot;religion.&quot; Six thousand years ago, our ancestors began to design and to identify affiliations. These symbols connected and they are all extraordinary. These affiliations allowed us and the sharing created consensus With these marks, both for the people and those, as importantly, These symbols were created in what they were made by people for people and then shared for free among people to honor the higher power What's ironic is that the higher power These early affiliations, they often shared which is rather baffling given how scattered we were We constructed similar rituals, no matter where we were We constructed rituals We built environments for worship. We developed strict rules with food, with hair, with birth, with death, with marriage and procreation. Some of the symbols The hand of God shows up It shows up as the hamsa hand It shows us as the hand It shows up as the hand Now, when we didn't agree in regards to others, if we felt that somebody we began to fight, and many of our first wars were religious. Our flags were used on the battlefield to signify which side because that was the only way We all looked alike. And now our flags are on that we are making. Logos on products and brands were given with the advent of the Trademarks The first trademarked brand was Bass Ale, and I kind of wonder what that says that first trademarked brand Now, here is what I consider to be the first case of branded There are bottles of Bass Ale behind me with the logo accurately presented here in this very famous painting One of the most widely recognized is the Nike swoosh, which was introduced in 1971. Carolyn Davidson, originally created the logo Upon seeing it, &quot;I don't love it but maybe it will grow on me.&quot; Maybe it will grow on me. But why is the swoosh so popular? Why is the swoosh so popular? Is it the mark? Or is the marketing? And what can we make of the fact that the Nike swoosh seems to be the Newport logo upside down or the Capital One logo on its side? That is not the only logo This next logo is a logo with wholly different meanings. As a Jewish person, I believe that this logo, this swastika, is the most heinous logo of all time. But it actually has The word &quot;swastika&quot; originally comes from the ancient Sanskrit word &quot;svastika,&quot; which actually means &quot;good fortune,&quot; &quot;luck&quot; and &quot;well-being.&quot; In the early 1900s, it was used by Coca-Cola on a good luck bottle opener. The American Biscuit Company and put it on boxes of cookies. The US Playing Card Company for Fortune Playing Cards. The Boy Scouts used and the symbol was also featured and even poker chips. Even the Jain made use of the logo many millennia ago. These marks were identical, but with use as a Nazi symbol, the impact became very, very different. The hand of God, the Nike swoosh and the swastika: they all demonstrate how we've been over millennia. It's a behavior that's Today, in the United States, there are over 116,000 malls, and they all look pretty much the same. There are more than 40,000 supermarkets, and they each have over 40,000 items. If you went shopping for bottled water, you'd have over 80 options to choose from. Since their launch in 1912, you could choose from over 100 Now, is this a good thing or is it a bad thing? Is a plethora of choice I believe it is both a good and bad thing, as humans are both good and bad, and we're the ones creating However, I think that the question of whether this behavior is good or bad to understanding why -- why we behave this way in the first place. Here's the thing: every one of our mass-marketed products are what I consider to be top-down brands. They're still created by people, but they are owned, operated, designed, promoted and pushed down and sold These corporations have with an expectation of an ROI and have names like P and G And that's pretty much the way it's been a top-down model Until 2011. That's when we began to see evidence of real, significant, far-reaching change. The Arab Spring and Occupy Wall Street proved how the internet and connect like-minded people with powerful beliefs to inspire change. We witnessed a cultural shift with hashtags like #MeToo In its wake, the discipline of branding has transformed more in the last 10 years than it has in the last 10,000, and for the first time in modern history, the most popular, influential brands are not brands being pushed They are brands being pushed up for the sole purpose of changing the world Our greatest innovations aren't brands or a different flavor Our greatest innovations that can make a difference in our lives and reflect the kind of world In November of 2016, Krista Suh, Jayna Zweiman and Kat Coyle created a hat to be worn (Applause) This was the day after Two months later, millions of people all over the world in support of the Women's March The hat was not created Like our religious symbols the hat was created to serve what I believe to unite people in the communication of shared ideals. The pink pussyhat became In a very short time, it became universally recognizable. It connected an audience It is a brand, but it is more than that. Today, the pink pussyhat is proof positive that branding is not just Branding is the profound The condition of branding has always It is our responsibility to continue to leverage and it is our responsibility to design a culture that reflects and honors the kind of world we want to live in. Thank you. (Applause)