Himalayan climbing. It's steeped in history. Whatever mountain piques your interest, and successes and failures When you're starting to climb they're you get sucked into these books And they start to feed that obsession, that just grows That idea, it sits in the back of your head and it eats away at your consciousness. For me, it was Changabang. I'm Daniel Joll, And ever since I first read The Shining Mountain, quite a few years ago Well Changabang, it's a mountain of just under 7000 meters, in fact. So it's a very respectable height, But it is, And it's also a mountain It's a very elusive mountain. We went to Changabang in 1974 and our team numbered just eight climbers. Once we reached the mountain, You know, The direct line up that one wanted to do it. When we looked up at it, when we actually we realized that it was much too steep and too difficult for the team we had. And that was why we went round. We had set our sights on the infamous West Wall of Changabang, propelled into fame by the book The Shining Mountain, and Joe Tasker's 25 day first ascent of the West Wall. The idea of Changabang , Renshaw came back from What he saw about it, we'll never know, but there was something about it this audacious expedition So coming back was looking around for a partner He had heard of Pete in the climbing world and obviously Pete had done Everest and talk to him and approach him to see Pete and Joe, very different in Pete, more philosophical, perhaps, and Joe very driving. Their differences in personality actually compensated It actually worked really well. They were a magnificent pair. Pete and Joe's ascent that sparked lightweight, small teams It was an incredibly challenging climb. And they were, they were once again, in the development of Himalayan climbing Pete Boardman and Joe 46 years later, still unrepeated. That's despite numerous attempts from very competent Alpinists What was so difficult? Perhaps Pete and Joe were just tougher and could endure more suffering I remember thinking to myself, any chance of succeeding it needs to be with a rock solid team. Fortunately, finding the right team Both Kim and Matt are from Australia and considering there's almost no real mountains they're incredibly accomplished Alpinists. Kim is from Tasmania since as a teenager, really, you almost can name it and he's gone I first met Matt in Patagonia actually. Very fit, very strong, very dependable climbing partner. I met Matt and Dan at the 14,000 foot camp on Denali, We heard some Kiwi voices One of the Kiwis approached us And after that between Matt, Dan and myself of climbing. And we've climbed all over the world We've worked as a team from the Himalayas to Alaska. North Faces in the Alps, Challenging climbs that are building you step by step towards a mountain like this. It was 2019 that Dan suggested The IMF had reported there have been We didn't know of all of them, hadn't even gotten to Advanced Base Camp. But among them and somehow And we didn't really think it was because Like, these were good climbers. It was something about the logistics, on this mountain and just getting it done We decided that therefore As we're We would call or email each other We'd just end up talking about, you know, different ideas and how we might make it work, and We'd read a report here they had their gear eaten by foxes, and And then, you know, other people would struggle they couldn't like camp on the mountain. So you think, After several years of planning and delays in April 2022, we were in India and getting ready to climb. You know, in the Himalaya, is climb another mountain that's easy and acclimatize on that and then do something else and come down But there was no easy objectives And just because of the time involved and all those things, So we just had to strap and we would, ascend whatever we did and just deal with the acclimatization To prepare for this, for six weeks prior to leaving for India, to the height of Mont Blanc. When we originally, like, Matt had suggested, just starting which looked like more difficult ground, but at least would be easier hauling like a ridge you have to sort of Whereas if you can just go straight up, But looking at it, it was a bit hard to tell But Matt was quite adamant With our strategy sorted, we began climbing it weaved on and off the Boardman But as we progressed up we could see the presence of their ascent, old pitons, fixed rope, climbing history as you as Basically what would happen each day is one of us would climb, you know, up, and then they'd make an anchor Then we'd We probably had, you know, 80 kilos of stuff because we were planning and these two portaledges. So we'd drag that along. And because it's not like a nice clean that the bag just slides the mountain's got jagged things So the bag will just catch and then you won't be able to move it. So someone has to ascend next to it Sunset from the portaledge, just under 6200 meters on Changabang. Hello. And there's Kim, somewhere. Where is he? He's poking his head out. Next day, we climbed through the section which is kind of meant to be And you know, for us like if we can get through there. No one had actually gotten Like of all the attempts. Before departing, I had spoken with both the Kiwi teams who had been to Changabang prior to us I had the impression that if we could get then the rest of the mountain, We were in for a hell of a shock after we passed The Barrier, and the hardest past The Barrier. Pretty nasty little snow storm. Now we've got to a safe spot where we can put up the portaledges, Desperate. Up on the icefields, West It's just fucking brutal. We all agree, our last Himalayan cold climbing ever, so much misery. Any weather at those altitudes, really more than a chilling experience is this the moment we're You just have to trust your team will dawn clear again. During that night, we were just hit by constant avalanches coming down the mountain and you're in a serious situation, you know, There's nothing much you can do. And during that Kim's portaledge broke. The side of his frame, and the avalanches hitting it. And there's really nothing we could do. We're just like, mate, in our portaledge, And it's not a pleasant situation. You're like, far out, we're in the shit. With the loss of that portaledge, but that left us a problem. It's like, You know, what are we going to do? And so we were like, well, we have to get to a spot that we can put And in the middle of the ascent, We might not be able to get sleep again for the rest of the trip. And without a good place to sleep, to camp, it's really hard to keep the energy and to and keep pushing yourself up the wall. So life on a Big Wall is kind of uncomfortable and life It's as if you, you have to force yourself and every single item has to be placed very carefully And because you're slightly hypoxic You're living in a dream world. It was just the existence that was hard. It was just the grinding of you know, the same sort of experience Because, you know, when you read the book, all the same things. It's the suffering You know, just just hasn't Just living in -30 degrees We're up just above 6500. And we are struggling. It's crazy. We've been in a snowstorm the past 4 hours, the sun has come out. Insane. We'd made the decision to bivi and in hindsight It was two exhausting hours but the summit was still a long way away. 6650 meters, last bivi, hopefully, on Changabang. At least on the way up Yeah, they'll be a few on the way down. Changabang never lets things go easy. Summit day morning. It's been a pretty disastrous night sliding off the platform we made for it. Luckily we didn't fall off been brewing up for 2 hours, Breakfast time now and then we're off to try and get to the summit, We got wind and snow. In the bitter cold of the morning, the last few technical pitches an easy The book had described it, more climbing and then it was So we were just kind of sort of thinking, you know, eventually just take the ropes off Here's Kim, he's in the pain cave, 100 meters We came to this, sort of final snow slopes And it was no snow, just bullet ice, you know, this ice 1500 meters of climbing granite, The points were bent, and it was like So, like, you'd take two steps up the Even 100 meters from the top, I was looking around and I still didn't believe And 50 meters from the top, We're going to summit. Well done, it's been a big fucking effort. No doubt. We're on the summit of Changabang! Amazing. I'm exhausted. I'm crying but you can't see it Yeah, I think it's better that We just look haggard. For the last seven days. We never looked ahead to anything past Just climb, haul, melt snow, get up, repeat. Never thinking ahead to the second Just deal with today, get up, deal with tomorrow. Despite all the suffering, the exhaustion, the altitude, the risk. Pushing yourself through at those extreme limits, with your mates right there beside you. It's an experience you can never forget. There's something amazing and just the connection with your mates, it's an incredible feeling. There's just nothing like that. And it's incredibly hard