In this video which is part of the greater about the Mexican war of independence in the However before we start talking about the the Wars of independence. We have to understand the social, political, the Mexican ideas of revolution in the first And for that we'll have to look at the Viceroyalty Also known as the Colony of New Spain. This colony was governed in all administrative by the Spanish monarch. The Viceroy was supposed to govern a colony Canada, Venezuela, the Philippines, Florida, the Viceroy couldn't really govern the entire of the administrative and judicial matters largest of which where the audiencias. There's way more political organization but some important things of note are that to the viceroy but also the council and minister However this was only in administrative matters Plus the audiencias weren't even the only called cabildo, intendencies, captaincies Lastly what is important to understand, is of New Spain at its largest extent, the borders border regions was purely superficial. This vast colony was governed from the former City. Mexico City was not only the administrative and social one. It was the largest city in the Western Hemisphere the pacific by the port of Acapulco and the This trade network going across the heartland within the area which resulted in the fact Veracruz, Mexico City and Acapulco had over However this population of New Spain was very This system assigned social, economic, administrative their racial background. Now this system in its purest form was very simple. It also changed drastically since the foundation century. With that said I am going to be presenting 18th century. So the simple system went like this. On top where the peninsulares, people born This group had the largest social and economic and governmental jobs in the colony could Under Peninsulares were the Criollos, which parents in the Americas. Criollos mostly had the same benefits as Peninsulares appointed to lower level governmental jobs. Under the Criollos were mostly two classes. The Indios or Amerindians and the Mestizos. The Indios where people purely descended from some amerindian communities where very strict It is very hard to classify this group because on the families background. For example the Aztec nobility that existed much assimilated into the Spanish nobility. On top of that some Indios people became very those people enjoyed a very high standard With that said most of the indios people in to hold any administrative jobs other than The Mestizos where people descended from one In the early colonial era this term was associated born out of wedlock however in the late 18th and started to encompass more racial subdivisions european parent. By the 19th century the word Mestizo started race person. Mestizos as Indios are hard to classify as and sometimes just purely skin color, they Under Indios and Mestizos were Mulatos, which and later also included people of Amerindian These people where at the low end of the casta their mom was a slave they could also end Lastly where the Negros, people of pure African These people were mostly slaves or descendants the 17th century, when Spain ruled over Portugal However it is interesting to note that even ownership was almost non existent and the Spain was no more than 0.2%. This was mostly because by the end of the labor, mainly from the growing mestizo class. This combined with the fact that mainland jobs like the textile industry, the die industry, obsolete. The last important driving force in New Spain The Spanish inquisition was in full force much transferred over in to New Spain creating The Mexican inquisition was focused heavily in to Catholicism. The amerindians prior to the spanish arrival and with their conversion to Catholicism this Even though in many areas this conversation became devout catholics that brought in many There's no better example of this then the farmer in the 16th century, now known as our The lady of Guadeloupe would later become of the revolution. This new found avid devotion to catholicism already existing avid devotion to catholicism had almost just the same amount of power in These three pillars of New Spain; governance, forces behind the way the Mexican war of independence It all began during the Burbon reforms of in Spain hoped to reform their overseas territories These reforms were focused on centralizing more direct Spanish control over the colonies However what the reforms ended up doing was making the Criollos and Mestizos unhappy and would later on make it more sympathetic towards As animosity against spain grew in all the ideas of a revolution became more and more All it needed now was a spark to light the averagely tall Frenchman called Napoleon. Napoleon's peninsular war which started forced abdication of the Spanish monarch, Almost immediately after the abdication multiple claiming to be the legitimate representation These Juntas then sent out representatives recognized by them. After receiving two representatives from two of New Spain Jose de Iturrigaray, was very Nonetheless this arrival of multiple representative control over New Spain anymore, and so the The Criollo party, which controlled the Mexico the current viceroy at its head. Iturrigaray agreed as he was mostly a criollo Spain. However the Peninsulares who controlled the New Spain was a colony and therefor did not The peninsulares started to fear that their the Criollos and therefor created a coup against charges and quickly appointing one of their For the next year Pedro de Garibay acted as purposes as if nothing was happening in Spain. After a year he recognized the Spanish Junta their power within Spain, and then he decided than him where brewing across the colony. He appointed Francisco Javier as his successor being replaced by the Junta of Aranjuez. The new Viceroy Francisco Javier Venegas was unhappy population of New Spain. This is because ever since the coup by the felt like they were forcefully controlled which seldomly cared for the people of New And this idea was the battle cry for the first just 2 days after Venegas took office. Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla was the leader of The revolutionary army was small at first few days they traveled across the Mexican came across and gaining much needed support, They also adopted the standard of the Virgin Mestizo and Indios support for the revolution. By the time the Viceroy was able to muster had around 100,000 men at his disposal. Hidalgo met the much smaller New Spain's army they scored a decisive victory. Now with the Mexico city within their sight to this day. He decided not to besiege Mexico city and important city in Mexico, Guadalajara. Many of his troops disagreed with this choice Ones he arrived to Guadalajara his army numbered None the less he manage to take the city and and the surrounding countryside. By the time the new Viceroyal army arrived to 100 thousand men. However the army was ill equipped and therefore Bridge. After this defeat the revolutionaries tried and executed along with Hidalgo and with that over. However the revolution itself was far from The Peninsular abuse along with Hidalgos show that many new insurgencies spurred up all Ignacio Lopez Rayon in the center of the south and various other groups all around But all these groups weren't united in their Some wanted the status quo unchanged other anymore and others wanted a full change of policies and religion. Therefore it is unsurprising that due to such revolution continued in a stalemate until Well in 1820 after a decade of fighting the brink of collapse, mostly due to the now apathetic of fighting at this point. But in comes Agustin Cosme Damian de Iturbide was a royalist a colonel and a General of However despite his current status Iturbide He was always a conservative sympathetic to that throughout his life and military carrier casta system. He was also asked by Hidalgo in the first his army. Iturbide however declined later joining the of the 1810s. From the victories he gained during this time of the more conservative Mexicans. But by 1820 even Iturbide started to be fed control of the government. Plus being a conservative and a royalist when in Spain which established a constitutional Mexicans was afraid of what liberal changes Spain. So when Iturbide was sent on what was suppose wavering revolutionaries, instead of fighting leader Vicente Guerrero. It was even at this first meeting that signs Iturbide representing the Mexican conservative on top, an independent Mexican Monarchy but The revolutionaries on the other hand where USA like republic. This divide was eventually settled by the First the newly independent Mexico will become monarch that is willing to take the throne upon to appease the liberals. Second the aristocracy would still exist under would be abolished, with all Mexican people Lastly to appease the conservatives and the the official and only religion of the new With this agreement which guaranteed the status class and equality with representation in class, for the first time in the Mexican revolution So the revolutionary armies and the royalist army of the three Guarantees. This army then marched towards mexico city Viva Iturbide! Seeing the videranging support for the three remaining people still loyal to Spain escaped in 1821. Iturbide managed to achieve what 11 years By compromising he manage to bring together He was hailed all around Mexico and was given suitable Spanish or European nobel was searched However no European noble wanted to take the (wait what why sounds like a great job, I in Spain the victorious liberals manage to Monarch regaining control. He then set out to campaign against any other and even had plans of invading Mexico himself. The Mexican regency had no choice but to appoint And no Mexican noble was as famous or as well against his wishes iturbide was crowned as Iturbide however was facing problems right For example the conservative leaning areas abolished casta system and the proclaimed really much existent. Iturbide tried doing something against this conservatives which wanted the casta system, royalists as they wanted a normal monarchy european Monarch not a Mexican one. On the other side of the political spectrum well existing as they wanted a republic not Plus they thought he wasn't doing enough To add to all these problems Iturbide even a skilled administrator or a politician. Due to all this just a year later in 1823 the sad and dimorelized Iturbide abdicated When Iturbide was leaving the country it was right and far left hated him he was still People gathered around his coach as he was instead of the horses. When he came to the coast he left for Italy. During his exile the situation in Mexico worsen. The conservatives and royalists where in an The republicans themselves were divided unable would succeed the Empire and the southern the united provinces of central america. On top of all this the lower classes and the mostly controlled by the higher classes which started to actively barade and attack them. This meant that many wealthy Peninsulares europe taking their wealth with them. This wealth drain would continue for most never recover from it. In all this chaos the royalists convince Iturbide He did in 1824 but the wavering royalist party him now leaving to Europe meant that he wasn't power. None the less he was still loved by the majority in a panic fearing an Iturbide takeover ordered Iturbide probably sick of fighting and not Mexico even more, surrendered peacefully. Many people called him incompetent, corrupt, usually where well founded, he always tried His last words before a firing squad where, In the very act of my death, I recommend to to our religion, for it shall lead you to I die having come here to help you, and I I die with honor, not as a traitor; I do not I am not a traitor, no.&quot; Even after his death he was admired and respected perfectly the dichotomy of Mexican politics With Mexico and its people going back and That is where I will end this video as it and I hope you're enjoying the whole Project with all these history youtubers. If you want to continue to the next video History video about the Boxer Rebellion by Useful Charts about the monarchies involved My name is M.Laser and If you liked my video