Hello everyone , I'm at the Ventine market today . This Ventine market is said to be the largest market in Vietnam and is said to be a place that tourists always visit . Today, I 'm going to see what's on sale in that Ventine market. Let 's go to the Ventine market. I'm going to enter here, but first of all, it's a cash exchange exchange. It's a shop here, but if you give Japanese yen to a clerk , it will exchange at a very high rate, so if you go to the Ventine market, please go to this hatam . I do n't know if it's on sale at all, right ? It smells like a lot of watches and Pachimon, and it's sold openly as soon as it 's in. It's the same scene as in Thailand. How much will it cost ? There are various cute rucksack shops here . There are lots of shops on both sides of this. It's fun, but it 's always fun. There's a shop in there. It's the one who gets lost. There was a souvenir corner in Vietnam. What are the souvenirs in Vietnam? The pouch in Vietnam is cute. This black pattern is cute How much How much is it? It's about 1000 yen for 6 pieces. It's about 1000 yen for 6 pieces. It was a real wallet w 3 sets are 250,000 dong and 1300 yen or stall. Maybe it's like a barbary , it's like a great Vietnam , it 's like a Vietnamese strap , it's a magnet that you often put on a refrigerator, it's a jewelry box , it's cute , it's like a Vietnamese, it's also a beautiful jar . However , when I left, I said 150,000 dong, so it was about 800 yen . The discount soul is burning. There are many other shops , so let's go more and more today . We sell dried fruits. And as expected , what kind of taste is halal coffee that Vietnam coffee sells insanely ? There are many shops for dried fruits. I wonder if you can get a lot of fruits because Vietnam is warm . There are various shirts and fabric shops, too. Ao Dai is said to be made to order, so it may be made by choosing here . It 's a bag of Prada. It 's definitely like Prada . This Prada is usually cute, isn't it? It 's beautiful how much This t-shirt is all different in price. How much is this t- shirt? 250,000 dong 12001 It's about 300 yen and it's expensive 2 sheets 3 sheets Can I buy it? There are a lot of clothes in this area. There are a lot of t-shirts. T-shirts are mainly sold in this area, but I'm afraid of pulling and touching clothes . There are many T-shirts, but it's about 18:00 this evening, but some shops are closed, so you should come a little earlier. The end is a jewelry shop. Is this a food shop? It's almost non -existent. The bag shop here is really big. It's like a Vietnamese -style T- shirt that sells suitcases . It's like a raw spring rain- dried one . Don 3800 yen or 1000 yen How much would it cost 550,000 dong 2800 yen 400,000 dong It's an ordinary ball pen that also sells Montblanc T-shirts that are 2000 yen I saw the water cylinder for the first time with Pachimon 300,000 dong Because it was said, the price was reduced to about 1500 yen, is n't it? It's good as a functionality that you can drink it as it is if you leave it with tea leaves and hot water because it comes with a tea strainer, but it 's about 1250 yen or 1500 It's about 750 yen or 500 yen for this one , and it's ok for 500 yen . The shop I mentioned earlier said that it costs 200,000 dong for two t-shirts, so it costs about 500 yen for one . When I looked it up on youtube or the website, I heard that it was about 60,000 dong when it came to the level where I could buy one at the highest price of 100,000 dong, so I didn't buy it, but it 's a trick of discounting myself . I heard that it is recommended to first present and negotiate at a lower price than you want to buy. If you want to enjoy the price cut, please enjoy the negotiation at a lower price than you think . This coffee is priced . If this is the case, 100g is 180,000 dong, so 100g is about 900 yen . There are various types of coffee in Vietnam. You 're good at Japanese. If you don't practice more, this is a super-luxury product that lets you eat coffee beans and pick them up to make coffee . Go to Bali . The same thing is on sale, but it costs thousands of yen for a cup, isn't it? I was given the actual product w I wonder if the actual product will ferment in my stomach, so I can make delicious coffee 100g 900 yen Cheaper Jaco cat You can drink coffee I also sell this kind of thing so that you can make coffee properly This is really chic How did you use Ben Thanh Market It's 18:30 this evening, but the shop has closed a lot today I think I'll end here. After all, I didn't buy anything, right? Of course, Vietnamese souvenirs, everyday tea shirts, shoe bags , Vietnamese coffee, dried fruits , and souvenirs are good for Ben Thanh market here . If you are going to Vietnam, please go there because there were a lot of coffee sold . The exchange book that came out first was also mysteriously better than the rate I checked on Google . I thought it might be possible to come to my eyes and exchange money there . There is a night market near this Ben Thanh market, so please look forward to that as well . Thank you for registering. We are from India, where are we from Japan, this child's name is Peter, I 'm youtuber, youtuber , youtuber , youtuber from Japan . See you in the video