Hi, I'm Joe Prusa and this is the brand new clever design choices that make our enclosed Meet the Prusa CORE One! We are expanding our lineup CoreXY 3D printer. It's a versatile all-in-one machine, a workshop, study, or print farm. We have designed it as an instant-setup, plug-n-print machine ready to go within 10 minutes of taking it out of the box. The CoreXY capable of printing larger heavier objects with already beat some of the fastest printers on the also offers a significantly larger print volume 250x220x270 mm. The fully enclosed chamber made from premium quality materials brings many benefits. It reduces noise, and makes the printer temperature control enables effortless printing while retaining top quality and dimensional the MK2, MK3, and MK4 plenty of praise The Prusa CORE One is accessible and expandable. If this is your first printer you'll find it incredibly intuitive right from the start. Once you feel confident, add-ons, such as the MMU3 to print beautiful, with an optional GPIO hackerboard allowing remote triggers for cameras. The possibilities are as you gain experience. And if you have one of our When we started thinking about the CORE One, we wanted to make sure it's not just another box with a bunch of plastic panels around it. We came up with an made from solid steel profiles is an integral incredibly robust. Another important part is the the MK4S but it offers a 30% bigger print volume. clever design choices. One of them is the placement it doesn't stick out. The footprint is still the You can find the same recess on the other side. It's organizers which you can print and attach using sorts of modifications and overhauls. And before Space efficiency is incredibly important to us. We run a new CORE one fits right in. Now we can fit another it possible to open the door to full 180deg and you Basically every new printer we make is our own manufacturing, so the reliability, speed, of our list. You can still completely assemble basic screwdrivers. Nothing is glued together or after a few years of use, you can simply replace a moment: one of the deliberate design choices used for the doors. It's much safer than glass find similar examples of function over form all steel because combining materials such as steel expansion. Everything is extremely durable and from PCCF. We have chosen a proven Nextruder would find in the MK4S. That means it has the high-performance 360 cooling for the perfect overhangs, you can swap hot ends quickly, and the printer Plus, we have the unbeatable load cell sensor for the CORE One lays down a beautiful first layer the chamber as compact as possible, so it heats up choice for more demanding materials which also constantly monitors the temperature inside sure that the temperature is always correct for can print PLA with the doors fully closed. So let's talk about filaments. About 90% of prints are made with PLA and PETG and they generally perform ambient temperatures. Lack of details, poor overhangs, printing these filaments with the enclosure doors idea of an enclosed printer. With the CORE One, this control keeps the temperature optimal for the polycarbonate or even nylon. This feature greatly with the most demanding materials. For PLA or And what's even better: you can use any filament quality. You don't have to limit your projects with Simply keep using those you already know and Nextruder delivers perfect results all across the ultimate scores in print quality benchmarks. The made to last, and they enable extremely precise even flexible materials fast and with ease. And multi-color system, the MMU3. With this add-on, you won't have to throw half of your filaments away or thanks to our compact wipe tower where the printer So, you can print more and use less material. And there will always be something to print. Our model database Printables.com grows steadily and you are always just one click away from sending away from slicing it with our in-house made print You decide how to get the files into the printer. You can do it remotely with Prusa Connect using the native mobile app. Or you can run the transfer files using a USB drive. We take security seriously, and we will never force you to connect the printer to the network, not even when you need last and they come with a proven set of security significant updates even years after launch. With we receive only around 50 printers a month for industry-leading 24/7 tech support in seven languages and we also have local repair centers all over the world. With the CORE One, you are getting all of the proven prusa services. And this is why our printers have been always loved by makers and praised by and community-friendly machines with plenty of So, this is our new printer. It's compact, enclosed, basic and advanced materials and it has all the It's made from premium quality materials, it's open for our printers already, you will feel right at home. features of our printers is the upgrade path you a newer one now. When you look at the CORE One, it's A different type of kinematics, it's fully enclosed, the obvious differences, this new machine still have done something extraordinary. Something that rebuild your MK4S using an affordable CORE One without any compromises. I really believe that upgrades for many many years to come, just like we still wanted it to be easy to maintain and And we actually improved it even more. For example, the 20 minutes. Plus, we will still offer upgrade buy the CORE One, you are investing into a platform something you'll have to replace in a year or two. just shown, I think it's clear that this is truly