Two thousand years ago, a across the Mediterranean Sea Just off the western coast of Sardinia, condemning its sailors and cargo to the sea floor. Onboard were plenty of clay jars, Maybe a Roman ghost or two. But the ship's real prize was that had been processed into a thousand ingots. And while the ingots' original their story was far from over. These bars were destined to than anyone in the Roman Without the loss of that cargo, that hopes to answer fundamental Because in the 21st century, that is protecting the coldest cubic A cubic meter where scientists are hunting for what might be the rarest If they find what they're looking for, of a cosmic war that ended 13.7 billion years ago. This is a very weird, but true story archaeology and cosmology, colliding. I'm here to tell you how this ancient you, and I, and everything else [ INTRO] Our story begins just a bit after when neon legwarmers were in was the highest grossing film at People loved that movie! It was 1988, and about 10 scuba divers were investigating the sea floor, searching for shipwrecks and the In doing so, they stumbled Twenty eight meters beneath the waves, they spotted the unmistakable outline of a ship. And from the looks of the clay jars Now, Roman shipwrecks are actually pretty At their height, both the democratic Roman Empire dominated the sea's They laid claim to every harbor And when you're that big, This particular shipwreck of a tiny island called Mal Di Ventre. Which might amuse some of you because it translates to "stomachache". But that's actually a likely mistranslation from the original Sardinian Which may contribute to For more information, though, both a figurative and a literal plunge. And that is when things After 2000 years, the sea had destroyed including most of its original wooden structure. But around 10 meters of the keel had And plenty of erosion-resistant metal From these pieces, investigators could tell beefier than most of the others that It was a Navis oneraria magna, a that measured about 30 meters For comparison, that's about the same size as nine school buses parked in a 3-by-3 grid. It was huge. At one end of the wreck, archeologists found items that the crew likely used during their journey. There were jars used for storing There was also a millstone, would have used to grind their own But in the center of the wreck, there The ship's cargo included a thousand lead ingots, stacked as neatly as they would Each of these ingots was measuring 45 centimeters in length and In other words, like, roughly the size But because lead is so dense, these or about the weight of a ten-year-old child! Or, like, a German Shepherd. Or, like, 1/50th of a Kia Sorento. So with more than a thousand of these around a shipment of lead that And that explained why the wooden hull with nails up to 80 centimeters long! Now, to an Ancient Roman, Along with their Greek neighbors, they that evidence of this industry can be thousands of kilometers away in Greenland. It was actually one of the first metals In this case, a mineral called galena. And it has a lot of properties that make Lead is soft and easy to work with. But at the same time, it's durable Plus, galena is also full of So even if you're trying to mine for Bonus! In fact, Rome had such easy and abundant policymakers had to step in and But despite that abundance, before archaeologists had only managed on shipwrecks scattered around the Mediterranean. So this find instantly became ever recovered from the ancient world. Professor Donatella Salvi, one of the lead told us in an interview that the discovery By studying the unique which had been specialized we can learn a lot about Roman engineering. But what about the lead itself? Unfortunately, we cannot know for sure exactly what the Romans had planned The metal's physical properties made it coins, anchors, and slingshot Romans even used lead to line their that brought a reliable source of That probably made the water somewhat It was 2,000 years ago! And we were using lead in water We might not know what these but there is something we do Each one bears an inscription And while the text might seem, to us, it is actually telling us who cast it. For example, this one is shorthand for In other words, it was made by named Marcus and Gaius Pontinelius. Their company produced the majority Over 700 of them! And a subset of those ingots are which researchers believe is a tribute Meanwhile, there are a bunch of stamps corresponding to other men in Like Quinto Appio, and Planio Russino. Professor Salvi told us this is invaluable of both the entrepreneurs of the time, and the powerful families that were Together, these ingots tell us managed its mines within its territory...that as opposed to being directly run by the state. The inscriptions also help us made its final journey, because the tell us that they identify as Roman citizens. That was only possible when urban Italian tribes got representation in the Roman Republic. We know when the law that granted them so we know the ship must have met And yet, there are still a lot of pieces Salvi says that archeologists don't whether a delivery of this size was and ultimately, what caused the ship to sink. But, because the ingots were still neatly the ship must have sunk straight down. And there didn't seem to be any So it's possible that the region's famously the heavy load, causing the ship to But some archeologists think During the first century BCE, the with several civil wars I mean, throw a dart at a timeline and But things were particularly And it meant a lot of attacks on Roman boats. With such a gentle descent to the sea merchant ship was deliberately sunk by its to stop an enemy from seizing And if that's the case, we our deep appreciation for their sacrifice. Because nobody got their hands on that cargo until long after the fall of the Roman Empire. But it wasn't just modern archaeologists Researchers in a completely And those scientists hope to use them to solve one of the universe's biggest mysteries. This SciShow video is supported by Babbel. Babbel is one of the top with 14 different languages at your fingertips. Including Italian, which With Babbel's help, you wouldn't into stomachache, because Also, everything we learned was sent to us in an email written in Italian! So knowing multiple languages can come You can learn through a wide to have practical conversations about There are also several subscription including a lifetime subscription. And I know a lifetime is a long commitment, and get all of your money back in the first 20 When you sign up using the link you can get up to 60% off. According to our best theories of the early And by "we" I don't just mean you and me. I also mean the Earth, and the and neon leg warmers, and Kia Sorentos, Everything! This mystery is, of course, It all started shortly after when the universe was in its Jessica The universe had expanded and cooled transform into matter and In an infinitesimally small amount of time, basically all of the stuff But there's a problem. Whenever a particle of matter they annihilate one another. In a literal flash of light, their and rejoins the cosmic pool from whence it came. So if matter and antimatter which is what the laws of physics tell us, the total amount of matter and antimatter But you may have noticed that's not the case. Otherwise we wouldn't have hotdogs. From our observations of the universe, it appears the ratio of matter to It was more like one billion In other words, for every one billion happened in our baby universe, there was And eventually, those leftover matter star and planet and YouTuber That's me. But we don't know how or why this happened. It's one of the biggest outstanding And scientists think the answer could lie with some of the most elusive They're called neutrinos. You can think of them as cousins to a more recognizable subatomic But unlike electrons, neutrinos They're also waaaaaay less massive, which is something because Put these two facts together, and you get a unique group of particles that In fact, as you are watching this, trillions of neutrinos are streaming They can pass through an entire Now, that means that there's but scientists have to worry about So despite physics predicting that we're still lacking some pretty Like, we still don't know how much mass they have. So I can't even tell you how We know it's not nothing, but beyond Another big question is whether or not a Now this is where we're going to get so please stick with me! According to the Standard which is the theory that scientists rely every matter particle has its For example, you've got protons and antiprotons. Electrons and antielectrons. Each twin in a matter-antimatter but the opposite charge. Neutrinos, though, are neutral, so does NO! Turns out, charge is just There are other properties things like "Lepton Number" and "Helicity." Offscreen: It's helicity! Hank: Oh, it's helicity. And those are also opposite in anti-particles. So anti-neutrinos are very much a thing. In fact, don't look now, but your body No, really. Don't look. You won't be able to see them. Weirder than that, though, back in Ettore Majorana hypothesized that a Such dual-acting particles have come If scientists discover that neutrinos for reasons that get pretty it could explain why our However, Majorana's hypothesis was just that. A hypothesis. And he made it in the early Although the field has made it has not made much progress on neutrinos. But we may finally be on the verge of Deep beneath the Apennine physicists created an experiment. Its name was CUORE, which is Italian for heart. But of course it is also an acronym, short for Cryogenic Underground Observatory for Rare Events. And part of CUORE's mission is in particle physics called Basically, there are a few ways that on their way to becoming stable atoms. Most of these forms of radioactive and well understood by physics. But neutrinoless double beta decay? Never been witnessed. And here's where you're gonna because the science is ... intense. First, neutrinoless double beta to be their own antiparticle. And second, neutrinos being their own antiparticle could have led to the accumulation It is a multistep process. I'm told that it is very complicated. Though if any of you out there are and right-handed neutrinos, there is an internal debate going on at So if you want to know, let But remember, neutrinoless double It's never been observed before, it's an extraordinarily rare process that needs an extraordinarily large and So before CUORE was able to get up and running, scientists had to start with some Basically you'd need a lump of that is sensitive enough to spot when So starting in the 1980s, experiments weighing just a few hundred grams. That's just a few Costco hot dogs. And over the decades, this got inside the full-scale CUORE facility. For the radioactive element, the not only because it undergoes but because it does so with a that will shine a beacon on any missing neutrinos. But it isn't one massive block of the stuff. Instead, CUORE houses nearly of tellurium oxide crystals that have There's a lot of weird units in this video. If neutrinoless double beta again, for very complex reasons... the surrounding tellurium oxide cubes would heat up by a very small And that is why each crystal has an extremely sensitive thermometer on the surface. It's also why each crystal needs to be kept at an incomprehensibly frigid temperature. And by incomprehensibly, I mean than the depths of outer space! It is the coldest cubic Like, literally, if there is a colder spot But the technique we use to You know how when you get a cup that is just scalding hot, and you cool Well, CUORE kinda does the exact same over the thing it's trying to cool And with this technique, all the CUORE cubes sit at a brisk 10 millikelvins, But temperature isn't the only thing that CUORE's radioactive cubes also need to of radiation and energy...lest the from a neutrinoless double beta by even the slightest amount of background noise. And this is the reason why the entire the Apennine mountains, at the Around 1.4 kilometers of solid from the unceasing shower of neutrinos But even that isn't enough. Because here's something that you Rocks themselves are slightly radioactive. Which means the Apennine Mountains... So CUORE needed something to protect it from the protection it was It's like if you had a shield that Whether you are a fan of Superman or a at the dentist, you are probably as a shield against x-ray radiation. But lead is good at radiation shielding, period, because it's just made of big, heavy That's why it's so heavy. That's why half your arm's worth of it Or a German shepherd. Or 1/50th of Kia Sorento. This means tiny particles find it very the stuff, either just bouncing off the atoms' So it's no surprise to see lead lining everywhere from nuclear reactors to, But there's another problem. Just like a rock can be radioactive in There are several kinds of non-radioactive amount of a radioactive kind called lead-210 that is present in any that And that stuff has a half life of 22 years. Meaning 22 years after you mine a lump of lead, half the radioactive stuff will be gone. And it takes another 22 years for And so on and so forth. So any lead that has been mined will still have an appreciable amount of lead-210. Which means that modern lead to provide shielding for But lead from the ancient world is another matter! Lead that was processed by the has had more than enough time to stabilize. And the stuff from an ancient because it spent all of those years underwater. Much like the Apennine mountains and other subatomic particles the Mediterranean Sea protected that could strike the lead atoms and This kind of lead is so valuable and in-demand that physicists have a special term But it's typically found in small quantities, So, not long after the shipwreck the CUORE team took a keen You may have noticed the very cool And also that I am wearing. Well, it's a reference to which we made an episode about back in June. The pool is so big the water actually looks blue. You can get one of these shirts The new home for merch from all And there is currently a summer sale happening! We've got up to 50% items like a a False Crab Puzzle from Eons, and SciShow's very own Orca Bucket Hat. Sale ends August 23rd! As fate would have it, the archaeologists the Mal di Ventre ship were With the boat and ingots sitting 30 meters spend about 30 minutes at the site A project that began in 1989 in its first two years, And that's when Italy's National which represents the CUORE scientists, In exchange for about 10 percent of the physicists would provide a cool 300 million which was about $210,000 at the time. Which may not sound like a lot, but it Now, there was no getting were going to do with these ingots, though. They would melt them down and create At the time, Dr. Salvi described Even though the physicists promised to assist in finding where they came from, When an artifact gets preserved they can always return to it when they or new techniques to apply. Once an artifact is gone, it's gone. And this was not the first time that physicists had sought low-background Over the years, they've used lead from old church roofs to the Because the practice involves and can encourage illegal salvaging, The team behind an experiment called bought their low-background lead from a company that had pulled it from an But it turned out that salvage and The company wound up getting for the illegal trade of archeological artifacts. And the United Nations Educational, has condemned the recovery of So, yeah, you can imagine how torn when the organization of physicists Ultimately, though, they decided to take it. The archaeologists were worried the wreck might be plundered by In which case, the artifacts would Excavation resumed, and over the next five years, divers brought up hundreds of Roman relics. Most of the best ingots were moved to the Some of them are still on display today, So if you ever find yourself in Sardinia, go take a picture of them and And making good on their promise, the to confirm both where and when they came from. Lead from different parts of the world which can be measured with precision instruments. And these lead ingots had in the Sierra de Cartagena So even though we'll never know where there is a solid chance that it left from Cartagena. That might sound like Rome was engaged But at the time, southern Spain was solidly under the control of the Roman Republic. So these ingots help researchers speculate from its foreign territories...in Britain and Sardinia... rather Perhaps this was to preserve their own At the very least, it appears bulk of this lead themselves, instead And remember how I said that the tell us the ship must have Well, archaeologists already knew that the Sierra di Cartagena So unless someone allowed a bunch being useless for years and years the Mal di Ventre wreck must have Narrowing it down to a 40-year window two In the end, the Sardinian archeologists Over the course of seven years, they of archaeological value from the ship. But the work for the CUORE In 2011, they finally obtained 120 of the them into a six centimeter-thick shield to Once everything else was in place, the CUORE team began making their observations in 2017. The experiment required maintaining in the known universe and its exceptional five years, with scientists monitoring If anything was going to find and matter in the universe, this was it. In 2024, the CUORE project And they were ... initially disappointing. After several years of observations, the team had failed to find any evidence The hypothesis that neutrinos are their And physicists were no of why our universe is full of matter. Every part of the experiment had worked perfectly, so this wasn't a result of any Instead, it was an indication of how assuming it occurs at all. Just like with radioactive decay more it takes for neutrinoless double beta And thanks to CUORE, they is at least 38 trillion trillion years. For comparison, that's about a million Listen, I know even that can't help you that much. Maybe we can put it in terms of 10 year olds? Kia Sorentos? Jessica Rabbits? It's a big number! But while that result isn't particularly neutrinos are their own antiparticle, or it isn't like scientists have hit a In fact, they're already transforming It's called CUPID, or the 'CUORE That's right, the acronym has an and it is currently scheduled So we really did go from CUORE, Who said physicists aren't romantics? The most important part of this upgrade out for blocks of lithium-molybdenum oxide. Which is a mouthful. But these new crystals will any signs of that neutrinoless double beta decay. Thanks to their different chemical make-up, the new blocks will produce a signal should stand out a lot more And fortunately for archeologists, won't require any additional ingots to But they might not want to celebrate just Neither is using Roman lead to hunt for one specific hypothetical CUORE's lead shielding can high-precision physics experiments, Dark matter is, like, five times more and it helps form structures on both But physicists have basically no clue what it is. And lest you think the only people trying to explain the nuances of reality, more practical applications, like in In other words, physicists are from archeological sites for many years to come. And while supply is an issue, a bigger Physicists certainly don't want to But it isn't always easy to trace the as it was in the case of And whenever there's demand, there leading to not just unethical but It's clear that some formal resolution Something which archeologists But while we wait to see if any official we can look forward to the We can admire the Roman artifacts, and of what life was like 2,000 From a foreign national who felt a jolt of to a merchant sacrificing his boat so And we can also await the results of CUPID Maybe someday soon, we will finally solve the entire universe as we know it came to be... ancient Roman lead and all. [ OUTRO]