- The most dangerous thing is not the pointy edges and corners. It's not the fact that and goes from zero to 60 miles an hour faster than a Corvette. It's not even the way that reflections glare off the stainless steel and can blind people on the highway. No, the most dangerous is the way it makes other people around you on the road behave. (rhythmic music) (music continues) (music continues) (music continues) Okay, I genuinely can't is good looking or not, and Like if you just check the it's actually mostly negative. Most people are saying it looks horrible. It looks like a refrigerator on wheels. It's a disaster of a design. But once you start living with this thing, you drive around with it and who have never heard of it, they're saying things This is like a movie prop. It's sci-fi, looks something alien.&quot; So there's a lot to it. Here, first of all, stainless That's mostly what And the front, I think To be honest, I'm a but the actual headlights are down here so they stay outta people's eyes. In general, it's like a square jawline, no curves, just angles. But the back, the back not so much. You know, it's still but it's a little bit And also just tons of Really high tailgate. I'm getting like, dump I don't think I'm the only one. I just, I don't think the But if I had to narrow it down, I'm pretty sure the most And the two elements of this truck that really stand out are this and then the pointy See, most pickup trucks have It's the traditional pickup truck look. And so we're not used to and this huge slope right here. It's unusual, it's weird, it's So I've been living with the Cybertruck for about a month now, And you notice a couple things. First of all, people, whenever always wanna come up to Naturally, I've entertained 'cause they're fun. And they usually say two things. One, you'd be surprised how many people have never I know for us online people, you're like, how could of the Tesla Cybertruck? But you'd be shocked. And two, most people just want to know, how much does that thing cost? And I got asked that so many times, eventually I just started And 100% of the people People were guessing They're all way over. But you know, how could they know? They don't know what the They've just seen this thing they've never seen for the first time. And so I guess the conclusion is the looks are really distracting of what makes the Okay, let's play a little game. I'm going to name a feature and all you have to do is and think about if you believe And then I, someone who's will tell you the real answer. So first feature, steer by wire. I've seen a few good pieces cover what's actually happening here, talking about the complete between the steering wheel you're holding and the wheels that are Instead, it's a bunch of like a video game controller. But combined with the and the four wheel steering, this is the most nimble, that I have ever driven. And I don't think a lot So I'm going underrated. It's one of those things didn't have to do this. Like, they've made their It could just be a Model 3 underneath. But they went through the extra measures and the extra engineering to ship a full steer by wire system and all the redundancies that I believe they're the But the variable steering ratio is really what gives it all of its utility. So at low speeds, the ability to turn really quickly gets dialed up. It's a much more So if I want to turn right what, half a turn, a quarter turn, and I'm fully maneuvering. The way you can pull into parking spots and make 90 degree turns and everything is a total game changer. But then at highway speeds So you have a little bit of steering input to sort of glide left and It's much more subtle. You kind of need that. But then on top of that, throw So four wheel steering is not new, lots of vehicles have done it. But the amount of steer that you get from these rear to the point where you and see those wheels turning. And this can also be But that really lets this around a much smaller axis. The steering ratio now I think gives it the same steering circle as a Model S, but it feels really, really impressive just because of how big It definitely takes some getting used to. You can't ignore that fact. But once you get used to it, you literally feel like when or any other truck where you have all this hand over hand that feels weird, it feels archaic. It feels like you So again, Tesla definitely but just the way you can and really point the nose, I don't know, it's definitely underrated. All right, next feature, overrated or underrated? I'm going with, you probably I'm going with overrated. Now look, first of all I get it. Obviously having a very durable truck is super useful of course. But bulletproof up to (Marques thumping truck) (sledgehammer thunking) Yeah, I'm not gonna test that. But you know, there are some who totally will. And apparently it can without being punctured. But also, the glass they're more of just And then it's regular that can still get slashed. So don't go getting any ideas that this thing is invincible But clearly, cold rolled is going to be much stronger than the regular outside of the vehicle. So that's the shopping cart in that's fender benders. Or if someone hits you, you'll be fine. You'll be fine. But guess what? It also means your truck is now made of an extremely fingerprinting material. And it also doesn't so you just cannot keep it clean if you use this thing daily. And then steel just happens to Apparently Tesla had to create to stamp this material together. There's a reason why there aren't a bunch of other cars rolling So when I say in the Auto Focus review that low VIN Cybertrucks will have low VIN production issues, that's not actually new to Tesla. They've had to spin up of vehicles before, and usually the first few But then they learn from those issues and then one or two years down the road they're making millions of the thing and they're much better So this particular Cybertruck is the dual motor all-wheel drive. This was borrowed from Ridge. Shout out to Ridge by the way. I'll leave a link below on my partnership with them. But on delivery, this one on the driver's side door. And you know, I never really but this one in particular and getting worse. It literally looked and then it started making Until one day it actually broke. So turns out it wasn't a panel gap, it was actually a manufacturing that hold this latch in place were actually not torqued tight enough and they loosened over And so Miles actually had the bright idea to just gaffe tape the latch And now when you close the So Elon Musk addressed this Apparently only 15 trucks had this issue, so lucky me, I guess. So if you are one of the few, then you can apparently just take this to a Tesla service center and they'll be able to fix it in no time as long as you get an appointment. The Cyberbeast that I took has been flawless so far. But I think the point these early Cybertrucks, as they're going to find, I guarantee you, more issues like this. And they'll work on 'em and fix 'em. But yeah, this Foundation kind of clouted in the Tesla community 'cause it basically means But it also kind of means So you know, these materials and all this should much easier to produce But that's eventually, eventually. All right, next feature, truck stuff. I'm talking about the would logically buy a truck like a van or an SUV or a car. And that would be for towing, And I know it looks like at all of that stuff, but I'm gonna say that this one, it's overrated. It's overrated here, Now, don't get me wrong, the It's much more capable than I can confirm it handles Like it has heated windshield and the door can in fact They added a wade mode that lifts the suspension all the way up and pressurizes the battery through really deep water. It's insane. And it also has off-road driving modes and towing modes right There's also only one right now with Cybertruck. Every single Cybertruck ships with the same Goodyear Territory It's a pretty popular tire and they ship them on, you and F-150s all the time. And it's reinforced and it's capable of But I think if we're being honest, most people will be driving like a glorified SUV. So here's a number to think about, 63. 63% is the percent of truck or never towing anything at all. And that's just the ones that admit it. Like, look at this chart. This is from a survey of F-150 owners, so the most popular truck in the country. People are almost never actually So before we leave a comment that this thing sucks for Everyone buying it kind If you're buying a truck then you have a short list and none of them are electric. But I think my main is there are millions of preorders Because it's Tesla, it's This is gonna be a lot and it will come with all of Like to a lot of people, the Cybertruck looks absolutely huge, but it's actually smaller than an F-150. And these people, when they get the truck, they'll think they're invincible and just go wherever they want strategically going certain routes or airing down the tires that literally come at They're gonna start of embarrassing situations, which means of course then there will written about them because of course no other truck has ever been stuck in the snow before. And it's just, sorry, I'm definitely getting ahead of myself. But look, we will be using a Cybertruck at our video production studio that we've used an R1T. It's got a tow hitch, it's it's quick, it's quiet, it's great. But I think the point most of the millions of with these Cybertrucks eventually are going to use them on the street just like a glorified SUV just 'cause they think And that's fine. All right, next category, performance. Overrated or underrated? Well, you might have that Tesla did on their YouTube channel racing the Cybertruck while towing a 911 and beating that 911. And that, that was a very clever video. It's an ad, of course, but it also takes advantage of the fact that EVs all have this commoditization of this enormous straight great acceleration. Anyone can get it. But you know, I'd normally to a sports car, right? But well, we're here. (energetic music) (music continues) (music continues) (car revving) (race signal beeping) (car roaring) (music continues) (music continues) (music continues) So like most drag races, But while we have some we did a bunch of these, we And it shed a lot of and on the Cybertruck in general. So first of all, EVs are quick, right? We've known this for years. Ludicrous mode, Plaid mode, Beast mode. This is not new information. But cars with gears can be faster. So there's a difference So when you go to a real drag and all that stuff, you This is a time slip. Breaks down in both lanes, not just the end of the 1/4 mile but multiple points along the race. And so I've expanded it here. So this was the triple one of the first runs. It runs a 10.9 second 1/4 mile, which if you don't know, There are bonafide sports cars And for a 7,000 pound pickup truck to do it on all terrain tires But when you actually each of these times, between quick and fast. So first of all, off the launch, just from zero miles an hour, the Cyberbeast with its triple motors and with its 1000 hertz traction control managing slip at the rear is able to explode off the line through the first 60 feet of the race faster than the 911 Turbo S, one of the fastest-launching Now from there, it holds that lead, continues putting down all of this power all the way out to 330 feet. So you can see that at 330 feet, 4.4 versus 4.5, it's still out ahead. But by the time you get to 660 feet, which is roughly halfway through the race, that's when the 911 and continues to pull. And this is when it shifts and passes the truck around Physics just takes over, and the lighter car with many It passes the truck. Crazy enough, the Cybertruck hits its 114 mile an hour probably 'cause of the tires, well before the end of the 1/4 mile, while my child, I mean the car, continues to pull into the 140s. No, it's not stock. Now Tesla made this video and they wanted to showcase the Cyberbeast against a Porsche 911. And they know all of this so they had to get clever, I'll say. So if you haven't seen Their video shows the Cybertruck It's racing a Porsche 911. It beats the 911 in a drag race and then it's revealed that it was towing a 911 the whole time. So they're saying you can And then it flashes the 1/4 mile time on the screen, 11 seconds. So first of all, there's and variations of the Porsche 911. So just based on what we saw and from the performance in that they went with the cheapest and slowest possible 911. So that would be the 911 Carrera T. It's a manual transmission. It does zero to 60 in around 4.3 seconds. So now the Cybertruck with has a massive advantage. And so they're able to handicap it by having it tow the Okay, so then they run the race. And if you watch the to this yellow mark right here. Which it turns out is actually the halfway So shout out to Engineering Explained for doing the math on this one. I'll leave the video below. But it turns out the Carrera is still eventually especially if it's towing 3,000 pounds, but it's really an 1/8 mile race that they're showcasing here, and then they quote the as if they ran a 1/4 mile race. But as we've learned today, quick, fast. People will point out that difference but I'll let it slide. It's just a drag race, it's fun, it's not that huge of a deal. But I will say, if you can, from stoplight to as basically any other car that's incredible, that's But hopefully, at least now performance is a bit overrated. It's more of a one trick Now that one trick is very fun and very appealing to certain people. There are people every day over the F-150 for stuff like this. But you know, then you get to But also one more thing again, in our best run in the Cybertruck. Is this the fastest? Is this the world record for fastest Cybertruck 1/4 mile? I haven't seen any faster, But shout out to Miles, the driver mod. I think we might have a world record here. All right, the 800 volt architecture and the 48 volt low voltage system, both new to the Cybertruck. I'm going underrated, if only this is technically the lightest in the world. Which is not the highest bar to clear. But yes, thanks to the lesser wire weight, it is lighter than the Hummer EV. It's also lighter than And it is lighter than the So that's an accomplishment. I was also hoping it would charge like, just as fast or faster than other Teslas. But it seems right in line, you know, 250 kilowatts out of V3 Superchargers for about the first 1/3 of the curve. You know, it looks like less that you're adding to the battery, but that's including driving efficiency. Which is, thanks to the not great. Now I also wanna give a shout out specifically to the suspension, just the suspension on the Cybertruck, which I think is underrated. First of all, there's between the lowest and firmest and the highest and softest settings. And no one's gonna say this but it is pretty impressively low and firm in its lowest setting, and it's very high, and it can move between those low and high settings really quickly. And I was also very impressed by how little roll and yaw there was. Typically a big truck, you hit accelerate and the nose comes up a lot. This one goes up a little. Not bad. But then also we gotta talk Tesla's minimalism. Because it's kind of a staple especially with the Cybertruck But also on the inside and with materials and the choices they make. I think a lot of us would agree that a physical button in a lot of ways is better than a digital button. I don't think that's a hot take. But one of the reasons Tesla's been so successful business wise over the past couple years is because they've figured out a way to make a profit on every vehicle, and they minimize all of the extra pieces, all of the moving parts. And they've gotten rid Actually, they've gotten rid of basically every button in the Cybertruck. But because of Tesla's success, I feel like auto manufacturers a lot of what Tesla does, to the detriment of I would've liked to have this big special vehicle, that has access to a button or maybe real climate control buttons. Or maybe, we all know they that's actually a screen so you can see out the back of the truck without looking down at the screen. But they didn't do that. So I'm saying Tesla's minimalism, But I also do need you to know that despite all the other that I've talked about in this video, this is still a Tesla under the hood, and all of the things and all the other stuff That means it works all over the country. That also means it has a super heavy 123 kilowatt-hour battery in the floor. It means that the quiet makes the speaker system sound way better than it probably should. And it also means a bunch of things are missing about these early The super heavy additional in the back isn't shipping yet, and nobody knows when it will. The screen also has no but the software is really But there's also no Autopilot right now, even if you paid for it. No light bar right now, No aero caps right now, The locking differential at in the dual motor version And there's only one All of these are knowing the priorities the millions of pre-orders They know what people are They know what people think And they know what people want when they buy one of these things. It's a Tesla under the hood. So I was driving to the and on my way there I'm and on the other side of the hill is this biker across the street. And as I came over the hill, he looked up and he saw the truck And then he reached out as he biked past me. But later that same night, I was on my way home from practice around the bridge somewhere And slowing down in traffic, this car pulls up next to and all four of the windows roll down and these super happy faces all stick out and just like, give me thumbs up and they're grinning the entire time. And I'd say that's about the ratio of joy to absolute disgust that you bring into the world driving the Cybertruck around, So what's the verdict with I think there's a lot going a lot of interesting choices and steer by wire and 800 volt But a lot of it frankly is So we keep coming back to the design. And I feel like we can use I would say as a product person, I do think this is Now, that comes with a lot of baggage. I feel like when you say that word, it's kind of like joining the rare air of like, the bedroom poster It's like the Lamborghini or something like a Tesla Cybertruck. But the thing about those iconic cars is they're also almost always rare. And that's the thing, it's like on the street, that's probably you're gonna see on the There's not that many out on the world. Now the Cybertruck today is super rare. And there's all these celebrities driving them around. And when you see one, it's an event. That's why people are It's probably because it's the first time they're ever seeing one. But the Cybertruck is So I feel like this actually Like obviously it hits different seeing your 10th or 50th or 100th Cybertruck of the day, right? So how does that match up? I think there's like, two of the Cybertruck, and more coming. There were only ever about 2000 Lamborghini There was less than 500 So it's kinda hard to that starts off its life as iconic, but then is mass produced. And there was this really on the Auto Focus video on owning the PT Cruiser And I wasn't really old so I'm purely taking their word for it, but it apparently it was that it got a lot of attention when it first started being made. You know, it's a weird shape, and all that. But eventually Chrysler made But now we know exactly You know, it gets humanized more and more the more you see them on the road. You see them get in accidents and have to maneuver through traffic, and they're just regular and they're everywhere. And I guess the question for the Tesla Cybertruck? Like, we don't know. But it has to go from being that it is right now, to being something. Only time will tell. Thanks for watching. Catch you guys in the next one. Peace. (rhythmic music)