How to Promote Yourself in 1914 by The Elizabeth Towne Company Society for the purpose of research, study, -------------------- By the Publisher This little book is a Live success is yours. often; by going back to it every time you and by acting up to its teachings in everyway The Life of all success is The Spirit of Faith Whenever you feel your faith ebbing get back its spirit is yours and you recognize yourself THE MAN WHO CAN. By Edwin Markham Defeat may serve as well out. the boughs drink in new beauty, and the trunk Only the soul that knows the mighty grief to stretch out spaces in the heart for joy. By Wallace D. Wattles Like causes, under like conditions, produce and cannot be the exception to the law of the man who succeeds; something in the man a certain result. of success? physical strength may be a great aid; all do have the ability to can so apply their producing the result of success. able men do not succeed; those who do have ability as to make it assist in the achievement The potency which makes the successful man, and mental ability as to produce results. himself. It is not a special gift to a few, may develop; it is a position to be assumed. it is the man himself who must direct them; causes success. his own abilities and energies; and every is because he has it that he is capable of man, it is necessary to make one who knows direct his energies to do those things; and assume the attitude of self-direction. by the suggestions which come from his environment. man; the man who is directed by suggestion The man who is directed by suggestion has by heredity and environment; the self-directing by heredity, environment or the stars; he horoscope does not suit him he makes a better Business success depends upon business policy; thought; therefore, whether a man succeeds The directed man only thinks the thoughts so he can only do what those around him think The self-directing man thinks what he wants to do. is to take the attitude of self- direction. comes from your environment, but do not act about the suggestion. and assimilate food; make them a part of your to reject any that are indigestible. Success is becoming what you want to be, and work; and you will apply your energies in desire, and to your faith in your ability The intensity of your desire will depend on what you want to be. out your best effort. Form a mental picture want in person, property and environment; to you, and hold it until it arouses intense Think about this picture until you are always doing, so that it is always in the background But even though you have strong desire you confidence; you will have to think you can And you cannot think you can unless you feel to you the fact that you cannot feel that that can. do a thing, it is certain proof that you have Desire is the result of feeling, and the feeling expression. faculty seeking expression, and if there were We cannot desire things which do not harmonize does not harmonize with the forces within with those of the same essential nature; therefore, is essentially and potentially within you. you potentially. we desire to be like him because the sight and the power to be, seeking expression, causes When we hear a great oration or a beautiful because the faculties of oratory or music Desire is a power seeking expression. You you; and therefore, you can be what you want The fact that you want to be is proof that First, form a clear conception of what you and then understand that in so far as your it is absolutely certain that you can be what Chapter Three: Becoming What You Want to Success is a progressive evolution of the this, remember that success is becoming what be consists in satisfying your desires, and into action. may make enables him to bring into use a new this satisfies desire, and is success. is the man who can; and because he is the Success, then, being an evolution of the successful of action; and the basic fact in evolution potentialities required to perform the functions On ascending to a higher plane, new faculties continued use of the faculties which were development of these faculties, or their fullest plane possible. imperfectly developed specimens on the lower developed. that those organisms which function most perfectly plane; and the way to approach the higher plane. if no organism ever did more than to function no evolution. to the necessary functions of the plane on which can be perfected only on a higher plane. want to do; but unless you can do your present you want to do. And even when you can do your you can do you are not ready for anything It is only when you can do your present work that you are ready to advance. faculties which are to be used on a higher the work of the lower plane and then adding use, or to so develop those already in use on the lower plane. place, but you must more than fill it; it the boundaries of your present place which The evolutionary principle of success is that and you can succeed in no other way. The successful life is the advancing life; to the evolutionary principle. The evolutionary than filling your present place; and this in business for yourself. work than is required will not advance you; you are. If you are an employee and have no place, it will be to your employer's interest will probably do so. You must know what you present place for the purpose of becoming Do not do extra work with the idea that by that will put you in a servile attitude, and Do not do it in the hope that those above you; they may find it more profitable to keep Do what you do with the purpose of promoting You are more than filling your place in order place; if your employer does not offer you to another employer. Man. and more than fill your present place; your every opportunity for bettering your condition of opportunities when they come. you want to be; be all that you can be today, to you, take it. for the man who is living the advancing life, Everything that touches your life is an opportunity Every circumstance, every seeming misfortune, at you, or wags his tail as you pass - all you will find it. Study them all, for they for some particular kind of opportunity, instead Steadily hold the picture of all that you live the advancing life within, by more than life without, by acquiring everything you cannot fail. The stars in their courses will the evolutionary principle, the creative power Chapter Five: The Advancing Thought principle of success is the same as if you mind what you want to become, and more than That does not mean that you are to try to nothing to do with tomorrow's work, except must do all that is necessary for today's transaction you must keep the advancing mind; you do, and communicate it to every person If you sell a pound of sugar, do it with the because he will soon be able to buy in barrel candy, put into the sale the thought that in each case see that the customer gets the Put into every sale the thought of advance soon they will all feel that they are getting If you thus put the advancing thought into it in regard to their own affairs; and they mentally connect their success with you. This bargain you can give a man is to communicate his own affairs. No "premium" or "rebate" When you send a man away feeling that he is you give him the strongest possible inducement If you communicate the advancing thought to because of it; and intuitively connecting you for more power. You will build them up, The man who can give the advancing thought exactly what all are seeking. a merchant, an artist, a professional man, than fill your place by putting so much into place; so that your customers, patrons or a bargain. that makes a bargain; it is the feeling of The basic element of success in business is, attitude of advancement; and to more than And you more than fill your place by so doing conscious of being advanced by you. principle, success is made a certainty, and Chapter Six: The Law of Opulence the kingdom of God." is to abandon the idea of competition and themselves practitioners of the new thought Competition in business originates in the the supposition that because there is not each other for what there is. new thought still suppose that it is necessary may have enough, and believe that wealth is or the power to attract to themselves a larger These people try to apply the new thought do so with a fair degree of success; they they inject new motives and new energy into "I am success," all the while believing per cent of all others fail. people do achieve a great measure of success push and optimism which are necessary in competitive makes a majority of their actions successful new thought ideas makes them exceptionally success to thought-power and affirmation when so-called new thought is really only the highest It only sees Caesar's kingdom after all; All the final results show that these new kingdom. Their fortunes fluctuate. They meet panics. Their prosperity is checkered by periods self-confidence; deep in the subconscious No one can ever be wholly free from fear who for if there is not enough to go round, we The lapses and failures of new thought people supply; to the idea that success and the attainment Is there any truth in this idea that competition are essential to life and advancement, mental five heads, and these are: food, clothing, of these, food, clothing and shelter, we look with their appurtenances and extensions in beauty, constitute what we call wealth. Is Take into consideration, first, the question yet begun to sound the possibilities of intensive where one grew before. that the single state of Texas, if all its of food, would produce enough to feed the feed them well. Dakotas to rice in Carolina; from northern and Florida. This country, intensely cultivated, this. There is no lack in the food supply. daily bread," we should never forget to when he laid down the foundation of the world. Burbank have but just begun; the food supply is, therefore, no need for men to compete As to the second essential, clothing, we find produce cotton for the world, but it is not cheap as cotton fabrics. We have sheep ranges in which to raise the flax for fine linen; where we might grow enough mulberry trees the world in silks; we even have the deserts We have the resources sufficient to clothe finer than that of Solomon in all his glory. the despised weeds by the wayside; some Burbank for fabrics more beautiful than the world supply of clothing is inexhaustible. No need for one to go in sackcloth that another may and fine linen for all. the same conditions prevailing. There are bricks and tile; there are vast ledges of learned that brick may be made of sand and material. finer than Vanderbilt's might be erected were finished we should hardly have made a material. that others may be delicately housed! furniture, carpets, books, musical instruments, the eye and mind of man is just as unlimited. is there any lack of work that ought to be competition, either for things or for jobs. waiting to be done to keep us all busy all And it may be well to point out here that products because labor is not productive enough has solved the problem of production. The by six hundred in a little more than a generation. the work which required a thousand men one true in all lines of industry; and the end yet. There is nothing in which further improvement by all of us, would produce all that we all With such abundance in the whole, we do not to take thought for tomorrow; we do not need We need only to seek for the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto us. Chapter Seven: To Transmute Competition God? It is like leaven, which a woman took whole was leavened." in the meal - in all and through all. It includes and when nature is perfectly natural, there If God be the Mind of nature, then there can in the naturalness of nature. God is the life itself; and when life is lived of God in all its fullness; for there can the living of life in a natural way. life be lived in the natural way? The living into more life. life in the seed at once becomes active; it Soon it produces a plant, and a seed head, seeds, each containing as much life as the These fall into the ground, and in their turn seeds in the field, each containing as much The life of the first seed, by the mere act living of life consists in continuously increasing necessity of life for increase is the cause There is no such thing as evolution in the progress. Lead does not evolve into tin, tin and so on. of life, and caused by the natural necessity Life on this earth began, no doubt, in a single sufficient expression to life, and so it formed many cells; then vertebrates; then mammals, All this because of the inherent necessity expression. of man; physical evolution ceased, and mental Man, from the beginning, has been developing of living more than the previous generation. life, and so we see that the living of life The action of consciousness continually expands The primal necessity of the mind is to know necessity of mind is the cause of social evolution If we take conscious life - as we must - to Mind of nature, then the purpose of all things life - and he is - then the purpose of all of man. the increase of his capacity for life, then to further the continuous advancement of man Life finds expression by the use of things. he possess, but the number of things he is of life is to have all the things we are capable of nature being the continuous advancement intention of that Mind that every man shall that he is capable of using and enjoying rightly; The purpose of God is that all should have God is the Mind of nature, and God is in all, of God is in all and through all, like the The desire for advancement is a fundamental desire for advancement is in all, and through All things desire the advancement of every If a man desires any good thing in order to him also. man when man desires advancement. that there is a Mind in nature which desires using, and willing to use, in the direction things themselves, tending to bring them towards recognizing this Mind and working with it, But this Mind is the Mind of the Whole, not and enter into competition with our fellows For competition for part is virtually a denial and accepts the Whole cannot compete for a limited supply which prevents us from seeing We still keep up the foolish struggle of Caesar's of God, which is all around us and within "If my kingdom were of this world, then do not get fully out of ideas of the kingdoms But how are we to avoid competition, when the method of competing for a limited supply? jobs? Can we succeed in a competitive world the world, and form communistic societies? community is a body of people who do not compete else. greatly limiting its members in the means aimed at. all its wants, it must compete with the outside we seek to avoid. way will solve the problem. The community Shall we establish socialism and the co-operative and the co-operative commonwealth are things by the whole. can never be established, it must establish to do so. enactment of any kind so long as the majority must keep right on in business under the present Can we do it? Yes. But how? "I am come that they might have life; and God, the Mind of nature, produces the Abundance the development of man; not of some men, but advancement of life; and as man is the embodiment of nature must be the continuous advancement That which seeks the advancement of every to be one with the Mind of nature is to seek to seek to get for all what one desires to This must lift one entirely out of the competitive for all" that is the declaration of independence "Our" Father, give "us," that is the This declaration and prayer are in unison and so prays is mentally one with all that at-one-ment. makes you able to register your thoughts on When you desire a thing, and your mind and desire you, and will move toward you. If you the Mind that pervades dollars and all things to come to you, and they will move toward for more abundant life. establish your own at-one-ment with the Mind But the primal purpose of the Mind of things more abundant life; therefore, nothing will to you unless you give to that person more It will be plainly seen that the Divine Mind of purely competitive business. God cannot to take from one and give to another. He will to advance in life in order to increase another is no respecter of persons, and has no favorites. at the service of all alike. your business gives to all who deal with you of what you take from them. in money value. Here is what many critics a thing of small value to one man may be of for the advancement of his life. A box of the city dweller. by the plane of life on which he stands: what of his development, is indispensable on another power of any article may be out of all proportion a dollar in so far as the cash value of the in it may be worth thousands of dollars to than it cost you, making a profit; but the be worth hundreds of times its cost to him, that your business meets this fundamental When you have done this you are one with the more life for all; you are "working together Father are one. The aim of your work is that What you seek for yourself you are seeking that you need begins to gravitate toward you. the dollars is conscious of the need; and me." Dollars will begin to move toward you, who need what you can give in exchange. The of that which is needed for the advancement This will apply not only to all that you need you are capable of using to enter into fuller No good thing will be withheld from you. the Purpose of nature, will be such that you Because you will do always the will of God, with no one. are impressed on the Divine Mind only by your and fear cuts the connection. your own subconscious mind, so you are in Your affirmations fall flat unless they are The Mind of things will not act positively ever ye desire when ye pray, believe that We cannot walk and work with God and distrust you impress the Mind of things with distrust rather than toward you. are very simple. for yourself, and be sure to take nothing in life; and the more you give the better Then move out in the absolute faith that all of living will come to you. that it shall come to you, and thank Him in that it DOES come to you. more life to someone else. Each gain you make you get for yourself - life - you get for wealth and happiness of all. from competition, after all? Are you not still NO! What you gain will not come from the limited from the Whole. is only a limited supply of money in the country; a large number of people enter this Way of all, there will not be enough to go around. upon the mind of things would react upon the the bullion would begin to move toward the bank notes if they were necessary to the advancement the coined cash, into gold and silver lying begin to move forward when it is called for And the same is true of everything else. Not a sufficient number of people have entered If it be urged that the wage system prevents is that whenever the workers begin to live way of their advancement it will be changed. is required to change it. but systems may be changed by the advance There is plenty of work to be done in the that is needed is a demand for those things to give more life to all. prosperity of all will increase, and a constantly come into the Truth, abandoning competition kingdom will be established on Earth as it "And God shall wipe away all tears from neither shall there be any more pain; and Chapter Nine: Talk That Builds to the wealth and happiness of the world to always been poor, and have had a mighty hard a thing to boast of than ignorance is a thing disgrace to be poor is only a half truth: to be poor. but (a) the ignorant, (b) the lazy, and (c) This sounds harsh, and you are ready to go tell me that the tenement dwellers and wage But wait a little. The wage slaves really they could take possession of it tomorrow to use the factories to make things for themselves, But they do not do it because they are (a) (b) too intellectually lazy to THINK, and (c) incompetent, because they do not THINK. down; those who work hard and willingly in and consecutive thinking; and because they they are slaves. the five-cent theaters are crowded and the I tell you this because I want to make plain Talking about poverty and adverse conditions shows, and to try in other ways to drown their The more you talk, and think about your hard some mental narcotic to dull the keen edge suffer. devised than to continually write and talk Talk about the good time coming. of its coming is in exact proportion to the about it. of conditions of those who live in the tenements, conditions of those who will live in the coming If you can inspire one person to go to work than you can by sending ten people out with Instead of crusading against child labour people what splendid conditions they will the industries for themselves. but ignorance and intellectual laziness; they to THINK. WEALTH. This is the philosophy for the mass. If the mass is not ready or willing to rise, can rise above it. talking about yourself as being down with If you keep talking of yourself as one of you will continue to be one of those who have Do not tell how poor your parents were, and a child. To talk of those things is to go go back into those conditions mentally is Talk about the happy times you had in your Do not tell how hard you used to work, and for nothing, you were a chump; and you should Tell of the good work you have done, and of advertising yourself as a competent person, Do not, like Uriah Heep, tell how 'umble abode; declare yourself to be as good as the in the process of getting and furnishing. few you have, or say you "have nothing to making arrangements to get. to it as existing. TALK WEALTH --------------------- and please remember to subscribe to receive remember that views and opinions expressed not always reflect those of Master Key Society This recording is a production of the Master 2023, Master Key Society.