JUDY WOODRUFF: Tonight, we launch our series With the support of the Pulitzer Center, correspondents Dan Sagalyn and Eric O'Connor conducted more eight Chinese cities, and reported from or to cover everything from trade, to technology, We begin our series at the top. Chinese President Xi Jinping's philosophy He has sought to raise the standard of living the world. Critics accuse him of consolidating power Nick Schifrin reports from Beijing on the NICK SCHIFRIN: In Beijing's Great Hall of one man. Xi Jinping, Communist Party general-secretary, Republic of China, says he's making China XI JINPING, Chinese President (through translator): transformation. It has stood up, grown rich, and is becoming It has come to embrace the brilliant prospects NICK SCHIFRIN: It's October 2017, and Xi tells destiny is to reclaim a central role in the XI JINPING (through translator): The banner is now flying high and proud. It offers Chinese wisdom and a Chinese approach NICK SCHIFRIN: Not since Mao Zedong, communist suggested so clearly the world could emulate Not since Mao has China had a leader as powerful If what the party leader says is the bible, The National Communist Party School flies of China, united across 55 minority groups, Professor Han Qingxiang says Xi inherits that HAN QINGXIANG, Professor, Central Communist development needs Xi Jinping, and people's If China wants to become a big, strong country, NICK SCHIFRIN: Xi says his work starts at His goal is to double China's GDP and per He says he wants to increase the prosperity and reduce poverty. HAN QINGXIANG (through translator): Now, in Xi is dealing with making China great and NICK SCHIFRIN: And that strength is also the Xi calls for China to -- quote -- &quot;stand tall He evokes memories of the Middle Kingdom, role as an international power. Xi has dramatically modernized China's army, first overseas base. And, most controversially, China claims almost military outposts, flouting U.S. objections Xi Jinping's China flexes that muscular foreign &quot;Wolf Warrior 2&quot; is China's highest-grossing Star and director Wu Jing plays Leng Feng, the day for the Chinese military. When he's no longer a soldier, trouble comes He becomes a rogue hero, launching a seeming up with fellow Chinese to save the day again. If a story about a former-soldier-turned-vigilante in a tank sounds familiar, it is. At the height of the Cold War, the U.S. had Wu Jing asks, why can't the Chinese have their WU JING, Actor and Director (through translator): hero for ordinary people. I think human beings need heroes. There are many qualities in a hero, like bravery, ACTOR: Pass me the flag. NICK SCHIFRIN: It's more than dedication to The good guys are the Chinese military. The bad guy... ACTOR: Welcome to Africa, son. NICK SCHIFRIN: ... is a violence-loving colonialist ACTOR: People like you will always be inferior WU JING: That's (EXPLETIVE DELETED) history. NICK SCHIFRIN: The film has made Wu Jing rich He says the film's nationalism is a product WU JING (through translator): In Chinese modern time. When we are rich, our country can protect When we feel like when we are in danger, we before. NICK SCHIFRIN: But Xi Jinping isn't only about He protects and restores the prominence of Xi has reasserted the party into people's Can you describe these awards? Hong Cheng works for the medical and high-tech lead the company's Communist Party committee. She shows off her party awards. HONG CHENG, Party Secretary, Tidal Star (through brands we acquired being in the top 10 of NICK SCHIFRIN: Employees meet in Tidal Star's on the wall, and Hong ensures this private HONG CHENG (through translator): Today, we're Please open the app Study Xi Strengthen China. NICK SCHIFRIN: Under Xi, the party's primacy members. Employees are encouraged by the company to about Xi and party leaders and take quizzes. And Hong ensures the company's vision aligns HONG CHENG (through translator): It not only The app offers our company inspiration. NICK SCHIFRIN: For a while, that inspiration Last year, there was a prime-time TV show A robot from a future rejuvenated China challenges they can memorize. The cult of Xi has included propaganda posters roads. And state media has called him Xi Dada, or and cares about the common worker. Xi calls himself Core Leader, just like Mao. And Xi's travels recreate Mao's countryside This year, the cult of Xi has become less But in Beijing's largest bookstore, &quot;Xi Jinping Despite the American celebrities nearby, bookstore QIN HUI, Bookstore Manager (through translator): the General-Secretary Xi's &quot;Thought&quot; points So we have to seriously study the spirit of NICK SCHIFRIN: But fly 1,200 miles south of reject &quot;Xi Jinping Thought&quot; and everything Xi Jinping's critics say he's not only spreading anyone else's ideas, both in mainland China say they feel like the city's independence On and off for months, Hong Kong police have connect the crackdown in Hong Kong to the LEE CHEUK-YAN, Former Hong Kong Legislator: when the Communist Party is trying to ban NICK SCHIFRIN: Lee Cheuk-Yan is a former Hong for decades. He's protested half-a-dozen Chinese leaders, LEE CHEUK-YAN: Xi Jinping began to -- even They banned the university professor from And he is trying to, you know, build up his of people. NICK SCHIFRIN: Under Xi, more than a million Xi's China has created a network of more than And Beijing posters have warned the public, spies trying to steal national secrets. And what the party says is that this is for were to weaken, the country would weaken, LEE CHEUK-YAN: Yes, they are always brainwashing Party, there would be chaos. So what they are trying to say, if you have We believe in democracy, but they believe NICK SCHIFRIN: Inside mainland China, few in public. Zhang Lifan is a historian who's made public increased. So, we met him in the only place he felt comfortable, He wouldn't use Xi Jinping's name. ZHANG LIFAN, Historian (through translator): corruption is widespread within the system. So if he wants to get rid of opponents, he corruption. Therefore, he was able to purge many political NICK SCHIFRIN: Lifan says Xi's eyes are everywhere. Lawyers who have represented activists have Journalists who write critically have been And as many as two million party members have Xi has replaced collective leadership with ZHANG LIFAN (through translator): The current He first canceled the term limit of the country's the party leads everything. As a result, some of the achievements of the NICK SCHIFRIN: Xi's reversing those reforms topic even Xi's allies avoid. Deng talked about there shouldn't excessive Xi has removed term limits. Why has he done that? HAN QINGXIANG (through translator): This is Not the right time to talk about it. NICK SCHIFRIN: Why are the needs of the country HAN QINGXIANG (through translator): It's not NICK SCHIFRIN: And then he says to our off-camera HAN QINGXIANG (through translator): This is (LAUGHTER) NICK SCHIFRIN: Xi and China face headwinds But for the first time in modern history, assertive rising superpower that's integrated And as the U.S. puts America first, China the world has China at the center. For the &quot;PBS NewsHour,&quot; I'm Nick Schifrin