Have you ever sympathized with a monster? I remember as a child seeing images depicting But I didn't have the reaction to these The dragons didn't look evil. They looked sad. And the older I've become, the more media the less monstrous they seem. (Sympathy for the Monster) To empathize with a monster is to go against thousands of years of storytelling precedent. The traditional mythic role of a monster is one that embodies dominant fears in its culture The very word 'Monster' comes from the When a courageous hero vanquishes a monster, over a societal anxiety. This conventional model of monster-hood is Next to -- pottery, maybe? -- monsters are about as close to a cultural Wherever there are people telling stories, But what is considered monstrous and worthy time. So, what one civilization judges to be irredeemable, It all comes down to perspective. Like, there's that one scene in Star Wars Rancor with a gate, which feels triumphant, so heartbroken, like this creature meant the And though the Rancor didn't seem like the... me wonder if the creature was truly evil, Sympathizing with a monster isn't a novel the years. One of the most important turning points in Pictures thrust the tragic monster into the 1931's Frankenstein. Based on Mary Shelly's 19th century novel a creature made from corpses, the film makes keeps the core tragedy of the central unwanted Upon awakening, Frankenstein's monster is of his monstrous strength and appearance, him -- including his own creator. It is through this mistreatment that the monster anger at a world that has given him anger And the film emphasizes that the creature with kindness, even if just for a fleeting Though he cannot help being inhuman in the inhumane. Where the novel and the film differ is that until the end, whereas in the book he becomes acts with full awareness to punish his creator. Yet the novel, too, indicates that the creature's and the horror that follows is ultimately The very idea for the creature came from Mary to use electricity to revive corpses. So, while Frankenstein's monster embodies a victim of that same recklessness. There's the old 'gotcha' that "Frankenstein of the man." But from a thematic perspective, it's not Yet Frankenstein wasn't the only 19th-century-monster-novel-turned-blockbuster Universal's Dracula was an even bigger hit of monster-hood, with a largely unsympathetic good. This Dracula can be seen as a manifestation dangers coming from afar to threaten the home, that followed. Yet a surprising number of these films also aware, at least on some level, of the tragedy something you can't control. So maybe it's no surprise that many of these as more sympathetic and non-threatening figures. Asking audiences to empathize with, say, a "It opened its wings like this, screeching, ...And it was Peter. And we are still friends today." The surprisingly sympathetic framing of Universal's back to the 1928 silent film The Man Who Laughs. The story of a circus performer mutilated central figure in The Man Who Laughs is neither He is only a 'monster' from the perspective Though likely the inspiration for the iconic never snaps and becomes the monster everyone In fact, he gets a happy ending despite his For a movie from the 1920s, the film is surprisingly lived experience. At the time of release, the man who laughs of Notre Dame by marketers under the umbrella to a callous public perception of people that This tragically echoes the history of many legends, for example, likely related to individuals hair growth throughout the body. Fear of the unknown or of that which a social a lot of monster myths, with the label of those perceived as 'other.' In European history, fear of the unknown also -- the kinds of beasts that populate the to invoke the perceived dangers of far-off Over the centuries, tall-tales of fantastical of actual wildlife combined with growing Imperialism regions unmapped by Europeans. By the early 20th century, this worldview create 'Lost World' narratives, wherein but lost prehistoric life -- which they then imperialist attitudes towards nature and indigenous And out of this muddled mythos emerged King figures of the last century, with a complex Coming two years after Universal's monsters is a movie of contrasts. On the one hand, the titular Kong feels like as a treacherous embodiment of the unknown On the other hand, unlike most Universal monsters, invading figure, but the one attacked in his And the film does seem aware of and sympathetic Not just an obstacle, Kong is given moments later reboots have made more explicitly valiant. Though Kong eventually rampages through New removed from his original environment. And here the film's sympathies split once of the military is presented as both tragic... with industrial society. Peter Jackson's reboot in particular brings film, Kong's defeat upon challenging humanity Which is why it's notable that the latest its head. In that series, Kong is closer to a deity humanity is compared to the endurance of the This is also the most overtly noble version honorable defender of the ecosystem. The original movie might pity Kong to an extent, textually on the side of Kong and not the He is always the invaded -- never the invader. And I think this transformation means more The fact that Kong has gone from semi-antagonist that the attitude of general audiences towards Speaking of which, isn't there another iconic hero over the decades? Godzilla rose up from the depths in the early monsters. Anxiety over the seemingly limitless potential unfeeling mutants terrorized humanity for Though many were the creation of Hollywood, of post-nuclear trauma, with the first film But the more Godzilla films came out, the the movies becoming increasingly silly. No longer a dead-serious embodiment of postwar national mascot -- a figure who, though occasionally against a more overtly villainous monster. This change was in response to Japanese audiences to see him as the protagonist, despite his The director of the original Godzilla, Ishiro "Monsters are tragic beings. They are born too tall, too strong, too heavy... They are not evil by choice. That is their tragedy." Over the decades, Godzilla's villainy would -- but one of the most important incarnations This movie, in many respects, returns Godzilla destruction. It's probably the most nightmarish version eldritch being who brings only devastation. But hidden within the narrative is a highly of suffering. Godzilla begins the film in apparent agony barely able to stand. And no matter how destructive he becomes, in terrible pain. During the final rampage, ominous operatic it seems like a plea from Godzilla's perspective, "If I die in this world, / Who will know / ...A downward slope / Is all I see." Shin Godzilla isn't about to save the world this veritable god of ruin deserves your sympathy Like Mary Shelly's monster, he is a victim asked to be made. Conversely, a heroic modern interpretation films, wherein Godzilla is not a mutant, but Period that nuclear testing happened to awaken. This changes the character into more of a Much like the latest version of Kong, Godzilla -- in fact, those two incarnations of the A curious byproduct of this reimagining, however, as the protagonist, these monsters now have living obstacles that must be put down to Typically, these villains take the form of traditionally, aliens. Aliens rose to prominence in Hollywood in the crown from nuclear mutants as the dominant So, the fact that the earliest Godzilla films aliens is appropriate -- turning him into the throne from new upstarts. In the U.S. especially, the alien craze reflected portrayed as infiltrators with secretly deviant Aliens might not seem like they belong to the scientific jargon of the space age, most archetypal boogeymen -- manifestations of Not all aliens to come out of this era were But aliens that could be trusted typically was more likely to be duplicitous. This is a trend that's continued... pretty much until the modern day. There's ET, of course, but he's something Notable recent works that break from this The design of the aliens in these films fall that terrorized the B-movie of the 50s and are depicted as villainous. In fact, the central conflict of both films plans to invade, but from humanity's fearful As was often true in the McCarthy era, the people invent -- and the ones they become A sympathetic monster who exists at the crossroads The Creature from the Black Lagoon. First appearing in the 50s, the Gill Man was narrative, and in era the film was released. Though marketed as a sci-fi creation, the geographic monster of King Kong's era. And as was the case with Kong, the portrayal He is easily the least aggressive of the classic more curious and only resorting to violence in his own home no less. As film director Guillermo Del Toro puts it, around, you know? ...He was at home, swimming, and these guys Yet the film itself doesn't fully break with the defeat of the Gill Man framed as This questionable framing is the reason why for the creature in The Shape of Water. Set in Baltimore in the 1960s, the film subverts the fish man... basically the secondary protagonist the systemic inequality endemic to the era. The Shape of Water makes overt what's been -- that portrayals of monsters often mirror Leading out of the late 60s, pop-culture monsters film genres became more diverse, with their One of the last widespread trends was the to the forefront of monster-dom in the 2010s. Though the mindless zombie might feel purely older, particularly tragic form of monster-hood Stories like The Wolfman and Dr. Jekeil and innocent humans who transform into monsters In their monster forms, these characters typically The sympathy comes from the audience knowing is a fate they would never choose. Mainstream zombies appeal to emotion in a Though the aggressive creatures have lost that each one used to be human. Every zombie is the ending of a melancholy close your heart to them -- even if they're Speaking of which, the most recent and perhaps found in the medium of video games. Traditionally, most games have stuck to the as unfeeling enemies that the player must It's a format that makes sense for interactivity make for engaging obstacles, and monsters And yet I think a lot of players can point a virtual monster. The first time I encountered this feeling child. Early on in this bright and colorful adventure, hatches and turns aggressive. You then have to defeat this newborn lifeform And it wasn't until my first time beating All this creature knows is violence -- it's I remember thinking that my actions created I'd just pulled a Frankenstein! ...Obviously that's not what the developers game. In general, you aren't supposed to see video Which is why when a developer intentionally The Dark Souls franchise is filled with tragic heart-wrenching curse or another. But easily the most effecting is Sif -- a But while this monster might seem ridiculous, the grave of its deceased owner. And to make matters worse, there's an alternate beforehand, and the wolf recognizes you before It makes for an encounter that makes you reevaluate choose to break from the cycle of monster In the game Skyrim... you actually can choose In this game, you play as a predestined hero dragons, and you are rewarded mechanically For most of the game's main story, this dragons following the classical, Tolkien-style But this simplicity is upended when you meet enlightenment through meditation and now avoids Part of what makes Paarthurnax so interesting role in the story. He basically knows it's his narrative destiny "What is better? To be born good, or to overcome your evil And what's heartbreaking is that you're being, and if you succeed, the game rewards But you can choose to never initiate this indication, most players don't. Even though the whole game is based around seem able to step out of the narrative and Fear is central to the player's experience I want to discuss in this video. The game puts you up against some of the largest gigantic that all your panicked mind can think While you might fear them, they certainly But everything changes when you make it to Not only is this creature relatively tiny scared of you. Most video game enemies don't show fear genuine, a little too human. You defeat the eleventh colossus by wielding a cliff. It's a moment that, quite intentionally, Because though it's a cliche to say, from the monster is you. Humans and monsters have been inexorably intertwined In fact, you could argue humans used to live There used to be significantly more megafaunal It's easy to imagine that life in such a ...But that's not what you see in ancient You see an incredible amount of care and reverence probably had violent encounters with. Though it's impossible to know the authorial I look at these portraits... I feel like the artists were aware that these ...I feel like they sympathized with them. The main reason why I pitied dragons when animals minding their own business until someone Indeed, many dragon myths likely stem from animals. But to my child self, these creatures didn't I felt that if someone took the time to document avoided. In a strange way, I think that's part of making this channel. You can't escape monsters. They are culture and history, foundational and others. Though it's easy to frame sympathy towards are always changing, always representing a This is actually my 100th Curious Archive creatures to some extent. Monsters aren't ever going away. But we can seek to understand them. And as always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.