today i'll share with you my top tips and of functions and features that i find really now as you're watching this let me know in like and also share your own tips let's get number one scrolling tables i want to create start date department and salary of the different but here's the problem this part doesn't look i'd love to add a scrolling table here that's can do press ctrl a to select this range go at the type of chart that's right for this i want so click on this drop down scroll all chart and immediately i get a scrolling table where i need don't worry i'm going to remove something take a look at the name here when but the sort order of the source data doesn't salary in descending order or in ascending data set now for a report we don't want to and put it on another sheet and we have our number two auto aggregate chart values i'd and salary but here's the problem department is more detailed well that's no problem for we need go to insert chart it already inserted row i want to aggregate these by department place a check mark beside aggregate and we a series scroll down here and add data labels the size and placing it where we need in our that you have control over the plot area of kind of getting squashed in there you can rid of anything you don't need just press space on the bottom as well number three publish create a web page out of your sheet you can to file publish to the web you get to decide as a web page or a specific sheet now the so i'm going to select that and click on publish i'm sure and i get the link i'm just going on your website go to embed and copy this web it's accessible for anyone no matter if not as long as they have a browser and your out i'm going to bring up an incognito browser this page now this is live so if i change let's test that as well i'll just change the again reload this page and i see the updated with column stats you get to quickly get an just go to data and select column stats here and the count of departments when i scroll and how many unique values i have now when get more information now the count here doesn't distribution to see the salary distribution and maximum values of my data set a really number five open-ended cell references now you to easily account for future data let's add a quick sum here select the range ctrl down close bracket press enter and that's to exactly this range if i add new numbers included to make this super flexible you can this is going to go all the way down to the here it's automatically going to be included in this case i want to start from d4 and not insert date from a calendar when you have the cell to bring up the calendar you can like this feature to be available in empty cell and get the calendar you can add data to data data validation for criteria change an invalid date and click on save now when date to be consistent let's apply this formatting number seven add checkboxes to keep track the range you want to have the checkboxes color of your checkbox by changing the font activate the checkbox with your mouse or you a look at what's in your formula bar it says checked you can use this information in formulas can also use this information in conditional is checked you can cross out this text let's highlight the range we want to have the formatting our range our format rule is based on a formula type in equals a4 that's where i have my check fix the cell references i need to make sure i don't want this reference to shift i want need to type in equals true because that's to do is decide what i want to happen to this the background color of the cells click on number eight pivot tables for quick analysis table go to data pivot table it tries to identify can add your table into a new sheet or the sheet and place it right here okay and create immediately i get some suggestions these help each department sounds good so i'm going to salary i can see it added department to rows by average if i want to show the maximum salary the sum select sum now you can also add columns columns in this case it doesn't make much on the x you can add multiple rows as well way we get to expand and collapse our departments to make sure we account for future data we going to delete the 20 press enter and it row on my sheet this means if i add new information table number nine web functions google sheets you go to insert function web you can see import any data from web pages import range html imports data from tables on the web to at import html so let's say i want to get i mean officeholidays.com i have austria 2021 sheet i just need to copy this url go back paste in the url but you need to put it in we need to specify that we want a table again I'll share with you my top tips and tricks It's a combination of functions and features data in a spreadsheet. Now, as you're watching this, let me know like and also share your own tips. Let's get started. Number one: scrolling tables. I want to create a report for employee information. I have name, start date, department, and salary a chart here. But here's the problem: this part doesn't Instead of having the data in cells, I'd love height as my chart. Here's what I can do: press Ctrl + A to select Now it's going to take a guess at the type with column chart. That's not what I want, so click on this drop-down, to see a table chart. And immediately I get a scrolling table. I can adjust the size of this and place it Don't worry, I'm going to remove the data Take a look at the name here. When I click on this, it sorts it automatically, change. This stays the same. I can quickly sort salary in descending order order of the original data set. Now, for a report, we don't want to show the it on another sheet, and we have our nice Number two: auto aggregate chart values. I'd like to create a column chart for department is repeated multiple times because my information Well, that's no problem for Google Sheets. Let's just highlight the columns we need, It already inserted a column chart, but it I want to aggregate these by department, so place a check mark beside Aggregate. And we have the totals. Now, I'm just going to select a series, scroll then it's just a matter of adjusting the size One thing that's good to mention is that you so if you see that the title is kind of getting area. Now you can also get rid of anything you don't Just press Delete, and delete on this, and Number three: publish to the web. With Google Sheets, you can easily create You can also embed your sheet in a website. Just go to File, Publish to the web. You get to decide if you want to publish the sheet. Now, the sheet that I'm currently on is called on Publish. It asks me if I'm sure I want to publish. Yes, I'm sure, and I get the link. I'm just going to copy this. If you wanted to embed your sheet on your Since your sheet is published to the web, logged into their Google account or not, as they can access it. So, let's check this out. I'm going to bring up an incognito browser, see this page. Now, this is live, so if I change the data, So, let's test that as well. I'll just change the first entry to a two. Let's bring up our browser again, reload this Number four: Column stats. With column stats, you get to quickly get Just go to data and select column stats. Here, I can quickly see the different departments When I scroll down, I get to see the frequency have. Now, when I go to this column where I have The count here doesn't make much sense, but the salary distribution. I also get to see the sum, average, median, A really quick way to get an overview of your Number five: Open-ended cell references. Now, I really like this feature because it Let's say I want to sum the salary column. Let's add a quick sum here, select the range, cell down, close bracket, press enter, and But the problem is it's restricted to exactly If I add new numbers to the bottom of this, To make this super flexible, you can remove is going to go all the way down to the bottom So, anytime you add numbers here, it's automatically So, you can fix the starting point, because not d1, but I can leave the end open. Number six: Insert date from a calendar. When you have a date in a cell, you can double-click You can adjust the date if you need to. Now, if you'd like this feature to be available in the cell and get the calendar, you can Highlight the cells, go to data, data validation. For criteria, change this to date. You can reject input if it's an invalid date Now, when you double-click in a cell, you Let's apply this formatting to our dates here. Number seven: Add checkboxes to keep track. To add checkboxes to your cells, highlight in, go to insert, select checkbox. Adjust the color of your checkbox by changing I'm going to go with orange. You can activate the checkbox with your mouse Take a look at what's in your formula bar. It says false when it's unchecked, and true You can use this information in formulas to You can also use this information in conditional So, for example, if the checkbox is checked, Let's quickly add conditional formatting to Highlight the range we want to have the formatting Go to &quot;Format&quot; -&gt; &quot;Conditional formatting&quot;. That's our range. Our format rule is based on a formula, so Type in &quot;=A4&quot;. That's where I have my checkbox, but I have I need to make sure that I have a dollar sign to shift. I want it to be fixed to &quot;A&quot;. Now, here I don't necessarily need to type check here. All I have to do is decide what I want to I could strike these through or just adjust Click on &quot;Done&quot;. Number 8: Pivot tables for quick analysis. To quickly analyze your data, insert a pivot Go to &quot;Data&quot; -&gt; &quot;Pivot table&quot;. It tries to identify the data range. In this case, it's correct. You can add your table into a new sheet or I'm going to go with the existing sheet and Okay, and create. I get the layout of my pivot table here, and These help me get started faster. &quot;Average of salary for each department&quot; sounds &quot;Department&quot; and the &quot;Average salary&quot;. I can see it added &quot;Department&quot; to rows and It has summarized by average. If I want to show the maximum salary in each sum. Select &quot;Sum&quot;. Now you can also add columns to this by selecting In this case, it doesn't make much sense to To remove it, just click on the &quot;X&quot;. You can add multiple rows as well, so we can This way, we get to expand and collapse our in one view. To make sure we account for future data, we So, I'm just going to delete the &quot;20&quot;, press the last available row on my sheet. This means if I add new information here, Number 9: Web functions. Google Sheets has a set of very useful web If you go to &quot;Insert function&quot; -&gt; &quot;Web&quot;, you With &quot;Import XML&quot;, you can easily import any &quot;Import range&quot; imports data from other spreadsheets, on the web to your sheet. We're going to take a closer look at &quot;Import So, let's say I want to get the list of national I mean officeholidays.com. I have Austria 2021 selected, and I want to I just need to copy this URL, go back to my the URL, but you need to put it in quotation Close the quotation mark. Next, we need to specify that we want a table. Again, we have to put this in quotation marks. And last, is the index number of the table Now, here you just have to take a guess, so enter, and see if I get my table. And I do. This is a quick way of getting tables from Number 10 functions to organize and filter to analyze, look up, and filter your data. You can see these if you go to Insert Function. Some of my favorites are in the filter section. You can dynamically filter, sort, and get So for example, let's say I want to get a I just have to type in UNIQUE, select my range, list. The moment I get a new department here, my I'm just going to press Ctrl + Z to go back. You can also source your lists dynamically. So if I wrap the UNIQUE function inside the order. To have it sorted in descending order, I need So the second argument is the sort column. In this case, I just have one column, so I'm So I'm going to get this in descending order. Now, before we wrap this up, let's take a Let's say we want to get the list of people want this to be dynamic. So if we switch finance to another department, I first have to select my range, then my condition. My condition is that department, which is When I close bracket and press enter, I get And remember, you can leave these open-ended If this changes from finance to sales, I get I hope you found these tips useful. Please give this video a thumbs up if you Also, leave your feedback in the comments. Thank you for watching and I'll see you in