Hello, friends! Hello! The workshop is waiting for new unusual projects and I hope I will move into it soon. Without further ado - straight to the point. Today there is a very interesting idea that I have not seen anywhere else, I want to try to bring it to life. So what will happen today. And everything that comes to hand will be useful - so I will use long-standing sheet metal 2 mm thick - for a working sample. And empty tin cans will be useful for the experiment, so to speak for the test version. I'll cut small pieces of pre-calculated sizes from the sheet , clean them up to make them look nice, and take it all to the workbench. From the sheets I will make two pipes of different sizes, large and small, and two circles, which will become the bottom and lid of the structure. I will make several cuts on the lower part , air will enter through them and they will also serve as legs. I have already welded the small pipe to the bottom, and on its upper half I will make longitudinal cuts. I wanted to make a lot of thin ones, but then I decided to make several large ones for better evaporation. May the beast Monya, is already enjoying spring and is waiting for us to go to the campsite with today's project. At the same time, I started making a test version from tin cans. All the sweet peaches are on the plate and the jars are on the workbench. I make holes in the top and bottom of the cans for a small tube so that air can flow well. During assembly I used two-component epoxy glue &quot;Poksipol&quot;. I try to make all connections airtight. Friends. Advertising helps me make interesting videos for you. Thanks for understanding. I often place orders on marketplaces, but how can I save on such purchases? For this, I have a Tinkoff Black debit card, with which you can get cashback for everything. Cashback is a return of part of the money after you make a purchase using the card. It returns to the card once a month, not with bonuses or points, but with real rubles. Regular purchases in pharmacies, supermarkets, household goods and marketplaces become even more profitable. You can receive cashback of up to 15% for pre-selected spending categories and up to 30% for purchases on special offers that can be found in the bank app. This way you can save money on every purchase. And if something is unclear, the bank's support will always help you by phone or in the application chat around the clock. Apply for a Tinkoff Black card using the link in the description to receive cashback for everything and save with every purchase! Let's return to the project. I cut everything out and, having previously tried it on as it should be, welded the bottom and the small central tube. The working model will have ceramic wool as a filler ; I bought it for the occasion and now it comes in handy. I fill all the space inside the stove with it. It should hold the temperature well. Next, I'll weld a lid and a stand for dishes on top made of thick wire. The test version will be filled with insulation - stone wool. It was left over from the insulation of my workshop. I hope it will be suitable for the capillary effect - we'll see in the tests. I assemble everything completely using glue, and scraps of self-tapping screws will be used as legs - a good option for a quick fix. Design. I drew and printed a model of this stove on a 3D printer to more clearly demonstrate its design. Or rather, not a model, but a cutaway half of a model. I remove all the auxiliary supports and this is what the stove-burner looks like in cross-section. Initially, I planned to make a filler neck with a lid on the side, but decided not to do it for now. Maybe nothing will work at all and you will have to redo it, but if something happens, you can weld the neck at any time. You know that I am a lover of all kinds of burners, Primus stoves and stoves, I just love them. And I have a lot of things that I use on a regular basis. There are also many stove making projects. I made solid fuel pellets with a very unusual design with internal combustion - pellets are a cool fuel. Also, a pyrolysis stove for burning secondary wood gases on pellets , on twigs and cones also works great. There is also an oil burner that uses water for reactive combustion of the waste - well, it turned out to be a very powerful burner, probably even too powerful. I also made a burner for a liquid fuel boiler with an evaporator, which turns liquid fuel into gas and cyclically evaporates itself, according to the principle of a blowtorch. Both options are ready, all that remains is to paint and test. Now the idea is to internally burn liquid fuel vapors in a through-type stove design. You'll have to test it on a workbench - it's too bright outside the house. I add some fuel and start it one by one. The bottom part is filled with liquid fuel, this can be either fuel for bio-fireplaces or gasoline for lighters, and you can also try other types of fuel! This is such a cool and unusual project today. The result is a reusable liquid fuel Finnish candle. You can make such a camping stove yourself at home from scrap materials. By using ecological fuel it is possible to use it for cooking instead of a gas stove or fireplace. It will become an indispensable assistant on hikes and camping trips. The stove will cook food, provide light, and warm you in the cold. All that remains is to make the fuel neck and the upper damper for extinguishing. Friends. The best gratitude for the author is just a simple like. Share links to the video on your social networks - let it help people. All useful links from the video are in the description as always. Good luck to you and your loved ones. Thank you for watching this video. See you on the channel. Bye.