Hello everyone In this video, I'm going to introduce my favorite dishes. I've got a video of you opening up your new dishes. For more information, please refer to the View More box. :) First, let me introduce you to the first dishes I bought. This is a simple set of Korean dishes for two people. I bought it with the most basic design and composition. The size of the bowl is a little small, but it's cheap and easy to use! I've been using this cold water well. Haha It's made up of 2 sets of wide balls and 1 set of sauce balls! It's deep dug, so it's useful to eat pasta, tteokbokki, etc. It's white, so it's really easy to use. I ordered this on the first day, but it's thin and light (easy to break. The bowl is low, so I only use it for fried rice. It's a very, very, very good glass ball set It's good to store in layers and it's good to use for each purpose (recommended!) I usually use this as a front plate. It's convenient because you can also use a microwave. I used to use black for this bowl. It's broken, so I'm using the same brand of pink. I think it's good to use in a ramen or soup bowl. :) It's an ovenable container, so it's a little... ...... It's a product for gratin machines! This one's for the gratin machine. Put the rice on one side and put the rice on the other. Haha This is a housewarming gift from my friend's mother. It's a brand called Atobaegi. It's cute because it has handles on both sides. It's good for plating. These are the ones I bought on sale. Turns out they're all Foucault products! It's not that big, it's used for side dishes. It's called a multi-serving plate. It's good to put food and sauce in one go, so you can cut down on the dishes. It's just a rabbit-shaped bowl, a rabbit-sharing plate. If you search like this, you'll find it! (See more) It's a little small, so that's the downside. This is also a product that you can search for 'transparent glass plate' I'll put the link in the more views. This is from a brand called Lavene. It's good to use as a dessert plate! These are all purchased from Daiso. This one can be used in the oven, but it's a little small. This is a long oval plate. I usually use this product often. :) There's a beige plate that I used to use. This is also a Daiso product! I bought it for about 3,000 won, but I'm using it really well. Haha This is noodle bowl. I use it a lot when I eat porridge. This is noodle bowl, so I use it when I eat banquet noodles! This is a plate for pajeon. :) I've been getting a lot of inquiries about where the measuring cup is from. This low cup is from No Brand! This cup is from Flying Tiger Copenhagen. There's been a lot of inquiries about kitchen utensils. Ladle, spatula, tongs, etc. are all set items!! It's silicone, so it's good to use and affordable (recommended!) Let's open up the new dishes together. It's a fourth verse dish, and it's going to be easier to wash the dishes. I bought this plate because it has a pretty border. Haha I bought this beige plate because it was cheap. :) This small sauce bowl is from the same brand! One more thing. This is noodle bowl, but I ordered it for udon! This is a transparent noodle bowl. Uh, it's nice to have a bowl of cat water since Yasu wants to have it. I bought a glass, too. I think I've seen this on video clips like home cafes, so I bought it. This is a cute goblet. It's just a cute lunch box I ordered. I put in a sandwich and it fits perfectly! I think it's going to be great. Haha This is Foucault, and you can use a microwave. There's a flat black one and I bought more because it's comfortable. It's the same line as the Lavigne plate I introduced earlier. I love this beige plate, but it's broken. It's a little smaller than that! I'm so good at using the plates. I looked for more, and I found a cute duck plate. So I bought it right away. This is a pasta bowl set. I love the green border on the side. So I bought it naturally. Haha I bought this while I was looking at Today's House. It's a glass with a cute cat in it! It's so cute... BUT, one broke in the middle of the day, so there's only one left...^^ Is this a cherry-shaped tumbler?It's... I just bought it because it was cute. It's super light! This is a can-shaped glass. I used it really well before, but I broke both of them. I bought a new long one! I bought a fish shape because I was stuck in a sharing plate. It's smaller than I thought... a plate with a pretty round edge. I bought this noodle bowl because it was simple. Another plate to share...; This is also a dish with separate compartments. We're finally done with unboxing.+ It's a poor explanation, but I hope it helped. I'm storing the dishes in the cabinet like this. Finish the video with the overall kitchen look. Thank you so much for watching. Next time, I'll come back with a refrigerator introduction.