Welcome to another Mathologer video. about making for a long long time. Today solutions of some of the most famous These problems had remained unsolved for first puzzled over in ancient Greece. The the Greeks mathematicians quest to constructions when all were permitted is is possible using just the most basic compass. For example, given a square, we the area just using our basic tools. this, doubling a cube turned out to be Nobody was able to figure out whether, of double the volume by just using ruler ancient problems I'll be tackling today. making some angle, then halving that angle with ruler and compass is easy. Let us draw a couple of circles there and there with a ruler and compass construction That's problem number two. Next, using equilateral triangles, squares, regular problem at all. But, what about regular thousands of years. That's problem number turned out to be by far the hardest; Is given a circle, is it possible to use of exactly the same area? Well, as I said finally answer these questions. And trying, you're wasting your time! it's impossible to use ruler and compass arbitrary angle, or to construct a who gets to see this impossibility maths majors who may encounter them Really heavy-duty stuff :) However, on close proofs only really require some of the Then if you are incredibly stubborn and possible to distill the essence of these YouTube video. I don't know about you, but this super exciting. It's an opportunity contribution to something that people of years. And I hope that for you it's an classic and beautiful and hard theory normally considered out of reach today. I'll first tell you exactly what and compass, the precise rules of the the proof that doubling the cube is cube is impossible will be a proof by doubling the cube was possible, then we of 2, a number closely related to our expression that only involves rational However, as we'll also show, this would equal to a rational number. doubling the cube cannot be possible After the hard work of doubling the cube, wonderful proof by contradiction can be angles and constructing regular circle can also be ticked off easily lifting for the proof in a previous may already have guessed, this video is a So, as for my previous masterclass videos, enlightenment, six in all and each with course, feel free to start skipping if it you make it in the comments. Okay, without mathematical seatbelt on and on to level 1. This video is all about the things that let's ask what can they do? compass? To start, let me begin drawing to Okay? let's start with two points in the Okay, center through the other point. So, now where the circle and line intersect. center through this new green point. That intersection, and our construction is interesting. Now, draw a line connecting intersection. Clearly this point is the And, our second line is clearly the points. Plus, these three red points there triangle. couple of lines and circles you get all draw another, smaller, circle, like so, okay. together with the original two points, right? A regular hexagon is also hiding that one too. All child's play. But what about regular show you how you can do this, starting just that one. First, we locate the point you all remember how to do that, right? So, five-ish yet. But just watch. Pretty cool right? But maybe I cheated? Is It's definitely is not obvious, but yep, it And, your first real challenge today is down the proof. Okay, so having played ready to declare the rules of our game. have before us a collection of points, two ways we can proceed. First way: choose them. As well as adding the new line to intersection points of this new line there you go. All of them go in and there's again start by picking any two points. one of the points and passing through added to the collection, as are all the rules of our game. Pretty easy right? Now, doubling the cube, and so forth? Okay, you have a cube and your aim is to compass. What this means in our game is length of our cube apart and your aim is and compass steps, two points that are apart. For the purposes of our game we side length one, and so also volume of one, and to be 2 of course, right? And so it's side of 2. Got it? apart, our aim is to construct two points Similarly, a circle of radius 1 has area area means the square should have side you, constructing squares is not a So, in our game &quot;squaring the circle&quot;' distance 1 apart, and using them to pi apart. In exactly the same way, the beginning boil down two starting again using these points, to construct two Cartesian and pin down things a little points the origin and (1,0) the point one unit to the little ruler and compass magic that I our problems. It turns out that if we can somewhere, then we can always translate obtain a segment of the same length the positive x-axis. That means our cube ruler and compass to locate the point Similarly, squaring the circle boils down there are two more mysterious numbers Those two guys. Of course, faced with the cube root of 2 and root pi, into space. Which is pretty much all that it another way. Well, obviously, all the integers can be we can construct midpoints. These are the midpoints here. This gives all the What else? constructed two numbers A and B, you can their product and a quotient by example, to construct A+B, you just remember, is no problem with ruler and compass. So there we go, just push it over and that's A+B there. And B-A is just as easy. Okay let's have a look. Let's push this over. That's B-A. Next, to construct A times B, we also need to be able to construct and to draw parallel lines, which is also Ignoring the fiddly details, here is the Pretty nice, huh? And, constructing A/B Faantaaaastic!! Okay so we can add, constructible numbers and, with the that all quotients of integers are construct all rational numbers with we can definitely construct some the diagonal of a unit square which is Pythagorassing, it's easy to construct But there's more. I'll now show you how, we've already constructed, we can always Suppose we've already constructed the get the green number here, using ruler and number, draw this circle, draw a Then the pink segment has length root A. it as homework for you and your friend actually works. But, just for fun, let's root 2 but root 2 is also the length of the square, well let's check. Yep that true. Well of course not but as you will RIGHT, you will show this! So, it turns out Starting with the numbers 0 and 1, we can root lengths any finite number of times. numbers we can construct. That's a ton of more? What do you think? The answer to These nested square rooty creature's numbers we can construct with ruler and compass and it's actually very easy to see that this is the case. Suppose you coordinates. Then the equation of the line rooty coefficients. Pretty And, a circle with square rooty center will have a square rooty radius, and so rooty coefficients. There that's the And then how do we get new points? By circles and circles with circles. That and quadratic equations. And the are of course all square rooty again. numbers 0 and 1 on the x-axis, we can use rooty coordinates we want, but only square Nothing else. So you're back for more. (laugh) Very of numbers we can construct, those square root of 2? Can that number be written as but how do we go about proving it? are more monstrous than others, right? So, less scary monsters first and work our Hopefully, we'll detect a pattern which are the very simplest square rooty fractions, with no roots at all. So, let's be written as a fraction. That is, our a rational number? And, as all regular a big NO. The cube root of 2 is not a video about how you can quickly prove other rooty numbers using the amazing irrationality of the cube root of 2 as squared of 2, the square root of 3, the square Not a big deal. Okay, now, as a warm-up rooty numbers of this form there, where There's absolutely nothing special about just that it's a rational number whose used lots of other numbers there. Now, root of two cannot be written as one of will be progress, right? progress. Now, if you're worried that this don't. Later there will be a humungous compensate for the incy wincyness here. up the usual proof by contradiction. So, 2 is equal to one of these special that our number is the solution of this gives 2, right? In a moment we'll show 7 solves the equation implies that root 7 does so as well. possibilities, this equation has one and which means that that our plus solution b must therefore be 0. But that would that the rational number a itself would conclusion at the end of this chain of have to be rational which, as you agreed, And therefore we've arrived at the the assumption that cube root of 2 is of contradiction which proves that the cube course, to make the proof complete, I of the argument. I have to show that if then a minus b root 7 does so too. Okay, Then here we go. So when in doubt left, plugging our route 7 thing in and carefully expanding we get, let's see, ... all and b are rational numbers, the blue and right? But then much more than being the yellow number must be exactly 0. for root 7 like this. That would mean numbers and so would also be rational. We so the yellow number is definitely equal being equal to zero that means that the And now everything's clear, right? Well key observation is that the blue of the number b and both terms in the what is the trick? Let's replace b with number is left unchanged since the one of the odd powers the yellow becomes minuses goes out, that's it. So, the in this left side of our equation was middle into a minus. Overall that's the only yellow are zero the overall expression How does that help? expression was obtained by plugging our But that means we get the new b in our number by minus b and then x^3-2. But since the new blue and this means that our new number is also a maybe you'll have to go through this again, the assumption that our original minus 2 is equal to 0 implies that it's this equation, as well. And this then conclude that cube root of 2 cannot possibly So you're still here?! Fantastic!!! Now I getting there. plus b root 7 proof by contradiction not equal to any square rooty number. isolate the essential ingredients of our all have to do with the rational numbers we're doing. There are four ingredients. irrational number. adding, subtracting, multiplying, and gives rational numbers. Right? we need blue and yellow numbers being made up of We also needed this ingredient when we argued that the rational. The second ingredient the arithmetic operations, is described by is a subfield of the field of all real from a self-contained universe of ingredient was the fact that 7, number. Right? We needed 7 to be that squaring the square root brought when we expanded right at the beginning. expand. That 7 there is the result that to be rational. fact that although 7 is a rational this in two spots. Okay, to summarise, our two is not a rational number, rational 7 is rational, square of 7 is not. of 2 is not one that the red numbers themselves are also multiply or divide two root seveny numbers, number, there like this. All straightforward except for the division which involves a conjugate trick that some of worry about division by zero, if you're to fill in the details in the comments. not a rational number, rational numbers not. From this it follows that cube root the red numbers themselves are subfield, what comes next? is a number, that is red, but whose square one okay? So 1 plus root 7 is such a red number. And now with exactly the same all these blue numbers are not equal to cube root 2. And now things can also be seen to be a subfield, with now? Well, repeat so we need a line here whose square is not. And there are lots of 86 divided by 5 is such a number and now it follows that cube root of 2 is not like this. At this stage, perhaps you're feeling a Time to catch our breath and take stock. numbers that we've been looking at shows the numbers that can be constructed by three rooty expressions with the usual multiplying and dividing. number is one of the pink numbers. Same they are all pink numbers none of them individual pink number can be ruled out we've ruled out ALL the pink numbers of and bigger subfields. Given any square rational numbers and by iterating the finite number of steps, a subfield that number. And, so that square rooty number, root of 2. And that's it. That completes square rooty number, and therefore that and compass. Very hard work, but also very Now before going to the next level, Remember that we knew or we assumed or you 7 is not part of the a plus b root 7 subfield and that route 86 divided by 5 is not part of the last subfield, and so on. But even if 1 plus root 7 was part of the a plus b root 7 subfield that that supposedly new subfield would be there would that would just mean that to get to this extension process. It's the same for all our subfield extensions. If the subfield if not then nothing is changed. All that enlarged we are guaranteed that the new of 2. And this really finishes the proof to the cube root of 2. In turn this shows just using ruler and compass. What an ingenious argument, don't you I promised to solve in this video. One to go. How long a video is this going to be? that proving the impossibility of regular heptagon with ruler and compass fashion. Just like doubling the cube of the cubic equation x^3-2=0 cannot be a square rooty expression, showing the impossibility of showing that the roots of two other expressions. First trisecting angles. Of angle 90 degrees, for example, is easy to angles can be trisected and to show this particular angle cannot be trisected victim. Here's a quick run-through of how you show that ruler and compass cannot be That then proves the impossibility of degrees. And, you guessed it, it will be assume that starting with our two points angle. Then we can transfer the angle to constructing this perpendicular also to dust off your high school trig. there are also triple angle formulas and Substituting 20 degrees for theta we get one-half and this means that the cosine cubic equation here. Now we can use the rational root theorem blink of an eye that this equation has dealing with a cubic equation things cube root of 2 proof. In particular, equation is contained in a square rooty that there is also a solution in the usual contradiction. Challenge for you: difference you have to deal with: the solutions rather than just one. For those I can understand. I'll also provide some heptagons. If it was possible to compass, then starting with the usual the heptagon here. This would mean that cosine 360/7 degrees. but it can be shown, that this cosine is And it's straight sailing from there. details yourself in the comments and if the description. Finally, finally, finally what about ruler and compass the the number Well if root Pi was constructible, then constructible. However, it turns out that that is, all square rooty numbers and solutions of polynomial equations with showed you in a previous masterclass number, it is not a solution of such a This proves that Pi cannot be it. But to nail down the last little bit square rooty numbers are algebraic. It to start with a square rooty expression, resulting equation, successively roots. Eventually all that is left are some intuition I'll finish this video an equation for one of our previous the pretty ending, first let me finish Today's video was a tricky tour through took me 200 hours to put it together and behind the camera have agonized and video, it's tough going and I don't expect everything in a first viewing. Don't feel and remember it took mathematicians a ideas and it took that long for a reason. and maybe a question or two in the that's perfectly year I get at least a few people writing anything from a few seconds to half a square the circle or have achieved some all wrong. It's important to realize that a tiny, tiny little bit, it's then no so on. And this has been known since the make another video about this the near future. misinterpret the rules of the Greek game ancient problems, especially if you base exposition of the rules such as the one those people who write to me, there have made this mistake over the years and their pointless endeavours. To make understand the rules and most definitely of squaring the circle, I recommend you common mistakes people make interpreting constructions is a great starting point. much prettier style here's the with integer coefficients that has this let's call this guy, oh I don't know, how materialize. And that's all for today.