When he reported for flight training, there were those who thought he was too large to fit into a cockpit. He wasn't. He became an outstanding pilot and trained hundreds of African American aviators for World War II. He flew more than a hundred missions in Korea and 78 in Vietnam. During a coup in Libya, he faced down Muammar Gaddafi when the dictator threatened to take an American airbase hostage. Appointed to head the Strategic Air Command, he became the Air Force's first black four-star general. In every assignment, he lived by what his mother had taught him. That you can be whatever you want, if you want it badly enough to contribute, to prepare, and to persevere. He did all of those. He is General Daniel Chappy James. Daniel Chappy James was born February 11, 1920, in Pensacola, Florida. His father worked for the local utility company. His mother was a schoolteacher. There was reported that there were 17 children born into the family. He was the youngest and I don't know how much of that is true how much that is folklore but certainly there were as many as six to seven kids in the home at one time as other children left to go to start their own families to start working or go to school. James's mother who everyone called Miss Lily dominated the household and in fact the community she founded a school for black children that taught its students much more than just reading and writing. And I never realized how close he was with his mother, what a great influence she was on him until he started making speeches and gave some quotes of hers as an educator. She believed very strongly in education, of course. But one of the things you believed in that many young people don't have today is that dream that carries you through some adversity and keeps you focused on achieving something that's extraordinary. She taught that the only way they could overcome the South's segregation and discrimination was through hard work and excellence. She created an 11th commandment, thou shalt not quit, and insisted that her students pursue every opportunity to stand out, no matter how small. Now the interesting thing about Pensacola was that unlike many southern communities, it was not as segregated and it had a history of blacks pursuing opportunities and being part of the social fabric. There were a lot of black professionals that owned shops and worked in a community that, although suffering from its own share of racial woes, probably gave him some early insight into what was possible when blacks and whites worked together. Pensacola was home to the Navy's flight training school, and at a very young age, Chappie declared that he wanted to be a pilot. When he got old enough, he went to the Pensacola Naval Air Station and tried to enlist. He was told in no uncertain terms that the Navy did not have African-American pilots. If he wanted to be a cook or a steward, he could go and get in that line like the rest of the colored boys were doing and enjoying. Instead, James accepted a football scholarship to Tuskegee Institute. He arrived in 1937. A year later, the War Department set up an outpost of the new civilian pilot training program in the fields adjacent to the Institute. There was in reality nothing civilian about the pilot training there. The intent of the program was to increase the pool of pilots available to fight the war brewing in Europe and Asia. Air Force up to that time had been a private reserve for white officers. And it was presumed to be the preserve for white officers because blacks were not capable technical new aircraft that constituted the new weapon of warfare. And therefore, blacks were totally eliminated from the Air Force, and not only from the Air Force, but from the Marine Corps, for instance, from the Navy, except as stewards, anything that had a technical capability to it, blacks were eliminated from. James enrolled as a cadet in the program. He quickly distinguished himself as both a pilot and a leader. He also met his future wife, Dorothy. He was pretty impressed with himself. She was not that impressed with him at first, and so he pursued. James graduated four months after the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor with a B.S. in physical education and a pilot certification. Tuskegee invited him to stay on as a flight instructor. It's difficult to overstate the significance of what was then called the Tuskegee experiment. A generation of African-Americans had, like James, been inching slowly forward toward equality. In the coming war, they saw an opportunity to prove themselves, to pay dues they did not owe, so that when the war was over, they might be treated as full citizens. Given a chance to fly, the best educated, most motivated black men from all over the country converged on Tuskegee. They were greeted by an officer corps that cut them no slack and believed they would have to be better than white pilots to get the same treatment. Flight instructor Chappy James was among the toughest. The thing is he was always pushed by his mother to seek excellence, to be steadfast, to seek for perfection and all this kind of thing. He grew up with that kind of an orientation. And so when he entered the military phase of flying, well then he just took those values along with him. For nearly a year, James taught cadets as a civilian instructor. In 1943, he became a cadet himself and received his commission as a First Lieutenant that summer. He asked for a combat assignment, but instead remained at Tuskegee as an instructor. He finally got on the combat track when the Air Corps decided to form an African American bomber squadron. James was training in B-25s when the war came to an end. In the largest mustering out of history, with millions of men around the world going from uniform to civilian life, Chappy James decided to stay in the Air Corps. That the Air Corps treated him like a second-class citizen seemed not to matter. He was flying, he was serving the country that he loved, and he was convinced that he could change both for the better. The Air Force that Chappy James served in the years after World War II was segregated both officially and unofficially. With a fighter pilot's healthy scorn for authority, he practiced a kind of quiet civil disobedience that pointed out the absurdity of segregating military officers by race. He became involved with incidents at white-only clubs on military establishments, which he did not think was appropriate. And at an early age in the Army Air Forces, he stepped forward and would not accept that, which that in itself made him a very controversial figure. One of James' favorite maneuvers was something he called Operation Checkerboard. Even after the Air Force itself desegregated, many Air Force bases were located in rural southern communities still subject to Jim Crow laws. In movie theaters, for example, blacks and whites had seating set aside on opposite sides of the aisle. When the movie theater lights would go down and the movie would come on they would enact what they called Operation Checkerboard and they would end up sitting by the time the movie finished black white black white black white. It obviously it didn't make any lasting difference but it was something that struck a little blow. But James's most effective tool of protest was excellence. When confronted with discrimination, he put into action something his mother had told him. Don't be so busy exercising your right to dissent that you forget your obligation to contribute. He earned the respect of his fellow pilots by working harder than anyone else on the base. Assigned to Clark Air Force Base in the Philippines, James found himself in a familiar position, the only black officer in his squadron. He walked into the 18th Fighter Wing not knowing what kind of reception he'd get. He'd been there only a few minutes when a wary little Texan walked up and introduced himself. He was the first person to greet my dad when he walked up and shook, stick out his hand and said, hi, my name is Bud Taylor, what's yours? James and Claude's Bud Taylor became fast friends. They flew together whenever their schedules allowed. A few months after they met, they took off for a training flight in a tandem seat T-33. Plane's engine flamed out and the two young pilots crashed in a sugarcane field. The impact spread jet fuel over the whole area and knocked Taylor out. James struggled free from the wreckage, but went back in when he saw his friend strapped helplessly in his seat. He pulled Taylor out, still unconscious, before the fuel could ignite. In 1950, the North Koreans invaded South Korea. He did it without hesitation, though his life had changed. He was no longer a pilot without responsibilities. He was instead a husband and a father of two. I can remember that something very serious was happening because my father gave me the speech, you know, you and your sister take care of your mom, do what she says, I want you to be good in school and so forth and all that. And I remember seeing my mother cry for only the first time when they said their goodbyes and he got on the transport to leave to go to Korea. James flew 101 missions, first in outdated F-51s and then in F-80 jets. He won the Distinguished Flying Cross and proved himself a battlefield leader. He also learned the lesson that all warriors have to learn. In the days just after the landing at Inchon, James and the other 12th Squadron pilots were softening up North Korean positions near the invasion site. Bombing and strafing the Pyongyang airfield in preparation for a paratroop landing, Spud Taylor was shot down. I remember that when Uncle Spud went away and Dad went away, I figured it would be OK because Uncle Spud was there. And come to find out, Uncle Spud was shot down and he was killed. That's the second time I remember my mother crying. James came back from Korea a captain, a more serious and more committed officer. He and his wife had a third child, whom they named Claude and called Spud. James went back to work on his career, moving from assignment to assignment, improving himself along the way, and always seeking positions of more responsibility. After the Korean War, Chappy James was one of dozens of former Tuskegee airmen working their way up through the Air Force. He attracted attention wherever he went, constantly pursuing excellence, working aggressively to advance his own career. He was very, very, I think, courageous in many ways because even though he was on the And he could have his career thwarted at any time by a commanding officer who didn't like his attitude or whatever. He was always the diplomat and always the politician. He could always maneuver himself out of things that might hurt him at one time. But his goal was excellence, always. And anytime he was an administrator on the ground or a pilot in the air, then he always tried to be the best. He became operations officer of the 58th Fighter Interceptor Squadron and then was promoted to command of another fighter squadron. At Otis Air Force Base, he was such a huge presence on both the base and in the community, that he was named Young Man of the Year by the Massachusetts Junior Chamber of Commerce. The Air Force sent him to the Command and Staff College in 1957, and when he graduated, assigned him to Air Force Headquarters as a staff officer. James was paving the way for a generation to follow. And he knew it. I think he had a tremendous amount of natural charisma that not only made people want to pay attention to him and what he was doing, but also made people want to follow him. And obviously if people are willing to follow you, then you're much more likely to be put in a position of authority over them. He moved steadily up the ladder at every assignment, meeting and impressing people no matter what role he played. He made friends easily, was comfortable in command, and proved effective in everything he did. One of the people he met and befriended was Colonel Robin Olds, a brilliant tactician and fighter pilot. Olds, on his way to an assignment in the growing war in Vietnam, paid a visit to James, then Deputy Commander for Operations of a crew training wing at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base in Arizona. Olds invited James to join him in Thailand, flying missions over Vietnam. James accepted the job, becoming Olds' Vice Commander for Operations. They were an interesting pair. Olds was a natural pilot, natural leader, was an absolute genius at aerial combat tactics and strategies. And Colonel James complemented that tremendously well with his people skills, with his ability to rally the men, with his administrative strengths and the two of them really worked hand in hand to create an outfit that was not only effective but was also incredibly loyal to both of them. Together, James and Olds converted the 8th Tactical Fighter Wing from a sleepy reconnaissance unit into one of the best combat fighter wings in the Air Force. The men that flew for Olds and James referred to the two of them affectionately as Blackman and Robin. Now, it was a humorous tribute to the cartoon characters Batman and Robin, but it also reflected their opinion of the way that this team operated cohesively. Flying the new F-4 FATOM, James flew 78 combat missions in Vietnam, including Operation Bolo. Oles designed Bolo to lure the North Vietnamese air force into combat, something that communist pilots avoided. Bolo was a huge success. American pilots shot down seven MiGs, more than any other operation in the war. While in Vietnam, James wrote an essay about his feelings of patriotism. The essay was a reflection both of what he'd learned in his life and what his mother had taught him. Titled, America, My Freedom, My Responsibility. The essay was a shot across the bow of the growing counterculture movement back in the United States. It challenged people not just to demand freedom, but to work and sacrifice for it. He was always the patriot and he adhered to patriotic fervor more than he adhered to civil rights kind of demonstrations. Many people didn't like that about him and were very derisive in their criticism of some of his attitudes as opposed to his feeling for civil rights and feeling as a patriot and his duties toward the military. Chappie James was always willing to stand up and explain to people very clearly why he loved America and what its value was and he wouldn't back down from that kind of fight. James returned from Vietnam in 1967. The general, he became a lightning rod for public scorn of the military. Because he was black, he suffered doubly for professing loyalty to a country that black leaders of the time considered nearly genocidal. He deflected some of the criticism by wearing a Black Panther on his flight helmet, joking that he was a Black Panther who fought for his country, not with it. He moved through a couple of assignments. He was up for a command position, but was passed over. A second position opened up, and James didn't get that position, he called a friend by the name of Colonel Jumper and asked him to help him get an assignment in the command position anywhere. And he said, Chappy, the only thing we've got coming up for the number one slot is for a flying training group in Libya, North Africa. And it's not a big wing or anything. He said, I'll take it. I've got to move to the command position or else I'm dying on the vine here. There was probably no assignment less visible than Libya. It was command, but it also bore the risk of being so far out of the public eye that James' career might die on the vine there as well. History intervened, however, when a minor officer in the Libyan army staged a coup that threw the king out of power. Muammar Gaddafi took command of Libya and turned his attention to the American air base there. In a nationalist outburst, he threatened to attack the American base and take those stationed there hostage. The situation seemed tailor-made for James. His mixture of pure personal power and diplomatic skills saved the day, and Gaddafi backed down. Everyone knows what followed with the Muammar Gaddafi, but I will tell you that many of the airmen and NCOs and officers who were there, and their families in particular, have come to me subsequently and told me what a comforting feeling it was to have such a strong-willed, protective commander there because if it had not been for for Chappy James they feel that what we later experienced in Iran would have happened in Libya. Americans taken hostage and kept and held as hostage for many many months. James returned to the United States a highly visible hero. The Air Force made him commander-in-chief of the North American Air Defense Command, the keeper of America's nuclear force. The job carried with it a promotion to four-star general, which made James the first African-American four-star in the history of the Air Force. James achieved the most that could be achieved. He also changed the Air Force and, in the process, his country. His career stood as proof that no aspect of Air Force operations was beyond the capabilities of African-Americans. He had demanded and received excellence from a generation of young officers, white and black, guaranteeing that though he may have been the first African-American four-star, he would not be the last. And he had stood up publicly for his country in time of extreme civil strife, when it would have been much easier for him to remain silent. I think that Chappy James' true strength was not as much as a pilot, though obviously that was something he loved and something he was extremely good at, but I think one of his real strengths was his ability to promote and market not only himself, but his vision of what America was, what the American military was, and what it could be in an integrated and free society. General James is the first and only black four-star general in the history of the U.S. military. He needs no further introduction. Welcome, General. Thank you. It's a pleasure to be here. General, after 35 years of service in the Air Force, you are retiring on the 26th of January, I believe. That's right. Some four months earlier than you had planned to retire. Unfortunately, there seems to be a small cloud of controversy that hovers over the issue of your retirement as a result of a column that was written by Evans and Novak in the Washington Post. And I want to read something to you. They say that the reason that you are leaving the Air Force now rather than in May as expected is because you have been relieved of your command where you were commander of NORAD, which is the U.S. where you were commander of NORAD, which is the U.S.-Canadian North American Defense Command, and of ADCOM, the U.S. Aerospace Defense Command, because of criticism of the Chief of Staff of Air Force's decision to eliminate ADCOM, and that you wrote a letter to General David Jones transferred to the Pentagon. The Air Force, immediately after that article, said that medical reasons were the reasons for your retirement, and I do know personally that you had a mild coronary in September. So what I'd like to do is try to understand, if we can, exactly what the truth is. Well, I should just answer that question by saying hogwash, because that's precisely what it is. At any time a column appearing under the name of two or three media representatives puts a cloud of controversy over a man who served not only well, but outstandingly, as my record will show, is just hogwash. The Chief and I still share the same mutual high respect for each other that we always have. And there's absolutely no truth to the article except that I'm retiring and that I'm retiring early. I'm retiring because I had a heart attack. I was a major commander on flying status, a major commander of a flying command on should be on flying status. After you have a coronary, you're automatically grounded. I chose to leave. I have never been fired from a job in my life and the same holds true today. I am going out of the Air Force with the higher respect, not only of my friends in the Air Force, but of every enemy I've ever faced in the sky, because I did it all well. And there is absolutely no truth, and it is very unfair, and this is the thing that bothers me about it, Jewel, for this to continue to come up. How many times do we have to say that this isn't true? Both the chief and myself. I would have no reason to protect him or vice versa if that were, if there were any truth in that allegation. The one of the writers called me before he published the article and asked me if it was true. And I said no. And the Chief had told him no in the beginning. The Chief of Staff flew out to officiate at the change of command ceremony. And he did that personally in some of the worst weather he's ever flown in. And he also allowed me to name my successor, General Jim Hill, one of the things that he hadn't done on many occasions. And in his farewell message on me, he said that someone took it upon themselves to try to make Chappy James controversial and a sort of a rebel. He said, well, Chappy James has been controversial all his life, so what the heck's new? But he has always been a man that would say it like it was and he said words to the fact that that's why I hired him because I knew that he'd tell me the way it was rather than telling me what he thought I wanted to hear. What I wrote in that letter I had said to the Chief many times over the months, the past few months. And he knew. You do have some very strong feelings, of course, about the elimination of that time. It wasn't the elimination of the command. It was a reorganization. organization. But there is no plan to eliminate the air defenses of the United States of America. And that's another misstatement by people. It has been a reorganization that would put them under different commands, and put different resources under different commands, and consolidate headquarters. We have to do this because of the budget restrictions that have been placed upon us. So the chief is faced with a very difficult job of trying to preserve the ability to affect the security of this country and still try to do it with as few people and resources as he possibly can. And that's what he was doing in this case. The only shame in this though, really, that bothers me is that a major commander cannot write a letter to his chief of staff without it ending up in the hands of a newsman almost before the chief of staff gets it, and then to the media, that I would say shame on you for continuing to preserve what has become proven as an untruth in the first place. And it continues to be repeated. It's like the story of the unfaithful housewife to me, that after somebody has spread the rumor that she has been untrue to her husband, if she proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that it wasn't true, the gossips in the street will continue to want to tell the other story because it makes more interesting hearing. And so they continue to slander her name. The chief, it is most unfair to him because from the time I became ill, and unfortunately my wife became ill about the same time. Nothing has been heaped upon him but suspicion that he was trying to railroad me, as one paper said, out of the Air Force. Nothing could be farther than the truth. Nobody has been fairer than David Jones, and he's one of the finest chiefs of the Air Force that we've ever had. He gave me the job. asked to go home early because I was no longer physically capable of carrying out the awesome responsibilities of that job. A four-month difference, and I named my successor, and he's carrying on in the same tradition that other chiefs of NORAD had. General, you're a warrior. In 1967, you visited President Johnson and asked him not to halt the bombing of North Vietnam, the bombing raids of North Vietnam. Yet you do say on many occasions how much you desire peace. I'm curious because many people say that surgeons are trained to operate on patients and if they don't practice surgery, of course, they don't get to practice their profession. And that therefore warriors need war in order to practice their profession. How do we react to that kind of thought, that kind of statement? First of all, I don't know very much about surgery, but I do know warfare, and I am a warrior. Now we're getting into truisms and facts. I was in the midst of a war at that time, and you don't prosecute a war by backing away from the target. I was speaking as a military man. If it's still a matter for diplomacy and negotiation, you stay in the negotiating role. But I firmly believed at that time, and I believe yet, that once you turn it over to the military, then you get the heck out of the way and let the military prosecute the war. That is if you want to win it. And you shouldn't get into it if you don't want to win it. And that was my feeling at the time, and that's my feeling now. The North Vietnamese never chose to come to the peace table at all until we started bombing North Vietnam. And that's what a lot of people forget. We forget very easily. And it wasn't us that went back on the terms of the agreement that were worked out and the protocols that were worked out by Mr. Kissinger and his team with the North Vietnamese. It was the North Vietnamese. Part of the protocols were that they would not try to attack South Vietnam. They overran the country with a complete disregard for their promises. We kept our promise, and we finally moved out as we said we would. It was not us who broke our word. And I believe that if we had pressed the attack early in the war and put on the kind of pressure that our military machine is capable of doing, there never would have been the sad ending to Vietnam that came with the people who spoke with forked tongues, the North Vietnamese. In view of all of that, how do you feel now about detente, about the junking of the B-1 bomber, for example, about our apparent de-escalation of military priorities in this country? You're talking about several different things, one of which is is the ballpark in the ballpark of the State Department, not in the military. Again, speaking strictly from a military point of view, the three main pillars in any fabric of lasting peace happen to be strength, partnership, and the diplomats. And without that first pillar, the pillar of strength, the other two crumble in the dust, because nobody wants to be partners with a weakling. And we cannot bargain effectively in the halls of international diplomacy from a position of weakness. And so we can't say that we will never fight again, no matter what the cost, we will say that we don't want to study war no more, but don't tread on us, as our predecessors said, the forefathers of our country, who said that we shall remain free and independent. Now, when you're talking about detente, or any of the other words you want to use, the goal and the prospect that you're looking for is a lasting and a quality peace. We are not here as military men to fight the wars. Really our ultimate objective is to keep the peace, to have the kind of strength that nobody would dare attack us. And with the kind of warning that our Air Defense Command and NORAD can afford, I know anybody in his right mind would be crazy to try to attack us, because we can retaliate in such a way that would levy a price on him that would make it a very poor decision. And this is the stature that we have to maintain. Now, there are people who come out with the very many solutions of guns versus butter, and we can take all that money we've got in defense and put it into welfare. When you're running around shouting freedom now and peace now, you've got to have a place to be free and peaceful in. Well, this is ours right here in the United States of America. And in no place as valuable as this are you going to be able to maintain that peace and freedom if you don't have the strength that must protect it if all else fails. Certainly we'll sit down and we will diplome with anybody with our diplomats that cares to engage in negotiations. However, they must remember that if all else fails, we will maintain the sovereignty of the skies over this country, and the peace and the security of our entire country, no matter what the cost. As long as everybody understands that, then they know that you have to put a price tag on it. And who's going to pay for it? The American people, through their gross national product. And it isn't a question of either or. We can have the social programs that we must have. We can also have the strength that we must have in our military forces, because our gross national product affords the means for us to have both. It's up to our Chief of Staff, the President, our Commander-in-Chief, the President of the United States, and the Congress of the United States, to work out the ways in which we will distribute the wealth of this country so that we can have both the strength to protect it and the means to preserve the affluency of all of the people therein and the rights thereof. I want to turn to your personal career. You've had a very illustrious military career. 101 missions over Korea, 78 missions over North Vietnam, successful negotiations, withdrawal of troops from Libya, which the State Department termed a very ticklish diplomatic situation that you were very helpful in negotiating. You helped to successfully defend an unpopular Vietnamese war when you were the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense, I believe, for Public Affairs, you paid your dues. You have been cited, for example, and I want to quote to you, as being the only U.S. military officer with emergency authority to deploy nuclear weapons without presidential approval, and as such, one of the most powerful men of any color in and out of the military. You've paid your dues and you've earned your stars, but there's still a lot of people, mostly white, who say that you're a token, who say that you were promoted because you're black. How do you react to that? First of all, I'd like to dispute your premise. The people who have said that that I have heard say that have been mostly black, and they're non-achievers who try to find something other than the ability to say why another black achieves and want to say that it's because of your color and they don't go back and recount the record that you just recounted and I want young black people they're doing a very a lot of harm to the young black on the hot sidewalks of a ghetto who wants to find a way out of there without going through the jailhouse door. And I think that the most important role I play, and people like me in all fields, is to provide a role model for them, other than that of Superfly or some other undesirable character that might lead them to that jail door, and that would show to them the kind of way that through service to their country and through opportunities that are present now that were not present when I was coming up on Alconee Street, that they can escape the ghetto and they can perform a valuable service to their country and they can be remembered for their good works and they will be rewarded. And not get so busy practicing your right to dissent that you forget your responsibility to contribute. And you prosper in proportion as you contribute to this great nation here. And don't let anybody tell you to abdicate your citizenship in this country, to go anywhere else looking for equality and a better life. This is ours, right here, just like it is anybody else's. And I deplore any black lad who says he's going to any foreign shore to try to find freedom and opportunity. It's right here in this country. And you can excel now. The doors are flinging open, but you can't stand there banging on those doors of opportunity, yelling, let me in, let me in, let me in, and all of a sudden somebody yanks the door open, you say, wait a minute, I got to go get my bags. I'm curious about something, Chaffee. Yeah. A lot of people call you an Uncle Tom. One of the reasons, perhaps, is because you've made statements that have been controversial. When you spoke to the American Legion, you said General James told the Legion he was against militant stands by blacks and that he felt every opportunity was open to Negro Americans. When you talked about Stokely Carmichael, you said Stokely is a big mouth who's making a profession out of being a Negro. This black power garbage is full of birds. You were the first black speaker to speak at the DAR Continental Congress, which was the same DAR that denied Marian Anderson the right to sing in 1939. Yet you are also the pilot who participated in sit-ins with the Tuskegee Airmen, integrating a white-only officers club in 1945. And those things don't seem to fit together. They look like an apparent conflict. Because many of my misstatements and many of my things are taken out of context. I didn't say that Stokely was a big mouth and that he shouldn't make a profession of being a Negro. I said that no one should make a profession of being black. There were too many other things to do. And don't paint yourself into a black corner. Black power standing alone, I said, would turn to garbage. That you must have black ability. And what Jesse Jackson is preaching to young people in the schools today about the power of excellence, that came from my mother. And I can show you speeches that I made 15 years ago, where I was preaching to young people about the power of excellence. And that's when I told them this business about don't get so busy, practicing your right to dissent that you forget your responsibility to contribute. Those things have been quoted much less than the misquotes that you just read. What I said to all of those people was what I'm saying to you right now. If you say that black is beautiful, I would prefer to hear it black is beautiful also. If you say black is beautiful to imply that some other color is not, then I think that you are implying something that may be as racist as the time when other people said that black was ugly and tried to treat it as such. I'm trying to stamp out hatred throughout the world and There has been, and most of the misquotes have come from black people, on my words, people who wanted to disbelieve, people who wanted to keep the angry revolution and the burning and the pillaging of our own neighborhoods going on. Every riot that I ever saw during my time, the people who suffered most were black people. by gosh, find another way to bring out our frustrations, to solve the inequality that was sparking these things. Of course the black people were provoked a lot of times to, this is the only way, man, and if I can't do something about it any other way, then I'll just might as well destroy it. I can see the frustration involved in that. But I was trying to give them another way out. And this is when people get attacked, when you come up for anything else. That was back then. Now when Jesse Jackson goes out around the schools and is saying the same thing to young people that I was saying then, and incidentally Jesse heard me say it long before he started using it, we were together where we were both being honored in Chicago, where I made the very speech about the power of excellence. But I don't say this bitterly, I say this hurrah, because Jesse has more of a platform now, and more of a favorable platform among young people. First of all, because he's closer to their age, and first of all, and second of all, because he hasn't been painted with the brush of racism or Uncle Tomism reverse, as you say that i have been called i consider the source the people who said that five presidents of the united states that i have been associated with have never said that uh... roy wilkins has never said that whitney young has never said that bernie jordan who will be here to my uh... retirement in the twenty six is never said that ben hooks has never said that martin luther king a personal friend of mine, has never said that. Coretta King has never said that. So I stand indicted by people who are non-performers themselves, and those kind of indictments I shrug off like I did in enemy's bullets. They don't make any difference. that, like some of the people who, in their minds, figured that the only way to solve the frustrations and the hatreds that were being directed toward them at that time in the ghetto, figured the only way to do it was to burn it down. We figured that the only way to stop the inequities that existed in the armed forces in that day were to stage a sit-down or sit-in of our own. We started with the most visible thing, the officers club. And it escalated up to a point where they found it necessary to put a sizable number of us into jail. They accused you of treason, didn't they? Then they, well, they said mutiny or something of that sort. And then the then defense counsel for the NAACP Thurgood Marshall, who is now a Supreme Court Justice, went with Bill Coleman, who was just the past Secretary of Transportation. Bill Coleman prepared the brief that finally resulted in getting us free, and with the help of Thurgood Marshall defended our case, and we were all released. But at that time we had said we cannot see any reason why we should go and fight the wars and not be and be robbed of our human dignity here at home before and after we go. And we had said, as Truman had said at the time, the buck stops here. And as it turned out, it was Harry Truman, another Southerner who had the guts to say the buck really does stop here. And he said there will be no more. And you know, he put out a special presidential order saying there will be no more segregated facilities in the armed forces. Well, heck, there was already a law that said that. So what he was telling the racists at that time, obey the law. That's all he was saying, obey the law. And so people started reluctantly obeying the law, reluctantly at first, because I say now that there is no institutionalized racism in the armed forces. And I've been taken to task by some people who are not in the armed forces and don't know what they're talking about, that there is. There absolutely is not. The armed forces are right now on a very positive campaign to try to attract the finest young people they possibly can of all colors. And they have a special minority recruiting program that is trying to attract young people into our highest institutions of learning of which our air force academy is the highest i've just recommended a young bright young black lady from my hometown down for walton beach florida near pensacola and we have right now where we used to have you had to look real close to see a black woman march on in the army navy game now you're looking it looks like a checkerboard because we have reached out and got these young people then the charges the charges that minority recruitment is being downgraded is not true? That's ridiculous. We will not go to a quota system because it would be just as bad to say we will have a quota of 20 blacks per unit. And this unit is going out doing its recruiting. And the 21st one happens to be a young Charlie Taylor that comes striding up the best of physical condition, and you say, I can't recruit you, man, because I got my 20 blacks for this month. Bring me that skinny white boy. And we don't want a quota. We want to say that we want fighting men for the United States Armed Forces, Americans, no matter what their creed or color, or racial or ethnic origin. You come to us with a desire and the qualifications to enter, and we'll take you up until the time we have the full requirements for that particular service for that particular time. And I don't want to see porters, but I want to see equality in going out, attracting all kinds of young people, men and women, to come to the United States Armed Forces. You know, Tabby, I was a dependent of an Air Force captain in Misawa, Japan, and I met a lot of Air Force pilots, fighter pilots. They're a special breed of cat. That's for sure. What makes a man decide to be a fighter pilot? Well, first of all, I think, contrary to popular opinion, fighter pilots are made, not born. First of all, they get in the service and they become acquainted with young people who can do it by themselves. They can take the responsibility of steering a multimillion dollar airplane to a target, and no matter what the defenses he finds there, to have enough faith in his cause and his country and his own ability that he will hurl himself at the target and he doesn't even think about turning back. And he has the kind of pride that grows only from having a firm belief in what he's fighting for, and a firm belief in citizenship and patriotism, and no kind of words or stones that can be hurled at him can change him. And that's what a fighter pilot is. And that's what very proudly I am. I understand that your mother, who taught you as a child, said that she didn't have much use for first Negroes and only Negroes. Well, she said accurately, there's two Negroes we can do without, that first one and that only one. She said, the first one to do this and the only one to do that. She said I'm looking forward to the day when so many black people will be doing so many things that are noteworthy that it will no longer be newsworthy. Well in the military we have fast approached and have just about reached that plateau that she was talking about. Although I'm still the only four star black and when I leave on the 26th there might be a gap of time, but it's just a matter of time before some more blacks and some more women will be putting on stars. And that day will hasten as young people stop believing the myths of Chappy James being an Uncle Tom or somebody throwing them out of the car or something. How about Chappy James, Super Higger? And that's more super person, because I compete not only with black folks, but with white folks or anybody else, and I win. What next, Chappy? I'm going out into the civilian sector to try to continue to serve my country in any way I can because I still think I have a debt of gratitude to the people who prepared me to do this. My school, for instance. I'm going to head up the fundraising drive for Tuskegee Institute. their centennial drive that will end in 1986. And that will be, they started out, what was it, 1881, so it will be 1981 when the end of that drive comes off. And I think we've got about 42 million we're shooting for. And so they helped to prepare me. I'm going to help them to get well. The son of a World War I pilot, his earliest memories were the sounds of aircraft starting in early morning. Two years before the United States entered World War II, he tried to enlist in the RAF, but at 17 was too young. A year later, he went to West Point, where he played football and made All-American. He was one of the most natural fighter pilots his instructors had ever seen. A kid who seemed to meld with his plane into a single being. On his first combat mission, he shot down two German fighters. By the end of the war, he destroyed 13 German planes in the air and 11 1/2 more on the ground. He set out to Korea, but in Vietnam flew more than 150 combat missions. He was a hard-drinking, hard-cussing officer who didn't bother to hide his contempt for the limits politicians had placed on the war. I think he ruffled feathers and made people very, very uncomfortable, because often what he was saying was absolutely true and was going against what people were expecting him to say. But nonetheless, so well respected by the Air Force brass, they made him Commandant of Cadets of the Air Force Academy in hopes that he would pass his passion and tactical brilliance on to the next generation of Air Force officers. He is Brigadier General Robin Olds, and he is a legend of air power. Robin Olds was born in 1922 in Honolulu, Hawaii. His mother died when he was four years old, and his life was dominated by his father, Major General Robert Owles, himself a flyer and the confidant of Billy Mitchell. Well, his father, General Robert Owles, was one of the pioneers in military aviation, and Robin grew up with that background. He grew up with people coming to his house every night or on weekends that were the pioneers of aviation when military aviation was just starting. So he got indoctrinated pretty early. He spent most of his youth living on base in Langley, Virginia. His father played a prominent role in convincing a skeptical bureaucracy that the country needed to spend more money on combat aircraft. Olds remembers the uproar among fliers when President Coolidge asked, in all seriousness, why the Army didn't simply buy one airplane and let the pilots take turns flying it. But mostly what Olds remembers is growing up among the camaraderie of those early aviators in a world that seemed to him to revolve entirely around airplanes. When I was a little boy, the first noises were engines of airplanes warming up pre-dawn. And I could tell one engine from the other, even when I was four and five years old, to my dad's delight. And I'd sneak down and watch the aviators, watch the pilots. And I remember once, years later, I ran into a fellow who had been a sergeant there at Langley, and he told me the story of going into a hangar once. There was one plane sitting in the hangar, and no one was around but all the controls were moving. And he walked up to the airplane and looked in this open cockpit, and there I was, down in there. I was about six years old, working the controls for all I was worth. While there was never any doubt that he'd end up a pilot, his father insisted he get a proper education. But when the Germans invaded Poland in 1939, Old showed up at the Canadian embassy and tried to enlist in the Royal Air Force. They laughed at me. They went to get permission, your parents' permission. So Dad had just moved to Washington, and I went home, he came home from work, he said, what are you doing here? I said, Dad, I want you to sign this piece of paper. Well, it took about a week to scrape him off the ceiling. And back in prep school I went. That was the end of that. After graduating high school, Olds considered enlisting and trying to fight his way into the Air Corps. But the rules at the time made that route difficult. And having watched Reserve officers struggle to gain a regular Army commission, he opted instead for West Point. He had, he admits, a romanticized view of what his career would be like. I'm going to go to West Point, and I'll have a regular commission, and I won't have to work for a living. And so I went to West Point. There, he says, he learned the most valuable lessons an officer can learn. To associate and trust the people around you. To take orders and to ignore fun and games. He impressed his teachers with his drive and focus, which was also evident on the football field. He played tackle and in 1942 made the All-American team. By then, of course, football seemed an almost irrelevant diversion. The Japanese had bombed Pearl Harbor and the United States was no longer dominated by pacifists who believed we could stay out of the war. Holtz took his basic and advanced flight training at tiny Stewart Field just north of West Point. From the first time he put his hands on the stick, he knew flying was exactly what he was meant to do. You're the brains, you know, you're the blood. The aircraft is the muscles. And each explosion of a cylinder, each whirl of the prop, every movement of the aircraft translates itself into you through your body and you react or it reacts to you. You don't think, now I'm going to do this and pull back and go up there. You're just, you're there. You don't think about it. It's instinctive. Two months before Olds graduated, his father died. Robert Olds was only 47 years old. The flyers he had grown up with were scattered around the world and could not attend the funeral. So Olds graduated from West Point an orphan. His family was the Air Corps his father had helped make, a force that had fought for its very existence while young Olds was growing up. It had flowered into a full-fledged strategic force, the only force in the early months of the war capable of striking significantly at the enemy. Olds learned to fly P-38s in Arizona and California. He and all his classmates were anxious to get overseas, to get into the battle and test themselves. But they were caught in what Olds refers to as a Catch-22. The Army wanted the academy graduates to go overseas as flight commanders, but didn't want to promote pilots to command who didn't have battle experience. And then once it really soaked in that we weren't going anywhere, my friend and I, Al Tucker, went down to the L.A. Fighter Wing headquarters, found a sergeant, and said, You guys really want to go to war? I said, Yep. He said, Where do you want to go? I said, I want to go to England. He typed on. Twenty minutes later we had orders. So the moral of that is if you want to get something done in the service, go to the sergeants. Olds and his partner were off to England and the war. It took them less than a week to get there. Olds had never been so excited about anything in his life. Lieutenant Robin Olds arrived in England with the 479th Fighter Group in May 1944. In only a few days, he strapped into his P-38 and flew off with his squadron for a mission over occupied France. And there the squadron flew around in circles, not bothering to attack anyone. And I'm sitting up there getting more angry and more angry, cussing in my oxygen mask, looking down there's a train, there's trucks over here, an airfield there, and all enemy troops. This is prior to D-Day. I said, why don't we do something? After a few up and down missions, Olds and his wingman cooked up a scheme to get themselves into combat. While flying over the French countryside, Olds radioed his commander that he saw a moving train and was going down after it. Roger, came the reply over the radio, and down Olds went. He made two passes at the train before his squadron arrived to back him up, and as he was swinging around for a third pass, an angry voice on the radio ordered everyone back into position at a safe altitude. Back at the base, the major in command of the mission confronted Olds, wanting to know why he had disobeyed orders by attacking the train. Sir, I called you. I said, this is New Cross Lead, this is Blue 3. Got a train at 7 o'clock. I'm going down. Will you cover me? And you said, Roger. He said, I didn't say Roger. You know what that's called? Gotcha. Gotcha. It was my wingman, and we had set it up. While the strafing run on the train might technically have counted as Olds' first combat, his first air-to-air engagement occurred a few days later. Assigned to night mission, though they were not equipped with night fighters, Olds ended up separated from his squadron. Rather than returning to base, he continued on with the mission, flying alone toward a bridge in eastern France. He found the bridge just as dawn broke over the continent and was on his way back to base when he spotted a couple of planes on the far horizon. Don't ask me to explain, but that 1 tenth of 1% I cut him off through the field, came up underneath and behind and there were one 90s, two of them. So we went roundy round and I shot them both down. Because of a design flaw in the P-38 gun camera, Olds expected there wouldn't be definitive records that the dogfight had even taken place. He returned to base sure he was going to be in trouble for going on the mission alone, and decided not to even bring up the kills for fear that no one would believe him. Sure enough, as he climbed out of his plane, his commander was waiting for him on the ground. The commander was mad, but not very. A bomber flying high over the battle had reported the kills. On his next mission, his flight came upon a large group of German fighters bearing down on a group of American bombers. We pulled up behind them, and just as I was about to fire, both engines quit, because in my excitement I'd forgot to switch tanks. I said, what the hell, I fired anyway. So I've always, all these years since, I've laid claim to the fact that I'm the only fighter pilot in the history of aerial warfare that shot down an enemy aircraft while in the glide mode. He got his engine started again and returned to battle. He got two more kills that day. In only two air-to-air engagements, Robin Olds had shot down five enemy aircraft. He He was officially a fighter ace. He was quickly promoted, first to captain and then to major. By the end of the war, he was one of the most famous pilots in the world, a dashing hero with an outsized personality and a total of 24 and a half kills, 13 in the air, the remainder German aircraft on the ground. Not long after the war ended, Holtz was summoned to the Supreme Air Force headquarters in France. When he got there, he was shown into a room that was filling with what Olds referred to as a book of heroes of the war. Generals, Medal of Honor recipients, half the staff of the Supreme Allied Command, all were awaiting the arrival of their host, General Carl, to his fence. Spatz had been an old friend of Olds' father, a pioneer military aviator who had been in charge of American air operations in the European theater. When he walked into the room full of heroes, Spatz greeted Olds first. Before he spoke with anyone else, he ushered the 22-year-old major into a side room for a private chat about Olds' father and the young officer's career. Gave me some advice for the future about me versus me tours, Deadwood, dedicated people, you know. And then he said, look, here's, he pulled out a wad of francs. He said, my car is waiting for you out front. Go into Paris and get lost. Which I did. After the end of World War II, the Army Air Force took its rakish, heroic fighter race and assigned him to coach football at West Point. Robin Olds reported as ordered, but wasn't happy with the assignment. Thankfully, it lasted only a few months. And then he was transferred to California to fly the Air Force's first combat jet, the P-80 Shooting Star. It was like flying a jet-powered glider. Wonderfully acrobatic and agile. You know, no nav equipment. I mean, everything was still dead reckoning, but fun. Holtz helped form the Air Force's first jet acrobatic team, a precursor of the Thunderbirds that toured around the country, building the profile of the Army Air Force, in support of making it into a separate branch of the military. He was flying a performance in California when his wingman, Pappy Hurst, failed to pull out of a dive and crashed. And I wanted to land way down at the end of the field, but they made me taxi right in. There was a little lump of people. They didn't know which one of us. They just knew one had crashed. And I had my visor down, my oxygen mask on. I didn't want to get out of that airplane because his wife was standing in that little crowd. But finally I put my head down, took my helmet off and stood up and backed out. And I glanced over my shoulder, she was dead gone. Oles reformed the group as a team of four and went on flying shows for the remainder of the airshow season. He also planned a flight from California to Washington, D.C. for lunch and back in a single day. He and his wingman got lost in clouds over West Virginia. When it seemed like enough time had elapsed, they dipped out of the clouds to see where they were. They were right over the Washington Monument. We hadn't asked anybody's permission to do this or told anyone that we were going to do it, but the press got a hold of us, so they were furious, especially the information people, because they hadn't been cut in on it. The publicity stunt worked. The idea of flying so fast that you could cross the continent, have lunch, and be home for dinner captured the public imagination. In 1947, the Congress voted to make the Air Force a separate branch of the service holds miss the korean war he had recently married ella rains a movie actress and was convinced that she or powerful studio people she worked for full strings to keep them out of combat he revamped gunnery training for the fighter forces in europe but was angry that he missed the war came back he says with a chip on his shoulder. Assigned to the Pentagon, he started fighting what was then the prevailing wisdom that in a nuclear age, fighters were irrelevant. Well, my boss, a two-star general in the basement of the Pentagon, called me in one day and said, Robert, or Major, no, Colonel Olds, said, I'm sick and tired of these studies you're forwarding to me about our lack of tactical air capability. I want you to understand, Colonel, and get it through your head. We are never again going to fight a conventional war. That was in 1962, just about the time the first American Army forces were deploying into Vietnam. In 1966, Olds, then 44 years old, was angling combat assignment when he got what might in other circumstances have been good news. He was on the list for promotion to general. Now what am I going to do? I don't want to be a general. Because the war was just heating up over there in Southeast Asia and I miss Korea. I was damn well not going to miss this one. Cole's only option was to find a way to get himself off the promotion list. To that end, he staged an impromptu, low-altitude, aerobatic demonstration just outside of London. Sure enough, Gold's commander called him in. He pulled out a piece of paper, waved it in my face, said, you can't see this, but that says you'll never be promoted. I think now we're getting somewhere. Then he whacked really furious and eloquent and finally shook his finger at me in utter rage. And he said, and you are the kind of Air Force officer that ought to be in Southeast Asia. And I jumped up and saluted him and said, thank you very much, sir. And walked out of the room. And he was still shouting at me. Colonel Robin Olds, at the tender age of 44, was sent to command the 8th Tactical Fighter Wing based in Thailand. On the way over, he stopped off to see his old friend, fighter pilot Chappy James. I overheard them talking and he was offering my father a position in his wing in Thailand. He said, oh really, you're going to Thailand? I said, yes, if you come over you can be my operations guy, you can be the deputy commander for operations. And then when Colonel Garrison goes home, you can be the vice commander. What do you think about that?&quot; And he said, well, that's fine, but that that wing is primarily a reconnaissance wing. He says, nope. He said, that's all gonna change. Bolts arrived and James wasn't far behind him, and the 8th Tactical Fighter Wing did indeed change. He knew what he was getting into from his World War II experiences, and he knew the way the war was being fought in Vietnam, and he trained his people to fight that war, and he protected his people, which was a large part accounted for the success they had as a wing. The two officers drilled their pilots in air-to-air tactics and demanded of them the same steely discipline they demanded of themselves. And they became known as Black Man and Robin. And they shot down more MiGs in one day, more enemy aircraft in one day in the famous Operation Bolo, Bolo MiG sweep as they call it, than any other organization did. Olds flew an incredible 152 combat missions in Vietnam. He shot down four North Vietnamese planes, bringing his lifetime total to 17. I asked him once whether he really had the rumored fifth MiG, and his quote was, and this is a quote, I choose not to answer that question and the reason for that is that he had been told that when he got the fifth MiG, and it looked like he was going to, that when he got the fifth MiG they were going to bring him home and Robin Olds is a fighter pilot and he wanted to stay with his wing, he wanted to stay in the war, in the fight and there has always been a suspicion he may have gotten the fifth plane. Nobody really knows but him, I guess. He came home disgusted with the failure of his government, but inspired by the accomplishments of his men. They were proud of themselves. They had every right to be. We were doing what we were told and we were doing it well. And we admired, respected, loved one another. They were a wonderful unit. Still is to this day. Nobody feels sorry for himself. Olds returned to the United States in 1967 and took over as Commandant of Cadets at the Air Force Academy. There he became a living symbol of the Air Force, a direct tie between its origins in World War I, where his father served, and the era of missiles and laser-guided munitions. He did have a major impact on a whole generation of fighter pilots who met him at the Academy. He inspired a lot of people who would later go on and fight in the Vietnam War. I loved being in the Air Force. I loved the responsibilities that came my way. I met them head on with everything I possessed given to the jobs that I had. I wouldn't change that for anything. If you could take the genes from the consummate military leader and combine them with the genes of the consummate fighter pilot, the result might look just like this. However, if you created a fictional military hero with Brigadier General Robin Olds' resume, an editor would likely reject it for being beyond believable. In 1942, Olds was an All-American tackle for West Point. In 1943, he was commissioned a second lieutenant and completed pilot training. He entered World War II flying a P-38 he named SCAT 1. As he progressed through different iterations of fighter planes, he simply kept adding Roman numerals to the SCAT name. He finished the war in a P-51 named SCAT 7. In addition to becoming a double ace plus with 12 aerial victories, he destroyed another 11 and one-half aircraft on the ground. He later became the wingman on the Air Force's first aerobatic jet team. In 1966, he became commander of the 8th Tactical Fighter Wing at Huu Ban Royal Thai Air Force Base, Thailand. Robin Olds flew 152 combat missions in Southeast Asia in F-4 Phantoms, 105 of them over North Vietnam. He shot down two North Vietnamese MiG-17s and two MiG-21s. Robin Olds was famous for something else. He never learned to mince words or play politics with the mission of the military, as those in the Warbirds In Review audience learned when Oles described his return from Vietnam. I got home about the 20, or the last day of September, 1st of October, on a Friday, my family in Washington. I'm on leave. Phone rang Saturday. They said, get over here to the Pentagon. Chief of Staff wants to see you Monday morning. I said, I'm on leave. He said, doesn't matter if the chief wants to see you. I said, yes, sir, okay. I reported into his office. He's the one that walked up to me and said, take off that mustache. Yes, sir. Next thing I knew, he briefed me and I'm in the Oval Office of the White House. You know, I'd got me. LBJ was the president. So I'm sitting on the end of a couch. He's on an easy chair and his aide, a colonel, Air Force colonel was sitting on my right. And Mr. President said, Welcome home, Colonel. You did well. Thank you very much, sir. Well, what's it like to be home? That was the weekend that thousands and thousands of hippies marched on the Pentagon. I said, Sir, who are all those funny looking people that marched on the Pentagon yesterday. And I'm going to quote for you folks. He said, I got 240,000 boys over there in Vietnam. When those boys come home, they'll tell the American public what's happening. And I thought, wait a minute. That's your job, not mine. Of course, you don't say that. So the best thing I could think of to come up with it, sir, I've been home since Friday, been to a couple of dinner parties. No one asked me where I've been or what I've been doing for the past year. In case somebody does ask, what would you like me to tell them? I'm thinking, you know, end the career. He glared at me and then he said, well, Colonel, you tell them, I'm quoting, that we are preventing the North Vietnamese from interfering in the democratic process in South Vietnam. I said, I'm sorry, sir, I can't say that. Well, why not, Colonel? Well, sir, if that's why we're there, I don't want to be the one that spreads the word. It was grim for a few minutes, but I hand the man full credit. He let me talk. He listened. And he sent me down the next morning to talk to his chief security advisor in the basement of the White House. We argued for a couple of hours. But this security advisor and I argued. At one point I said something. He said, you know we can't do that. That'll bring down the Chinese. I said, the Chinese and the North Vietnamese have hated each other for a couple of thousand years. They fought wars against each other. Haven't you read their history? No, he hadn't. So finally he said, what do you think we ought to do? And I said, for God's sakes, sir, mine the harbors, because everything they use came in by ship bottom. Gas, you know, missiles, ammunition, everything, food. His response, when I said mine the harbors, was we can't do that. That's an act of war. Now mind you, this was the, about the second or third of October of 1967. I wonder if he ever wondered what the hell we were doing over there. Now it was, I maintain we had every reason to be there, but we went about it improperly under the leadership of McNamara and Johnson. Sadly, Robin Olds passed away on June 14, 2007. Across the Black River, the Red River, down the mountain change to your target. So, for the pre-strike we went up, I said, Orange 5-6, this is Lincoln lead, tally-ho. And this guy said, Lincoln, take the perch. I said, what? He said, take the perch. Let me tell you what that told me. It told me this was a new guy from the States, probably his first mission, obviously out of sack, following the rules. And I said, son, we don't take a perch around here. Just hold still. What I didn't tell him was when we came up behind the tanker, each of us in F-4s was taking turns. It was in safe, but we were making sure that the growl of the sidewinder coincides with the sight picture, and you're doing the sight picture as his engines. He didn't know that. So we refueled and that seems fine, everything's fine. I stayed in a bit too long, got in a fight with a bunch of Migs, and I'm tapping the burners. Pretty soon I looked at the fuel gauge and we are way below what we should have been. We had three bingos. Bingo. Which meant you better get to the tanker or you are in deep trouble. So I thought, Robin, you have really climbed deep in North 6th, which we never usually went out low. Fortunately, no Sams. I called him, hey, Orange 5-6, head north. He says, Lincoln, I got a check with Brigham, ground. I said, Brigham is busy. Head north. I'll work the intercept, you know, with the radar on the F-4. Well, finally, here he came. And I'm looking at my fuel gauge, and it's like this. My other three guys were low, but I was the worst. So we got the tanker, I turned him, plugged him, I relieved. They finished. Now I came up for my full offload. Plugged in. He pulled the boom and stowed it. This is one of those big tanker birds. And I said, hey, give me some fuel. This pilot said, no, we're bingo, RTB, meaning he was low on his fuel, returning to base, RTB. I said, wait a minute. I'm going to have to bail out of this airplane in just a minute or two. Give me some fuel. No, we're bingo. And I said, I knew from reading his method of operation, he could fly from where we were over northern Laos, all the way to the south of Thailand, turn left, and go to the Pacific, I mean go to the Philippines, and loiter for 20 minutes. That was his bingo. And my fuel gauge was like this. So finally I said, okay, I got one sidewinder left. I'm going to drop back about 2,000 feet, and before I pull the ejection handle, I'm going to pull the trigger, so put your parachutes on. Boy, that boom came down. I plugged in, he started fueling me, my left engine quit. That's how low I was. I managed to hang on and get it started. He said, how much do you want? I said, fill it up. Which I didn't want because I couldn't land with that much fuel. So I did a dirty trick, got my offload, pulled right up in front of him about a thousand feet and hit the jettison switch. Got rid of half of that fuel. I said, you might need it. Laughter. Applause. I said, sir, the MiGs are getting awful frisky, as you know. I have an idea of something we can do about it. He just grunted, and I said, oh, well, end of that. But five days later, I'm in his office. He said, okay, what's your idea? I said, sir, I want to plan a mission where I'll take my F-4s up there 105s because the MiGs love to tangle with the 105s. So we planned and planned and planned and planned and pulled this mission off on the 2nd of January. Not in afterburner, but in full mill leaves smoke trails. One factor. Two, a friend of mine named Donovan F. Smith in 7th Air Force said, Robin, I'm going to send you QRC-190. Like you? What the hell is that? It's an ECM pod. A jamming emitter against their SAM sites, which the 105s had carried, but we never had. So there's a bit of deception. And then Mother Nature got in the act. Morning. Ew. Morning. Mother Nature got in the act and gave us a nice undercast, so they couldn't see the smoke trails. So we did all this stuff, went down right over Phuc Yen, nothing. Turned around just north of Hanoi, came back. My backseater says, I got one. Oops, went underneath. So I turned around, came back, then here arrived my second flight. And the first transmission was, a lead, you got to make 21 on your ass. What a way to start a fight. But they all popped up through the clouds. They thought we were 105s, but uh-uh. We were loaded for bear. And we got seven of them. Found out I heard a transmission of their radio chatter. The lead says, whatever the ground said, these aren't 105s, these are Fanos. What do we do? Well, there was great confusion. In the meantime, we're bang, bang, bang. That was fun. Another leading question, your interview with President Johnson. You're coming back to the states and- Do I have to? No, sir, you don't have to. But I will. We're talking about Vietnam, obviously. I got home about the 20, or the last day of September, first of October, on a Friday. My family in Washington. I'm on leave. Phone rang Saturday. He said, get over here to the Pentagon. Chief of Staff wants to see you Monday morning. I said, I'm on leave. He said, doesn't matter if the chief wants to see you. I said, yes sir, okay. I reported into his office. He's the one that walked up to me and said, take off that mustache. Yes sir. The next thing yes sir next thing i know he briefed me and i'm in the oval office of the white house you know i'd cockpit make it work lbj was the president so i'm sitting on the end of a college he's on an easy chair and his aid a colonel air force colonel was sitting on my right and mister president said uh... You did well. Thank you very much, sir. Well, what's it like to be home? That was the weekend that thousands and thousands of hippies marched on the Pentagon. And my daughter, Chris, had told me what hippies were. I said, sir, who are all those funny looking people that marched on the Pentagon yesterday? And I'm going to quote for you folks. He said, I got 240,000 boys over there in Vietnam. When those boys come home, they'll tell the American public what's happening. And I said, wait a minute. That's your job, not mine. Of course, you don't say that. So the best thing I could think of to come up with, is, sir, I've been home since Friday, been to a couple of dinner parties, no one asked me where I've been or what I've been doing for the past year. In case somebody does ask, what would you like me to tell them? I'm quoting, that we are preventing the North Vietnamese from interfering in the democratic process in South Vietnam. I said, I'm sorry, sir, I can't say that. Well, sir, if that's why we're there, I don't want to be the one that spreads the word. It was grim for a few minutes, but I hand the man full credit. He let me talk. He listened. And he sent me down the next morning to talk to his chief security advisor in the basement of the Pentagon, of the White House. We argued for a couple of hours. How come he gets to fly it and I don't? But this security advisor and I argued, at one point I said something, he said, you know we can't do that, that'll bring down the Chinese. I said, the Chinese and the North Vietnamese have hated each other for a couple of thousand years. They fought wars against each other. Haven't you read their history? No, he hadn't. So finally he said, what do you think we ought to do? And I said, for God's sake, sir, mine the harbors. Because everything they used came in by ship bottom. Gas, you know, missiles, ammunition, everything. Food. His response, when I said, mind the harbors, was, we can't do that, that's an act of war. And mind you, this was the, about the second or third of October of 1967. I wonder if he ever wondered what the hell we were doing over there. Now, it was, I maintain we had every reason to be there, but we went about it improperly under the leadership of McNamara and Johnson. This is Marius Maxwell, Dr. Marius Maxwell. This is his airplane. This is actually the first time he's seen it in his paint job. It's beautiful it's absolutely beautiful you want to tell us a little bit about this particular plane uh... well i i really would just defer to robin owls i agree with everything he says always uh... it's a lovely airplane uh... nineteen forty seven uh... p fifty one and uh... scat six now and henceforth and that's about all there is to say we'll open it up for questions if uh... that do you have anything else you like so you will have a question general i think i've already said too much no sir you never say too much but i got a question i may have missed it in the introduction what was your involvement in korea obviously you were in World War II, got 13 kills, NAM, four more or more. What were you up to in Korea? Thank you. I had a squadron of 86s. They're drawing pilots from us. My name had it every list, turned down every time. I never knew why. I blamed a colonel that I worked for. Took me 20 years My wife then was doing a television show in New York City. I mean, she was an actress. Her mother. The backer was a very powerful, wealthy man whose friend was a secretary of the Air Force. The backer told the secretary, don't let him go. Took me 20 years to find that out. I don't think you knew that, Chris. Yes, sir. Somebody else? Of the P-38 pilot. They put aileron boost on the airplane later, but we never had it. But it would roll just as fast as you had to roll it under whatever circumstance. Matter I prided myself being a pretty good P-38 pilot and I could whip a P-51 down low. Oh, a story about, this is kind of amusing to me. People often ask me, wasn't it wonderful to fly a P-38 with those two engines? And I said, boy, it sure was. I came home single engine every day. General, you've had an incredible career flying a variety of different aircraft. What was your favorite aircraft that you flew over the years? Well, I have to add the F-4, but the many years in between. I love that bird. General, just a quick question. In World War II, was your more feared adversary the 109 or the 190? I didn't fear either one of them. What was your preferred? Don't get out in front of me. No, sir. I know you're asking a serious question, but you know, in combat, you don't have time for that kind of analysis. You're fighting another human being, which you don't think about another machine. You try to anticipate what you're going to do next, which way is he going to go? So in a big fight, there's There's danger from being shot at. There's danger from collisions. Okay? Those are the two worst, as you know. You try to get your people to fight as a team, but it doesn't work. You're lucky if your wingman can hold on. It takes an extraordinary wingman to follow the violent maneuvers. And pretty soon you do get split up. In World War II, we got split up. Almost every fight, you go home with one or two, or one. or a 410, except on the ground. Next question. When you're engaged, do you ever watch the controls of the other aircraft that you're engaged with? That's how dumb i am answer uh... technically but maybe too far away but uh... combat wise you're anticipating his vote depending upon your relative position i mean he's behind you you can see if you don't want that if he's out here in a turn, God, if he turns back that way and you're trying to turn inside him, if he goes like that, you got him. So then it's who can turn the tightest. Okay. So you don't really think that way. You know what he has to do. Well, it's like one day going in. Oh, I might you mind if I make a story out of this? No, sir. I was commanding the 81st active fighter wing in England. Been there a year and a half. Been a colonel for a long time. Phone rang. Somebody from Washington almost whispered, you're on the list. Meaning I was going to be a general. This is 65. I didn't want to be a general. I wanted to go to Southeast Asia. I miss Korea. I'm going to go to Southeast Asia. What can I do? I can't tell the Air Force I don't want to be a general. They'll say, okay, fine, get out. I know. I'm going to make that boss of mine so mad, he'll take me off the list. He'll want to court-martial me, then I can go to South Dictator. So I got three guys, we put on a formation acrobatic demonstration, an F-101C. That's a single seat bird, sorry, excuse for wings. But I had done that sort of thing on the very first jet acrobatic team back in 46. I was wingman. So I kind of knew what I was doing. We put on a wonderful show. Bomb burst a whole nine yards. Well, my boss heard about it. I bet his missile badge burned him. So I had to call down to london chewed out tore up my legion of merit my effectiveness report was all wrong he waved piece of paper in my face and said and this says you'll never be a general and i thought now we're getting somewhere and he chewed and chewed and waggled his waddles at me and finally in the most disgusting voice and you are the kind of air force officer that ought to be in southeast asia and i jumped up out of the chair and said yes sir thank you very much general about facing lefty still shouting at me got one more question over here wait wait wait wait wait oh you're not done told you it would be a long one So we're going up to Gulf of Tonkin one day I've got a backseater named Steve Croker turned inbound at Kep headed for the Northeast Railroad We got hit By about 16 Migs They were eight of us Roundy round longest dogfight I was ever in. Got one early. Lead was doing figure eights down. I could see him down below us. So I told everybody, get out, RTB, you know, bingo. Made a circle to see if my guys got out. Then I left, and I thought about that guy. I said, nope, going back in. Went back in, about 25 feet, and there he is. Headed for his base, but there's a little range of hills. And I told the back seater, I said, Stevie, you watch him. He's got three choices. He can bail out, he can hit that ridge, or he can get over the ridge and give me some airspace and I'll get a sidewinder. He chose the latter, sidewinder, boom, down he went. I plugged into that tanker with 300 pounds of fuel left. Oh, now that was a disconnected story because I forgot what I was going to tell you about that god damn general. Sam, this gentleman's been patiently waiting over here over here to say i'm pretty right first of all i want to thank you for the service you give to our country and uh... i've always wondered uh... about the fifty one verses uh... in a one oh nine could he have turned your could you have turned him and i'll fight that turn him into dogfight? I hope you all heard the question. I wish I could answer that question. I honestly think it depended upon the pilot in the cockpit. The birds were fairly equal. Yeah, yeah. He worked for a friend of mine. I'm sorry, what was the question? General, please finish the story about the goddamn general. It was a couple of years after that encounter, and I'm now a commandant of cadets at the Air Force Academy with a baby star up here. And I'm talking to my old boss, four-star General Spike Mollmeier, who was 7th Air Force Commander in Saigon, another friend, three stars, he was then commanding a training command, George Simler. Both of those gentlemen, of course, have spent their time in Southeast Asia. So while we were talking, here came the general from London that had chewed me on, waddling across the floor. And I said, excuse me, sir. Excuse me, sir. Now, I know that both of these gentlemen had read my derogatory file because it's rather thick and good reading. And excuse me, sir. Oh, General Hardy, how nice to see you again, sir. You remember that magnificent chewing out you gave me there in Ryslip back in 1965? Oh, yes, sir. These two, four-star, three-star, are kind of listening. I said, sir, you told me something that day that I've always wondered about. You said I was the kind of Air Force officer that ought to be in Southeast Asia. And I've wondered ever since in your estimation what kind of Air Force officer should not be in Southeast Asia. I thought similar was going to fall on the floor laughing. And even Mollmeyer laughed, which I'd never heard before. As General Harley whirled about, red face, walked away, I reached between these two gentlemen and said, gotcha! Alright folks, thank you for coming and please stand up and give this true American hero a hand here. I took a hit through the hinge on this door and the door flew back like a flap. I wonder why won't the airplane go, you know? And I'm dragging this thing just like a big flap. I got as far as Brussels, landed, saw what was wrong, had to take the door off. The hydraulic jack was bent. So I took it off, found a fitting on a wrecked airplane and put the hydraulic lines together like this. Now I'm just a pilot, okay? Filled it up with hydraulic fluid, took off. The gear handle wouldn't move. What I had done was put 1,200 psi against each other. There wasn't much response when you tried to move something. I got back to base. My maintenance officer said, what was your hydraulic pressure? I said, he said, well you do know where the gauge is, don't you? He said, it's that thing, it's down there, right beneath, on the lower panel. I said, oh, is that what that is? Thank you all very much, thank you very much. Thank you, Robert. Welcome to the Dronescapes Aviation Channel. Aviation, the art of aeronautics, began with the dreamers, inventors and daredevils who dared to defy gravity. The journey of aviation was nurtured by pioneers like the Wright Brothers, whose first flight marked a historic milestone. The role of aircrafts in world wars was groundbreaking, dramatically changing warfare strategies. This initiated a technological evolution in aviation, transforming the simplistic wings of a biplane into the thunderous roar of jet engines. Let's journey through the ages of aviation. Behind every great aircraft there were great minds. These visionaries, like Sir Frank Whittle, the innovator of the turbojet engine, redefined air travel. Then there's Skunk Works' Kelly Johnson, the genius behind the SR-71 Blackbird. His designs combined speed, stealth and power, crafting machines that dominated the heavens. The contributions of these pioneers have left an indelible mark on the canvas of aviation, shaping the course of history and inspiring generations of engineers and aviators. Each epoch in aviation history gave birth to extraordinary aircrafts, each with their own unique features and roles. The Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird was a marvel of speed and stealth. The F-105 Thunderchief, a supersonic fighter bomber, was vital in the Vietnam War. The P-51 Mustang, a long-range fighter, was critical in World War II. The P-47 Thunderbolt, a heavyweight fighter, was used extensively in the same war. The A-10 Thunderbolt II, the Warthog, is a close air support icon. The Messerschmitt ME-262 marked a leap forward in aviation technology. Each of these game changers were instrumental in their eras, and their legacies still resonate today. Beyond the game changers, there are those that have transcended their practical roles to become icons. The Concorde was not just an aircraft, it was a supersonic symbol of luxury and speed. The B-52 Stratofortress, a strategic bomber, is an icon of power and resilience. These magnificent machines and others like them have become much more than just aircrafts. They are enduring icons that encapsulate the audacious spirit, the relentless innovation and the boundless ambition that define the world of aviation. For more amazing aerial footage, and to join us in this incredible journey, check out the Dronescapes YouTube channel. If you enjoyed this video, please remember to like and subscribe. And as always, thank you for watching. So you