Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. Not knowing what to do with your hands or offering a handshake when the other person offers a fist bump. Forgetting someone's name... Not having anything to say and be distracted by it. Striking up a conversation with someone Someone oversharing, telling a group too much information. Noticing food in someone's teeth but not long and bringing up would be weird. Smelling a fart in an elevator that wasn't yours but, well, now you can't even react to it or pretend to even know what a fart is. are awkward. We don't like awkwardness. It makes us uncomfortable, cringe. But what is awkwardness? Why is it good and who is the main character of the universe? To really understand awkwardness we need family of forces that guide social behaviour. Think of this sheet of cardboard as a It's not infinite because of You can't move faster than light You can't wear pants made out of molten lead. Next, there are legal limits - the laws of the state. They delineate what you agree punish you - murder, stealing, speeding. What's left is molded by the finder tool of social expectations. It's not illegal to chew with your mouth open or not cover a sneeze on a crowded bus or act disrespectfully, but it is frowned upon. Punished not by the police, but by social ostracism, public opprobrium. Being called rude, gross, mean, annoying. Awkwardness is the finest tool. It sands social dynamics by smoothing out what It's not a violation of the laws of physics for longer than they expected. either. And the etiquette isn't black-and-white. But it is awkward. Like touching a hot stove or awkwardness nudges us to and smooth things out when they happen. self-consciousness when needed are communicating cooperative intentions, which helps them get along well with susceptible to feeling occasional They're successful at cooperating, at social life. Feeling awkward shows and are keen on smooth social exchanges. Now, too much or too little concern for social rules isn't healthy, but researchers found that just the right amount is great. When a person shows remorse or embarrassment or awkward discomfort, when appropriate, others perceive them as being more more forgivable. And it's not just perception. Such individuals also tend to be more Kinder, more generous. Even when a person they've committed, awkwardness still arises. People around them can feel uncomfortable. It's called vicarious embarrassment and it's a function of empathy - the ability to feel what others feel or will feel, when or if they realize what they've just done. The more 'EEE' someone is, that is easily sympathetically embarrassed, other people's cringe-inducing moments, even fictional once like in cringe comedy. Researchers found that being more easily does not correlate to be more easily Instead, it's linked to being more empathetic, an important capacity for social creatures to have. counter-intuitive attraction to viewing cringing moments like, say, bad American Idol auditions, of morbid curiosity. You may think that awkwardness is totally different from physical pain or outright name-calling. But your brain would disagree. You see, researchers found that social missteps the secondary somatosensory cortex and dorsal posterior insula - areas of the to the sensation of physical pain. Our brains process the breaking of social standards bones through similar neural pathways. Likewise the same sympathetic nervous system that threats, &quot;fight or flight&quot;, is activated by social challenges where awkwardness or embarrassment might be at stake. of being watched. Speaking in front of a group or embarrassing yourself in front of on a first date. Awkward silence... Your blood pressure increases, causing you to overheat and sweat. Oxygen is needed for fighting and running, so breathing nausea and butterflies in your stomach. Your body instinctively contracts into a fighting that reaction to act natural makes you shake. Blood vessels in your extremities leaving you with cold fingers and toes and nose. These symptoms don't alleviate awkwardness, they compound it. But that's history's fault. Long before human social dynamics &quot;is it one kiss or two?&quot; or politics at Thanksgiving dinner, physical threats and haven't had newer ones. Self-conscious anxiety can be tough to get out of our awkward. Fixating on social blunders is easy and hard to overcome. Why was I so unsure, so unconfident, so awkward? Well, some of the blame may lie with the neurotransmitter oxytocin. Oxytocin is sometimes called &quot;the love hormone&quot; because it modulates prosocial feelings, like trust and attachment, which it does. In fact, nasal sprays of oxytocin are being used to increase trust during couples therapy and depression. Though there are fears deviously increase trust and make a to con artist schemes. But oxytocin also modulates negative social feelings like fear and anxiety. A dose of it makes people better at recognizing the and fright. It's also involved in the approach or avoid certain social stimuli. And it may play a role in making positive and negative social interactions more salient in our memories; that is, stand out more, command more of our attention after the fact, make us think about them more. Negative ones especially because of what psychologists call negativity bias. All things being equal, negative social interactions and negative emotions have a greater impact on our mental In fact, we have more words for negative emotions than positive ones and a richer vocabulary to describe them. Thus such memories and get over. What does the other person think of me? I was so awkward. Are they telling other people? our heads over and over again. Surely, the person we were awkward with we're remembering ourselves awkward thing we did. Or are they? A great wet blanket for smothering the is perspective. &quot;You wouldn't worry so much if you realized how seldom they do.&quot; As much as you obsess over yourself, you're not the They're worried about themselves, what you think about them. themselves. You're not the centre of their world. Another famous old piece of advice tells you worry about what other people think you stop worrying what other people finally in your sixties and seventies thinking about you in the first place. The tendency to act and think as though you are the has been called protagonist disease. It seeps into our behavior all the time. For instance, the fundamental attribution error. When evaluating actions you often view yourself as a complex various challenges and antagonist, whereas other people are seen as just with simple unchanging roles. The guy who took way too long well, he's obviously just innately annoying person. That's his entire purpose. it's because the staff was unhelpful preoccupied by an earlier conversation. You are the main character after all. in your life. It's easy to live like that. There isn't time or mental space to as complicated and fully flushed out. The realization of this has a name. of Obscure Sorrows, one of my favorite resources and now, YouTube channels. They wrap packages. To be sure, giving something a name how to feel about it but nonetheless so we can manipulate them, feel bigger than the concepts they label. Now, their word for acknowledging that you are just an extra in other people's stories, is 'sonder'. This is their definition of it. &quot;Sonder - the realization that each random passerby is living a life as vivid and complex as your own--populated friends, routines, worries and inherited craziness-- an epic story that continues deep underground, with elaborate passageways to thousands of other lives that you'll never know existed, in which you might only appear once, as a blur of traffic passing on the highway, as a lighted window at dusk.&quot; Acknowledging this makes your awkwardness looks small. But it also makes all of you look small. Tiny. A needle in a giant haystack, but nonetheless in possession of a big idea. Your blemishes are lost from far away, and so is your uniqueness, but the view from way up here... Well, it's unbeatable. And as always, thanks for watching.