Hello, people! So today is a really exciting day because I am going to be Now I have tried tons of cool I've tried really fancy ice cream, giant ice cream, ice cream and today, I am on the hunt to find the best ice cream in Los Angeles. So I have been scouring the internet to find everyone's recommendations of what ice cream parlors I should try. I read Yelp and a bunch of articles, and I've narrowed down the final four that, weirdly enough, So those four are: Sweet Rose Creamery, Mashti Malone's, Wanderlust Creamery and Fosselman's Ice Cream. So without further ado, let this ice cream journey begin. Our first stop on our ice cream journey is here at Sweet Rose Creamery. Sweet Rose Creamery has and they were founded with a total of five locations throughout Los Angeles. So what's really cool is that they're using all fresh ingredients from the Santa Monica's Farmer's Market, and it's coming right where they're making the and it comes straight to the counter and into your waffle cone. In the kitchen, everything starting from fresh eggs right down to the dairy base. We watched them prepare their classic mint chip ice cream. The shop is always changing All right, so we have that we made in a waffle The flavor of the mint more than the cream. I think it's because we're using really, really fresh ingredients. It's not like the artificial mint flavors that you find in gum or you You get the fresh flavor, but it is not overwhelmingly minty. Now it's time to visit Mashti and Mehdi Shirvani are credited for introducing I'm Mashti Shirvani, the older brother. I came here before the In 1980, I opened this business. I had little savings. from the landlord, and I started making ice Every single person, I that's how I built my business. Mehdi: We don't create, It's mostly floral or things like that. Some of our ingredients come from overseas from different countries. We get ingredients from Iran if there is no sanction. From the Persian Gulf area, from Lebanon, from India, we get so Caroline: The best seller: the saffron pistachio The shop uses imported saffron from Iran. Mehdi: Right now but right before the sanction, we bought enough for the Caroline: They grind the saffron and put it in hot water overnight. It's mainly used for the Mashti: These are my food colorings, all natural. Caroline: But it's natural. Mashti: Yeah, everything is natural, yeah. Caroline: They sprinkle into every ice cream. Mashti: Just a little, that's all. Not much sugar. Caroline: The key ingredient Mehdi: Rose was very unusual and unknown to American cuisine. They'd never heard of rose water. So it took him and us so much sampling and kind of lecturing so those who were not to kinda accept that It's just like vanilla. But the thing is, vanilla rose is more popular in Caroline: And finally, So we're gonna try the classic This is two wafers with saffron ice cream rolled in pistachios. This is their most and I'm really excited to taste it. It's really nice 'cause you that were blended into the ice cream but also whole pistachios It kinda gives that nice balance to the crunchy pistachio. The texture, this gets an A-plus. It is just creamy and stretchy. It's just so satisfying, wow, mm. From Hollywood to Tarzana, it's time to try Wanderlust Creamery. Wanderlust Creamery is an and all of our flavors We've been in LA now I'll think of a place I've been or somewhere I wanna go. I'm inspired by childhood memories and also other peoples' travels. When my friends come back they tell me about, &quot;Oh, my in Sardinia&quot; or &quot;I had this And then I'll do a little bit of research, and then I'll go from there. Caroline: Some of the the flavors include Sticky Rice and Mango Japanese Neapolitan, Smoky Road inspired by Pretzel Rugbraud inspired by Iceland, and passionfruit and We watched them prepare one Breakfast at Cafe Du Monde, For the Breakfast at Cafe Du Monde, they steep the ice cream and Cafe Du Monde chicory coffee. Then, they mix the ice cream Wow, this is really good. It is a very strong coffee flavor. If you love coffee ice cream, this is like 10 steps higher than that. The bitterness of the coffee really balances out the What I'm really here to see is It's a sampler that includes a variety of 14 flavors on mini cones. I'm really interested from the Philippines. Wow. Raspberry Lychee Rose Sorbet from Paris. This isn't really citrusy. This It's very floral. It's but the flavor is very strong. This is a very powerful matcha flavor, really good, really, really good. Adrienne: Artisanal ice but we're one of the few that are actually from LA. So I think that resonates - I'm, like, a big Yelp person, so I, like, Yelped it. - Yeah, this place got amazing reviews. - Yeah, it has really good reviews, and it definitely lives It's really good. - I got Ube and Violet Marshmallow. I just love all the different flavors and how it's like around the world, and they all taste extremely good. Adrienne: LA's a big and we just wanna have Caroline: And last but not least, we're visiting one of the Fosselman's Ice Cream Company. If you love watching old-timey movies and visiting historical spots, this is your place. Christian Fosselman started in 1919 in Waverly, Iowa. In 1921, he moved his Today, the ice cream parlor still remains a family business. The minute you step inside, it's like walking into an old-fashioned soda fountain shop that includes candy, saltwater taffy, swirled lollipops, and a bunch along the walls. And the ice cream, well, that's literally a labor of love. John: We make a whole huge We do probably 200-plus flavors. And so we work with hotels, restaurants, things like that. So they'll come up with unique ideas of something they might and then we also listen in the retail stores. Because of the diversity of LA, you know, we've changed a lot of flavors we never thought we'd make. So we do a lot of Asian flavors. We do taro root, lychee, Do a lot of Latin flavors: dulche de leche. So that's kind of reflected a lot of probably the last 20, 30 years of where we've kinda changed and then we still do all English toffee, lemon custard, rum raisin, things like that. So it kind of has just evolved over time. Caroline: All the ice Once the ice cream is ready, two employees simultaneously add and mix the additional ingredients. This keeps the ingredients like chocolate chips, cookie dough, red velvet cake, and maraschino cherries from breaking into tiny pieces. John: My dad always used to say, &quot;Make it so good they can't resist it,&quot; and I think it's because we as far as cheapening things. We've always stayed true to which is 16% butterfat, never compromised quality. Caroline: We got a classic banana split. I figured it would be at a classic ice cream parlor. Classic, so good. I love when places get Like, you can't really if you can't get strawberry, 'cause those are probably John: There's been so many where we've seen parents who end up working for us as like a second- or We just remodeled for and it's kinda this give-and-take where people are like, We want it to look like but you have to evolve with time too. But it's that historical thing that they wanna remember what it was like when they were 10 or So it's cool that we've seen I feel like I'm on a movie set for the 1950s, 1960s. It's kinda like being in a time machine the minute you step into So I've had some time to think about all the ice cream that I've eaten, and now because I have to pick a All the places that we and so unique from one another. I'm really happy I have, But we have to pick a favorite, so let's narrow them down. The first place we tried and I think they did the best job incorporating the freshest I'd compare their ice cream to a smoothie because of the fresh mint rather than tasting you can taste from store-bought ice cream. For Mashti Malone, they ice cream flavors like saffron rose water, date, and lavender. The shop also felt so authentic to LA. It's one of the older ones on our list, and it still has that For Wanderlust, I loved their I think it's such a genius concept to include mini ice cream It's definitely a really fun And Fosselman's by far ice cream making process I've seen. They claim to make everything and that's exactly what and out at the counter when you order. But this is the best of and if I had to pick a it has to be Mashti Malone. So Mashti Malone's obviously I have ever tried, and while the ice cream was sweet, all the flavors really came through, like the rose water in or like rich cocoa in the chocolate. So I loved their specialty flavors, and I loved their classic flavors. Mashti Malone's is such a uniquely LA shop that you can only find here. You can get great ice cream anywhere, but if you wanna find the best in LA, you have to go to Mashti's. But that being said, these four places are so you're not losing if you and I think you should try all of them. And the good thing is is that of LA, and if you live you know getting around so it's really nice that I to go to no matter where I am in LA.