[ringing] [ringing] VOICEMAIL: This is Pablo. Leave a message. [beep] HENRY: Oh h-hey, Pablo, it's Henry. Listen, I'm kind of having and I could really use Um, how are we still in a job? If no one in this timeline has a mouth, then why exactly is there a need for tooth fairies? An-and more so, doesn't this make this very difficult to tackle any mouth-related topics in this world? I just don't know! It just feels like a big oversight Anyways, call me back. Please. Bye. [eerie noise] REBECCA: Hello, my geeks and peeps, Rebecca Parham here! You've read the title, you know what we're talking about, and I bet you're all saying to yourself, "Oh, Becca's got herself in a real pickle now! How's she gonna tell a story about her mouth when she doesn't have one? He he he he." Shush. Chill out! I got this. There you go. Problem solved. Any time I got to show you a mouth, GINGERPALE: Wow! REBECCA: Alright, enough of that! Let's move on. life-altering wounds that scar us Yeah, they make great stories, don't they? And don't we just love telling 'em? BOY: Dude, you want to see my scar? Got attacked by a mountain lion; MOM: That's his appendectomy scar! BOY: Mom! REBECCA: Honestly, I've been rather fortunate. I haven't injured myself too many times in life. I mean, my dad accidentally pulled my arm I got hit in the face with a softball when I was in I slipped in water in high school A girl in theater dropped a heavy set piece on my foot, and I had to do the rest of the shows I broke my toe banging it on a platform You know, I wonder how much football helmets cost. But my big injury story that I always tell people happened when I was very young, and it involves...my teeth. I personally don't remember it at all, but my sister says she has a traumatizingly clear memory of it. That, and of course my parents were there for it. Actual content warning here: Because you know me, I've never been averse to a little bit of blood... or a gallon or two. For the brave souls still watching, When I was about three years old, Dad wanted to have a play fort built in the backyard for me and my sister. He called over a family friend, so they could draw up some plans, and discuss how big it should be, and where to put it. Mom wasn't home at the time, so to keep an eye on me and my sister, Dad let us run around the backyard while he and the carpenter talked things over. So in our backyard, we had a porch, and REBECCA: [southern accent] by the law the South, REBECCA: Which we did, Dad was keeping a watchful eye on us, but as any parent will tell you, the worst things always happen when you turn your back for just a moment. And when Dad wasn't looking, I stood up on it, and I guess in my three-year-old mind, I thought I was on one of those playground And apparently, I was not holding back. Your girl was chasing bandits Now remember how I said Well, good porch swings are designed so they REBECCA: But this one, well... [laughing] YOUNG REBECCA: Whoa! Ave Maria [slow motion] Nooooooooo! [smack] ... [screams] REBECCA: Dad heard my screams, He lifted me up off the ground, I had bitten through my top lip, and the force of the fall had pushed Without a moment to lose, Dad grabbed me and Rachel, threw us into the back of the car, Rachel sat next to me the whole ride, And being only five years old herself, And Dad was even more distraught, feeling like the worst father in the world. But as he quietly panicked to himself, all of the sudden he heard from the back seat: YOUNG REBECCA [singing]: And on this farm, he had a cow. Ee i ee i o. ... REBECCA: Well, I guess that's what you call Though I don't think that Dad When we got to the hospital, the doctors ended up having to push my teeth back into their original position, but these teeth were pretty much destroyed. Oh, and when Mom showed up to the hospital, she said Dad was covered in blood and looked like that he'd lost a fight with an angry cat. Ah, poor Dad. There wasn't anything more that the doctors could do at the hospital, but we still had to wait two weeks for me to heal before I could see a dentist. And what the dentist ended up having to do was give my front two teeth a root canal, and then fill it with a compound so it would stay in my head until my permanent teeth were ready to come in. ... You know, I'm actually really glad I'm already insane in the membrane enough as it is. Who knows how bad I'd be today The whole ordeal had basically killed my front two teeth, and they turned...yellow. Also, the next tooth over needed And given that teeth are translucent, So yeah, for the next few years of my childhood, I was walking around with yellow and green teeth. Just look at this jacked-up mouth of mine. I think I had these teeth until I was about six or seven. And as you can imagine, such a blow to the face not only messed up my baby teeth, but my permanent teeth came in wonky, as well. In fact, when I went to the orthodontist she discovered I had four permanent teeth but were stuck up in my gums. I had to get teeth removed so they could come in. My mouth was a train wreck! Thankfully, I think I've finally They ain't perfect, but who could blame them It's ok, teeth, you're good enough. That's why I never animate you. And for those of you wondering, I'd have thought he'd think twice about letting his clumsy daughter up in high places, but eh, none of the Parham children ever fell out of that fort. I guess I set a pretty good example of what not to do. You hear that, Mom? Your daughter's a trailblazer. Hey Explainers, just want to say thanks to Eddie Bowley for lending his voice I'll leave a link to his channel in the description. I genuinely love his stuff, so go check him out. I also want to say a big thank you to my longtime friend Megan Maher for storyboarding I'm really excited about this. She's gonna be periodically We've been talking about it since February, And hopefully this means I'll be able to get Anyways, Explainers, thank you so much for tuning in,