Can you beat Pirate Seas with in the first episode of this series, actually &quot;counts&quot; as a garden warfare What about potted plants? Do the forgot about abilities like chomper's spikeweed... ...it's at the start of the video? so here is the rules part 2..i guess POTTED PLANTS DO NOT COUNT! I feel as though plant from the garden warfare games,the especially considering one of WOW GUYS LOOK AT ME GO!- character abilities are still some of you guys forgot this rule no spikeweed, no nut, no purple as for character variants, I think i'm as its more of a fun challenge to have the having to use fire peashooter, and after popular demand we neighborville plants just to spice so with all of that cleared up we who parked their boat in my house- in day 1, dave tells us there's as I went ahead placing sunflowers a part of the...um lawn? is actually These missing tiles are actually intentional, skipping half of the board, making nevermind- Other than this small change to the lawn, and after beating the level, we unlocked... KERNEL CORN That's right, kernel corn is back after he but with his butter stunning powers he is going to so in day 2, instead of using our equally low cost lets us place him straight but in the midst of placing corns off a seagull began to float over the he trickshots this butter throw, day 3 was practically played out the same with and after bullying these zombies by the level ended and we unlocked... SNAPDRAGON snapdragon making his way from battle later...to be honest i forgot i unlocked kernel corn's ability to stop swarms of day 4 we managed to survive only using the we are rewarded with...a chest? &quot;Finally, one of these you horny ass freak it turns out that awesome chest instead infinite levels of I've always wanted a poop deck of my own... dave if you don't shut yo stupid- just as i was about to enter day 5, claim my day 7 rewards...I don't even but it just so happens that day 7 unlocked.... TORCHWOOD so taking torchwood into level we were about to fight fire with with torchwood now being available, we can expensive, slow recharging...space and snapdragon makes light being able to breathe fire across multiple lanes. the fire fighters easily cleared the first of myself as my sun amounts were tanking I was about to lose these lawnmowers but kernel in day 6 i followed a similar strategy but the peashooters were getting overwhelmed despite reason i was placing cacti behind these corns so and i didn't have enough corn Thankfully we made it to the end with decided to create Ultimate Torchwood! we unlocked spikeweed, but remember guys, we're not allowed to use him..why can't day 7 introduced these barrel pushing the spikeweed we were just given Or not- but i had my own idea to get remembering that cactus could shrink i got curious whether she could also explode so placing Cactus near the front, i let the barrel pusher roll over her and all it costed me was a slow recharging realising how stupid my plan was i decided to just moving, and force the imps inside to just stare but i must've got distracted as the barrel pusher (torchwood explodes) hold on...what- so it turns torchwood works a bit different torchwood is destroyed he sets the whole and it also seems that enemies nearby time which...doesn't do TOO much but despite these unique abilities out a couple of my lawnmowers...and i blame you- but thanks to me spam placing every plant i have- we took out the stupid little imp- and i don't know what this is- look out...it's a map! well what's it gonna do Penny, jumpscare me? to treasure! It says "no zombies". MAPS DON'T LIE! that's funny Dave, here you wanna go find the treasure?- day 8, survive a massive attack...i can do that! (reveal bottom line) okay what the fu- oh would you look at this, so not only do i not have lawnmowers but ...oh, whats up snapdragon- day 8 of pirate seas seemed intimidating snapdragon and kernel corn appearing as long as we be careful to not waste these- i continued to place my snapdragons since but this zombie decided to oh no....kernel corn don't c'mon he SO weak cmon now KERNEL- good job oh wait no not again NOT AGAI-....huh are you guys after many close calls later... we somehow actually made it to the final wave... we are not making it past the final wave- in the midst of calculating how to win i accidentally let the conveyor so digging up some spikeweeds, i activated kernel corn's bigger the snapdragons began to lay into them, and i readied myself to fire them they broke free from the butter, and i shhhhiiiiiiIIII- Okay, this is fine! the imps are already are you KIDDING ME- okay YES the first one is down,guys corn i'm gonna need some where's THE PLANTS C'MON SOMETHING PLEASE- (exhale) we tried again but this time i i realised that i need to save as many and after actually paying we had way more plants on and with a whole row of snapdragons, none of When the fatass pirates returned, I as well as maxed out plant food... heh i guess you could say- NOOO- it was a joke guys, don't worry- day 9 had a stranger layout with 3 of the of rows snapdragon is able to hit, after i seem to have this beautiful layout of here we have the kernel corn patch nicely laid out just below them we have my sunflower garden and it's just so perfect...! anyway we unlocked this in day 10, it seems as though I've corn taking up the solid lanes and cactus So as the final zombie walked the plank, I had to carefully choose who GET HIM SUNFLOWER! a lot of the pirate seas levels are very similar which rows are deleted for each level, so we ...where have i seen you before- day 12 has us stumped with a forced minigame, How do I justify me using these cannons? Well... In garden warfare, on the map walnut hills, which his front porch which he CLEARLY took with him for out in this level, i didn't place these cannons crazy dave did, because he took them whoo- okay- if you weren't aware, the coconut cannons in the screen because these guys seem to have oh you want me to kill this zombie? nah, i'm good, you gotta stand up for aww..you let your plant get eaten...TRY AGAIN! the cannon minigame was easy, considering i got the score required and after tallying 19 THOUSAND 200 one silver coin- moving on from this level i got thrown detected a new rift opening- its Arena? that sounds like an in day 13, i think dave is starting to go broke as and what better way to farm sun hey um parrot what are you doing, hey, it turns out captain dickhead along with his a bit crafty and just steal my plants never so after placing 2 corns to his bird got bored and went and snatched parrot tanked two snapdragons breathing but after the pirate was taking out, and every zombie was being taken down with ease- hey wait, who let you back in, no not the in THIS sun economy i can't be losing these the final wave arrived and thankfully you've got to be kidding me grab you water wings, we're going to get wet...! don't ever say no shit like that again- finally a pea shooter level for the pirate seas, simply go for the peashooter-torchwood combo, and all was fine until these barrel about to destroy my torchwoods, but hold aura. we get given threepeater and move on to day hello threepeater! not only that but we also have have somehow grown through the floorboards Thankfully with torchwood being we can plant down our peashooters and take ...um game? I think we're finished now, I remember protect those plants...why are you saying in day 16, as a way to counter the the game has forced spikeweed into my loadout, and thankfully due to these beans i can rack up a whole garden of along came the barrel zombies and as i realised i couldn't place cactus so after panic-buttering everything Jelly Bean is actually goated- i did end up placing a couple more plants them fully protected, take it seems as though dave has got into requires us to defeat 20 zombies in 30 so you may be wondering, how do i achieve such a task killing numerous zombies aura. entering day 18, i was slightly worried when thinking i would be given maybe only sunflower, you know, corn, snapdragon, since the level i realised they gave me none of those so with my trusty...peashooter i began to just place him everywhere, and funny enough i actually beat this level this level all by himself without in day 19 we had to once again protect day 20 needed me to produce and then just to have a laugh day 21 needed me to Dave seriously, what did you we managed to clear both objectives but these imps started to consume literally only 4.99, seed packet not included- day 22 was yet another pea 3 zombies?? okay then- Do you guys like my loadout? with cactus being able to shrink and turn we moved onto...dave c'mon man you're day 23 was reasonably easily, however for on these flowers, all until i misclicked we beat the speedrun objective casually... au- and day 24 came around, with no objectives, either dave finally paid his loan this row of snapdragons made any and after exploding the we have arrived at day 25, boss fight time- i've discovered something in your time machine it's basically the same as my stuff explain to me how yo ass created penny Is it true? Could I be a zombot? User Dave, am I the DAUGHTER OF ZOMBOSS? hold on wait i did not know this, i needa update my theory video because theories and speculation aside, we have the conveyer gives us snapdragon and kernel corn so after beginning to plant down what i had, the lobotomy parrot instantly stole my half of my mowers were already destroyed, and this however after taking out a few zombies although the conveyer once again was clogged up leading to my plants once and after this crazy kernel corn butter snipe, and this is the amount of health Zomboss is on.... yea this is impossible bruh- but after remembering what i Coconut cannon is here to help! ...but dont think this makes the level any easier, but that recharge time makes him the strategy was to find clusters take out as much as he could, whilst the however the conveyor belt kept and i lost once again...this zombie isn't eating at this point i was getting tired and impossible with only garden warfare plants, and my plants kept on being STOLEN- but that's when i noticed we actually took out a third of his health and it gave I continued my coconut cannon strategy of but also to avoid his cooldown, I push back the larger threats the gargantuars were just getting out were able to stun them just for a but just in that moment zomboss took out 2 ROWS of my defence and it looked like i sacrificed another lawnmower to stop zomboss from killing my plants only a third of his health remained however the biggest problem now was finding space to get rid of these plants so the if i place these plants in an area that damages with the parrot stealing my coconut cannon in the bottom lane there was no way and I was right... we lost with only a third of his health left... but i'm no quitter we ran it back but this time conveyor belt with non garden warfare plants and by playing more carefully we actually i continued to get by all of was getting wiped out thanks to all of and at this point, zomboss it all came down to this- ahh what- zomboss you big head- our defence took a big hit, with only 7 plants belt rng, we were getting the exact plants we need and due to this accidental coconut bomb, we stunned zomboss from taking out even more and i knew now it had to be so with one last coconut bomb, WE TOOK OUT but that'll have to be for single pirate seas level beaten and if you want to see us take on below OR get this video to 4,000 likes as