Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. The dog that played Toto in The Wizard of Oz was as Toto, but in reality the dog's name was Terry. And when Terry died in 1945 her owner and trainer Carl Spitz buried in Los Angeles. But in 1958 the Ventura Highway was constructed through Terry's grave. Her remains were disturbed and have never been found. a memorial was erected in Hollywood in her honor but because she isn't burried there, the memorial is not a grave. It's as a cenotaph, an empty tomb. I was reminded of Toto's cenotaph when I saw the cenotaph of Philopappos, atop the Hill of the Muses in Athens. You see, I was recently in talking about YouTube with YouTube all seen eye of Guy came along and we the Acropolis, a Lion Gate - nearly a The earliest known analog computer. cats and I even took a selfie in Delphi. I've seen all of these things and how old they were, it made me wonder how be remembered. How will future archaeologists react to society they find thousands of years Will they do a good job piecing it together? Will anything about you in be remembered? And, for that matter, how do we even know that the past really Not just the way we think it happened, Seriously, can you prove that the universe last Thursday? That everything - every every photo you've taken didn't just pop in last week or five minutes ago? Last Thursdayism is the belief that last Thursday. It doesn't have actual followers or rituals but proving it is impossible. Not because the universe actually was created last Thursday but Thursdayism is not also falsifiable. It cannot be shown to be false. In the explained away as part of the everything that was created last Many people believe that in order for a and explanation to be scientific it must to refute it, to prove it wrong, to test it. So, instead, Last Thursdayism falls of philosophy, where luckily there are razors - little rules of thumb that help shave off unlikely The most famous is Occam's Razor. When explanations, choose the one that requires diffused Occam's Razor can shave off last Thursdayism because it requires fewer assumptions to believe that, say, tomb was constructed way back in the and that I just visited it later than it the tomb, my memories of it and this inside it just happen to coincidentally last Thursday. One of my favourite cuts off so much stuff it's not even called a razor. It's called Newton's Flaming Laser Sword. It states if something cannot be settled by of debate. So let's move on to the past. What does Newton's Flaming Laser Sword tell us about the way gravity or light or protons do. We build control groups, run trials. The past just is what it was. We will one day be the past and no our stories ourselves, without time machines future archaeologists are about us. But that's kinda cool. Future humans will likely know way more about medicine, about exoplanets, about physics. But one thing they almost surely will not know more about than we do is today. Will your great great great great know your name? Will aliens, who visit millions of years after humans leave or understand that Animorphs was just fiction, and not a history of our people? You are destined to become whatever the thinks you were, if you're lucky. Vandals, fire, natural disaster, conquerors, thieves, all of these forces overtime, but no matter how well we tried today for future history books, there's fog we are unlikely to avoid. Apathy. Ira Glass put it well when he asked his listeners a simple 10 people from the 15th century. We have records of more than 10 people they don't matter. In five hundred years radio host will be making the same jokes However, there is a legacy that is irreversible. Immutable, and in a way, unforgettable. To conserve energy, turn off when not in Or just keep them on. Energy will be no matter what you do. Even if you leave there will be no less or more energy in What's really being conserved when we are the resources we turn into energy the lights can use. But if you counted up all the energy in the system, before and it would be the same. Energy also does Unless hindered from doing so, energy will spread out - it will disperse. That is, in so few words, the Second Law of It's how our universe works. It's why do. Energy spreads. Even when a process locally concentrates like when a crystal forms or life grows, the Second Law isn't violated because these aren't independent from the larger world 100 percent efficient. Hindrances can hold long time. The Second Law doesn't say when energy will disperse - just that when it can, oh it will. Balloons will deflate, objects will fall, hot objects will cool and perfume sprayed across the room will even in really still air. How much or how widely energy has spread out is in entropy. Entropy is often called &quot;disorder&quot;, &quot;chaos&quot;. But entropy is very messiness. This deck of cards is themed after Greek philosophers. It's value and suit - the entire deck. But if I and shuffle it, that is, disorder it, I actually increased the deck's entropy, because nothing about this deck of cards' energy is different than it was before. entropy in the greater world around us has increased because in order to my body has to do work. It has to take and change and disperse that energy into movement, and a little bit of heat from friction, and a little bit of sound So there's your real legacy. Your contribution to the universe's entropy. No process will be able to undo the net increase in entropy you accomplish in your life. History may or misinterpret your accomplishments, or The ripples you leave behind may get but the universe will never be able to entropy you add. That's the law. The Second Law of Thermodynamics. Many scientists believe that this means energy - heat - will be completely spread out evenly throughout the universe. It will be everywhere, and at that point nothing to happen. Because in order for something entropy needs to increase, energy needs This may be the ultimate fate of the thermodynamic equilibrium. The &quot;Heat Death&quot; of the universe. It's been estimated that this end the universe will occur in about 8 googol years, and you're contributing by simply existing. A funny consequence is the fact that people who aren't very active, people who don't do much but lay around aren't just being lazy. In a way they're being considerate. Sloth maybe of vice, but to the universe it's a fountain of youth. Choosing to do as little means consciously limiting your to the inevitable dispersal of energy and in a teeny-tiny way postponing the &quot;Heat Death&quot; of our universe. Relaxing adds time to the universe's life: in amount of from zero, but still theoretically real. Being lazy will make the universe last longer. So thanks for chilling out. Thanks for taking it easy. And, as always, thanks for watching.