It seems that no matter how much there is to learn low-end frequencies and how to control them producers. So, let's demystify some of the science in a studio environment, and give you strategies in your Productions. Now, speaking of perception, speaking, we've been running a 50 hertz sine shouldn't be. Low end is hard to hear unless you the right mindset. Many of our audio devices like reproduce low end information, like the tone that to accurately represent low end in a way that our time to throw on some good quality headphones or like the one I just mentioned are coming. And it's that your ears, your room, even your gear low end. But, if you're armed with the right these low end challenges. So, let's define the Thank you, your ears. Now, first, what am I controls on your car's speaker system. That bass and the treble adjusts the high frequencies, frequencies between the lows and the highs, when I say the low end in the context of the frequency range spanning between 0 and 250 considered low mid-range, and above that, to the highs. You can see low end encompasses where the more fundamental or tonal frequencies 250 Hertz that's so difficult for producers to noticed earlier that this 50 hertz sine wave was it to you. Much harder to hear than my voice. elements like sustained bass or 808s to be as loud as you can see, spans a wide frequency range on this in practice. Let's play that 50 hertz tone Yeah, now I'll play an upper It seems that controlling low-end frequencies is despite their extensive knowledge about repairing, will demystify the science behind how low-end is and provide strategies for achieving a Speaking of perception, imagine that a 50-hertz the entire time I have been speaking. Low-end equipment and mindset. Audio devices such accurately reproduce low-end information, and even in a way that our ears can perceive. It would be fire up your loudspeakers at this point because gear can prevent you from successfully perceiving you can overcome these challenges. Let's define which is your ears. When we talk about we are referring to the frequency where the more fundamental or tonal frequencies range is challenging for producers to hear and human ear perceives low-end elements like than mid or high instruments. To see this in and internalize how loud it feels, and then let's Which one sounded louder to you? Well, technically decibels each, but that 2.5 kilohertz that sounded what's going on here? The human range of and through a number of interesting experiments ears are especially sensitive to sounds residing sensitive in the lower range. Even though both sounds louder than the other and always will as So, this is the first thing we need to remember higher frequencies than lower frequencies, even measurable loudness. This is why audio engineers (dB) when they're mixing and mastering music. this skewed perception of frequency. In fact, and some say this is likely due to the resonant you'll notice that the 50 hertz tone and the because LUFs takes into account that human according to the LUFs reading, is So, what does this mean for you, the producer? you should turn low-frequency content up in LUFs level as stuff in the upper mid-range like the tendency to crank low-frequency content low-end swampy mess, which might be why you're I'm not saying never turn your low end up. In in loudness and prominence across the history of today's digital streaming file formats. These essentially, for low end. It used to be the stylus would just jump right out of the much more low end can be present in a so to speak. But with the rising level of low how to properly manage it if your mixes are going Okay, so that was a lot. Let's summarize. Humans to high and mid frequencies, as shown by the engineers use LUFs as a loudness standard, and to mid frequencies. The rising level of low end have to learn how to properly manage this mix produced material. So now that we've talked and how our ears perceive it, let's pivot to In an acoustic environment, like your bedroom production, we refer to the speakers as mono monitors, it's important to invest in a pair that response across the 20 to 20K audible frequency talk about what that means in a moment) is For the best low-end reproduction, you'll want to accurately, so ideally, you're investing in a two Let's take a second to talk about near-field mains that you see in studios that are sometimes flush they're extremely expensive, and many engineers because the smaller near-field monitors that we're true average Joe consumer listening experience. or the ns10s aren't going to spit out low-end Now, some engineers look to things like special low-end health, but actually hearing the low end do I need a subwoofer, which covers around the 20 but really, that stuff down there is more felt chapter, a sub isn't always necessary, but if you same manufacturer as your larger stereo monitors, the subwoofer in your space. Having it below the monitors isn't always the best location, so A quick word about enclosures - you'll often see sometimes called a port or a vent, is Holes like this make the bass really come this resonator might be ideal for impressing the producer, on the showroom floor, but honestly, hole with some foam or another material to see low end. In fact, my loudspeaker comes with the port can often deliver a tighter bass is better for my mixing and mastering work At the end of the day, when shopping for listen to as many as you can and ideally test develop their monitor, they don't test actually use anechoic chambers, so it's your own space plays when considering Let's recap: look for monitors with an even range for accurate low-end representation. Try speaker design. Those Oritone cubes or Yamaha Subwoofers are not necessary, but if you buy them, stereo monitors and experiment with its placement. vents on your monitors for a tighter, more polite space if you can because manufacturers test theirs speaking about low end and how it behaves in your For everything we've said about loudspeakers, room treatment, and low end frequencies can low end frequency content leaves your monitors, it and when this low end reaches a surface like a at that point of contact, almost as if you've creates what's called a standing wave, which bounces back and forth between two surfaces walls. You've essentially confined it such that endlessly until you turn the monitors off. These causing certain frequencies to be either amplified resulting in resonant frequencies modes don't just happen horizontally, right? They Now, to make these matters worse, according frequency is caught in that resonant Loop, all are also confined. For instance, if the then its harmonics, including 100, 150, 200, news? The deepest resonant frequencies happen to small rooms. These lower frequencies meaning you're going to hear these modes, bad decisions because you can't tell So, what can we do? Keep your speakers as as possible. The closer they are, the more low absorption and diffusion. This is back when I was is to disperse Sound Energy, even low-frequency absorbers work by absorbing Sound Energy, thus that we discussed earlier. Absorbers are like the one that I'm in, and the reason is we damp the reflected energy and therefore Now, to prevent vibrations from affecting and these are sometimes made from foam monitors from the surface that they're and this is going to ensure that without any back vibrations from its stand This decoupler is often said to deliver a more and maybe even a dash of corrective room software be a challenge. You might be tempted to your room altogether, so let's talk a little With headphones, you get to kick the room modes on those in another video) to the curb. When you the low end from around 80 to 400-500 hertz like cone filtering from early reflections, or the equilateral triangle, those are moot. Even your ears perfectly based on your posture or lack embrace them, especially for referencing What's more, you and everyone you know uses so it's good to hear what they're So let's sum up: loudspeakers are useless can be difficult to control because it spreads in waves when they reach different surfaces. Standing frequencies to be amplified or attenuated. These keep speakers away from boundaries and Isolation pads can prevent vibrations from really useful tool for referencing low Now that we've gone over the acoustic and how to manage it in the physical world, how the would agree that you should mix with your ears hearing range of bats. And as I mentioned, and our ears, even our gear can work against us. for confirming or denying what we think we hear end vibrations. In the last 10 years, metering displaying energy, width, tonality, and more. of meters and settle on the one that best You might be familiar with phase meters that and right channels of the mix. Now, this meter in or out of phase, which has some low end if my low end is too boomy or too flat or totally measures average or peak loudness. They which is a VU meter. Now, these meters, tell us very little about what's going on in the solution for this task. You might be familiar frequency energy from that human hearing range It's basically another way to view energy spread, like we saw in our musical frequency chart. about the health of our low end than the won't tell us is whether or not the low end is because different genres have different tolerances Tonal Balance Control. Now, we've made loads of it displays the health of your track's frequency and it's an effective way to see your low end - working against you acoustically. You'll see both low end we've been talking about this whole time you play your track with Tonal Balance parked on your mix while the bluish-green blob shows the Now, here's where iZotope Tonal Balance Control genre targets, you can see how your low end different genres have different allowances for all just so you know, these targets were informed by the streaming services today. And you can actually custom curves or whole folders of songs as well. and keep within the bounds of one of these genre and frequency from the drop-down menu here without around. If your bass or kick drum feel too loud range, you can just call up Ozone or Neutron and Now, we're going to look at this more in that iZotope makes Audiolens. This is an including a streaming service playing your the tone, level, width, and dynamics, creating And you can use that target to inform Ozone's But first, let's tackle the form, and definition - largely depend on the been obsessing over in this video. It's usually where the fundamental frequency or lowest note overtones or timbre of the instrument follow. Now, when I said non-essential content back to our musical frequency chart. If we the typical instrumentation found in many modern let's adjust the ranges to reveal the actual Not so clear and tidy anymore, is it? We now see a kick, snare, piano, guitars, pads, vocals have zero to 250 Hertz range. Now, as a mixer, your mix. And to be successful, you need to Well, remember this chart: bass and kick how little can be genre-dependent. Many tracks when taken away, don't affect the identity of the a high-pass filter, we're decluttering the low cut with a high-pass filter, take a look at some gentle slope cutting low end already, so you can there. Try bringing up the filter until the body to where the most important tone of the track be needlessly contributing to your low end. investigate this in a mix that I have here that's Using Neutron's EQ Spectrum, I'm going allowing the highs to pass effectively cutting obscuring the low end. This is hopefully going Internal balance control, and I'll use some all this subtractive EQ work can be a bit we want to add energy to our mix. Think about shocking, but if you give it a day or two, in their facial features. That's kind of what subtract, clear away to add definition. By giving you're actually revealing what's most I've identified the following sources end in this song: the percussion loop, electric guitar, and the synth. And even off some of that subsonic information I use gentle filter slopes all across my &quot;Where you belong, you're iZotope Tonal Balance Control tells us end given our country target, which is where Now, you'll notice I didn't turn the bass down or down. I just cleared things away. So sometimes, frequency pruning. So clearing away unnecessary really made a difference in terms of firming clarity to my ears. The vocals are a bit more sounds cleaner overall. That's an example of I want to speak about definition a bit more, recognizable the sounds are from one another. low-end information from non-bass instruments will even further? For example, now that my kick and how can they be more focused and articulate? Well, which happens when one sound overlaps another, Neutron allows us to deploy our unmasking frequencies and clears them up immediately We take a detour into jazz town for the next example. You'll see three sound a drum loop, and some sax. Now, individually, these instruments are really strong, But you'll see that when it's the kick just has a hard time being heard. So, in order to tackle this low-end challenge, Neutron Unmask here, and then I'll also drag to the other track as well. I'm going So, right now, the bass is kind of walking my jazz bass track and I'll select the Now, we're not going to see anything yet, but I Purple is my kick, the rest so the kick's fundamental is right here and to work untangling one from the other, and So that sounds okay, but what I want to do is I see the kick's fundamental in purple poking up prevent unmasking from affecting anything bring this up a little bit. Monitoring the release and attack all Sensitivity can come up just to make sure we're and that sounds super modern. It but I want to split the difference a bit Great. So now what I've done is I've unmasked the Kick sounds much more present. Let's see So listen to how the bass is still present and mids, but in that zero to 250 Hertz range, And this is the work that goes into untangling think really improves the intelligibility Now, there's a few other ways to bring more More often than not, that zero to 250 Hertz the mix into a tubby soupy mess. So consider of low-end instruments, effectively extending allowing the listener to locate and source playback systems with really bad low-frequency we have a few tools to help with this to the added pop and snap we can add to Take a listen to how that 808 perks up and Now, my last tip for controlling low end is going compression. We've already produced six seasons of series, which I very much encourage you to watch repeating here. Low-frequency energy contained in lots of energy. Bass drum, bass guitar, the bottom these instruments will often trigger a mastering melodic instruments with more constant level, like threshold is pulled down, dynamic and transient get to work more quickly, which could cause a kind to you, that's undesirable, head to the side-chain filter to effectively stop low-frequency By performing this move, I'm not allowing or even the bottom of that snare. Let's that low end is retained in the after and how it What happened there, that pumping caused by is effectively gone, allowing more of the to you to decide if you like the pumping or not. high passing I was doing earlier to get the tonal just to give you tools and strategies to navigate for watching this video. We've reached the end, related to low-end management, but I hope that the end are going to leave a comment with their you folks now have knowledge and tools to