Golden light fish Hey hey Oops. This fish is small is small But a few came as soon as possible. Living in groups Press it, hey hey wow These two are quite big Here's one As soon as I let go, it will run very fast. This fish Here you see The toilet is approaching, ah ah ah Oh, fortunately, there are many stones. Come out, ah ah ah ah ah swimming crab Wow, look, it's a lot Then you came Ah, ah, ah, ah Ha ha This is the rhythm of wealth All hide in the stone crack here Look, there's another one. It's all Ding Gong fish. Huh. Hey Wow. If it were all big fish, I 'd be rich. You see this inside this Er, hey, hey Wow, this one is dead. It's all stuck in the stone. Come here. Can't move I haven't had this much fun in a long time. Oh, I ran away. Ah, alas Oh, it's all good stuff. Oops, oops You will wait pa All right. Look at how much has been pulled Oh, my God. Here are three. Four articles Five, six. There may be four or five catties. Do you have any Wow. If it's all big fish, I'll be rich. I can't forget this function. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on How is treasure Oh, oh, oh, wow Big basin, laundry and dishes four Four are not. Good drink good drink too satisfying Today's meal is a big deal. There may be 300 or 400 dollars I counted wrong There should be more than 40 Don't do this We're all full and we still have a big bucket. Can't finish eating at all too arrogant Are you not satisfied with this? Not satisfied Satisfied, okay. Share it here today. Thank you for watching, bye-bye Bye-bye Dragon fish, right? There is, there is, there is Also bowed to me to say thank you Do you have it? Oh. I haven't found the goods for half a day. I thought it was golden shellfish. I found a clam. Good. It's too small. It's smaller than a stone crab. Grow up a little first Well, it's been here Hey, the card is so tight This is the orchid crab Can I take this? So big, very not easy look for one Wow, this cream crab is from You see, this old wound on his leg is about to grow out. Wow. Today's tide is so dry I have no hope, alas Do you look like a goldfish? Oops. It's too big for my hands to hold it Ah ah ah ah hum Wow. This guy, you see I see where you still run Wow. So big, you see Wow, I reckon it hasn't been stranded long It's so big, I almost couldn't subdue it. Hey. You look rich, beautiful This 50 or 60 yuan a kilo of red fish I thought it was alive. Stone crab looks too much like green crab Oh ho It's got its leg. You see, you see Ah. Can't run away Wow, such a small It took me so much effort Shout out shy oh Hey. Hey, it's coming out. This one can also be taken, although it is not a big swimming crab. You see, they come here every day They all brought food. Look I gave him my crab I broke it off Put nobility and home in the soup. Ha. Just now, a piece of blood can flow through blood. This staircase is about to turn right. Mao Road to Go I don't remember it after I just inquired about the market situation. Listen to my aunt said across the island People can dig clams for more than 1000 dollars a day. The small ones are sold to others. Then I just heard this aunt say Ah, there are two young men Caught a big fish. I don't know what kind of fish. Wow, what a shame It seems that I have gained little today. But it doesn't matter I got a big red fish today. And heard some business opportunities Well, let's go here first today. Thank you all Bye-bye Hello, I'm Chung Eat some breakfast and go to the sea. This is my own dried shrimp porridge, very fresh There's a lot of clams here, look. There are a lot of clams here. It's just too expensive for nails. Clams have black clams and sea white clams. Their names are different. Look, there are a lot of snails here. The stone is too sharp Hey, have you seen it? Alas Touch it, touch it Er, er, er Hit inside, black Just moved I don't know where I hit it It's strange that it wants to turn black bream when it sees the hole. Oh, it's stuck again. black sea bream Two more. Eh, hey. Another one. Ah, this You see Ah, good oh, did you win Oops. You see The lid was all run away by it Well, let's go, er, er, hey, er, ha, ha, ha Hey, wow. It's not easy to grasp the camera with one hand, but another one. Oh, oh, two Er, hey, hey, hey, um Wow, I feel a lot of fish It was too late to catch two of them when they ran out at once. I couldn't find this slate Oh, hold him down I broke a leg over there. I don't even know if I hit it when I was just moving a stone. I haven't seen it just now. The sky is so beautiful. Let's go and see if the fish was still there before. The water is still muddy If you touch it, it's stuck inside. Oh, um... Wahaha, it's really grouper This is a dragon Wow, I 've been touching it for an hour. Wow, the resources near Haiqi are great. You see so many good goods Even a lot of clams Let's look at today's clouds I haven't seen such a beautiful cloud for a long time. hello everyone I am Chong. The resources in Jinghai District are excellent. It's all some intimate goods. It is not very big, but it is also very satisfied. Special happy today All right, let's share it here. Thank you all. Bye These sea-goers, the eight immortals, crossed the sea, each showing his magic power. Today's tide is very beautiful Start looking for goods Here's a nest of clams. Here too. This is also very big There are still so small you see Two big ones, this Wow, this is big this big You see, the waves the day before yesterday were so big All the 5-kilometer net walls have been knocked down. Unrecognizable It's just like seeing what a crab is. Oh, look Wow, it's silvery white. I thought it was something My stomach is bulging like this. a big one Look at the American red fish, ouch it's quite fresh it's all red The belly bulge is so big, I thought it stinks I'm kind today. Hey hey This head is big enough Don't run away There should be four or two This one didn't drill a hole You nest here, you see oops Hold it so tight This one is a little smaller. It's also a new crab, alas this green crab is too thin When I touched it, all my thighs fell off. Calcium deficiency? You Clams There are a lot of these little clams here. Here comes another one. Look Ah, this Shouldn't this hole be the one that kills the crab? How can there be this stone crab in it? Let's go. This is where you should be Attack below Ten big heads One is good enough. The cheapest sea fish costs tens of dollars a kilo. I am not sure how much this is. Hello everyone, I am Cong Share it here today. We'll see you next time. Bye-bye. See you. Hello, everyone I am Cong I can't imagine wearing a cotton-padded jacket in summer. Since the volcano erupted last year You feel anxious about the temperature in the city. It's still so cold at this time, ah I also played so many snails today. There is a piece of genuine leather coming up here. There are scallops here. Look, this mouth is open. There are scallops today. Oh, B is back. Can't find these difficulties are the eyes Is this a little bigger? I am a senior not Ah, so many clams here Ah, not so big oh Not apples. Look at this side. There are so many scallops and clams. You see, there are snails This is a few hundred dollars of grouper What's the name of the spot? The spot forgot You see, there are still so many nests here. Well, good Wow. Is this because of the sudden change in temperature so there are so many scallops? I have a large area here This is all good You see so much Wow, you big clam You can hear it. It's so fat Today I have a good mouth and I am rich. I don't say wow, this mouth is big I'm from the shell You see, there's still I got a head shot. This row of blue ones looks like sensors. It's all from his eyes A lot of people don't know Wow. There is a shallow pile here, not so big. Don't make any noise. Don't make any noise. The grass owner came up and spoiled him. Wow, you see there are so many here Wow. Rich today, rich I burst a barrel today Can't fit any more Although scallops are not as heavy as clams But this big bucket should have more than ten catties. I estimate that there will be scallops to eat in the next few days. Look at this tide, this weather You come down and wait for it to be ready. Well, hello start One of me told you Now only one-third of the products can't be baked and the rest can be put in the refrigerator. I'm ready to eat See here bye bye Hello everyone, I am Cong I have come to the sea Before you saw my video I didn't pick up many snails. So I came here today to pick up snails for you to see. These are all because of the long-term absence of saline So it's a shell. Like these are real The color is very light These are also bad This is good Hey, you see there is meat here Right? The color doesn't look different, does it? Well, it's beautiful Here are all so many Do you know why I came to pick it up today? Because the southwest wind blew two days ago. If it is also a southwest wind, it will blow down a lot more specially. Less now. In the past, the words were packed in baskets. This is meat. It's all meat. See, ah stirring No one here wants this. Just like your snail, it's overflowing. We are too dirty So no one eats at all Just leave it to rot on the beach There are clams here this big There's a line here There are big and small You don't know hiding next to here Clams and busbars are all over the place As long as you want to eat some to eat I heard that Guangxi is 20 yuan a kilo, right I have about ten jin here I can't finish eating. Remember to tell dad last time. do you want it or not Don't I'm full. I'm full. Why is there still this thing? This thing can't eat I was just about to eat Let's share it here today. Thank you all. Bye-bye.