Okay I'm not going to spoil literally every heads up...and also I'm going to spoil Animorphs. The first Zelda game I ever played was The It was the first "real game" I got for game" I ever beat. Certainly, it felt the most meaningful at Twilight Princess was the first encounter or Zelda, or Ganondorf. And in some ways, it's an ironic place for Because Twilight Princess is the darkest Zelda. I felt it right when I started the game. The first scene of Twilight Princess is drenched at dusk. "Loneliness always pervades the hour of "The only time we can feel the lingering And after defining the twilight as a time game proceeds to set a huge amount of its shrouded in burnt orange and shadows. This is a story that's sparked by Princess Hyrule to violent usurpers. It's a story where "all the people know And shaped by the world, our protagonist, He, and everything else in the game, are drawn titles. He's an adult throughout the entire game. He scowls in his key art. He turns into a wolf, a badass dangerous animal. When Link learns new fighting moves, he learns of himself. When he finishes an enemy, he does it by plunging Twilight Princess is the only Zelda to be for "everyone," so declares the ESRB. The thematic threads of the game are far from Instead, they weave around notions of power- they intend to do with it. For example, this is the game that introduces Zant seeks violence and power in an attempt throw everything into darkness. And he's not just driven by villainy, but monarchy of the land he's from. His need for conquest ties him to another game as a near-god. To Ganondorf, Zant is a puppet; briefly useful, Even Midna, Link's impish companion, is A huge amount of the game revolves around a catalyst for a power she's barely able it, she immediately uses to just murder someone. Even Link himself, Nintendo's most famous and heroism, experiences his own reckoning In perhaps the game's most famous cutscene, one that doubles as a history of its conflicts. Himself and his childhood crush play both each other for the slightest chance at the It is a scary and disturbing scene, full of terror from the characters. It also, most unexpectedly of all, ends with Link; dozens of copies of the lover he just of what he might do were he given the magic Then Link passes out, overwhelmed by the premonition. Twilight Princess's visuals are consistently Certain scenes border on avant-garde. The final battle with Ganondorf, huge, climactic, a background blasted white. The former villain, Zant, appears for just that moment, Ganondorf dies too. And then the three just stand, wordless, silhouetted One of the great joys of getting older and media and discovering new aspects of it. I'm sure everyone has had the experience finding stuff that was always there, but too up on. The most basic, and probably most common version our heads. ["I have this tiny...little, uh," "I'm "Like that is my favorite name!" "Really?" "Yeah!"] These jokes rarely add much depth or complexity weed or animated characters making dick jokes They're more like concessions to teens and They're indications that yeah, this movie who know what weed and dicks are. A more advanced version of the adult joke audience may have never encountered. I'm sure I'm not the only one who watched as a kid, only to have a sudden understanding Cape Fear, or A Streetcar Named Desire. Walking backwards into culture like this was me feel like I was watching something that But the much more exciting and meaningful piece of media didn't just hold adult jokes never consciously clocked. Some of the absolute classics of kids literature- in Time- are classics in large part due They're not hiding their depth or making about emotional experiences that children Part of being a kid is wondering why a grown-up out loud, and a part of being an adult is And I think, even without comprehending everything child. You know that there are things in this that you're not quite sure how to name them. It's what made books and movies and games I think what I wanted most as a kid was the me. I wanted to be given feelings I didn't have It's why Twilight Princess was so exciting. Yes, this was a video game, yes it was on to the things I didn't quite understand If you're familiar with the Zelda series' the development of The Legend of Zelda: Majora's It was a game made in less than two years of Time. It's why the scale of the game is smaller And yet, either despite or because of this Koizumi somehow ended up making Majora's Is there a more unsettling start screen than Silence except for the mask spinning past, as one or both of them cackles, the tranquil be under a horrible moon inexorably falling And then, immediately upon beginning the game, away from the land that made him a legend," to handle the fame and heroism placed upon And then we see him, slowly plodding through robbed, dragged alongside his horse, and falls mysterious symbols all the way. He's transformed against his will and meets met with a terrible fate, haven't you?" And then he finds out the world is going to Three days is all the time Link has, to gather push the moon back into the sky. It's an impossible task and not enough time, of a child who's already fleeing the weight It is an unfair request for Termina to make all the same. Majora's Mask is a game about fighting inevitability, and over and over again. The annihilation caused by the moon falling a threat that the player has to use, confronting while the bringer of mass death hangs just The clock tower rings again and again. This is how the world ends, this is how the 5:50, it's- It's no surprise that Majora's Mask is than the rest of the series. Thousands argue that the game's major missions even the game's structure is wrapped around One step further, another theory says, Link each person and creature another manifestation Not only that, says the internet legend, but Ben Drowned, the most notorious video game A dead boy's spirit said to remain within It makes sense, in the logic of spooky myth. What game could he possibly inhabit except with death? All of this seems to circle around the character figure, a child made into a husk, the subject fraction of. You can't blame the memers, either. So much of Majora's Mask feels like it lives bits and pieces you'd hear about from friends Link doesn't just transform into other creatures agonizing process. Those masks aren't generic figures either; who perish right in front of us. It is a game in which you must inhabit the And as a cherry on top, you're eventually that manifests a statue of that previous life the hell this is. It is not just an oppressive game thematically, gradually builds up the weight of the world to be offset, never removed. As a kid, darkness in media can make it feel Because, whether we conceptualize it this of training ground for experiencing emotions And positive experiences don't necessitate run for having a great day, or passing all Maybe that's why those were the first media I didn't want to be talked down to, and But dark stories, stories with death or violence that I wanted to play. How would I feel and act if I lost a loved Would I hold myself together if I knew the How many orcs could I kill? (That last one is seriously a conversation Aragorn could kill dozens, and obviously I maybe I could still take on three or four). And written well, these stories can be more but guides, introducing us to new strategies potential pitfalls. I'm not saying any of this was conscious- deal with sadness. But sometimes, that happened anyway. And often, those would be the books I thought I've talked before about my love of the library I would check about eight of them, And by doing this repeatedly over a period of them (except Megamorphs 2: In The Time One of the reasons I was so infatuated with scary, and the characters had to make really But as a kid, I never really thought about I just kinda liked their vibe. I was a kid. I bring up Animorphs because it's good as have the rare treat of the author acknowledging all without ruining the thing! After the finale of the series, she wrote (uhh, Animorphs spoilers I guess): Quite a number of people seem to be annoyed There are a lot of complaints that I let Rachel That I let Visser Three/One live. That Cassie and Jake broke up. That Tobias seems to have been reduced to That there was no grand, final fight-to-end-all-fights. That there was no happy celebration. And everyone is mad about the cliffhanger So I thought I'd respond. Animorphs was always a war story. Wars don't end happily. Not ever. Some people who were brave and fearless in Always people die in wars. And always people are left shattered by the Here's what doesn't happen in war: there are the good guys standing tall and the bad guys Life isn't a World Wrestling Federation Smackdown. Even the people who win a war, who survive that they have done something brave and necessary, There's very little chanting of 'we're number war. I'm just a writer, and my goal was always But I've never let Animorphs turn into just and I wasn't going to do it at the end.... And to tell you the truth I'm a little shocked wrap it all up with a lot of high-fiving and Wars very often end, sad to say, just as ours another war. So, you don't like the way our little fictional You don't like Rachel dead and Tobias shattered You don't like that one war simply led to Fine. Pretty soon you'll all be of voting age, and So when someone proposes a war, remember that wars where the lines of good and evil are dead, a lot of people crippled, and a lot If you're mad at me because that's what you I couldn't have written it any other way and felt for Animorphs readers. I will not attribute my current day politics I do not think they're the reason I don't But I read these books so much as a kid. I read them far before I read about World And Applegate knew that, one day, I and all books, and watch movies, and consume propaganda, She knew that the world we lived in wasn't be doing us a disservice. The darkness wasn't just Animorphs' hook- If you didn't understand its darkest themes, There is no such manifesto from the directors used the themes that they did. But you don't need to hear their explicit about it. It is a Zelda game about the end of the world kids will be playing it. And as a result, Majora's Mask is both generally theorization. Its undeniable darkness almost begs for analogies, to life after death. Majora's Mask lets its characters, and its than most media does. It doesn't snatch its apocalypse away. The game forces Link to examine it from every you would do, who you would be, become unavoidable. The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild is near-ubiquitous title for the near-ubiquitous It's a reinvention of the series in a new structures, a re...ason to be excited about Perhaps we shouldn't be surprised that, also decided to make Breath of the Wild the Breath of the Wild is explicitly, definitively, green one. Humanity only exists in small enclaves, separated The castle sits at the center of the kingdom, And littering the landscape are reminders These robotic guardians were created by the the robots were almost immediately corrupted Hyrule built weapons of war, and those weapons And the heroes of the game, Revali and Urbosa could meaningfully fight back. Link remains, kept in suspended animation overwhelming evil for just as long. And because they're still around a century Link, unable to hold back the horde of corruption, most of her friends were already dead. It is a game in which each acre, every abandoned is a monument to your failures. Contrary to the frustrated memes of kids in be "just blue" in art. Subtext, metaphor, thematic parallels, can You can draw meaning from a plot point or they were just creating some curtains. And these interpretations are not inherently evidence from the text. And as I said, being an adult with fully operational to the media we enjoyed as kids. But often, I see a secondary motivation slip Not only do people want to see if they can but we also want to validate the time we spent favorites with newfound "mature" readings. I am no stranger to this, of course- I'm games, it's kinda part of the job. But this can also manifest in some of my least A phenomenon I'll call the "secretly fucked You don't have to look far on the internet Turns out..the rugrats are all dead, except Turns out...Nemo never existed and Marlin Turns out every freaking story ever told is the mind of the dying protagonist! They're inane, purposeless fantasies that than some abstract idea of "wouldn't it And while I recognize that a lot of these writing exercises, they're also fundamentally they're not, ignoring the existing narrative At their worst, these theories not only try Finding Nemo, if it's a story of a father's for kids. If Willy Wonka is actually about sacrificing sure, your nephew might "like" Willy Wonka Nevermind that the actual, stated narrative all a cover for the real fucked up story. This is most clearly illustrated in the popularity Icebergs take the form of this picture, separated of secrets and fan theories scattered across As you get deeper into the iceberg, the ideas For instance, an iceberg on Mario might have at the top, but get to the bottom and you've of a different deadly sin." Icebergs are fun and goofy and often just has spiraled in on itself. But their structure also implies a direct of the media. To know that Luigi is Mario's brother requires the seven deadly sins analogy necessitates psyche. Or at least, that's what it gives the impression In reality, Luigi is Mario's brother, and of the seven deadly sins. But such bizarre arguments take hold because readings of media are superior to "kiddy" dark, twisted, and disturbing are inherently Although the cultural tide has rightfully release, many fans were disappointed with of the game. Nintendo had previously shown a tech demo brighter aesthetic was a surprise and letdown The superficiality of this take is obvious, of Zelda: The Wind Waker is the darkest Zelda. It's partway through the game when you discover Because Wind Waker isn't set in a different it's the same Hyrule, simply drowned, the never receded. And like Noah, the devastating flood is theoretically the gods in an effort to stop him. What ultimately stops him is not nature, but Where floods failed, sharp violent head trauma But his demise isn't the most striking part into old Hyrule, when you sink below the waves stretching towards the surface, and find // -it floating over a lake of lava and the rest terrifying "redeads" grabbing you and Link's expedited adulthood is met with a The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time loves you, whether that's a zombie in town, a or the bottom of a well full to the brim with But none of these fleeting scares compare After repeatedly jumping forward and back punishing final blow, and sending him screaming home, regain the time he lost. "Home," she says, "where you are supposed She plays the Ocarina and Link is, once more, But Link, the boy, is from a forest community, alongside a fairy companion. And Link's fate at the end of Ocarina of old- we've seen him do it. And the last moments of the game see his fairy, Link walks out of the temple of time alone- -and realizes that the entire island, every is part of a dream. And the villagers' naivete doesn't make ending the game means ending the dream, and It's a game where accomplishing Link's bonds, and while the island itself might not Link // -drops an entire island on the monster, but Instead, the imprisoned transforms into Demise, and blood. Demise first calls Zelda a "bag of flesh," sea of clouds. What's so dismaying about Demise isn't in history. Skyward Sword is chronologically the very at the end of the game, to be bound to Link monsters, to doom him to "wander a blood-soaked true, over and over and over again, meaning- -that humans have altogether abandoned the Link isn't just an adventurer, he's the -dark world the exact size of the light one, // -"lorule" that is essentially a world an antagonist who's only real motivation // Ocarina of Time/Link's Awakening/Skyward is The problem, ultimately, is what that darkness I could write 90% of an essay on how any of but then you get to the end and...what? "Isn't it crazy how messed up this is"? It's an empty reading, substanceless. Ironically, it's juvenile. Being "messed up" is not a theme. Darkness is not a narrative. Violence on its own is not mature. Every description I've given thus far is why should I care? Because Twilight Princess is not just about visions. It's a game where those darker aspects framing out more; Zelda's generosity, Link's inspiring to survive. It becomes a story about relying on others, twilight only due to the support they receive Link never succumbs to the ominous vision it alone- unlike Ganondorf, Link's fight And at the end, Link loses one of his closest but because they both understand they have Midna leaves because her community needs her support is to them. And Majora's Mask isn't just about the recognizing that inevitability and still choosing inescapable with every last breath. If Majora's Mask is a metaphor for grief, a metaphor that begs you to not lay down and Although time moves inexorably forward, and mean that the present is a lost cause. And even in the midst of Link's own grief, And Breath of the Wild may live in the post-apocalypse, consider the apocalypse is that in name only. Although whatever we considered "the world" a world here and it's alive and passionate Link and Zelda may blame themselves for the doesn't prevent them from trying to heal And for everyone else, they don't particularly of something terrible; life just adapts, it To brand any of these games simply as "the the trees, focus on the storytelling methods are doing with them. Heroism shines when contrasted with the darkness. Acts of compassion mean more when stakes are And this perspective also misses the levity as well! A world without joy and humor isn't a compelling Every one of these games become meaningful characters and silly mini games and the idea metal boots out of his pocket and puts them Zelda games flourish in this twilight, the The disparate tones mutually empower each And Wind Waker may float above the ruins of kept aloft by an incredible sense of exploration, choose, and // Link may not get to live in the perpetual that the world offers him so much more, that the tiny woods he was previously confined He goes from a boy who doesn't fit in to face any task, and then he's able to take The island not with a sense of dread, but He's clinging to a plank, floating in the acceptance? With confidence in his choice? With the memory of Marin, who soars overhead? The game refuses to spell it out for us, but After his confrontation with Demise, Link Demise has promised to return, again and again, what's more, he isn't alone. He has glimpsed the basest, most destructive beautiful, he flies forward knowing // Every corner of the once-imposing land. The forests, deserts, and mountains that were // The Princess relents and sends them home, own kingdom isn't worth the death of another, Link touches the Triforce with a wish, not ones he loves, and // We're left at the end with darkness, yes, But we're left with hope, too. Because Ganondorf...is the hottest character. Because Ganondorf...is the hottest character. I'm sorry, I've tried and I've tried to my hairline, I don't think it's possible. Anyway, this video is sponsored by Henson I am someone who, even in non-ridiculous situations, And since I first got a razor of theirs, 6 with my Henson Razor. Here's the spiel: This is a safety razor, convinced us we needed seven blades and gel It uses actual razor blades, which cost literal solutions. And, especially on this Henson, the whole shave is as smooth as anything I've experienced. Henson is one of my favorite sponsors I've I'm selling you on this. Not a free trial, not a subscription razor A really nice razor you buy once. Here is a true story: a longtime family friend present after I told him that I actually used Also- it's not just for beards! You can shave your legs, your armpits, whatever AND, because they gave me a promo, you'll razor with code JACOB. Put 'em both in your cart and it'll knock Honestly, I hope they never stop sponsoring to my face, and B. I sincerely believe that buy once and it makes your life better multiple Follow the link in the description and use you buy a razor.