Vladimir Vladimoirovich Putin, ex-KGB agent He is a man of great power, and a ruthless in power as the head of the Russian government- It has been said that Russia is not a failing and Vladimir Putin is at the reins of the Under his watch hundreds of Russians have and whistleblowers assassinated, while the figures have been enriched greatly to the greatest wealth inequalities amongst industrialized Putin grew up in a small apartment in then-Leningrad, His family was working class, which in the From his earliest years, Putin is fond of his mother had cornered a rat, and knowing extremely dangerous. It's a fitting story for a man who has clawed When he was about 17, Putin approached the He was told to return when he was older, and to pursue a law degree. There he met Anatoly Sobchak, who at the time law- the two would make an impression on each in creating the Putin we know today. Putin for his part would be instrumental in In 1975 Putin joined the KGB and was sent Leningrad. After training he worked in the Second Chief operations, and was eventually transferred be tasked with monitoring foreign officials For the KGB this meant not just keeping tabs and discovering any potential opportunities This is likely where Putin gained his infamous his supporters and critics alike confirming an individual's true motives. This is also what made him a successful intelligence line in the US-Soviet intelligence war- East Putin would serve in Dresden from 1985 to with the state of affairs in the Soviet Union, whom he saw as responsible for the decline Very little is known about Putin's exact activities group members and intelligence agents from forward with various claims. It's widely believed that Putin had a direct that the Soviet Union saw as useful, such movements. Putin was believed to be responsible for coordinating funding or equipment. His knack for developing contacts with the well when the Soviet Union began to fall apart In 1990 as the East German communist government with the International Affairs section of While there he surveilled the student body also looking for potential KGB recruits. His return to Leningrad also afforded him Anatoly Sobchack, a relationship which would partnership. As the 1991 coup against Mikhail Gorbachev landing and resigned from the KGB. In 1991, Putin became head of the Committee a position he gained through his relationship Petersburg's first democratically elected Almost immediately, allegations of corruption Sobchack. As claimed by investigative journalists and all later silenced in one fashion or another- contacts with the criminal underworld. Saint Petersburg at the time was known as could rule the city without organized crime's It's not known how many millions Putin helped discovered that Putin had been responsible for food aid from the West- only the promised It's believed that the food was funneled directly Russia during this time, with Putin, Sobchack, The investigation into the missing food aid immediately fired, but Sobchack summarily Soon though Sobchack's corruption became too he lost his re-election campaign in 1996. With pressure mounting to arrest Sobchack orchestrate a stunt involving his alleged proceedings. Sobchack arranged for medical treatment in Upon landing in Paris, Sobchack did not check living in exile until his old friend Vladimir back home and pressure authorities to drop Putin's fierce loyalty to the corrupt Sobchack, of criminal charges however immediately caught Yeltsin had himself caught the attention of criminal scheme after criminal scheme was While the Russian people struggled with skyrocketing to greatly enrich himself and a growing number fueled Yeltsin's political power. Yeltsin's presidency was winding down, and he stayed out of prison. Vladimir Putin would be that ace. Seeing his display of loyalty to Sobchack, two years was appointed Prime Minister of Upon his appointment, Yeltsin also commented there was just one problem: nobody knew who With a complete unknown in contention for had all but clenched the presidency for themselves. They never counted on just how many Russian power. In September 1999, a series of bombings struck The attacks were carried out by Chechen terrorists over 1,000 more. The entire country was shocked by the violence terrified as the targets had all been apartment Any one of them could be next. Vladimir Putin, Russia's Prime Minister, swore Russian intelligence services had pinned the The Russian military mobilized and the second Vladimir Putin's tough stance and even tougher the Presidency was inevitably his to win. There was just one problem- the attacks were part a Russian false flag operation. After the main wave of attacks, another explosive resident of an apartment building in Ryazan. The witness noticed two suspicious men carrying car's license plate being registered in Moscow two digits. The police discovered three sacks of white timing device attached to the sacks. After the bomb squad defused the explosive, was of professional grade. Even more damning was the fact that the explosive of explosive used by the Russian military. Putin's government would go on to deny any investigations carried out by both foreign refuse to release their findings. Even more damning is the fact that many journalists in the years to come would end up dead. In 2003, US Senator John McClain warned Congress that Russia's Federal Security Service had Alexander Litvinenko, a former KGB officer, Putin had in fact ordered the apartment building corruption of the by-now President of the Litvinenko would end up dead, poisoned in Russian intelligence agents. In the end, despite much of the Russian population do with the attacks, the immediate effect leadership and tough-guy stance against the highest office. While there, he would work to change presidential power. He briefly stepped down from the Presidency to ascend to power a third time in 2012. In 2021 Putin signed into law an expansion him two more chances to run and potentially With any major political opponent frequently for any number of trumped up charges, Putin successful dictator since Joseph Stalin. Putin's key to power has been consolidating rivals. He has worked closely with contacts in the and even murder any potential opponents who who dig too deep into Putin's presidency often or simply killed. Briefly in the 2000s, Russia was considered journalist to operate. Since then the only thing that has changed to risk their lives or freedom to tackle Putin's To placate the Russian people and garner support, A favorite tactic of his are ridiculous propaganda-style manly-man who engages in sports from hockey shirtless, and maintaining a physical fitness A man of many talents though, Putin is also with photos depicting him joining an underwater of action and adventure as he drives Formula However, what Putin most wants the Russian as well as he hosts a tea party for a little into polar bears. Then there's the time that Putin rode a By all accounts Putin is so beloved by the with his own music video, with women clamoring The truth is though, it's all propaganda meant Now go check out A Day In the Life of Putin,