Where, is the European Union? Obviously here somewhere, but much like the unclear boundary, the European Union also To start, the official members of the European * Germany * The United Kingdom * Spain * Romania * Greece * Portugal * Hungary * Austria * Denmark * Finland * Croatia * Latvia * Estonia * Luxembourg The edges of the EU will probably continue in various stages of trying to become a member. How exactly the European Union works is hideously but for this video you need know only three 1. Countries pay membership dues and 2. Vote on laws they all must follow and 3. Citizens of member countries are automatically This last means that if you're a citizen of and work or retire in any of the others. Which is nice especially if you think your or too cold. The European Union gives you options. By the way, did you notice how all three of this unhelpful footnote? Well, get used to it: Europe loves asterisks These three, for example, point us toward Iceland and little Liechtenstein. None of which are in the European Union but countries and Norwegians, Icelanders, or Liechtensteiner(in)s Why? In exchange for the freedom of movement of the European Union -- even though they aren't laws that they still have to follow. This arrangement is the European Economic it not for that asterisk which grants EEA law notably farming and fishing -- something lot about running their own way. Between the European Union and the European with the notable exception of Switzerland except for her participation in the Schengen If you're from a country that keeps her borders Schengen Area is a bit mind-blowing because a 'meh' approach to borders. In the Schengen Area international boundaries checks of any kind. You can walk from Lisbon to Tallinn without &quot;business or pleasure?&quot;. For Switzerland being part of Schengen but non-swiss can check in any time they like, This koombaya approach to borders isn't appreciated Kingdom and Ireland who argue that islands Thus to get onto these fair isles, you'll Britannia's reluctance to get fully involved The European Union has its own fancy currency, of the European Union members. This economic union is called the Eurozone financial goals -- and lying about reaching would do. Most of the non-Eurozone members when they in favor of the Euro but three of them Denmark, have asterisks attracted to the Euro sections And weirdly, four tiny European countries have an asterisk giving them the reverse: despite not being in the European Union at So that's the big picture: there's the EU, it with a common currency, the European Economic and the selective Schengen, for countries As you can see, there's some strange overlaps about complications by a long shot one again, So Portugal and Spain have islands from their these are the Madeira and Canary Islands are into the Atlantic. Because these islands are Spanish and Portuguese Adding a few islands to the EU's borders isn't queen of not-letting go. She still holds onto a bunch of islands in and French Guiana in South America. As far as France is concerned, these are France distance of the European Union across a third Collectively, these bits of France, Spain -- and they're the result of the simple answer On the other hand, there's the United Kingdom, with her quasi-former lands -- and she's by continent. The Netherlands and Denmark and France (again) Territories: they're not part of the European asterisks due to their complicated relationships associated countries which makes it hard to but... in general European Union law doesn't apply who live there are European Union citizens of their associated country, so in general but in general other European Union citizens Which makes these places a weird, semipermeable the final part we're going to talk about in one-off asterisks you might stumble upon, Cities in North Africa or Gibraltar, who pretends or that region in Greece where it's totally are part of the Netherlands and so should Islands upon which while citizens of Denmark and on it goes. These asterisks almost never end, but this