Transcriber: David Hsu People hate me. People fear me. You see, I'm a communication professor. And these people who fear me and hate me are some of the brightest, most creative, I wield a tool. And that tool I wield As a professor, I have the ability That's where I look at a student What do you feel How does this impact you?&quot; And this causes panic, not just for my students that moment where we are called upon Can we do it? Now, rest assured, I think it's rude, and I know it's hard. But people fear it. Eighty-five percent of people And quite frankly, I think we could find a situation So today, my goal is to share with you to help you be more comfortable in other words, to be able To do this, we're going to look First, we're going to talk Then, we'll speak the context in which we find ourselves and finally, the structures we use So, let's start by talking about approach. You know, I was reminded many, many years ago, when my wife You see, we fought a lot things mostly that happened We called these our bathroom brawls: &quot;Is the toilet seat up?&quot; &quot;Is the toilet seat down?&quot; By far, the biggest fight was over toothpaste. (Laughter) You see, my wife's a roller, And all of you out there who are rollers, I appreciate the fine artwork But you know that the most awful thing is to have a squeezer come by But to me, getting toothpaste I feel powerful in the morning (Laughter) And we would fight incessantly And finally, my wife, said, &quot;Timeout. What are we doing here? We love each other, We need to look at this differently.&quot; And as soon as we started looking as opportunities - opportunities to learn about each other, things changed. And I'm happy to say, we no longer fight over toothpaste. (Laughter) This same approach Most of us, when we are in situations we see them as threatening. We see them as opportunities for failure. And I'd like to suggest We need to approach see it as an opportunity to share And when we take all of a sudden, something that we dread becomes something that we embrace. So, the first step is to approach it in an open way. But that's not enough. We need to think about the audience And to me, the way to approach it Most of us think about, or, &quot;Here's what I need to say.&quot; I would suggest that's exactly wrong. You need to think about, And it sounds just like verbal jiu jitsu, but in fact, it's If I ask myself, it puts me in service of my audience. It's about their needs. And in order to understand those needs, I have to ask myself who they are. The three things I think we need &quot;What is their knowledge?&quot; &quot;What is it that they know?&quot; and if they don't know enough, &quot;What can we do so that they have the tools they need?&quot; In addition to knowledge, we need to be thinking And by expectations, I mean, Most audiences have heard the types maybe it's a pitch, maybe it's some kind maybe it's a TED talk. Your audience has heard so what do they expect of you? And then you can choose to conform You know, I have two young kids, and I learned that sometimes actually is the most effective thing My boys sometimes make me upset. And when they make me upset, Nothing happened. I was ignored. And that's tough for a communication guy. So, what I started to do - when I'm really upset with my boys, I lower my voice. And they stop dead in their tracks. Violating expectations sometimes The final thing we need to think about is, The way you approach your communication is influenced by what your audience Are they in favor of it? Or they're hesitant? Agnostic? Those are the things you need to be asking So, we need to appreciate our audience. When my older child I came into his classroom, the teacher had to leave and I was in charge of an art project. Oh, was that a mistake. The kids were running around. I was saying, &quot;Stop this, Johnny.&quot; Nobody listened. The Yoda-like teacher returned, saw the chaos that had ensued and simply looked at the children and started rewarding &quot;Janet,&quot; she said, &quot;what a lovely way &quot;Samuel, thank you so much (Laughter) The students stopped in their tracks, I learned then that you need to understand And to this day, I also learned that I could never teach If guilt and shame doesn't work, (Laughter) So, knowing your audience really matters. But beyond knowing your audience, you have to appreciate the context Whenever you speak, And to me, context comes The first thing about context What time of day are you communicating? If you're talking early in the morning, you might have to have to keep people moving. Same thing after lunch when people I taught high school many, many years ago. And I don't think my principal because she gave me freshmen And if you know anything they need lots of food So, by the time my first class of freshmen they were dead tired. They could barely move, let alone think. Right after lunch, they were amped-up on their food, It was a frenzy in my classroom. And I had to teach them the same thing. How did I do it? I changed the way we approached the class. The class before lunch people were moving around, after lunch, a little more mellow. You must address the context, the timing Context also involves emotion. Most of us when we communicate, What's in my head, in my heart But we also communicate a feeling. Maybe we're trying to get people Maybe we're trying to scare them, create that burning platform Sometimes, we're just trying You should believe in what I'm saying. But we need to think about the emotion The final bit of context has to do with Location matters. Just the other day, that the Girl Scout in the state who sold the most cookies during set up shop in front She sold more cookies than anybody. Location matters. Think about the way the room is set up. Think about the environment: Those change the way that you communicate. We need to think about location. So, our approach is important. Our audience is important. The context in which and so too is the way It is much easier for humans to understand In fact, we remember information What do I mean by this? Some of you listening but those of us of my age, when we wanted to call we actually had to remember My kids today, they look and the other person We had it much harder. We had to remember 10 digits. Ten digits are hard to remember, We put them in a structure: That's how we remembered. That's what I mean by a structure. The information is put in a way not only for you as a speaker Now, I have lots of favorite structures. You see some of the structures The first structure is a chronological Here's how things used to be. Here's how they are today. Here's where they're going in the future. A chronological structure navigate your audience Quite frankly, You can't be lost if you have a map. Your structure provides a map, and the chronological structure The next structure happens to be This is one of the most You start by explaining what the issue is, you talk about how to solve it Finally, my favorite structure, I call this &quot;the MacGyver this can get you through any situation - is the what, so-what, now-what structure. You start by telling people You tell them why it's important And then you tell them It's like a Swiss Army knife. You can use it in situations You can use it if you are trying And you can use it Change the &quot;what&quot; to a &quot;who,&quot; Structure helps keep your audience When I was an undergraduate, It was the highest-paying job on campus. And boy, did I need money. I trained for 12 weeks to be a tour guide. I learned lots of interesting - some would things they drilled into our heads which to this day I still can do The most important thing they taught us - they said, &quot;Above all else, to be a great tour guide is to never lose your audience. You are a bad tour guide The same is true when you're speaking. Structure keeps people together. We need structure. So, we see here that these tools, the tools that help us get our audience and help us convey our message are the same tools that helped my students and learn to do it well. It's about the approach you take, the audience, the context, and the structure. Now, I'm always looking for examples And the other day, I was eating breakfast, and I looked across the table and I said, &quot;You know what? Think about it: Silk soy milk. Silk soy milk is targeted people who are interested or people who are lactose intolerant. The name is a combination &quot;Silk.&quot; It speaks to the audience's desire to have something rich, It's at a time, in a context, If you notice where you buy Silk soy milk, That's not where it was originally. It used to be in the health food aisle. Now it's next to milk. They marketed it and boxed it The structure of the name Let's face it, they and nobody would've bought it, right? So, if you get the message right you can make a big difference. So, I want for you what I wish bold communication And I want for your message to echo And these are skills It just takes practice Thank you.