In A Song of Ice and Fire, the Long Night winter lasted a generation. It's said that Others, riding dead horses and monstrous spiders, came from the North to destroy all living things. We know the Long Night happened in Westeros, but it also affected the Rhoyne, and the Further East, so it was probably is coming again, bringing an apocalyptic "night that never ends". It's starting to look like she might be right. Melisandre People all over the world of ice and fire have stories of the hero who ended the last hero" joined with the children of the forest Others. Descendants of the Rhoynar say a day with a secret song. The YiTish say a sun. The Asshai'i name this hero Azor Ahai, and prophesy their rebirth to save the world once more. The names Hyrkoon the Hero, Yin Tar, Neferion, and Eldric Shadowchaser are also used. There's also "the prince that that was promised" and Azor Ahai are separate figures, but there's no good reason to think this. Melisandre, Aemon Targaryen, and George R. R. Martin himself all talk as though Azor Ahai and the "prince that was promised" of Ice and Fire has ever distinguished between the two. So "the prince that was promised" and Azor Ahai reborn appear to be the same person. The "stallion who mounts the world" may also be connected. He too is described as a "prince" , and is promised in prophecy. Given the blurry overlap and similarity of all about the same person, the hero who saved to return, to save the world once more. We'll known name and the easiest to say. says Azor Ahai is prophesied to be born beneath a "bleeding star", "amidst salt and smoke". We hear the same thing from Aemon Targaryen, from Benerro, the High red priest of Volantis, and from Marwyn the Mage, who says he doesn't trust prophecy. Rhaegar Targaryen believed in these prophetic signs, and it seems likely that his wife Elia and some other family members did as well. We're told many times by many people that the star, salt and smoke are signs of Azor Ahai, so According to Melisandre and Aemon, another sign is a red or burning sword, called Lightbringer, which also appears in several legends. Sam Tarly suggests that the sword may simply be a Valyrian steel sword. Melisandre says that Azor Ahai will draw the sword from fire. One legend about the original Lightbringer says of Azor Ahai's wife, Nissa Nissa. As Davos have to make some similar sacrifice, but so it might not be important. According to has something to do with dragons. Melisandre specifically says that Azor Ahai is prophesied "to wake dragons from stone", which apparently blood. Since she's the only person claiming this, and she admits that she sometimes misinterprets prophecies, it seems possible that Melisandre is wrong about the stone dragons bit. But all agree that Azor Ahai is associated with Aemon implies that Azor Ahai must have Targaryen blood, and the Ghost of High Heart specifies the line of Aerys and Rhaella. To quickly and Rhaella Targaryen married because a woods would be born of their line". Ser Barristan's description of the Ghost of High Heart, the the Brotherhood Without Banners. Not only prophecies, but they are both associated with were close to someone named Jenny. So they the thing is - the Ghost of High Heart has making a lot of really impressive accurate witch, the Ghost of High Heart, is almost must have the blood of Aerys and Rhaella Targaryen. in a vision say "the dragon must have three Ahai is three people, but that's not what the dragon seems to mean is that Azor Ahai should have two companions who help'm out, maybe ride dragons with them, whatever. the three heads, if he wasn't so old. This prophesied figures, but can probably be any of the dragon may be a thing, but it's not mean three people are Azor Ahai. Finally, "prince that was promised" that "His doesn't seem to be part of any prophecy, worth keeping in mind. The star, the salt, the smoke, the sword, blood. Azor Ahai is someone from the line beneath a bleeding star, and amidst salt and have something to do with dragons, maybe awakening with the stone dragons or with the sword. of ice and fire" may also be involved somehow. who best fits this description. Azor Ahai, and she tries very hard to make alive during A Clash of Kings, Stannis is the sky and is named the "Bleeding Star" the comet appears is the ceremony at Dragonstone where statues of the Seven are burned and Stannis is proclaimed to be Azor Ahai. So happens shortly after, if not under, a "bleeding - the salt of the ocean, the smoke of the and salt. At the same ceremony, he draws a But as Jon points out, the sword's not warm or hot as Lightbringer should be. Aemon says "the sword is wrong", and describes its what magic it has is another of Melisandre's sword was not Lightbringer" . As for the to sacrifice someone with king's blood in hasn't happened - no sacrifice, no dragons. not from Rhaella and Aerys, so he fails there also has no apparent connection to the "song the dragon - unless maybe you want to argue whatever than means. So all things considered, y'know - it wouldn't fit the story anyway. people like Dany and Jon, he's no hero - Stannis save-the-world-with-a-magic-sword kinda guy. kind of champion of R'hllor sets himself that we are led to believe that Stannis is that he is Azor Ahai - why would George only to tell us the answer at the start of prophecies should not be too literal and too make Stannis literally fulfil the Azor Ahai signs, she is deceiving herself because she that Stannis Baratheon is not Azor Ahai. is Azor Ahai . In the final chapter of Book walks into flames and, amidst smoke, is dragons" which she wakes from eggs. So straight stone dragons. The salt probably comes from born, if not from tears or sweat at the pyre. Dany's dragons are her fiery weapon. This of Dany's dragons as a "flaming sword". And when you think about it, Azor Ahai saving the world with dragons is a lot more believable - right? Aemon says translation errors are Lightbringer is a literal sword might be one the creation of Dany's burning sword, requires and of her stillborn son, Rhaego, who has We know these deaths are related to birth in the same chapter, "Only death can pay of sacrifice - of a loved one, for a burning to awaken stone dragons, as Mel prophesies. stone dragons, the star, the smoke, the salt, is the daughter of Aerys and Rhaella Targaryen. really questionable. The three heads of the - three dragon-riders, maybe. She has no fire", but again the song and heads are Targaryen fits everything we reliably know backing her. It also fits the story for Dany Stormborn", "the widow of a Dothraki khal, she is "the Unburnt", she is the "Breaker Queen of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the "The fairest woman in the world" , she fire is [hers]"... Don't know how to put George R. R. Martin has hyped up Dany all saviour of the world, it'll be her. She probably Azor Ahai. Snow might be Azor Ahai. Of course, last we heard from him he'd been stabbed four times, but he could be resurrected by Melisandre Dondarrion and Thoros of Myr. There's evidence before returning to his body. We know wargs powerful warg, from the Dance with Dragons Prologue. The idea is supported by a vision that Melisandre has of Jon, in which he changes from a man, to a wolf, to a man again. Further, Jon's last word after being stabbed is "Ghost". All this suggests that Jon will warg into Ghost, then be reborn - a man once more. - Jon's wound is smoking, Bowen Marsh &quot;distinctive&quot; heraldry features stars, is bleeding. right at Jon's stabbing. The star, the smoke, the salt. And Jon brings up the "promised prince, born in smoke and salt" in the same dodgy, but can this really be a coincidence? have a pretty sweet sword, a Valyrian steel sword, but hardly Lightbringer. You could argue that the Night's Watch is his fiery weapon - their and they're a weapon against the Others, for them. So, maybe. But, again, it may be or misinterpretation of the sign of the dragons, dragons. Alternatively, Jon might wake a dragon from stone by discovering his Targaryen parentage in the Winterfell Rhaegar's harp that could help here. Another is waking a dragon from within the Wall. But both of these are just future speculation. For now, Jon has no dragon, probably no sword, and probably no sacrifice, but these are things two books coming. Now, if R+L=J is true, and would also literally make him the "prince ice and fire. So Jon satisfies most of the strong additional evidence that Jon is Azor to see Azor Ahai in her flames, R'hllor repeatedly. Must be pretty frustrating for connection, right? Also, Jon has a dream in the Others, at the Wall. He shouts about fire, red sword. These are some pretty strong hints, right? So there's a lot of evidence suggesting that Jon Snow is Azor Ahai. And it would make special, as indicated by his white direwolf him as someone who is different. He's a to do what's right. And he's already does. It makes a lot of sense for Jon So. Stannis is probably not Azor Ahai. The evidence they're both Azor Ahai. The &quot;song of ice Could there be a third Azor Ahai? Aegon, if he really is Aegon, has the blood, and apparently was born amidst salt and smoke. Victarion amidst salt and smoke. The Lightning Lord Tyrion makes a nice trio with Dany and Jon. Nissa Cersei, J-bear could Nissa Nissa Dany, Pretty Pig is- is ham. You can find some connections but only Dany and Jon are strongly supported important signs like the blood, the star, of foreshadowing, hints and visions. It would focussing on Dany and Jon before going 'heyy, by the way, this guy- this guy Aegon, or this guy, fuckin', Ramsay Snow, he's also a saviour of the Song of Ice and Fire we've got going with impossible, but it seems unlikely and there's really no good reason to believe it. Another argument you can make is that no one But it would be even worse than a third Azor these visions and hints, and then throw'em away and say they mean nothing. Azor Ahai doesn't have to be a perfect fairy tale prophecy's a bitch, we know things are complicated has to mean something. complications that you could raise. But everything two people - Jon and Dany. Dany fits the it and has extra hints on top. Jon and Dany ice and fire, the title of the series. Based to come to is that Dany and Jon are Azor Ahai, a night that never ends. Thanks for watching. Subscribe if you'd like to see more.