A mom ate a suspicious chicken burrito from her digestive system. DC is a 42 year old woman, pain and a massive headache. She tells the she could barely eat bread, rice and only things she could keep in her stomach. from a new place that had opened up. She was in her car. The burrito was delicious, and she something suddenly cracked against a tooth but it startled her. She spat out the food of a tooth had chipped off. She wasn't sure how She started digging through the food, frantically across it-- a chicken bone piece, embedded in she couldn't find the part of her tooth that of damage. It didn't hurt. If she went back to had chipped her tooth, what were they going to do? that she had to get back to work. The restaurant the one who put the bone there. She didnt want hurt and it didn't seem like a big deal. She DC would notice her tooth, but only she forgot about it. It didn't hurt. But one day, thought she could feel her heart beating in her her face was getting swollen. Sometimes when tooth would be ultra sensitive and really start At the dentist, they found that DC's chipped tooth because bacteria inappropriately growing inside massive problems. The operation turned out fine. so they wrote her a prescription for they gave her another prescription for of these was going to turn DC's life upside down. causing infection, so, this was the kind of in time, but something was wrong. 2 Days after DC didn't feel right. Normally she'd take mid one, she experienced a mental fog that she sense of doom shrouded over her. She had had some but she started having some truly terrible shake. At first, she thought it was the pain too. She started feeling better as time passed, and she wasn't sure how to feel like Antibiotics need to be finished in their entirety. you should take it for those 5 days, because bacteria that grows back, can be resistant to who might have had traits that helped them adapt But the dark and terrible thoughts were simply her gums were healing just fine, she thought. growing uncontrollably causing infection. humans coexist with bacteria. In the lining helping us digest food and live our normal be there. They create their own community are given when someone has an infection, which is then it lends way to the connotation that "all of all of them to be in the cleanest condition that line of thinking, isn't fully correct. The But what does that mean? Well, these trillions like synthesize vitamins. They metabolize hormones. Because the microbiome is like a living pathogens trying to come in and take residence in we're starting to understand how extensive a traditional chemotherapy used for some the mid-2010s in favor of immunotherapy, medicines attack the tumor. We've found that the presence makes those therapies more effective against the link between the gut microbiome and the immune but, if DC is getting antibiotics that are tooth infection, then it means that some be incidentally eliminated in the process. because the bacteria from that tooth infection the hospital, and could threaten her life, while but how long would that take? And when know the right species are going to be there? DC had a watery stool. She thought maybe it breakfast. But throughout that afternoon, the movement out was more intense than the one feel that there was going to be more on the way. Tuesday, she was fine. But on Wednesday, she woke like her entire digestive system was getting like her organs were getting dragged out of her down water. She'd take a sip, and liquid stool kept getting more and more dehydrated, her head even swallow headache medicine without having herself to the emergency room. In the hospital, for her headache. Knowing about how her bowel and that she has a fever, it's possible that she finds that she doesn't appear to have a stomach some empiric antibiotics just in case, and some she's discharged from the hospital, feeling About a week after that hospital stay, DC started something was different. The smell was something of the most awful sensations in her life up that it was being produced by her. At first she she ate for breakfast again. She looked at the the stools were really out of control. She was rice and bread, if she could even keep those down. team take a sample of her stool to test, and they need to know, about what's happening. when DC got antibiotics for her tooth infection, infectious diarrhea. But when she was they took a sample of her stool to test, and, it That might have been true, at that point in time. different, antibiotic, empirically, since she Do you remember those dark thoughts that course of antibiotics? Well, it's hard to there's research that shows links between the gut the gut and the brain are connected by the vagus that one will have an impact on the other, which having symptoms possibly related to mental health known to change gut microbiome composition by it's possible that some change was taking place but also her gut, judging from those uncontrolled that antibiotic, and then went to the hospital could guess that even more normal gut bacteria But then the question is, with all of those Test results return for DC, and it tells the difficile, also known as C diff, is present in is infectious. It can spread all throughout who may also be on antibiotics but don't have this As this result is read, DC was put in a private anyone. The toileting facilities are dedicated to up before entering her room, and they must wash inevitably will have to physically deal with other The thing about C diff is that it makes and stools, but also damage to the gut inner lining. immune system gets triggered to act in the area, As the days pass, DC sits in her hospital every day. Her problem was first caused by her It became infected, and the antibiotic she got Shortly after DC received a second, different species in her gut microbiome happened, very over. Ironically, the treatment for her at has activity against Clostridioides difficile, intravenous formulation of that antibiotic because taking it by mouth puts it directly there. and has trouble keeping even water down, then In the hospital, days later, DC starts to to be working for her. She's rehydrated, and She appears well. No more loose stools, as she's discharged and sent home. And everything One day, a few weeks later, DC was eating she felt a sour stomach, maybe a little heartburn. happened recently. She tried an over the counter that would help limit stomach acid. They told her but that in the end, she would be all good. But kind of weird again. One afternoon, she could again, she had a watery stool, and she started to her. Throughout that day, she had multiple, In the hospital, again. DC was found to diff. Do you remember that concept of antibiotics doesnt appear to happen often, but data says maybe And even worse, sometimes, it could be associated The thing about antibiotic treatment of of antibiotics were the cause in the first place. sometimes cause C diff. This isn't meant to scare to you that antibiotics aren't to be taken And weeks later, the C diff can come back. And good solutions, suffering every time with bouts of go for years. In fact, much of our current system States was created in part because of antibiotics. and its production was scaled up greatly for the States, before 1950, people could buy almost treat themselves without ever seeing any medical and knowing that antibiotics could, at a minimum, ultra-resistant strains of "super bacteria" that we know of today, episodes of self-medication with more ways than what we're describing here. And enacted by the United States Congress to require that must be prescribed by a professional who has that prescription can be verified, vetted, and authority, serving as a check to ensure that the the right time. It gives authority, produces case that something goes wrong. Antibiotics medicine from this latest episode of hers is both something did go wrong, despite this system. wasn't in a position where she was in such a rush tooth on a suspicious burrito. And one thing who reached out to me, and they wanted to talk dietitian approved meals right to your doorstep. menu every week to fit a variety of lifestyles, Protein Plus. If you're looking to mix things up, Meals every week. When I heard of Factor, I and I have been so happy with getting these boxes taste, and it's delicious. It saves me so much to cook and I dont need to clean after. And the need I have in terms of food convenience, food in the portions that I prefer. Head to description below and use code EMU50 to get 50% In practice, you can still find, pretty easily, when someone has a cold or the flu, problems that antibiotics, when they shouldn't. I even asked (which I think you should check out) and but the amount who didn't, well, it can cause a country of 330 million people like the But for DC, her C Diff would keep coming back over she'd be fine and then randomly have loose stools, of the smell. Her problem was initially caused by and again and again, could work, but there might DC was recommended for a fecal transplant, where with the intention of making DC was prepped, and the medical team administered then given some Fecal Microbiota Capsules, which As she was monitored in the hospital, she was anymore. DC started to notice that her mood was she was discharged, DC wasn't sure if she was come back. But as days turned into weeks, normal life again as she made a full recovery. of this video. Infections can and will be life in just a few hours. I will never forget, healthy and smiling with me in the hospital, and infection went out of control. The benefit of risk that an antibiotic would pose in settings check with all the healthcare professionals who going to take is the right one for you, at that get it checked out as quickly as you can to try Thanks so much for watching. Take