today, we're going to make a perfectly this is my favorite lemon dessert. follow all the tips and so let's get started. to make the tort dough, combine and add cold cubed butter and mix until it gets and to this, add beaten eggs. mix until well combined. and that's it. it's important to chill the dough for about a few hours to rest the glutens in flour. so in the previous video, in the tart crust tutorial, I shared how to roll out the dough and fit it into the tart pan. but just in case you haven't checked it out, I'm going to go over the process quickly with you. and today, I'm going to use a 9-inch tart pan. you can use any tart pan or tart ring in different shapes and sizes. and today, I'm going to use parchment paper. by the way, you may notice that there's a camera over here. today, I'm going to try to talk as I make this dessert. so dust bread flour all over the surface on a tart pan as well. first, I'm going to just toss toss toss... just to ensure it's soft enough. turn. yeah I can see that this is ready. ensure that the flour is applied on the bottom. and then start rolling. from the middle to upward. and from the middle to downward. turn 90deg. and repeat. add more flour if you need to. and just keep rolling it until it gets 2 - 3 mm. the dough is right now it's a little bit too soft to handle. this is gonna fall apart if I try to move it onto this tart pan right now. so chill in the fridge just until it gets firm enough to handle. let's check how firm it is. it may be a little bit too firm, but we'll see. if you feel the dough is a little bit too firm, you can warm it up with your hands. or you can just leave it at room temperature just until it gets soften to bend. I'm just going to cut it just big enough to cover the whole pan. drop it on top. if it's not on the very center, fix it quickly. and pull it inside as soon as possible. and then, fold the edge. this will ensure that the dough is fit into the corner completely. check it's all fit in. now, I'm going to push the sides with a thumb because right now it's not attached. push well. not just the top, not just the bottom, but all over the side. lean the excess dough over. and cut off. I am using a tart pan with a removable bottom. be sure not to hold the bottom because it'll come off. push one more time just to ensure it's attached. and now, dock the surface so that the bottom is don't be afraid to make many many holes so and now, it's important to chill this in the fridge. okay next, let's make lemon cream. so first, mix sugar and cornstarch together. and mix with a whisk. mix well until you don't see any lumps of cornstarch. and then set this aside. in a medium saucepan, add eggs. whole eggs. and yolks. and be sure to save this egg whites because you're going to use it later for the meringue. yolks goes in. it's important to mix eggs well before we add other ingredients so that we can make smooth lemon curd. ok this looks good. and add sugar and cornstarch mixture and mix well. just until they are combined. and next, we are going to add lemon zest and lemon zest directly on top of the saucepan. hmm smells amazing. now, we're going to add lemon juice to it. for me, lemon desserts have to be very tangy. like tangy enough. in the past, I shared the recipes for uh lemon pound cake, lemon madeleines, lemon frosting uh what else. oh lemon mousse. I just love lemon dessert. and this is yet another favorite. okay beautiful. add lemon juice to the pot. now let's heat this up at medium-low heat. scrape off the bottom of the pan and try to whisk evenly. not just the center but also the edges right here because oftentimes we tend to miss the edges, and they tend to get burnt. and continue whisking constantly. once it starts getting thickened, then I want to whisk it a little bit faster. yeah I can feel it's thickened a little bit. so I'm going to speed up a little bit so that I can make smooth lemon if it doesn't look like it's boiling, now it's boiling. but let's keep going just a tiny bit just in case. ok now... looking good. it looks like um pastry cream. it's boiling. like this. okay it's boiling, so I'm going to stop. I see teeny tiny bits of egg this is optional but I highly recommend straining and make it completely smooth. as it cools down, it gets even thicker. so do it right after it's made. scrape it off really well to take all the curd. now, I'm going to share the secret to my creamy lemon cream. it is softened butter. so normally, when you make lemon so the butter melts completely. but today, I'm going to add soft and butter to the room temperature lemon curd. and by whipping it, it holds some air and the texture gets fluffier and thicker. you can slice the tart more beautifully. right now it's very hot. so I'm going to wrap the surface. I usually just put it in the fridge for some time to chill it a little bit faster and then take it out that when it's at room temperature. so I'll come back. all right, so the cream is cooled completely. add all the butter. we're going to whip it up until it gets very nice and silky smooth. now scrape off the side. cuz a lot of times butter or curd is stuck there. take your time over here look at this. silky smooth and creamy. let's remove the tart from the pan. transfer it inside the tart crust. I don't want to waste any cream. either make it completely flat or leave some patterns like this. now chill this in the fridge completely. in the pot, add water. and sugar. I like to shake it a little bit just to in a stand mixer, add egg whites. ensure that the bowl is completely clean with no liquid and residue. so that egg whites can whip up really well. so this is Italian meringue. and I love it because you know, once you get used to it it's very easy to make. and um it holds the shape really well. so typically, right after I start whipping the egg whites, I start heating the sugar and water. and by the time the hot syrup is ready, we want a very fluffy meringue. so we kind of need to adjust the timing. and heat it at medium heat and we're now we can see that the liquid started falling down. I'm going to take it off. all right it's ready. turn it up to high speed. slowly add it. we're just going to keep whipping at high speed and once it gets warm, I'm going to tuen down the speed. so let's while you're waiting for that, set everything ready. which is a cake spatula, rubber spatula, and a torch if you have. I'll tell you this is a lot of meringue. just frost as much as you want. it is super cloudy and fluffy. that's why I love Italian meringue so much. this tart tastes incredible with this fluffy meringue. so I don't think you're going to regret adding it too much. and uh you can leave it like this or take a spatula and just create any movement you like. this is probably the most fun part. now we're going to torch this. beautiful. and this is optional, I'm going to zest a little bit of lemon on top. and that's it. now, all you have to do is slice it and enjoy. so this lemon filling gets a little bit more creamier when it's left at room temperature for some time because the butter inside the cream gets softer. so it really depends on the room temperature, but I recommend leaving it on the table for about 15 to 30 minutes before serving. you can use this recipe and make tart with different shapes and sizes. I often make this tart as mini tartlets because I think it looks super cute. and you do not have to slice the tart later. and as you can see, you can also frost it using any pastry tip and enjoy. place the tart in an airtight container and if you can, consume it within that day or right after it's made. I feel it tastes the best. that's it for today. I really hope you enjoyed that really helps this channel. and I'll see you in my next video. bye-bye.