(upbeat music) - Zabar's... it's almost a worldwide We get tourists from all over the world. The store has a big emotional place in a lot of people's hearts. For a lot of people, this is (upbeat music continues) So it's Tuesday at around nine o'clock and every Tuesday we which you can see over here. We sell about 8,000 That's between mail order and retail. That's a lot of f****** Not a chain, this is just After the coffee's in who's the coffee manager and store manager, along with Annie Zabar, they cup the coffee. This is the Tuesday morning probably longer than I'm working here. - She's breaking the coffee. We're just checking out Generally, you can get a sense - This is what Saul Zabar for years and years and years. He's 95, so he's not doing that. Although there are times But this is the one that happens every single time at Zabar's is this. One of the reasons people keep coming back for everything as well as coffee is they know it's gonna - Yeah, it's just the way it is here. - There's never been, ever... - I don't think we've ever missed, ever. - It doesn't matter if it's Christmas Eve, it doesn't matter what's it gets done no matter what. (light violin music) - All right. This is good. I'm gonna let the guys know downstairs. - One of the first places in the morning is the catering department. There's usually a lot of for breakfast orders and early lunch. Since catering is also a big and most of these orders are expensive, I'm very involved with the catering. I have great people. They're all fantastic, into it frequently because when there's a screw up. - Saul Zabar has always but we have a fish buyer His name is Tomas. He's Dominican, but he's for the greatest Jewish smoked - So this is Tomas from Zabar's. He comes in every week and some of the other smoked for Zabar's and chooses for his customers. So these whitefish have been brined, which is a salt water solution. Now they're being hung up on these sticks, which will be transferred So once they're finished loading they'll get pushed into an oven. And this is what the whitefish look like when they're finished. Beautiful golden color. - [Scott] We pick the fish that we want. Acme smokes it in a way that There's a certain taste that Saul likes, which Tomas obviously knows. - Alright, so now these that we have. These, you want to have of the fish and the belly. - Good belly. The whitefish Use it for the counter. But I have a medium whitefish A little bit more flavor. I pay 800, 900 pounds holidays, forget about it. (laughs) So now it's ready for me. He'll mark it for Zabar's and - So Wednesday he goes to the smokehouse and he picks out the fish. Thursday the fish comes in. In this area over here, all of the fish salads are made in this part of the kitchen right over here. How many years are you here now? - 34 - Yuri's here 34 years. He runs the the fish salad department. All the fish, our whitefish salad, tuna salad, et cetera, has always of Saul Zabar. These are Saul's recipes - Should be a little bit chunky. Yeah, when the people eat, they feel, you know, they feel fish. I can't break it a lot, you know. Should be small, chunky. Yeah. - Same recipe. Saul still comes back here - A little bit salty, but a good flavor. Now it's done. I'm gonna They'll put it in the up front. (upbeat music) - This is the whitefish from Yuri. This is how we do, half a pound. After we pack it, we seal Then the final job is pricing. All day, I pack chicken salad, egg salad, baked salmon salad, shrimp salad, crabmeat salad. - One of the busier counters during lunch and certainly is our smoked fish department. These guys are experts. They're the best slicers in the This is Devin, one of the stars. - How you guys doing? - Who uh, is charming, handsome, and What he's doing is an art form I can't do it. - [Devin] You got a lot of they want see-through slices. Thin, thin, thin. They Just depends. Everyone is always let's say, showing out for their guests in the house. So they always want perfect slices. It's kind of like a steak. If you wind up cooking the steak too long it gets rubbery, right? If you cut it too thick, They want that thin, thin slice that just melts in your mouth. - [Scott] This counter of any counter. You can't slice faster If you want it to be paper You can see it's an art form. So there are people that get pissed because they have to wait too long. But I can't rush 'em. (upbeat music) Another big part of our We have a kitchen staff of 35 people. This whole crew of guys has Anthony makes the soup. How many years you're making the soup now? - 25. - 25 years. He's glued to that kettle. Kitchen's open seven days and we could have 30 different soups out in the refrigerator at any given time. But about a year and a with an idea for roasted which is very simple. It's basically corn and tomato, a couple other things, and it blew up. He is making what's become one of the more popular which is a roast corn and tomato salad. How many times a week do you do this now? - Approximately I'd say maybe we're already doing this salad. - That's a lot. He's They boil it. They char it. - So I use a little Try not to put too much. He gets mad when you take That's what I do when he's not here, I take all his ingredients. This is Rafi behind me. And one more just in case. It's all right. When we finish the process, they pack it up, and then it goes straight to the shelves, straight to your home. - [Scott] Could be out of he talks more shit than anybody. - But I can't help you. - And you can ask these guys over here 'cause they, I promise you - I try to stay quiet, especially when Scott's I have to talk. No, I don't make fun of him. - That's okay. And I make fun of him too. I love him. He's an asshole - That's what I do. Listen, they're my assholes. It's okay. They're all right. One of the things that has are the people that work here. And this is really, we call it the world's biggest mom-and-pop store This is Naomi, this is my assistant, who's been here over 15 years. That is her sister over there, Ashley, who's also been here The morning girls are the girls Rumi's been here over 20 This is Millie. In addition to being one she's been here 42 years. 230 people that work here. So the Zabar family, myself, we feel there's an obligation. It's a lot easier when you're So you want to do things, you You know they're gonna be there for you. That's hugely important 'cause the store doesn't run without them. How old were you when you started, 16? - About. - And I gotta tell you, from the first day that he started, he breaks - The little guy? - It's not breaking, it's just-- - No, it's breaking. - Telling the truth. - He's a little guy but for a little guy he's got a lot of angst. - (laughs) This is true. but he's my f***, I love him. - Love you too. - We all spend more time here So it's around 11:30 in the morning. Now we come over to the warehouse. This is our mail order Zabar's has a very large They run this whole operation over here and during the holidays, I don't know how they They don't need me to check on 'em. - Shipping nationwide, Hawai'i, California, anywhere. I've seen packages go to Montana. People love Zabar's everywhere. all this is full of boxes and UPS is nonstop just coming inside and out, filling up a trailer outside. It gets crazy. We do about 10,000 a day on - One of the things, and one of the perks of my job is I get to sample stuff. Right now I have with me Eric Newman. One of the things I like is I get to sample food, Eric is a long time vendor of ours. And now we're gonna look and corned beef egg rolls. And assuming we like them - It will be. - ...then we'll sell 'em. We don't sell anything unless it's tasted and it's gotta pass our test. Not bad. You have to understand. You never tell a guy like this that it's the greatest thing you ever ate, 'cause then he's gonna So you always kind of-- - Beat me up a little bit. - &quot;Good. It's all right.&quot; and I may talk and say, &quot;This But never in front of his face. By the way, Candido is the deli manager. He's got better taste than I do. I respect what he says I may like something, he &quot;It sucks.&quot; I let him make the final - It's amazing dealing with them 'cause the money comes like And they're just, the They just, the volume is just tremendous. Always big orders, no butts. It's- - Oh, that's bullshit. There is some butts. I mean, - High standards, which - I'm not a big paperwork It's very important for me, which is one of the reasons I'm here on the on the floor when it's busy. - [Cashier] Thank you so much. - Ready? How can I help you? - [Scott] It doesn't when it's busy, which is lunchtime or dinner time, the weekends, I'm on the floor. It's important to be on the doing what they're supposed to, to be there to answer any problems. The staff sees me there. - There you go, love. Have - It's okay with the bagels? I work with them pushing baskets, I learned that from, Mr. Mr. Klein used to do that. We're a team. (upbeat music continues) - We cannot get tongue in Boston! Why doesn't Boston have tongue? I have to come all the way Why? I come all the way from because we love the tongue. It's the best in the world, number one. And it's the best whitefish So we come all the way to - Customers like this, that's There is definitely a pressure to keep this place running for all of us. A, we all want a job. B, I'm proud of what everybody's It's very important to me as the Zabar family wants it to continue. And I feel the pressure every moment that I walk in the store. - Don't you love Zabar's? It's the best. - This store has meant so I'm talking to people now you know, when they were two years old and go feed 'em fruit salad. And it's like, &quot;You remember me? 30 years ago, you used to and you know, feed me.&quot; That's cool. (uplifting music) And this store means a It's our job to keep it going. (uplifting music fades)