The Dream SMP is a Minecraft survival server, In the beginning, Dream created the heavens and He invited lots of people to come play with him, breaks to go fishing. Dream moved underground, Alyssa built houses by the lake. Also, BadBoyHalo Dream and Sapnap murder George, and Sapnap murders quits. &quot;Will you come back if we give you more Sapnap's horse, and Sapnap kills his own horse and surprise! Sapnap wins and George is sentenced it. Then TommyInnit joins the server. &quot;Hey, oh.&quot; He then commits multiple murders and domestic He also steals some of Ponk's land and kills his anything. Punz and Tubbo build houses by Dream's an alien. Dream is trying to listen to some music, who just killed Alyssa because Alyssa burned down lemon tree because Ponk... well, actually, there's and Ponk was getting really sick of being Punz and Tubbo, those guys were angels. And Dream that means; Dream should steal the discs! Which was busy committing various acts of arson and the discs. Tommy found out almost immediately and but failed. In the meantime, Fundy logged on with nowhere to be found, he decided to kill Tubbo eating pizza, but Purpled discovered him before to break out of the trap. But Fundy killed him wanted to test his cool new shovel. Purpled beat beat up Fundy again, then Tubbo and a creeper then Purpled beat up Fundy a third time, before Club. Oh, and Tommy was there, he set the club Tubbo back his stolen pickaxe, so they went out time until Purpled started trying to kill him, so took the pickaxe back and then joined Purpled immediately left because it was too L O U D He still wanted to help Tubbo though, so he followed them and ended up killing Purpled in confusion. killed Purpled and refused to give the gear back. he decided to fight the battle another day. Tubbo an X-ray glitch to find Dream's secret base. They away the chestplate, with Tommy stashing them away to stop killing each other for a little while and until Purpled built a trap in the socializing Tommy, and Dream in the process. A bunch of bees I'm sure that won't cause any drama. Dream commits relocate to a jungle base above the nether. Wilbur drug empire with Tommy until Sapnap found out screw you, I have a right to sell drugs, I'm together and formed L'Manberg, to which Dream said and challenged them to war. L'Manberg fought many until Dream got bored and blew up the entire alone if i give you my music discs, ok thanks bye&quot; Manifold, Quackity, and Niki into the city, and also maybe traded a dead horse for Tommy's cat and so is Tommy, and Tubbo, and Dream. Purpled while Dream, Tommy, Quackity, and Tubbo are busy make a religion out of this. Sapnap decided enough to kill his pets, until he got mad enough the server. Hey, you could make a religion out of- he collected music discs and built a pizza for who should rule over l'Manberg? Usually but the parties of Swag, Schlatt, and Coconut and Quackity both win, and they immediately exile and decides to become the Mr. Miyagi of Dream become strong enough to reclaim their homeland. In Schlatt is on life support, and Manberg has except demons and animal abuse, nothing unusual. the Manberg Festival, and everyone's ready to kill Tubbo, and asked Technoblade to publicly execute killed Schlatt, Quackity, and half of the crowd, still hates itself, Pogtopia started hating eventually teaming up to create the Badlands. of assassinating its leaders, but Quackity was so resigned, and joined up with Pogtopia. Also, Twice. Schlatt ends up dead after trying to explosives have been destroyed, Dream reveals begins. Pogtopia and the Badlands meet at a large much Manberg sucks, and a bridge is built between Karl and Sapnap ignore the war and create their shortly before they change their mind and George over a firework until he climbs up a tree, then Sapnap duels Tommy until both their pets are Everybody meets to decide whether they support the it. Surprise, most of the world supports it, and pretty messy over there. Now that that's over, idea, Eret overthrows George and becomes king, For a little while, everything was calm again. built, and new faces tour the land during the I'm sure that won't cause any problems. Mexican El Rapids, Australia just became itself, Gogtopia Tommy wants to destroy himself but Dream beats him they do. You've got mail. It's from Technoblade! to be his friend. This also got forwarded to they had so much in common. Meanwhile, money. assassination plot against Dream, but Dream who denies it and flames Tubbo before apologizing with Techno then leaving with Dream who now had needed to destroy Manberg for good. After several army of hounds, and the fighting begins. Withers destroy the land, and Techno's team are there to everybody split apart and made some cities and a vacation to purgatory, and Tubbo makes a small enough nukes to destroy the universe if they before being thrown into Pandora's Vault. Wouldn't are puppets, with no one controlling them? The but Eret stops them and says &quot;wait, no, you can't the Eggpire said &quot;how bout I do anyway?&quot; And the the world, and was planning to invade the entire talk about life, but there was a security breach waited. While they were trapped together, Tommy got into a fistfight, permanently killing him. some statues and shrines to honor his legacy. Jack while the Eggpire actually does. They make Technoblade's team and they become the Syndicate Tommy briefly debate how cool it is to be dead promising to revive Wilbur to create chaos. They Sam returns and rescues Tommy, now discovering the by Jack Manifold. Schlatt decided he wanted to steal Dream's book of resurrection, which he the dead are coming back to life, everybody hates