Hello and welcome to a new film here from the watercolor workshop. Every year I always find it amazing how quickly the time passes between autumn and Christmas. Now it's almost that time again. For everyone who is still looking for a Christmas surprise for a loved one or you would simply like to get yourself into the Christmas spirit, here comes my little Christmas motif today . Before I start painting, a small reference to our public livestream on December 10th. There are occasional livestreams for them here on the channel Supporters of our channel But this livestream, the last of the year, is public and everyone can join in. On December 10th at 7 p.m. we'll paint this beautiful motif together. I'll be happy if many of you join in. On December 10th at 7 p.m. just Switch on the channel here Then you can paint along live or watch the film and paint the motif later . You can then ask your questions directly in the chat in the evening, I'm looking forward to it. For today's picture I'm using the following materials: glazed orange from Schmincke, light ocher, alizarin crimson from Winsor&amp;Newton, ultramarine blue from Schmincke and burnt sienna from Winsor&amp;Newton I work on good handmade paper from Arches 300 g and the format is approximately postcard size I paint with brushes from my own brush collection This is one here Red sable hair brush in size 10 and the flat brush for washing out the details. I also use masking fluid Schmincke Company You can find all the materials to order directly under the video in the video description. Before we get started with this year's Christmas motif, I'll show you a few examples of Christmas cards that I've already painted here on YouTube in the past few years. We'll guide you below Video a playlist, a Christmas playlist There you will find all the films that have been online for Christmas in previous years with the corresponding cards This is now the motif that I have picked out for this year That is very exciting, we will paint together right here We pour the background onto the paper and this makes the background glow very gently and shimmer. The reference photo and also the sketch I created as it lies here will be sent to the supporters of our channel by email. You can also find them all on our supporters page &quot;Steady your support&quot;. Photos and sketches for the older films They are collected there under the &quot;Contribution&quot; section and can be viewed at any time. If you would also like to support this channel here, you can find the link to &quot;Steady&quot; in the video description under the video. First I erase them Strong pencil marks are a bit off here, because some areas of the watercolor should be bright and luminous later and I don't want so many pencil marks showing through in this area. We have to cover the flame and the upper part of the candle with masking fluid. I'm using scratch masking tape from the company here Schmincke I'll link this masking liquid to you in the video description. To apply the masking liquid I always use an older brush. I have the following trick for you: First move the brush back and forth in the brush soap with a little water, so that it is nicely soaped Then dip the damp brush into the masking liquid. The hair is protected by this soap film and if you wash the brush with clear water immediately afterwards, it won't break. I'm now masking the flame and part of it of the candle As we can see quite clearly in the photo, this part is later brighter than the background. Here the candle is brighter than the background and at this point here, we can see quite clearly, especially over here it is darker than that Background Of course I don't have to mask it because it is then painted on with paint on the first coat of paint. This masking liquid now has to dry thoroughly. This takes about half an hour or, if you blow dry, it's quicker. My masking liquid is now well dried I always check this by going over it with my finger and if nothing sticks, it's dry. Now I start by wetting the paper very thoroughly with clear water. The entire paper is moistened. The nice thing about the motif is that it is Candlestick with the candle is darker than the background. The candle itself and the flame have areas that are lighter. I have already masked these areas so that the paint cannot stick there at all. Some places in the candle that are not quite are so bright, I then wash the color out again. My sheet is now completely flat and I now start to add different colors to the wet surface. First, cadmium yellow in a fairly strong concentration with a lot of pigment around the flame. Now I drip Directly from the brush, glaze orange mixed with yellow and alizarin crimson into the paper. I also add some burnt sienna to the mixture. Now I can turn and rock the sheet in different directions and the color will find its way The different colors combine nicely with each other on the paper. If a drop runs out, I can vacuum it up with the cloth or with the tip of the brush . Turn it a little again so that I connect everything nicely on the paper . Now there are more drops of color on the paper To intensify things a bit, I also add a bit of light ocher. This mineral pigment is a bit more opaque and creamy, so that I can now also include darker areas. Adding a little blue to the sienna also creates a warmer, dark brown Again you turn and rock and remove any excess liquid. You can't completely control this, you have to enjoy what you see on the paper. Then I take out the brightness from the bright area of the candle with the moistened flat brush. I take that out Paint out and then get the candle shape here in a brightness, but it is not as bright white as the upper area that I masked. We will now also let this color application dry in peace . Don't blow-dry too early because the pigments will set differ from each other here in a nice, exciting way. If I were to apply the hot air to it too early, it would become flat and boring. If the paint has dried really well, then you can carefully start rubbing off the masking fluid. In any case, it has to be done The paint must be completely, completely dry, otherwise you will smear paint into the white areas. I remove a few pencil marks with the eraser. Then I start working on the candlestick and the candle. Using a mixture of burnt sienna, lighter I'm now painting the ring up here with ocher and a little bit of alizarin crimson. I'll vary the color every now and then and mix myself a new color mixture. But I'll stick with the three colors mentioned. I'll work in the shadowed areas in the candlestick down here in the bowl later with a slightly darker glaze and I also wash out some areas that are still light. A bit of ultramarine blue is now added to the mix. As long as the paint is still wet in the lower area of this small plate, I add a shadow color mixed with ultramarine blue and a little alicarin crimson and place the shadow directly here. I'm always happy when a little of the color of the object, in this case the plate, runs into the shadow and creates a beautiful connection. It works in the candlestick now moving on with more light ocher in the mix But the other colors are also included The lower area of the candle is darker than the background behind it Now I'm trying to create a nice transition here with a soft watery blend In the upper area the candle has a very light yellowish hue. I put the light ocher in here with a lot of water. To create the shape of the wick I first wash out the color a little. In the lower area of the flame I put a spot of violet. Dissolve with water . Then I paint the wick with a dab of light ochre, some burnt sienna and ultramarine blue I would now like to loosen the flame a little bit. The hot candle flame and also the movement of the flame creates a certain blur. We can now show this quite nicely here by loosening the hard edges a little with the washout brush. A small shadow shape comes here inside the candle. Now I want to add a few shadow shapes onto the candlestick itself. For this I work with a creamy mixture of ultramarine blue and burnt sienna. Finally, a few brightnesses are washed out. These fine ones Details now make the candlestick a little more three-dimensional . At the end there are a few highlights on this handle. That's it for my Christmas motif. I hope you liked my Christmas motif and that you want to try it out now . If you liked the video, We would be happy about a like or a comment. You can also support our work here on YouTube on the channel. Many thanks to all the lovely people who are already doing this. You can find the link to the support area at the bottom of the video description. You can choose, with what amount you use this channel Would like to support 2, 5, 10 or even 20 EUR monthly here , depending on how much it's worth to you. There are different offers in the different packages, for example regular live streams here on YouTube. I'll definitely be looking forward to seeing you here again next Saturday You're here for the completely free next film about watercolor painting. Thank you for watching and goodbye until next time