SUBTITLE: Hessischer Rundfunk SUBTITLE: Hessischer Rundfunk There are these places that you would like to see for yourself. This is mine, probably the busiest intersection in the world. Shibuya Crossing in the middle of Tokyo. We are Nina and Felix and we want to try everything out here, get up close and personal with Japanese culture. They always laugh so happily when they pull it really tight. Japan is tradition and progress, pop culture and cuisine. Public transport goes from Tokyo to Kyoto, Nara, Osaka, Koya-San and Katsuura. Tokyo, the mega metropolis. An overview can be found on the Shibuya Sky viewing platform, 229 meters above Shibuya. The Tokyo metropolitan area is the largest city in the world with 37.2 million people . This is not a souvenir shop, but the specialty of Gotokuji Temple. The temple is not quite centrally located in Tokyo, but I still wanted to come here. Junko will tell me the secret of the waving cats. Ring the bell. - For what? - To call the gods. Then put your hands together and pray. Make a wish. I always thought the waving cat came from China. - That's not true. She usually has the letter for money here on her stomach. This means that she invites people with her left hand and luck, money, with her right hand. Many restaurants have a cat like this so that it invites more guests to come in, more customers. The legend of the Cat Temple: In the 17th century, a monk is said to have lived here with a pet cat. During a severe storm, the cat beckoned a samurai inside , saving him from a lightning strike. Out of gratitude, he dedicated this small shrine to the cat. Today, people sacrifice cat figurines in the hope that a wish will come true. This means: I passed the exam. Thank you. That could also be a wish? Yes, and with this person it came true. I really need to buy a cat here. You can either place your cat here with a wish or you can buy one here and bring it back to the temple when a wish has come true. There are already over 10,000 here. The cats are definitely doing very well, half of them were already sold out. There were only a few sizes left. She comes with me to Germany and now she has a wish. These wooden tablets are called ema and can be purchased at almost all temples in Japan. Then at the end you also have to write your name so that God knows whose wish it is. It's really difficult whether it should be a personal wish for me or a wish for everyone. Well, usually it's a personal wish. I'll reveal what I want later. The country's oldest sport is trained behind this inconspicuous door . The goal of sumo wrestling: to push the opponent out of the defined circle. A fight like this is usually over after a few seconds. These wrestlers are still in training, which is evident from the fact that their hair is still too short for the classic bun. Originally, sumo wrestling matches were held in Japanese Shinto shrines to honor the gods. The religious aspect is still important today and also ensures that sumo enjoys a high reputation in society. As a woman, I'm not even allowed to put one foot in the ring. It may be an old custom or tradition, but originally the god of sumo is a male god and he gets angry when a woman gets into the ring. How should I put it? I can't explain it well, but women menstruate when they grow up, so... The god gets angry. How shall I put it? It has long been a tradition that women are not allowed in there. The sumo association is resisting an opening. So Felix has to go. Fighting wasn't in my contract. *dynamic music* Sumo wrestlers do 500 squats every day. Training is carried out twice a day. How are you doing? - Yes, it's tiring. Just squats. - I think he's quite happy with you though. I don't know. Is he good? - Not quite yet. I still have to practice a bit. Uh! -Push! Uh! -Push! -Push! But at some point it will happen. He was much better than I was when I started sumo wrestling. The body's center of gravity is very low. Your movements, the way you slid your feet, were pretty good. When I was a beginner, I couldn't do that. I couldn't go down that low. Eating is part of the training and we are invited. Chanko is a protein-rich stew that all sumo wrestlers eat. It's available here in different versions every day. Very good. Yummy. It tastes like a stew actually. There's a bit of cabbage in there and meat and mushrooms. Very spicy, but not spicy. It's really delicious. With several bowls of chanko, the wrestlers eat 4 large bowls of rice. The more body weight, the harder it is for the opponent to push them out of the ring. Master Ajigawa remembers his active time as a sumo wrestler. Since I was very thin, I was told that I had to eat all the time. I have to eat. So I practiced eating and sometimes I would eat and cry while eating. Now that you're retired, do you miss food a lot? I miss eating a lot. But since I've been eating a lot for so long, I still eat a lot, even when I shouldn't. These students are between 19 and 24 years old and their first tournaments are coming up in a few years. From the most famous sport to the most famous movie monster high above the rooftops of Tokyo. 52 meters high, the same size as the original Godzilla. We get to take a look at the Godzilla Rooms in the adjacent hotel. That's a nice view when you wake up in the morning, isn't it? And first thing you see. You're scared to death. Cool. * scary music * Wow, that's really for the ultras! I don't think I would be able to sleep well there. As much as I love Godzilla. When this friend here looks at you first thing in the morning. If you're not staying in the hotel, you can stop by the cafe on the roof terrace to feel Godzilla's breath. Are you crazy excited yet? - Nope. I feel like this catches you a little more. This really gets me. * Figure screams scary. * * dynamic music * It was like being 12 years old in the cinema. I can't understand how this doesn't affect you at all, Felix. We will come back to Tokyo again. Okay, the train leaves in three minutes and we have absolutely no idea where we have to go. That works. You didn't want to run, Nina. That's crap when the trains run so punctually, isn't it? But luckily the next one is coming soon. Our plan: Take the Shinkansen bullet train to Kyoto, but get off in between and take a look at Mount Fuji. If he shows up. Japan's highest and most sacred mountain. At this time of year, Mount Fuji is closed to climbs. I imagined it to be really nice. I fly over the lake, you can see the volcano in the background in the reflection. Now I've got such a small corner, but maybe it'll all spread out. It is said here that, yes Fuji is a goddess, she hides in the clouds as soon as she sees a man because she is shy. But she also hides from women out of jealousy. So it's not that easy. Kyoto was the capital of the empire for over 1,000 years. During the Second World War, it was the only megacity in Japan that remained unscathed. It goes without saying that this city is hardly missing on any trip to Japan. And when you think of Japan, you probably have images like this in mind: The geisha district of Gion is the ideal photo spot for engagement and wedding photos. Or the traditional 20th birthday photo in a kimono. Although it is no longer everyday clothing, it is still worn for special occasions to this day. I also have a special encounter coming up. Are you happy with the decision? I can't imagine myself in any of them. But I think it's pretty good. It looks a bit retro. Translated, kimono simply means something to dress and dressing is actually a thing. An underdress, an underskirt, a collared blouse, and then comes the actual kimono. I have a total of 10 cords and belts tied around me. Oof! They always laugh so happily when they pull it really tight. The goal: There should no longer be a curve to be seen, more of a tube shape. I imagined it would be more comfortable somehow. Do you like wearing kimono? - Yes, I like the kimono. It's so beautiful, but even for me, it's difficult to wear it. I should look really neat. I wish I could breathe a little better. That would be nice. But otherwise it's definitely really exciting, I notice when I'm sitting that I'm sitting completely upright because it's actually like a corset. Listen! I have an appointment with a maiko. This is the name of the students who, after a long period of training, later work as geisha. This is Kanosuzu, which is not her real name, but her maiko name and roughly means: wish comes true. To dispel a cliche straight away: Geishas are not sex workers. They are artists who master ancient Japanese skills. Kanosuzu is 16 years old and has been in training for six months. So far she can only do 2 dances, she still has 100 more to do. I want to know what it feels like when every little movement has to be right. I fail before I even start dancing. I have no idea how I'm going to get back up here in this... Ah! Oh, I have to sit back down? I got up wrong. I'll try again. Can we do it together? Nice. In her dances she tells short stories. In 5 years Kanosuzu will be a fully trained geisha. Geisha means something like person who is skilled in the art. This also includes the art of conversation and singing. Kanosuzu will later work in traditional teahouses or be hired by wealthy clients for business banquets and parties. Good. It takes her over an hour to do her make-up and put on the kimono. The hairstyle is even more elaborate. How often do you do your hair like that? Maikos have to keep their hairstyle for a week. We only go to a hairdresser once a week. When I sleep, I use a particularly high pillow so that my hair doesn't get ruined. What? When you go out with your friends or go shopping during this time, is your hair always like that? Yes, but we can't go anywhere with our hair like that. Which places are forbidden then? For example, we are not allowed to go to stores or McDonalds. Once a geisha gets married, she is no longer allowed to work as a geisha. Then her career is over. But before that she earns really well. I wonder what she likes so much about this job. I like entertaining people and making them happy. That makes me happy too. I met a young woman who is passionate about her future job. The profession has a talent problem. Fewer and fewer Japanese women want to become geisha. I can imagine that, as the young women somehow live in a time long gone. I didn't really get that close to her, but that's probably what keeps the myth of the geisha alive. They are just artists. There are said to be around 100,000 Shinto shrines in Japan. This one is one of the most popular. Shinto is often referred to as the original Japanese religion. This shrine is dedicated to the goddess of rice cultivation. The avenues of red torii are four kilometers long in total. These are symbolic entrances into the world of goddesses and gods. We take a short detour to Osaka. By the way, this is also a Shinto shrine. I wouldn't have thought so at first glance. Osaka seems like a big fair to me. Be sure to stay until the evening hours. This tower was once the tallest in Asia. Even though we only had a short time: Osaka is lively, a little crazy and just fun. This little friend didn't get lost. He's at home here. We are in Nara. It's not just the temples that make this place special, but above all the Sika deer. They are considered messengers of the gods. * Music * Joe lives here and has known the deer since he was a child. Are they sometimes dangerous? (in English) Yes, if they are hungry. Then they sometimes attack the children. Are they dangerous? They are just wild animals. They look so cute but sometimes they change their behavior. * Laughs * He just saved himself again. Okay, now they're all coming, now we have to go quickly. Okay, let's go. Be careful. These crackers are the only food allowed. And because the deer are Japanese, they have mastered this typical polite gesture. Why are they doing this? That's just her instinct. Joe, can you take these please? You just shouldn't demand the bow too much. *Scream* Watch out! Joe also promised us a special snack that would be a real spectacle to make. *Shoutout* Steamed sticky rice is the base for mochi. These are Japanese rice cakes. Japanese mugwort provides the green color. There is a sweet bean paste in the rice cakes. The mochi mashers demonstrate the traditional preparation. Normally a machine does the job. The fastest people in the country should work here. * rhythmic calls * They are still warm. They are still warm. Can I have one? Hmm. Very good. Do you like it? You can't actually describe this consistency. They taste slightly sweet and are really tasty. It tastes like flour on top. That's not so sweet. That's not really my thing. We are back in Kyoto. In one of the top Instagram spots. This bamboo forest, completely overcrowded during the day. We were given the tip to just drive through to see this temple. 8,000 stone effigies and pagodas that house the souls of people who died without relatives. There is a small bamboo forest here and we have it all to ourselves. From Arashiyama Station we head back to central Kyoto. But here we tend to miss the train. A foot onsen, i.e. a hot spring, directly on the platform. How great is that? Entry was included in the rental fee for our bikes. Of course we also have a real onsen on our itinerary, but first we go back to the center. To a traditional tea ceremony. Green tea came to Japan from China in the 12th century. Miho will show me how the matcha is artfully prepared and she will surprise me with a confession. In the 14th and 15th centuries, Japan became a major trading nation. So many unusual products were brought to Japan. The tea ceremony became a social gathering to show off the things they had brought with them. The cloth is made of silk and I'm going to clean everything again with it. Of course the utensils were already clean beforehand, but people take it very seriously here. Matcha is a green tea ground into powder. The taste is slightly bitter, which is why the tea biscuits are not eaten with tea in a Japanese tea ceremony, but before tea. Delicious sweet rice cracker. Not much flavor, but sweet. Miho seems to me to be very focused in every step, every move is perfect. While in my house the tea bag ends up carelessly in the cup, here there is a strict sequence. Arigato. Stop! Oops! I thought I could just drink it now. Of course that's not possible, because everything here has a very specific, precisely coordinated order. Minor cultural faux pas. Oops! Take the bowl in your right hand and place it on the palm of your left hand. The turn is an act of pure politeness. The tea bowls are often ornately decorated. This is how you turn the beautiful side away from yourself so that others can see it. Even though my mug doesn't have a picture, the rule is the rule. Does it taste a bit bitter? A little bitter, but not too bitter. The tea bowls are very valuable, so they are held in both hands. Luckily, it wasn't until after the ceremony that I found out that this cup was worth several hundred euros. The last sip is sipped as a sign that the tea was tasty. *Sipping* Like that? - Yes, that was a very good slurp. Now I'll get another secret out of the tea ceremony master . What is your favorite drink? - Cocoa. Nevertheless, she maintains the old tradition. If you don't know what to do with all the rules: bow politely and smile a lot, that's always a good thing here. Our journey takes us to Wakayama Prefecture. Koya-San is probably the most important pilgrimage destination in the country. Here is the final resting place of one of Japan's greatest Buddhist saints: Kobo Daishi, also known as Kukai. Kokan Nakamura is a monk here and shows me the temple complex. Koya-San is the cradle of the Shingon school, a branch of Buddhism. * Asian music * We are now in the pagoda. Now let's apply the Zuko incense powder. This cleanses your soul and your body. Take a small amount in your palms and spread it all over your hands. Oh! It smells quite strongly of cinnamon and cloves. Someone started making the coins stop. And so it began to be said that a wish will come true if you make the coin stay standing. This is typical of the people in Japan. Someone starts it and the others just do it. The main thing is that it brings luck. Uh! Good. Let's see if I can manage this? Try it. Good. In Shingon it is taught that the awakening of one's own Buddha nature cannot only be realized after death, but rather during one's lifetime. You can get an insight into the practice of the clergy by staying overnight at the temple. There are 117 temples in Koya-San and you can stay overnight in around 50. * Asian music * (Felix) What are you saying? I think they suit you. They look like slippers. Pilgrims used to stay overnight in the temples. Today they are open to everyone and the monks rely on the income from the accommodation. Autumn is high season here and there were only 2 rooms available. This is mine. Wow beautiful! Here you sleep in typical Japanese style on a futon on a rice mat. * dynamic music * The pilgrims certainly didn't spend the night in such a chic way in the past, but rather like Felix. This is my little humble room. A quarter the size of yours, but it's all there. A bed, a heater. However, the bathroom is a shared bathroom in the hallway and the equipment is, well: different. So, I have to point out again that this mattress, I'll compare how thick it is. Here. And then I'll make a cut and then you can see my mattress here. I think the mattress is a bit overkill. It's just a blanket. * He laughs. * And Nina said, that's the same. All right. OK. There is a meditation session in the late afternoon. Monk Shokai makes time for us beforehand so that we don't disturb others while filming. The purpose of this meditation is to become one with the cosmic Buddha Dainchi Nyorai. Sitting still, not my thing. I have to count from 1 to 10 internally to get into meditation. And that for 40 minutes. I think I just can't do 40 minutes. I also get so terribly tired. You only made it 1 minute. That's not true at all. That was at least 10. That was a maximum of 2.5. I notice all the time that my back hurts, that my pants are pinching, that I'm really tired. Meditation is hard for me. It's all a matter of practice. I hear every noise, no matter what, it totally freaks me out. I am not yet in my mindfulness. You say you got tired. But if you control your breathing and calm yourself down, you'll just get a little sleepy. It's not a bad thing because if you get sleepy, it proves that meditation is making you calm. Arigato. - Arigato... Since we are staying overnight in the temple, we are allowed to have dinner in a yukata, a kind of bathrobe, homely. The temple food is purely vegan. Onions and garlic are omitted. I was expecting something completely different, but not such finely prepared food. The soup is already delicious. But to show that it tastes good, I have to sip it. The next morning shortly before 6 a.m.: morning ceremony in the temple. Did you sleep well. - It's going ok. I woke up about 3 times. My blanket that lay beneath me was as thin as a carpet. A carpet is thicker. It was much too short. That means my feet were in the cold the whole time and the icing on the cake is, what I would never have expected, that someone would change shoes in front of my room. Someone swapped my shoes. Now I have to walk around here in mini women's sandals. * rhythmic singing * Chanting, which is the singing of religious songs or mantras. When they chant, you become totally calm. That was a nice start to the day. Spending the night in the temple was an experience. Anyone who comes to Koyasan should definitely visit the Oku-no-in. This is the largest cemetery in Japan with 200,000 graves. Every morning, whether it is raining or snowing, the monks offer food in this chest. For Kukai, the founder of the Shingon faith, who went into a crypt here for eternal meditation. We're not allowed to film there. We are traveling again with monk Kokan Nakamura. Now comes something I find strange in a cemetery. Why is there a Panasonic gravestone here? This Panasonic tombstone was erected to house the soul of Panasonic founder Konosuke Matsushita. He also had a connection to one of the temples here in Koya San. And also to house the souls of the workers who worked and contributed to Panasonic. Even the big ones want to benefit from the proximity of the holy Kukai. Only you can answer whether this is due to strong faith or marketing purposes . There is also a gravestone for animals that died in animal experiments. We're going to Katsuura. Volcanic activity gives Japan countless hot springs. These are called onsen. (Felix:) How ready are you for the onsen? I'm happy, it's going to be nice and warm. It smells a bit musty, but it's supposed to be healing. And you? (Felix:) I'm not a big fan of hot temperatures. Mimimi. Others go on a wellness vacation here. And strictly separated according to gender. Bathing suits are prohibited. Tattoos mostly too. In Japan they are associated with the mafia. You have to wash before bathing. I think Nina has to go on without me now. Sorry Felix, you have to travel on alone. Unfortunately I'm staying here. Of course we didn't stay because we wanted to get to know the modern side of Tokyo. Digital art like I've never seen before. * Spherical music * Together with Takashi we are allowed into the Team Lab Planets museum before opening time . Why do I have to take off my socks? That is part of our concept. We try to let people physically experience our art. So I wade through a pool with swimming koi. * Music * They turn into flowers when touched. Everything is projected. Just go. Team Lab is an international collective from the fields of art, programming, architecture, animation and many others. A museum where I don't have to stop myself from doing what I would often like to do: touch the art. For example like this. * Spherical sounds * * Giggle * We can communicate with the light and the sounds. * Spherical sounds * 13,000 hanging, real orchids make up this installation. I'll take you into my living room. The orchids react to movements. So new spaces are constantly being created. * Music * Do you still like going to normal museums where you can only see paintings and sculptures that don't move and you're not allowed to touch? Yes, of course. I like all kinds of creativity. I respect her. I like going to museums. We use different tools and materials and are interested in how people understand the world. The collective has been active since 2001. People started supporting us and treating us like artists. But I have to say, more in Asian and European countries. In Japan, people don't treat us like artists. Why is that? I don't know it. Please urge you to do it. By the way , to experience digital art, a trip to Hamburg will soon be enough. The next Team Lab Museum will open there. Our journey through this country, where there is so much to discover, began and ends here in Tokyo . Now it's time to reveal my wish that I left at the Cat Temple. I definitely want to come back! And if you still have doubts: the thoughtful Japanese toilets should convince you. The toilet seats are even heated. SUBTITLE: Hessischer Rundfunk