Hey. Well, thank you all for being here. Hello, My name is DJ Patil. I'm a general partner and a member of the Commonwealth Club The club would like to thank the Bernard Good Lit event. It is now known as the creator of of Image Net, a catalyst for modern, modern Fei Fei Li has spent more than two decades I really think of her as putting not just She has put down And we're going to talk a little bit She's also the inaugural Sequoia professor science department at Stanford University and co-director and founder Institute. Faith is also the co-founder and chairperson for All, aimed at increasing inclusion FFA has published and is the author of a new book Or if not, you can get out of the World's, and the discovery at the dawn of AI. So, Faith, thank you for being here. And most of all, congratulations. This is an incredible book. Let me start with, if we were to visit ourselves back and said to immigrants talking about No, we wouldn't even know what I was. Where they are. And so just a testament is that we are talking so much about the impact it's having on the world. But I think we should take a step back and because it's a phenomenal journey So maybe you could tell us a little bit Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Actually, did I want to share I didn't write the book I was invited to write a book about A.I. for popular I spent a year writing a very nerdy book and it was my friend, philosopher, professor who read my draft. After that year I finished and who said, I was like horrified to hear that. And he's his wife is an author. And he said, That's But then he said, Look, if there are people and I know you can and you should, out there, young women out there, in today's AI, they don't find a voice And he he covers me that that AI, my voice represents a very, very important sector of our And that's how I ended up the sense of one thread is a coming of age Another thread and of course, our intertwined history. So from that point of view, we were talk Did you and me? This book is this journey I have taken We have so many immigrants, origin in this country who have, don't think great things contributed And I hope that even I technical Silicon Valley, you know field, Well said. Well-said. Well, tell us a little bit about your insight to how you approach the problems of AI. Right. Well, I still hope you read the book, but but I came here with my parents and of all places, I'm not so sure It's a very small town in Parsippany but very serendipitously, from that little town And and already computer scientists were making the first generation As I just landed, the participant English, went into the public high school, and I was passionate about physics. It really was my biggest passion. And we should But before that, in person, Before that, I ended up with a scholarship in Princeton and and then in the middle of that, I we had to support our our family, Those still don't speak English. And I ended up in Silicon I had my first startup, With. Literally some angels who funded helped me and and I ran the dry cleaners job throughout my undergrad, So there was some remote work before Zoom and and then because I found that the audacious question what intelligence is captivated me And I thought, that's And that's how I began my journey But, you know, even as in this comes out a bit in the book, is you were a nontraditional student you were reading what you were doing, and what is it that really where did that love and passion And the reason this is because you're helping Yeah, You know, maybe at the end of the day, between humans and machines, Whereas computers don't necessarily Say more so. But you mean by love. If you read my book, They. They love me in the way They let a little girl be as curious and as unique as she wanted to be. And my dad, which the book talks about also, is a unit I'm sure you get. You met these kind of people in your life He he loves insects, He loves animals. He loves nature. And his love of those things And I kind of become his little psychic and and just embrace the nature. When I was a kid and found my own path, but I guess so I, I found my path and but it's, it's the space For me, it was in that educational system. It's a pretty tight education system. But yet my parents, created a space for me It's not a huge space, for a young kid, especially a young girl in that kind of environment. And that's where it began. Well, I think you're alluding to one of the people you're talking about Could you tell us about him? Yeah. So if this book is partially dedicated to a very special person, is he's your everyday American public He's not unique in that sense. His name is Bob Sabella and he was my first math teacher, because he was the head of math department I didn't speak English, so he had to deal and eventually But in the meantime compassionate and also tough love teacher. He kind of recognized my challenge as a as a ESL English, He recognized my loneliness. He recognized I needed help. And he he And one thing led to another. We became friends and we talk about math, about literature and science And he took me to his home High school math teacher, just embraced me They become my first encounter to the very core value of what this country means to me here Or many of us also are educated We're like coastal people. We we look at America means shiny things, you know, But for me, America means public high school math teacher who had the most fundamental of kindness and of integrity. And that is that really Mr. Bob Sabella I they stayed with me throughout my course of my study and career. They well, to even purchase this dry cleaners shop. And you know, he stayed with me as well Unfortunately, became a Stanford assistant professor. But I stayed very close to And I'm so grateful that I have I have Mr. Bob Sabella in my life, and Sabella in our life, and And we have many teachers here. We do thank you for being a teacher that special the ones out online you know, it's amazing because you talk and this is sort of theme through the book And and you have this almost a destiny to say that that that's not good enough. Did I think that word is delusions. I'm going to go with audacity and I think I think this is a good place because in so I'll ask you to tell us how we got to But this is I mean the scope and magnitude of where you started with I mean, there's audacious So maybe you can take us through Yeah. Well, actually, but about that's what physics captured me is the audacity question of our later or smallest particle of the universe These are crazy, crazy questions and then eventually led me which is what is intelligence So? By the time I finished we were smack in the middle of winter, The public doesn't know about much this is the end of my grad So we we entered a very interesting age. That machine being introduced to the field of AI. We also are and I was a assistant professor working on one of the most mind boggling questions which is make computers, don't see the there or, you know, a cylindrical shape. I see a person. I see your expression. I see you were drinking water, So we see the world with so much richness and we don't know how to make computers And I wanted to create this computer But in the meantime, my field at that time, the standard practice is take a dataset of four different objects And I was also fortunate enough to have an education, to have my Ph.D. that was interdisciplinary. I did some neuroscience, cognitive science to be inspired And we know humans are really capable of seeing meaning And they also see a lot. As a kid, and I think that was the audacious, that I had with my students around 2627, why do we map and give it to the computer 226 We're talking still, you know, we didn't have really much cloud To be able to to even get enough hard disk and memory Yes, I actually that was precisely when I talked about this idea. They're like, where do even have hard drive to contain, And but I guess we believed in that. I went to the biggest Lexicon taxonomy It's called word net of visual categories from word that. What's an example of a category German cat is a category A sedan is a category. So you have 10,000 of these. 20. 20, 20, 2000. 22,000, and then we went to the Internet. We downloaded billion images. Lots of cat photos. Lots of cat. So so we we took billions of images which means to clean them That was really, I don't know what I was thinking I would be hiring undergrads to do this. And the principal undergrads I guess they refused to do it. And around 2007, serendipitously, a student, I was a faculty at Princeton, a student who moved from Silicon Valley Silicon Valley, this is such a great story There is a startup. I heard they're using this platform called and and then that day, when I went to check with Amazon it turned out to be an online market You put little digital tasks there you know, millions of workers You say, well, $10 if I'm a worker online. If I like that task and I like your pay, So it's kind of a market place. I check that out. And I realized made a billion images who is calling and short for me So we set it up. This whole Amazon Mechanical Turk system and eventually we curated image that dataset in 2009, the largest dataset in AI at that time. It's also the first real big data. It's the first time big Data entered A.I. and forced forced the field And then we open sourced it. We created a image that challenge. We wait for you to the challenge. I think it's important to note what was the perspective of people from from academia when you finally were like, Behold image net, What happens? A silence. There wasn't much welfare. Why don't you think they got it? I think it was ahead of its time because, you know, to to approach A.I. with big data was not a concept now, which had to be done But it wasn't like that. You know, there were mathematical models These are very elegant models, but they were not thinking And and, you know, I was lucky. I mean, there are many bets that were ahead of their time, and maybe they didn't wait long enough And but I was lucky to be alive, to, you know, to to take fruition. And we put out this challenge in 2012. A professor in Canada, Professor Jeff Hinton, with two very smart student. One is Alex Kukowski, The other one is In the news recently. They saw image that and they also saw that took two GPUs because CPUs, graphics, graphic processing unit made by Nvidia. It is better at parallel which is the classic Intel chip chip And they programed that two GPUs with image that data with a class remember as a person pretty while they were developing neural network And the convergence of these was what people call the Well, maybe what, you know, one of the things that sort of strikes me data side of the community going, my gosh, This is going to unlock magic. You know, this is from the LinkedIn side. And so you really were able to empower an unbelievable army of people to try algorithms, to test, to compete. I'm curious, these groups work, was it how how much hand-to-hand combat was it? Was there a lot of collaboration going on? What was the nature of the dynamics And the reason I ask that is and we see this flat out race. But I get the sense from your book, It was very different. It was the time where I was very academic. I, I feel I grew up in the golden era of AI because it was so academic, You know, of course people have opinions that was a thing and it's their opinion. But we collaborate, we share, We you know, and Berkeley and, It was a very different era, but it also So nobody cared about it. So. So there were no VCs knocking on the door? There is no this is and I also did that era of I think women flourished. And as a young woman computer scientist, from a period of AI where power and money Interesting. Here, here. I mean. Right. Let's talk a little bit about some of the because you took you've taken which image you were able to start putting together, PC students that typically weren't Some of the very popular names today, the But you also decided to take on And one of the lines that I think which stood out to me And it strikes me because also, well, woven through this book and very serious So I'd love to tease that out a little bit how you see this relationship with people it's just such a rich narrative that you provided. Yeah. And also a shout out to you did. You're one of the forefront thinkers and leaders in digital health So this is something Yeah. So you're right. So I have always been a basic scientist, focus on the fundamental science, I feel like it was right around Image Lab So 2012, 2013, there is another hot topic, And I just became Stanford's director of Stanford and I was the only woman And I was in the middle of, at that time, now interested And then we're starting to look at that human lives, very complex And in the meantime, I live a parallel life of going to VR, go into operator room calling ambulance home caring case managing because the only caretaker for And then it really dawned on me and health care, especially care delivery, has a lot of commonality. It's high stakes because human lives because the behavior of patients The behavior And also it needs help because in America, We have labor shortage for caretakers, We have even bigger shortage So I started to think vision, as you know, a technology to help Can I just interrupt Because I think you as you said, to help take care of you, And you talk a little bit. So could you tell us a little bit about Absolutely. We need to replace the verb replace and to replace it Absolutely. I want to tell one story and I think the day So. So what? Long story short, medical researchers, especially Professor Arnie Milstein, In the meantime, and then I started taking care of her and the doctor, after major surgery, the doctor ordered her to use spiral because that's very important for her You know, also, mi safely, the daughter, I put her on a schedule like, okay, you have to do this. And I was on a mission to make my mom, I was just like, in that workaholic mode. And after a day, my mom She, like, rebelled. She's like, I don't care. I'm not alone. Does parameter, blah, blah, I was very traumatized. I felt like I was traumatized. And I was like, I'm trying to help I just don't understand. Then several weeks passed. We were back home recovering. I asked my mom, I said, Why did you fight Because I was trying to help you, have have medicated, I know how to help you. And this is you know what? You are controlling me. I don't have my dignity and self respect. It was probably one of the most profound even though it was like one sentence I realized if I were to make a conversation, I would make a it would just be like that were as humans are much more complex. The dignity how we create a relationship with the help, or through technology, No matter what happens, it's the self, the dignity And technology technologists and respect that dignity and humanity, And I think that was early. That was like 2016. I don't remember exactly the year. And I think that episode, of course, really informed me as a technologist to think about the relationship This is why I focus on saying tools are here to help, not to replace. Well, let's well, segue. Let's talk let's take an extension of that work but you also started this new institute to really insert humanity So maybe let's first start with AI for all that and hold some space for for what There therefore, is the national profit. My former student, Olga Sommer from Stanford started in 2015 as, a summer program to come to university campuses, to spend two or three weeks to learn about A.I.. But we focus on inclusions, that has been traditionally underserved We also focus on infusing that human mission And that started in 2015. Well, actually, because I was noticing that the podcast, the Airwave of even you know, Bill Gates, Elon Musk being so dangerous, summoning was talking about this like it's And so I was living in a different crisis I was at that time the only female faculty we have what, less than 15% women We have barely any students of, you know, African-American background And I was like these two Chrises one is Is there any connect Asian and and I, I think somewhere in 2014 is that if you are truly worried you should worry about who is making A.I. today. That's true. And once I made that connection, At that time, Olga and my friend Rick, We need to look at the pipeline. We need to work with K-12 students. And that's how we started this overall we started the first couple of years and then Berkeley joined and all that and. Melinda Gates and Jensen Huang family And it's it's it's still going. Honestly, I wish it could grow faster. But what would help it grow faster? Because we're seeing the transformation to write their essays. Yet is the actual program for builders. What would it take to make sure built by the communities You want the real answer. As I think. They do for sure. Is money we need. It's a nonprofit. We we need. We need support. It's a money question. As a nonprofit. It is a money question. So but that's a long story. But it is there. We're still trying very hard, Good. I'm glad you are. And then if people want to find out more about it, how did they find for Dawg? Yeah. Okay. And maybe talk to us a little bit start a new institute at Stanford. Yeah. So, so we talk about image there and then the deep And then fast forward to 2017. I was a professor that at that time And in academia So I was very lucky to be invited and Google called me and they want me What really captured my attention for this opportunity is Cloud serves to financial services you know, So I felt as a academic, it would be a good opportunity and learn and also to try to learn how to deliver So I went to Google and I was like, You know, I several things shocked me. First is server is a pretty I realized the scale of this technology Yeah, exactly. And the free food but the scale was just amazing. The number, can use, the kind of software I mean, you talk about this in the book basically scrounged for Yeah. And how many you can get it, I. Think I know in the book Hundred 800 versus. Yeah. For this is free Right. So anyway so so that was one thing that shocked me Another thing that illuminated me was ise Reach. You know, like a Japanese cucumber farmer using computer vision to help his business all the way to Fortune five companies, supply chain and customer experience And it was it dawned on me that I participated in creating used to be a private curiosity. For me, it's just me and my A.I. because nobody else cared. Now it's the whole world is using it. And there is a responsibility who created it that started to dawn on me. And in the meantime, 2017 I'm sure a lot of you remember at the heel of Cambridge I'm sure you have a strong memory and and car injuries and death, especially facial recognition bias, Criminal justice, bail calculators, Exactly. And we also see the first intense AI and weaponization and all this taught me one thing that as messy AI as a technology Yeah, as a math is not messy. Math. Math is one plus one equals two. But as a technology, it's messy. And we are the humanity human race into this new era. What is our responsibility? And that's where I really decided, as much as I love Google, I have a responsibility to create a new framework of creating AI and governing AI, with the support of Stanford leadership, I returned to Stanford after my sabbatical and created the first human Center, AI Institute in the world, I guess. Yes. Well, we've had a number Are our great staff are collecting questions, A number of questions. Let's shift gears into today and maybe the place to start you know, you can't turn on the radio or open a web browser the most recent one being everything And there there's a question of doomsayers Where do you stand in the spectrum and how should we as Yeah, I had with Jeff Hinton It's on YouTube. AI's too nuanced and too complex to go binary. And as all technologies, technology uses, you know, humanity, human civilization and we've always created And we've always, as always, have had And AI is going to kick this So it is intellectually a fair question to talk about is a conscious, who lives on a university campus, We should ask this, with much more real social risks catastrophic social risks change, weaponization bias, copyright, intellectual property, These are such real issues all of our attention with the most extreme we are actually missing and action towards these really important, In the meantime, as a scientist who created participating creating in health care, climate solutions, in many things. So I also see But I don't think we can only say There's nothing bad, so you can't hear. I'm I'm I'm just not going to give you extreme answers and the real discussion How do you know one of the questions I think you have enough for your next book So kudos to Will. Right. And next. The one of the the questions that's in here is get up to speed? Stay on top of things, be engaged either they may not be technical, What's your advice for people about these complex subjects Yeah, first of all, I think we start with you have to believe you have a voice, and as a citizen, and as an expert in your own field, And this is a tool. Our relationship with this tool how to use it or we need to learn how to get to know There are actually a lot of resources. If you are technically, you know, you have a technical background, There is a lot of, you know, or or other social media, who communicating this It's a little overwhelming. But if you do have a tech background, If you don't have a tech background, For example, if you subscribe to Stand How do they find it. At Stanford? Dot edu You can scroll down, you know, just, just go subscribe we have a lot of public briefings for policy makers, for industry of decision and all that and there are also, that you can take from Coursera So the materials are out there. It is. I'm not going to lie. It's a bit overwhelming. But if you have the will to learn, can't move your angle there is a lot of access point, I worry about global access, for example, if our students want to learn there, But in this community Well, let's take this to the national What what are you telling the president? I I'm so I met him. Right. And I mean, you did. It's very notable to take up to So I told President Biden that this technology is so important that we should adopt a moonshot mentality in resourcing public sector. And let me thank you. Let me explain. I'm America's leadership in our technology and also in in in leadership in the world has always stemmed fairly healthy ecosystem of innovation, entrepreneurialism, industry. And with the government playing playing a positive role But right now we are so imbalanced. Not a single university in America I, I used to wonder if all universities you combine can train Recently I heard there are were starting to buy more GPUs, But anyway. But but that's. Kind of there's an irony that you're You started. Yeah. So we. Yeah, And speaking of alumni. So you give your lectures in there. Yes. In the hall. Named after them. Yeah, but. So. So why do we need public sector? There are two very important reasons. First of all, public sector creates Scientific scientific We can use to discover new materials to map out the whole world's biodiversity, These are all public goods, If we're depriving public sector we're depriving our humanity from knowing this knowledge So that's one reason. The second reason as a trusted source to explain and to evaluate Right? So Stouffer's HDI, my institute who is evaluating the large language We just put out a work against European Union's AI Acts, suggested transparency measure and but the public tends to trust Now, if we don't resource public sector, we're not going to be able We're not going to be able to co-develop this important technology. So for these two reasons we resource public sector the public sector to work on safe AI, ethical AI and A.I. for for for many, many disciplines. How should we think about it Because, you know, there is this abject conflict that is taking place There's real security questions like Russia and Iran using AI. And and you were also at Google while the whole debate around Project And I'm curious through your eyes, how do you see about Yeah. So the truth is, look, Technology is messy. Tools are messy. Human world is messy. And I'm not going to pretend One of the great things university In fact, as a technology We collaborate with the Hoover Institute, Spogli Institute and we collaborate with CEPR, because we've got our tech policy political scientists, economists to grapple this together. And we also, I believe, in partnership, as a academic institute, many communities, including the government We have been especially close and those governments And we think that's very, very important. And we also play a role. I feel one of my role I can play in create the bridge to help our deep policy to be educated about the technology, to to go advise the governments Think they get it Well, I can say it because it's publicly You know, we've seen Or, you. Know, you talk to them what. What's it like government better than me? Day I'm I actually think they have changed for the better because our institute and the first trip I took And people don't understand Like they can barely spell air. And now what we we were we actually we actually work with Trump administration Yeah. So you by now even though some of them they even bipartisan they didn't the amount of attention and from the DC world is is phenomenal. Now I do wish they find more experts they do talk to people of private Of one category. Yeah. And also I say this because we just saw that also this weekend about the people, The New York Times who have driven I and if I just may call it it was all white men and ignored most of the historical people Also in your book, and you were part of their journey, And so this gets to a question also of we have a singular or we almost have a rewritten chad hallucinated version of a history Yes I think we do need to call this out. I think I don't know how many of you saw New York Times article And some of them, or investors, were not central So, you know, I don't know. Should we send three letters It is. I do think we need to call them out. This is unacceptable. There are so many women of and They do dementia who have fundamental contribution And it's just unacceptable. I agree. But one of the questions that we've got in of students who are here, is maybe just start with this is, You really pay, as unbelievable tributes to your mentors So maybe putting this What advice do you have or could be mentors and to make sure How can high school What opportunities are for them? And also another one was, you know, who are graduating from high school, Should they be thinking about. Be nice to a teacher? Just kidding. if there is one theme I was writing this book with, it's the theme of North Stars. It's I, of course, I found my North Star and I don't think everybody needs to find But I think the true human story of my journey and my mentors journey, you be fearless, be courageous and be passionate And they might change But no matter what stage you are in, or being mentored I really encourage you that makes you feel curious and passionate and filled with a sense of mission. And I think that is just a wonderful thing It's a beautiful feeling And frankly, if you are working on something What about for people who are What have you seen that works really of power or privilege? So that's my role for many years now as a mentor the thing that keep is how do we help them It's about us. It's about the people we mentor. And the best way to mentor is to learn the students are, And maybe sometimes they to help them to see their North star. Sometimes it's young people are they they're they're calling is at least for me, and rewarding great. Several people and the impact it may have on A.I.. Well, that's a great question. I don't know. I don't think I know enough we know enough about It's still very, very early. If if quantum computing it will unlock the kind of that today's computers don't have. And since AI is a deeply, deeply computational field, There might be a shift in how AI is done. But right now, just at least in my limited knowledge of it's not material yet, Okay, you barely sleep as it is. What keeps you up at night? That New York Times article. Are you worried about AGI? That's a great question. It would. I would not say I'm not worried. I think I'm already worried about A.I.. As I said, I'm already worried about that I'm worried about 2024. I'm worried about, that has been disrupted by AI right about the shifting of economy. There's one thing I do believe AI is a great tool to increase the total productivity. I see that opportunity. So clearly. But increase of productivity doesn't mean there is a fair And we have seen that in globalization So it's not enough to just talk We have to also talk about prosperity, that that's a huge topic in the age of AI point of view as well as from So all these do keep me up at night. So that's why I'm excited am not yet staying up at night thinking about the Dumars doomsday Yeah, it's interesting because when we were you know, when Bill Gates the doomsday scenario to come up with the National Strategy How we were the. First And one of the things that I think we we tried to put together and we got, but also a fair amount of wrong of which or displaced So what as you look forward over the next five years, Yeah, well, I think the impact we have to define it, jobs, I think we're seeing knowledge Even software engineering being impacted Before we thought it was going to be truck short cooks and other very manual labor but we we messed up on Yeah, exactly. There is actually more than dexterity. We also don't have a good world model. We have a good language and So so but yeah, so given I think, you know, knowledge work, especially How do we make software How do we service our customers better, how do we search better, recommend things Of course, everything And but I think there is going to be a lot of impact Technology is not a hype. It really can deeply profound industry impact. Do you let your kids use it? I do, actually. How so? Okay. This is a question that I get a lot as educators do ask me, especially K-12. So my kids are in that age And my answer is yes. But there is a but like, first of all, It's what the genius And this is a generation a world with this tool already created. But I think what we should do by learning to use it responsibly, by, so that they can enhance and augment their own productivity, Let them lose their agency. And the how to dial that knob is the task of an educator and then also in collaboration But I do think this is a great tool Well, we're we're almost coming up on time, which is always hard One last question. What's the best piece of professional Who has it from, for today's people going forward? I, I guess I'm going to go back to I don't think he actually sat. Here is a piece of advice I'm giving you. He just embodied it, you know, he, I was the kid who didn't know and his kindness, his compassion, He was a tough teacher and created to help me to see a future created to help me to pave a path. And that, And I over and over again, had the privilege to benefit but my mentors and my supporters This is why I'm doing what I'm doing. And I think it's just a great thing I think that's a great note to end on, and the passion that you bring to this. I want to personally thank you to the community around me you do to keep us headed towards So thank you, Dr. Faith Haley, from joining in, thanking her CFA is the author of Rules. I can See Curiosity exploration I, I encourage you Lee's book And if you'd like to, The club's efforts in making a virtual please visit our website at W I'm D.J. Patel. Thank you for being here Thank you.