[Jan] The world number one, the all that good stuff and he has so there's absolutely Let's just say hi to him and Mr. Magnus, are you there? How's life? [Magnus] Good. [Magnus] Everything hunky-dory, [Jan] (laughs) Are you ready [Magnus] Absolutely. I'm going to start as we speak and... and I think I just accepted or did I? Apparently I did not. Okay. [Jan] Can't see it here yet... some time. [Magnus] There we are. [Jan] Refresh, now we [Magnus] Yes okay so let's go, no an FM from Yemen. And we are off. Think I had this position in an earlier In general, not the most the fits but I guess that... little extra central control So bishop e3 I suppose. If ed, I'm going to take with knight c5 looks a little bit awkward. So in case of now knight c5, with a very nice position. And this one looks like it's just Knight c6, I have a nice and I'll try to continue with g4 and something along those lines. And claiming that my space Yeah h5 is... is a sensible response. Thinking I should go with knight d4 now Another round for my pieces. I'm not loving it though since He probably should have because this I don't especially Yeah his pieces are a bit awkwardly I can go queen to d4. Probably should play queen in sending knight d5 but hmm Okay I'm going to try it anyway, see then the idea is to try to induce then I will go b3 and claim and then he still struggles to... find good squares for the pieces. Yeah he does have this though. Quite tempted to go e5 but follow ups. I'm just going to go Now if bishop c6, I'm thinking I feel like I'm already thinking way too But... I'm not sure my position if I just did nothing. Yeah. They came with queen to e7 I can then play queen f2 to In general, I have Queen e3 is more precise. Choices, I'm thinking queen f2 rook f6 would be nice. Lines like rook e5, rook g6 are probably rook c6, knight e5 and there's Somewhere but one thing's for sure that I cannot keep spending yeah it's too much. So I'm going to try to force matters. Now if rook e8, I'm banking on knight I'm not convinced by Yeah this one I don't think It's just walking into everything. Hmm still has king h7 maybe. Yeah finds the best moves. Do I have... I think I've spoke a lot. Rook e2, does that work? So I have to rely on c4 is dumb, he doesn't he wants to go to e5 which I have to say he is not playing badly. It's a general rule of thumb that with and a rook or rook and a knight, Exchange rooks with the weaker side. Then the remaining minor piece against a rook and I don't think Now it's completely hopeless. Yeah that was a pity. Okay next challenge. I'm going to try a 3 minute Professor doctor panther a fake name to me. But trying Yeah queen g4 is not the best. who cares? Just trying to have fun. He's playing very sensibly so far. He should probably play knight c6 Then knight f5 later on. There's a serious argument that That was a bit strange. I'm sorry about the gesture probably, Wants to take on b2 I suppose No he didn't. I'm just... surprised. Why did he give up the exchange? Could have played knight d7 earlier on. My threat of taking on g7 by his ideas of queen b2 later on. But now unfortunately with a pretty terrible position. Not wanting to calculate. I threatening queen g7 which I probably have other ideas like e6, looks very nice but Yeah he resigned. One thing that should be noted that, it's mate in one and he plays rook f7, I can go rook d7, king d7 then even e6 By the way don't challenge I'm only going to accept 5 or 3 Kleopl, maybe I played kleopl before? Yeah that was a mistake. I don't... I try in general to accept challenges but I'm not going to abort the game. e3 okay. The thing is if the right then knight e2, knight e7, d4 so on. Unbelievably dull so I'm Try and yeah. Just play this way. What he He wants to play e4 at some point but e3... And basically... my lack of dark squared bishop doesn't since I'm going to castle queenside. Yeah a4, I should ... go kinght a5. Trying to play on the light squares. Knight c1 that was pretty creative Yeah go on. Takes on a5, I'm just It's not much to think about. We're playing a practical Yeah he does the sensible So I'm thinking if I go ooooh. I'm going to play e8 immediately. Yeah he would love to play because the queen h3 and queen h2 mate. And if this looks like I'm Ah no because I don't think he He would love to play king rook b1 but I believe Ah king h3. Very clever. Very clever. So now the point is queen b2, rook or I get mated so we'll play an Yeah my knight is still undeveloped but I believe it's still a better piece than I believe if rook h8, I have rook b1. Maybe knight to g4. Trying start taking his pawns. f4, I go back to g4. Still fighting for those squares now. Since his king is soon but going Okay I'll just take on e4. Yeah he can Oh I'm short time, that's Less talk, more play. I have Yeah since he cannot leave the d2 part... I was going to say. Yeah sorry dude, I'm not Mate next. Okay. Let me see. Okay Krypto. Another German, that I don't have anything against Germans two out of the last three. Okay let me get back to my usual banter My guess is they haven't. Maybe he has. He's playing Okay knight g7 cannot be too bad. Bishop g4. Probably should No... I'm kidding. I'm not worried about e6, I'm Knight g3... I would... so... Yeah it's nothing too special. Hmm. If queen b6 he had. He has knight a4. Going to There was probably no way I'm I'm not too worried about removing Kind of thinking of knight d3, fe3, But I don't play chess that way. Knight a4, I guess I'm always happy to Should be fairly comfortable for me. In general, I have a good position. Nothing special but but he's played well so far, well above Now I'm hoping if queen b4, knight in knight c5 but just looks Yeah my spidey sense tells me that hanging for such a move to work. You need to have at least a3, when I have so many Now obviously, bishop d4 I can go and presumably the game that bishop g5 might be even stronger. So I'm going to try that. And I'm nothing if not greedy. The thing is if he goes either rook to or d2 and then d4, maybe later on c5 and I'm going to emerge and exchange up and it feels like the only try and he's still in a world of trouble. Yeah he's taking his considering that the position is a but yeah he couldn't find and there probably wasn't. So now I'm just a clean exchange up and yeah it's going but he did play a very decent game. So well done Krypto, I You got the chance to play a and I'm never happy if I Yeah fortunately has a rook on Okay. Feeling most like playing 3 minute yeah attack... accept Another German? It's a shame when I think about the challenge. b3, a Larsen opening. It's not too bad. So he's handling it in a very This is kind of what you dream of Not that it's great for you have kind of comfortable way. But I wouldn't claim to be But here you can maybe even objectively So he goes knight d7. It's pretty cd5 is pretty, pretty good for white. So he's sensibly does something I think it's much better place than the knight. If you want to play the knight play the d6 instead of... d5. So now the question is what to do? Let me try this one. I could to remove the rook from the f with the possible idea of f4 but... who knows? Plans are overrated. I also have the idea of taking on d5 and Why not? It's probably really, really bad. Yeah I realise now that... knight f5 probably be several moves. What should I do then? d4 as a proper admission of failure. This is why I don't believe I just don't understand them. Try to think on my own from the but he's very helpful. There is no way he should not take Now, I'm kind of getting what I want. I started out playing aggressively No I didn't start out with all Started playing aggressively and I have We will exchange, thank Although, it's a little but knight c7 actually so that's what you have to deal with. Should I take? Yeah just going to take. Still trying to play enterprisingly. Yeah that's what I was hoping as far as I can see If bishop d5, bishop d5, bishop Oh oh, that was missed. If rook c2 then... I have to speed up. Yeah he tricked me. Well take on c5... c1 He has king h8 that was Okay I have to play faster. That was silly. Yeah I'm going to flag Ah that was dumb. Okay whatever. Good game. Okay I tried to accept a challenge but now I'm going to do it. Testviking, who is that? Okay white again. 1.d4 wow, f5. Huh thought people didn't do yeah everybody knows that one. But yeah, I think it's not So basically, it's something well if I hadn't played c3 queen on h5 then queen Obviously with the it's not and... I should be content with a I feel like I have such good that even though he has a good definitely have the initiative. And I want to actually finish this one. to h5 but I don't think He's solid but I'm slightly better. Just avoiding knight f4. If he moves the So he is clearly preparing I think I'm happy to play f4, increasing the amount of space Yeah I think he should be He might run out of I suppose for the moment he's okay. Yeah once again, got to speed up. I didn't see that one. g4 feels a bit too loose. Yeah I miss played this. I'm going I'm allowing hg and then rook f4 So bad. I was thinking that I was going Aye aye aye. So I'm going to have to hustle instead. Don't think my position is completely That was pointless. Feel like he's starting to misplace his Oooh mouse slip. That was lucky. Sorry dude. Okay. Wow. This is a banter blitz regular I think. Jordan van Foreest. Here we go. Okay there's only one Maybe he is prepared against the rat. he's thinking so he probably hasn't. Really bishop d3? That was weird. I don't think this is too impressive. Probably going to get a good Yeah so he sensibly decides What am I going to do? Bishop f5. Am I running into e6? Maybe I am. Okay. Yeah I'm not commenting right what to say really. It's just... it's just a mess but I'm very, I feel like now my play could Ooh he has rook b1 which is a bit I'll go to b5 instead. I feel like the knight is going Now I think I'm just better. Bishop g7 is coming and And he might still normally be but yeah I think my positional... they are much more valuable Their queen b6 would be a nice I would just go queen e4 check Not worried about entering since I'm getting that knight back. King is sitting very, I suspect that I was losing after that's after castles but The game became free and has turned around quite a bit. What should I do? e4? a5 looks nice. a4 Queen back to c4. Yeah I could've played knight b5 but it feels much better just e4, reintroducing threat of knight b5 Now I can check on d3, b5 is still coming. b4. Knight a3. Oh I could also take on h6. I should take a little bit care No! That was not my intention. Checkmate! How about that! (laughs) Okay. Exciting stuff. Still playing too Okay FireMarshall. Don't think Let me see. Okay e4, don't think I've f4, let me see what he does Spoiler alert queen h4 was a good move. But any who. It's still good for black but the what is it I'm supposed to do here? Knight b5. Don't know my Steinitz well enough Should I play c4 or should I play a4? a4 looks sensible. Always thinking positionally even Take on f4? Yeah I guess I should. Yeah that was the only... problem I have with my last move. Knight f6 is a little bit Okay, let's do this. Just for fun. King back to g1. So I've just given up a central pawn and now I have my own ideas So at least practically That's really all you can hope for. Objective evaluation like I would say it just doesn't matter. And now I would guess that is that it's pretty good for me. Yeah I'm just going to continue a5, b5, on the queenside. And who would That's the paradox of the King's but sometimes ends up Cannot explain exactly why. It's a bit boring but I think very small tactical trick leading in a better position to put. I guess he should try g6, Well that's a good try but doesn't really change anything. And I should watch out What I would like to do here in is just to keep the knight He was threatening b5 so I have to take But yeah still... a pawn up with a better position. This looks more in line with what... oh, there was still a e6 hanging. Okay. Good game. Formless. No I'm trying to accept Okay playing kohlideluxe instead. Pretty good at blitz but not so great at Okay, let me see if anybody can I haven't seen that so far. Improve my posture a bit because it's Yeah he's doing approximately but I suppose it's better not This move, I'm not unhappy to see. cd now, I'm forcing him Am I running into e6 again? Tricky guy. Okay I thought dc, e6 would be a bit too And yeah I was going to say I'm obviously very happy Now his only chance is to organise the b pawn file... while he has a lead in development. a very bad ending. So I think if knight b6, a4 is a bit And if rook b2 or knight I think I'll go rook c4 preventing With a strategically... yeah in principle it's good so that was a good move but that I'm doing pretty well. Yeah rook c4, c3, rook ce8 Rook b3 and rook d4 wins So no fireworks in this one Okay he just resigned He's a good enough player to understand Let me see, alecarson, who's that? Okay let me see. Let me try a game against one I'm sorry guys as long as I only get I'm going to play it. Sorry for the... lack of creativity. I'm not a creative person It's been pointed out to me. I always I'm probably more of an... analytical type which I always thought I was though. Anyway, he's not done too It's a bit fast but he's and that is usually very bad news... because not only do you but you give up a lot as you can see now I'm controlling and those are the ones he's And yeah why not be greedy? That's just a blunder I think. Yeah now he's losing He's going to be a rook and that's really hard Okay thank you. Let me see, let me see. Have we got anymore grandmasters here? Okay I'm going to try this guy. but he's rated 3,000. AfuroZamurai, doesn't sound very German Mmm d4. Going to try one of my typical noise, as I did for instance against Kaymer. Yeah h3 is a clever move order. As the point is, I'm just inducing him ...style. It's a shame he goes c4 because then I Now with the pawn on h3, my hope is that So I feel like the knight is all part of trying to induce castling. So I'm going back to d7 which and sometimes in these kinds of positions you can... afford to Okay, I'm going to try Try to play instructive chess. Sacrificing a pawn for the bishop pair... it's not too great, I have to say. Bishop f1 was a good response. f5 just looks poor to me. So what should I do? Go back. Once again citing the relatively as a justification for wasting Yeah why not, let's go for it. Oh probably wants bishop g5 now. Yeah I'm thinking about yeah I can see... this move is probably about triggers. Yeah that was my whole idea, I'm not sure it's great. This is kind of what I was looking for. Now my pieces are better placed. Could potentially spring to life. Not sure if bishop h6 was a good yeah exactly knight to g4 and... I basically just wrecked myself. Unfortunate. I'm so blind. I was intending queen f6, But I'm not threatening anything. He can just ignore it and now Just completely busted. Ooh that is risky, probably Yeah probably good. I can't go rook f4 because Aye, aye, aye. Queen d3 I think is good. Rook f8. Bishop h6. f5 he can take and I can take back. Oh g6 that was another slip I think. I'm currently saved by... I'm short of time. Aahhh! How much did he have? 0.2 seconds! Okay good game. My first loss. What a shame. Okay. Well I asked for a GM and there Okay I'm going to do this and then I Let me see. d4, c4. What do people do here? They don't play I have to tell you I don't like losing. Not one bit. Okay cd. Knight d5. Yeah now I'm just making random moves. Now when he takes on c3 might play... makes a whole lot more sense. So now I'm Without having to play bishop h4. So what now? Queen a4, looks sensible. Queen a5 is impossible because Maybe he's trying to induce something. Bishop f4 and then queen he has some live for his pieces so. For now, I'm going to make a whether I want to go d5 or not. d5 now. Yeah it should be noted that... rook d5, e4, it's impossible. Here, I'm getting my centre. So many nice choices. Okay, play it simple. Looking like my game against Bishop goes. Queen a5, f4 otherwise c4 is hanging. Soon going to be a pawn up Can't get over the last game... Because I thought I was way and then came so close. Oh well. Yeah just going to build the centre. f5 is tempting. Oh I didn't see that. Just Oh and I'm short on time again. Okay so I have to speed up. f6, this position still e6, fe then queen g6. Here ef. Queen e8. Yeah okay. Again so two more. Yeah jorheiness from Austria has so I'm going to try and So once again penultimate game now. So you can see from my play, I'm not and frankly speaking, a So what's the point now? c5 I guess. d5, do I go bishop g7? Or knight d7? This one I'm happy to see. Knight c6, d5. Now I can take on d4. cd, little trap always. Queen a5... You got to watch out for these ones. It's always tricky. That little queen. Always wants to pick up bishops... or knights or whatever is loose. Okay. Let me see that one was really quick so maybe I'll do two more if Let me see. Who is this alecarson? Picture of Kramnik. Oh it's a non-premium! Wow! Shit yeah in general, I'm supposed Yeah sorry about that, Please next time go premium You cannot always rely on me to be... to be sloppy but yeah anyway. This happens and we'll play the game. I'll play one more after this. h5 I'm not too convinced about. He's weakening a lot of dark with this queen d2 move. Yeah b6 is sensible. He's preparing knight a5. Yeah I'm just going to take on f5. Queen to f4. Still unclear exactly what I have for But game goes on. Let me try and move my pieces. Queen f3 and knight I think it's way short of impressive. Queen g5 looks odd to me, don't think He was always kind of intending knight Bring the other rook around. Now I want knight f1 to e3. I could go knight d5, g4, knight f6, does it look impressive though? So I'll take there instead. Okay I have to play faster once again. Good compensation. Cannot win if your time runs out. Trying to get c4. What is he doing? He's losing a pawn and Got to play faster. So slow. It's all about being fast. Oh you just blundered the Should be able to do this in time. Oh so slow. Oh he lost on time. Okay. Okay. It's been a topsy turvy session. Okay last one. Let's make it count. We have the famous Zlatan. I lost to him on his banter blitz, let's see if he can and let's see if he's Maybe he doesn't want Don't think this is the most Yeah there's some knight g5 here? If d5 then... maybe Doesn't look disastrous though. And here looks... Not so subtle intention of playing b5. Knight d2 but now he's allowing b4. The point is that c4 is hanging. Okay time to bring that That was solid position, I like it. Ah I should go exchange those bishops. Oh yes d5, that was massively unnecessary. I'm so bad at chess right now. Yeah this is really quite disgusting. But my position is nice but now Eeugh. Try this one. Yeah my idea was that here I rook d6, I have bishop e6, followed Looks like the worst is over. And obviously once... why didn't I go to... to e7... immediately? So many questionable decisions. Trying to force the bishop away from... he doesn't oblige. I was going to say King here. I think I'm taking over. Unless he's got some really takes king h4 and bishop g8. He's just in time. Rook d1, I'm probably Not to allow his king, oh sorry e5 should improve my position a bit. What should I do? How to improve? Okay now f... sorry. Time to wake this bishop. Okay let me try king d6. Rook d2, I go rook d3. Rook b6. Yeah this is very, very bad. Might as well just Pawn ending is loss so even He can't get back to... in Yeah it's game over. King I get my revenge. Not a great Okay that's it people. I'll be back trying to play some better chess than See you next time. [Jan] That was Magnus Carlsen. I was I knew he was good at chess but and the other early game, And thanks for watching. Magnus will together with the whole field including the likes of Fabiano Caruana, We'll cover it here on chess24 in all so check that out start July 26th. Thank you guys so much for watching