What if I told you that there was a in tech companies right now that doesn't Stick around to learn more about do and what skills you might need. Also, as a bonus, we'll have a look at to help you understand what companies are Hey there, I'm Zoe. Senior Product Owner In the past I've worked in and different product roles. So today in this video I'm gonna be what the different responsibilities Product management offers a fast pace, It's also a great time to be looking many companies are hiring for this Of how to get started. We've picked out three different get a clear idea of what skills you applying to similar roles in the future. Before we dive into the job ads and what exactly is product management. In a business, the product managers overseeing the entire lifecycle of a It can be just a single They all have one main mission, development, and launch of a product. They also continue to manage the Product management is a strategic functions like user experience. And technology. It involves focusing on the intersection the business has in order to develop a Ideally, product managers that satisfy both things. So as you can see, product managers work which makes it an exciting, fast paced So with all those different elements Product managers say that there's are some common skills that product or the product that they're working on. One of the first ones is This is one of the key skills for understanding for the users of What they need, what their pain of what a product manager does. You'll often hear this referred Whatever decisions you or your you should always fall back on. Product managers are responsible of the users to the business. And keeping them in mind with or features that you build. A second skill that product managing the product lifecycle. Product managers are in charge of the or software actually get built. So going back to the first point, with what the user needs are, and the main problems to be solved. Then product managers will work together possible solutions and new ideas, and or test to see which solutions are. And might have really And lastly, it's important don't do any of this work alone. So another key responsibility is throughout this product lifecycle. So thinking back to product intersection of user experience. Business and technology product each one of these groups are working cycle and understand where a product This can look like clearly updating the new developments coming from the tech. And this can also involve progress toward its goals. So communication is really the key together, and is the bridge between and understanding the user needs. If you'd like to know more about that actually looks like, Let Since product is at the intersection of different product manager jobs will lean This framework can help you think about fits your skillset, or what direction One of the best ways to get product manager does is to take You can see what hiring managers typically get a better understanding how the So as promised now we're gonna get where we go through some of these real First up, we've got an entry level Associate product manager, see in product management. Job adds a lot. The more entry or mid-level roles Manager, or product Associate is a a good thing to look for if you're This first job ad is for an associate Which could be a really good fit marketing or sales or customer service. We see right away they're highlighting understanding the users really deeply They're also focused on collaboration up with what we'd expect as well. In this role, it looks like you'd be different inputs from the business, This is really highlighting of product management where And then making a decision and ultimately Something I also see in the second mentorship aspect of this role, so this Again, if you're starting out to get into product management. They also highlight here, working with and designers, working on cross-functional and over again in product management job. So another thing they highlight the product use and adoption. This goes back to the skill we talked are responsible for the product even They mention a desire to Listen effectively to others across different teams. So again, this is coming back to which is really important across This is something they really highlight could come into with the job Already. Even in this internship and entry can see they're really highlighting from understanding the user. To communicating effectively across different parts of the business, the product lifecycle as a whole. So moving on, the next role associate product manager role. This one is not an internship more of a mid-level role. So this is a product role at TripAdvisor, You're looking to drive a hotel and restaurant owners. This is a role from what I can see heavily on the user experience aspect in the last job ad that you'll be They highlight already. That you'll be focused on all stages of again, one more time, that the focus is for hotel and restaurant owners. They also highlight the different needs they might have. It's right here. They say you're looking to optimize the and manage their own subscription. In the third bullet here, they highlight So again, this could be opportunities for mentorship. In this role, they mentioned on cross-functional teams. So the cross-functional team will likely you're working with, and by saying interested in emphasizing the delivery So getting things launched, Lastly, they also mentioned Metric for products, which is where product management might come in. So one thing they highlight in the skills in the accounting or finance space. So if you're an applicant who here, that could be helpful. This is one place where skills other jobs or work you've done. They also specifically call out written requirements, and status update. A second time here, they highlight Some roles will be focused a problems to solve and a little Whereas other roles and especially more focused on delivering solutions already a little bit more defined. So because they mentioned this job ad, I think that. This could be a little bit more of the place to get started as a new product responsibility and discovery aspects This is listed as a more role, but they don't specify any. Specific required years of experience. So even if you're early on in your applying to or reaching out to the hiring the job, I see a lot of opportunities. That could be great for someone Then lastly, we're gonna look at one more It's a role that has a little bit more So if you're coming in with some this might be a good fit for you. So getting right into the job ad, we can Specifically for the checkout platform. So they've already got a really potentially already a set of problems They highlight what they're vision, so this is a seamless. Payment experience. The users are all earners and globally, so we've got a strong And a set of users that you'd They mentioned here that you will deeply They're highlighting the business business sense, maybe a background in. Then they're also looking for you to In this way, they're looking for somebody certain product is headed and also do people excited about that product vision. Once again, we are three for drive a cross-functional team. So then at the end they highlight their product life cycle. Understanding data and being analytical, with team members from different So they're also looking for experience So this is that last stage of the things, getting them live to users. They also highlight having deep to keep the user needs at top of Then a last interesting thing about highlight having technical skills. So they want you to be Understand what decisions the engineering a general technical understanding. This doesn't necessarily You don't have to have a coding for the ability to understand, or at So as we can see from this of a mid-level role, and yet You might need to come in with a little. Experience, whether in product In a role like this, you might also bit wider of an audience that you're A quick note, if you're enjoying second to like and subscribe to We've got a lot more product management So stay tuned, and that's it. Hopefully now that you've seen me look job ads, it'll give you an idea of how to some things to look out for for roles Also, be sure to let us know in the or practical tutorials on any of the And if after watching this video, something that might be right for short course on product management. The link for the short course It'll get you started in this exciting idea of what your tasks would be. Well, that's it. I hope you enjoyed this video Be sure to subscribe for more product Thanks for watching, and I'll