- [Jared] In this video of the Millennium Falcon from &quot;Star Wars&quot;. That's right, I'm talking the complete layout of the ship. All of the hallways and rooms, the power and control systems, all the way to the sublight engines and the hyperdrive. My name's Jared and I make 3D animations on how things work. Usually, I create animations here on planet Earth, such famous buildings, and anything But this time, we're heading (ominous string music) The Millennium Falcon is a made by the Corellian They YT series has several But of course, let's focus on the YT-1300. The ship was designed meaning that each ship to their needs. Different engines, cockpit But in the end, we're most familiar with the configuration of The ship is ideal for pushing especially very heavy cargo. One of the ship's early He kept the ship looking neat and clean, and installed an escape Later, when Han Solo owned the ship, he preferred the ship to look something that belonged in a scrap yard. This attracted much less The ship is 34 meters long. Here's how it compares to Not as big as you thought, huh? Let's take a look at The two front prongs are This is the cockpit, starboard docking port, sublight engines, that's where the blue and these six circles on top This is the port-side docking port, the rectenna dish, which is used for communication and sensors, and of course, the quad laser On the bottom is another and the landing legs. The boarding ramp is on the starboard side of the ship. Let's take a look inside. (royal trumpet music) After getting up the boarding ramp you'll go through this door, and then enter the main corridor which is this circular hallway. If you're in a hurry to head towards the cockpit. We have a seat for the pilot, a Wookie, and two backseat drivers. The controls are in the front around the bulkhead, This helps us plot a safe Enter here for gun turret access, you can climb the ladder to And let's not forget the scan that have been used on to hide cargo and even crew members. This is the main hold hologame table that was used Around the corner here which helps to monitor ship systems. There's also two bunks here for anyone that needs some rest. The ship has plenty of This is the forward hold, number two hold, and the number three hold. The number two hold actually contains the life support systems. We have to have air to breathe in space. The center room is the which can be accessed through these doors. Now let me show you a few On the inside of the mandibles you'll find the tractor beam emitters. Let me show you what these look like. These help move cargo into the ship. Right above here is where the concussion missiles are kept. And here are the two very important for space battles. Let's keep going through this hallway. Here's how you access the port airlock, there's another docking You'll need to use the This is the crew quarters Behind here is a hidden storage area. You can access this through The engine room is this odd This is where maintenance can be done to the propulsion systems of the ship. At the end of the main to access the escape pods. There's space for five escape pods. Once loaded with a passenger and then are launched The center of the ship contains the most dangerous equipment. This is the quadex power core, which provides much of The fuel system is right underneath. It's made up of four fuel slug tanks that run off of rippinnium, explosive liquid metal. The fuel is then moved This is the reaction chamber, and these are the nine sublight engines. First, the fuel is compressed and then ignited out the back of the ship. Now, this only propels If we wanna quickly travel then we'll need to use the hyperdrive, it runs off of coaxium, which to move the entire ship into hyperspace. At these kinds of speeds the entire galaxy in just a few days. Now, the hyperdrive on the Falcon is class 0.5. Most hyperdrives are rated with lower numbers being faster. So, yeah, the Millennium When it's time to land, the doors open and each of the five When we get close to the help assist for a nice smooth landing. (fast orchestra music)