This video is sponsored in part by Total AV California and Texas The Golden State and The Lone Star State, have those nicknames. More on that later. Anyway, the two big ones. Sure, Alaska is quite a bit bigger than both have a higher population than any other state California has the highest population, and Still, Texas is one of the fastest growing And more folks are moving to the two than The channel The World According to Briggs why so many have moved to California and Texas. Be sure to check it out when you're done While many Texans have moved to California to Texas than any other state. And while you could fit more than two Texases into Texas. How big is Texas? El Paso, Texas is closer to San Diego, California, How big is Texas? There's a ranch there bigger than the state Ok, I'll stop the how big is Texas stuff. Being the two states with the most people influence the rest of the country, and I've has only gotten worse recently. However, based on my research, it seems to Californians moving to their beloved state. Yeah, even the Texas governor has been in But perhaps Texas has more in common with First of all, both are so big they are hard two are more stereotyped than any other states. East Texas has more in common with Louisiana in common with New Mexico than East Texas, it feels like Kansas. Even the four biggest metro areas in Texas- Austin, seem radically different from one And California, first of all the major coastal San Diego, are dramatically different from California and the Central Valley. North of Sacramento is more culturally similar and the Central Valley could be mistaken for Here's a map of all the big regions in California. Enough said. Both border Mexico, and both have a nearly as either Hispanic or Latino (C- 39.3%, T- And yeah, a lot of folks in both are bilingual. Around 29% of Californians speak Spanish, Both are ethnically diverse states overall. Around 12% of Texans identify as African American, A higher percentage of Californians were born Both have about the same crime rate. Both have lots of beaches since both border California, the Pacific Ocean. Texas, the Gulf of Mexico. Both have lots of palm trees. Lots of people flock to both for their relatively Sun Belt, an area across the Southern United growth since the 1960s. Shall I remind you that I made a video about I made a video about the Sun Belt. But don't be fooled by those beautiful climates. Both have to regularly deal with natural disasters. California has to worry more about earthquakes hurricanes and tornadoes. California sits along the infamous Ring of volcanic eruptions tend to occur. What causes those earthquakes? The San Andreas Fault going straight through It also even has three volcanoes considered Calforinians also have to regularly worry Dang California. But hey, Texas has its own share of worries. Part of it sits in tornado alley, for crying hurricanes of the past century or so landed And Texas also has to deal with lots of thunderstorms. California, not so much. Texas even gets dust storms. Ok, enough about natural disasters. Geez. Ok, so let's talk about that Hispanic and Both used to be part of Mexico, and before This is why today you have prominent cities and San Diego, Los Angeles, San Francisco, When Spanish conquistadors conquered what early 1500s, they encountered lots of different Here's a map of California that shows the That's a lot. Here are the major tribal groups and languages That's a lot. So where did the name California come from? A Spanish romance novel actually inspired In the book, California was the name given warriors lived. The Spanish originally thought California it, and thought it'd be fun to give it that Supposedly, the Spanish named Texas after The Caddo is an American Indian tribe based However, the Spanish could have also named like yew trees there. Tejo or teja means "yew tree" in Spanish. The Spanish didn't really settle both areas 300 years. Well, the English claimed part of modern-day modern-day Texas in the 1680s and they also other than that it was all Spain. When the Spanish did finally settle both areas, local American Indian tribes, although that Texas was mainly a buffer to the French for one of the last places the Spanish settled, Diego until 1769. After the residents of New Spain declared country after Mexico City, but dropped the By that time, Californios, as they were called, the missions there were abandoned. Many of these Californios became rich after More and more Americans began to move to both, there to serve as a buffer this time against settlers there. Tejanos were the Mexicans who lived in Texas. By 1830, the population of Texas had swelled came there illegally, outnumbering the native Soon, the Americans became restless and this I also have a video about. Long story short- Texas declared independence keep them, so it was an independent country annexed it on December 29, 1845. By the way, that Lone Star State nickname independent republic. Meanwhile, California was never its own country, and the 200 Californio families stayed fairly That all changed after the Mexican American After the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, California Californios lost their lands, sometimes violently, And Americans began to come to California In 1849, around 90,000 people, nicknamed 49ers, It was the most famous gold rush in American the main reason why California became a state Oh, and that's how it got the Golden State Sadly, it also directly led to thousands of destroyed habitats, and just straight up murder. During the American Civil War, Texas seceded In case you didn't know, the Six Flags Over countries that have governed Texas. In case you forgot, let's recap. First there was Spain, then France, then Spain then the United States of America, and then California, which had entered the Union as States and greatly helped with the Union war Of note, some 5,000 Californian soldiers marched from Arizona Territory and to kick them out Throughout the rest of the 1800s and into grew, but Texas stayed far ahead in population moved to California from the Great Plains After that, California's population continued just came there for the beautiful climate By 1963, California had more residents than Texas had the second-most. Today, if both were countries, California That's ahead of India. And Texas would have the tenth largest economy That's ahead of South Korea. California is the world's fifth biggest fifth biggest producer of oil. Christianity is the biggest religion in both with 27% of California residents not identified What about differences? California leans to the left more politically, while Texans have generally supported more That said, more and more Texans have been predict Texas will be a swing state in future California spends more money on education. (C- $11,183 per student, T- $10,178 per student). California has a much higher cost of living. In fact, only one state, Hawaii, is more expensive The median household income is higher in California. Texas also has a higher poverty rate. However, California has a By most measures, Texas is more business-friendly. California's minimum wage will be $15 an Also, taxes are lower in Texas, overall. More California residents have college degrees. Texans are younger, on average. California has a much more varied climate It has a reputation for having a nice climate, the coasts. Much of the state is classified as a Mediterreanean somewhat wet winters. However, California also has quite a bit of Supposedly, California is home to the hottest While that might be a myth, on June 30, 2013 Celcius! Which is 129.2 Fareinheit in Death Valley, place in the country. But California also has lots of mountains Of note, the Sierra Nevada dramatically rise state, but there are also the California Coast The Central Valley of California and the Rio in common, but generally Texas doesn't have It has four big physical regions: The Gulf and Basin and Range Province. While most of Texas is prairie and hills, Range Province. That's Guadalupe Peak. What a beauty. Ok, California I see your Yosemite Valley, Most of Texas has a humid subtropical climate, generally gets as you get semi-arid and desert Although, Texas gets more precipitation each California gets more sunny days. And overall, it definitely gets both hotter California has some of the most comfortable Oh, and less bugs. I've been to Southern California the last how I just sit outside and rarely have to Major industries in California include agriculture, Major industries in Texas include also tourism healthcare, and aeronautics. California's Central Valley is one of the How productive? Well more than half the country's fruits, Texas is the reason why we have Tex-Mex food Thank you Texas. California has legal marijuana, and was the way back in 1996. It's not legal in Texas. Nah I mean &quot;party.&quot; You know, get high, get stoned. Hank: aaahhhh! Texans get more history of their own state They get two years of Texas history in school- California is known around the world for wine, In fact, if it were an independent country, (audible gasps) How's that? Texas likely has more tigers living in captivity the entire world. California has more national parks. In fact, it has more than any It also has the tallest and oldest trees not Experts estimate that one of those trees, than 5,000 years old. At 380 feet, or 116 meters, a redwood tree tree in the world. I would argue that American football is more on the planet. Want proof? Most of the largest high school football stadiums California has both the highest and lowest The highest- Mount Whitney, and the lowest- Ok, how about terrific burger joints? In-N-Out Burger originated in California, wins here because there are In-N-Out Burgers And now I'm getting hungry, so I think I'll In conclusion, there is little evidence to to dominate over the rest of the country any Regardless, it's smart for the rest of us (music) And now, it's time for me to freak you out. Did you know that 1 in 3 Americans are affected Not only that, there's a chance that you has spyware on it and you don't even know And if you have a Mac, don't think you're Security analysts recently uncovered a 270% Anti virus software is still desperately needed It protects your devices, whether it's your not only spyware but malwares, ransomware, And now, you can get a special offer of 1 That's 70% off, but only if you go to my and pinned comment. The software includes a VPN. Wait a second, holy crap, usually VPNs are So'd you'd getting a VPN PLUS antivirus Why yes. Yes you would. So click the link. You downloading TotalAV greatly helps my channel Thanks to Total AV for sponsoring this video. Again, this is a collaboration with the channel I am a long-time subscriber of Briggs, and that, perhaps accidentally, teaches a lot Check out his new video about why so many A shout out to Patrick, a California native native from the channel Until Now, for both looking Which states should I compare next? I always love to hear your feedback. And may the trash talking begin! (looking