It's an ordinary Thursday. It's almost the end of the working week The Loyalty Programme was announced just a the afternoon, two players named Dataguide839 minigame on Worlds 158 and 119. Mod Chrisso, the lead bug curator on RuneScape And a few more after that. Dataguide and Titaniumn claim they've found done. Amused, Chrisso decides to check out what He teleports to Stealing Creation, unaware of the most famous exploits in all of RuneScape's Hello everyone, my name's Will Miss It, 16 years. I've always been extremely fascinated by lore, but the player-made events as well; Zezima being the first to 99 Slayer in 2005, partyhat duplication, which scarred the game Or even the Falador Massacre, which I'm But one event that's had my interest for about, and one that I never really saw anyone So I decided to do a little digging into the allowed one player to literally steal the This is the full story... of the Great Rotten It's a warm summer in the mid-2000s. Slayer is now six months old, and RuneScape Jagex, at this point, is still in its relative They may have more staff than when they started, Testing skills in such a short time span is up to realtime hours for certain things to The QA testers needed a new tool to make sure And so, a new tool was made. This tool allowed testers to hunt for problems They could speed up the farming process by patches simultaneously, or spawn the new tools Effectively a staff 'cheat' tool to help features added to it, such as changing your the game, spawning certain items... and even used on them. Strictly a developer tool, there would be there was no reason to let the players know But, if RuneScape players are one thing, it's Jagex couldn't just add it and keep it quiet. Because the dataminers were looking. For those who don't know, datamining is in ways they normally shouldn't. Some files are meant to be unreadable, but They find a way. What's more, because dataminers could compare easy to pinpoint what they wanted to mine, They'd find any new NPCs, even if those And they'd find any new items. If Jagex added an obvious new devtool to the So they had to hide it. Luckily, Farming was about to introduce a New tools, new seeds, new produce, poisoned It was the perfect opportunity to sneak it But they needed something discrete. Original ideas included a Dragon Toothpick out like a needle in a haystack, especially and players were hungry for more. So, hidden among all the new Farming items, existence. Jagex Moderators had their new tool in all The Rotten Potato was born. And this plan worked! Buried under a mountain of other virtual vegetables, Potato, and its existence remained a secret Nowadays, the Potato sticks out like a sore item sandwiched awkwardly between a stool But technology was not as advanced back in the time, they'd been fooled. For the latter half of the 2000s, the Potato greatest secret, one that was kept through That is, until it all came crashing down in But first, we need to introduce the other 2009. Near the end of March. A few friends playing RuneScape find their And to them, "The Slug Menace" is their to produce more bugs and exploits than any And this quest is where they find the big From Player Owned Houses to the Fight Caves, Jad. They could even break into instanced Quest players. Not long after they discovered this, they Mod DC, the Lead Bug Curator, made contact As a Bug Curator, one of his responsibilities and make sure that any threatening developments DC and Jagex as a whole regarded these friends bug abusers, but they weren't going to abuse players. They may have messed around with someone on bring in their own gear to duo it with the Jagex didn't make contact with these groups if it meant they could find and patch up potentially DC talked to the friends for a good length their while if they complied. From membership to ingame recognition in the to the Silver Crown of the Player Moderators, enjoyed on the forums. All this and more would be theirs; if they Offering rewards to bug abusers was nothing trying to stop an item dupe several years And just like the last time, they gave with Once the Slug Menace bug was recognised and Abusers. People who helped the abusers. The pizza delivery guy for the abusers. All banned. By issuing IP bans, the abusers lost not only any others they had ever logged onto; and their computer, such as friends and family. In this purge, some RuneScape veterans lost with bug abuse in their lives. Not willing to be defeated, the friends persisted. They obtained new accounts and evaded the This wasn't just a case of clicking the dumb to the bans. They gained access to some accounts through were abandoned and 'protected' by poor They were back, and better than ever. They weren't just some friends goofing around They put together a true bug abuse team. "HaxUnit" was born. HaxUnit were soon to enter their second year Mod DC's time at Jagex started to come to the Community Manager, Mod Chrisso. As part of his preparation, DC informs Chrisso HaxUnit. Soon after, Chrisso makes contact with some His main correspondents are Roy, known ingame and Quint, known ingame as "Titaniumn". For now, Chrisso seems solely fixed on gathering Over time, in association with HaxUnit, a As they were once again considered low risk, of the abusers' throwaway accounts are banned. Of course, Jagex aren't just receiving information They maintain heavy surveillance on them, of known abusers, as well as the people they At some point, Mod Easty, an Upload Manager, Easty's responsibilities usually involved sure the game would work fine. With a background in QA and bug fixing prior a common interest with HaxUnit in bug abuse Just like Chrisso, he was looking to gain they could be fixed long before they'd ever While Jagex claimed HaxUnit were low risk, From their creation in 2009 to Spring 2011, bugs such as smuggles and money dupes, and them for profit. However, despite two Jagex Moderators keeping none of these bugs were identified at the banned. HaxUnit had clearly proven themselves to Jagex. They had found and produced a great number But, Jagex still did not ban them, seeming risk them going underground and acting outside Now, obviously, Jagex doesn't release their But at the same time, none of the sources why they let HaxUnit continue to publicly What they did tell me, however, is that Jagex any inclination that they were beginning to If this had happened, the 2011 we know would If you've never encountered this sort of would just let bug abusers go about their But you'll find that this is common not As Jagex stressed, at the time, they didn't If they banned them, they weren't going they got us". They'd just keep going, like they had when And if they were out of Jagex's watchful knows what could have happened? While the 2009 bug from the Slug Menace was invade instances were gone for good. Sure enough, HaxUnit discovered a similar And during the first Double XP Weekend of The idea was simple: while in a game of Stealing So if you managed to get a player into the be able to steal items from their inventory. And since there was no need for any restrictions bring in any of your own items, so pickpocketing that you wouldn't normally be able to trade. You could take Quest Items. Or even Holiday Items. A good idea, but it didn't work. While they could enter instances of Stealing the minigame, which was inaccessible to the decoration. They were on the cusp of a breakthrough, but Or so it seemed. Before they went back to the drawing board, Sure, they weren't able to get themselves But what if they turned the situation around? Rather than them teleporting into the minigame, teleport to them? Say, a Jagex Moderator? To HaxUnit, having Jagex Moderators breathing They were already in touch with a few of them, difficult. Starting their own game of Stealing Creation, Moments later, Mod Easty appeared in their Quint set the stage. He told Easty that, for this bug, Easty would A Quest Item from one of the more dangerous Tokens were both hard to get and untradable abusers. Wary of what HexUnit were up to, Easty hesitantly inventory. And then, it was gone. Their theory was right. Quint had stolen the Dragon Token. Stealing Creation's pickpocketing feature You could lift absolutely anything off of But the thing is, there wasn't any known to the instance, not in a way that they'd At this point, Easty had been talking to the while amusing, there was no real urgency to They'd only managed to pull it off by asking luxury the average player had available. A note was made of the exploit, but it was to replicate. Furthermore, as they'd specifically taken reason to issue any bans in response to this. It's not like they'd asked Easty to spawn Jagex didn't think too much of the encounter. But for HaxUnit, this was a breakthrough. After all, if they did manage to get a J-mod the consequences would be huge. Even if they didn't find a way to get players avenue. It was time for HaxUnit to do what they did Two days had passed since Quint had pickpocketed Feeling emboldened, they contacted the Lead joined a Friends Chat. They had a bug in an instanced location they Chrisso first teleported to Hej, using a throwaway Hej goes for the kill, but the pickpocket The plan's in chaos. You see, in Stealing Creation, having a high being a full 20 levels above someone else Helpfully, HaxUnit saw an ingame message in And, for whatever reason, Mod Chrisso actually He teleports to Quint. And while the two are together, HaxUnit tells And so, Chrisso set his Thieving Level to When the Rotten Potato was first added to disguise it and make it unassuming. Fittingly enough, for several minutes, Quint RuneScape's most valuable items. It was only after they realised it was untradable For the first time in RuneScape's history, As much as I'd like to make the story sound most Game Developer tools aren't very... Since users will never see them, as long as of a mess as need be. Lacking the relevant insider information, confusing to HaxUnit. A tool to locate upcoming Shooting Stars, was labelled as "Star Stuff". Buried in the menus were a number of other but also some other interesting features: logout. In the few minutes Quint had the potato available and spawn a Quest Cape. Interestingly enough, he was able to equip Points; although it was automatically unequipped players when a new quest is released. Quint dropped the Rotten Potato shortly after Mod Chrisso wasn't blind, and noticed what What was once an extremely low priority bug had to deal with. Quints account was quickly disconnected from The very same day, Mod Easty implemented a to use a Rotten Potato, the item would instantly He also added an exception to make sure that And... that was it. No mass panic. Jagex were all well aware of what had happened, But Quint hadn't done anything too major he did spawn, the quest cape, was unequipable. It was a self-contained incident that no-one the greater game at large. So they kept it under wraps, cracked a few and continued as if nothing had happened. Like it or not, Jagex now faced a problem. They had kept eyes on HaxUnit and treated to keep thinking that. After pulling the stunt on Easty, they had the most dangerous item in all of RuneScape. Sure, they might not have abused it at the Not wanting to take the risk, Mod Chrisso all HaxUnit accounts as they popped up. All known members were wiped, and the moment they slammed those down as well. This crippled HaxUnit's ability to continue New accounts wouldn't have access to the would be banned before they got anywhere. Bought accounts cost real world capital, and members. Recovered accounts required some time and to ban them. It was a losing battle, and so, Mod Chrisso most notorious, active bug abuse community He'd even done it single handedly. HaxUnit was done. Or at least, that's what Jagex had thought. See, HaxUnit had been backed into a corner, Unable to keep working as they were, they Jagex had no idea that HaxUnit had one last Because Quint had recorded the whole thing. In an act of defiance, and an act of revenge, And the now infamous clip was uploaded to To say the video was popular would be an understatement. It lit the community on fire. Within thousands of views, discussion of the official RuneScape forums. Jagex were on full damage control. Forum Moderators immediately closed any and could find. Mod Chrisso's Friends Chat was overrun by had to be temporarily closed to the public. Discussion in other places such as the RuneScape legitimate or not, and whether it could be It's the start of the work week, and what Over the course of the weekend, the community Of course, the video had spread internally were already aware of the details. They'd been there when it happened, after With the fire on the forums only growing stronger, to defend Chrisso. At first, they deflected, trying to claim that the video was fake. Bad move. Remember those Dataminers from earlier? Well, now they knew that the Rotten Potato down its item ID. Given how huge this incident was, it didn't it out. And with that, they could spawn the item on them irrefutable proof that it did exist. Forced to backpedal, Mod Seven made a short was real; but actually, "the item itself achieve anything other than obtaining and She also claimed that the Rotten Potato had RuneFest 2010, but despite my best efforts find any existing evidence to back that claim A few months later, on October 14 2011, Mod the Rotten Potato, and explaining its uses. He also referred to this incident, and doubled weren't able to use it, despite the video With the scandal still in the community's out of the public eye for several months. He later moved to another role in the company, handed to someone that Jagex knew they could Reach would re-establish contact with Quint to find and exploit bugs with Jagex's "permission". Mod Chrisso's public appearance shrunk to with the incident marking a shift in his behaviour Not wanting to let HaxUnit get the last laugh, of the Rotten Potato. During RuneFest 2011, in late October that item and its functions. J-Mods have since publicly used the item and In 2013, a parody item was added to the game, These could be dropped by the J-Mod Clones Finally, also in 2013, Jagex claimed multiple terminating it completely. While a "HaxUnit Archive" channel has didn't need HaxUnit's help to stay online. The infamous clip has been reuploaded in multiple the legacy lives on. HaxUnit as a team disbanded formally in late Quint, the player who stole Chrisso's Potato, that garnered great support from the Oldschool Jagex didn't share this support, however, OSHD team, causing it to be shut down in 2017. 2005 was a long time ago, and Jagex's tools further. Bugs and exploits they used to need tip-offs not bug abusers. J-Mods no longer entertain cheating communities, their best to consistently apply the rules This goes for both RuneScape 3 and Oldschool year lead on the latter. Although, when Oldschool first released in to be temporarily disabled while Mod Ash fixed He claims it was specifically to do with one fight, but after everything that stemmed from in that one quest... you can't help but I hope you all enjoyed watching this video A lot of research time went into this project, If you ended up learning something new, even below? I also want to give a huge shoutout to all and visual content for both sides in this It's been an absolute pleasure to speak you can find their names in the description I hope it goes without saying, but bug abuse a surefire way to get yourself banned. Don't try and imitate any of the bug abusers a documentary on you a decade from now for Anyway, my name is Will Miss It, and thank Goodbye.