"Oh, my goodness. It's all about both in lifestyle But managing a that's a hard thing to do. Some people would say Me, Sally Schmitt. I certainly tried. I was one of the to cook real California food. Talk about California cuisine. Of course, Alice Waters, Wolfgang Puck -- really packaged food, TV show. Thomas is another one -- Thomas Keller." "I'm Thomas Keller, and "Chef Thomas Keller of the world's most including the French Laundry." "The French Laundry." "French Laundry --" "The French Laundry." "The French Laundry." "The best restaurant Twice, they have done that." "That's Thomas Keller." "Thomas Keller has won just imagine." "-- whole constellation "Well, there was no Thomas It was our French Laundry. You don't know that story. I was born in Roseville, in 1932. Major trains came through My father worked They made, well, It keeps the produce cold to the East Coast. That was their refrigerator." "So that the fruit can be rushed to the market." "On the PFE -- Pacific Fruit Express --" "The lifeblood of the nation." "That was the beginning of the and the connection with Everything became less Meanwhile, in Roseville, we From lettuce to potatoes, we It was hard work, was a little bit of heaven. With my dad at the she had her work She taught me how to take The work we did was as that any man would do. We were a food-centric family. Parties revolved braised meats, vegetables, and Everything in season. It was California hearing the term. And I learned, at to produce a dinner When I graduated from my father wanted But my mother and said, no, she needs and see the rest of the world. I was a home ec major at Davis -- very academic. The science of cooking is what makes egg whites But there weren't women Julia Child as we know "This is Julia Child. Bon appetit." "The goal was to get I had met Don. One of the reasons that I cook -- he ate I could try and he always found Also, he liked me. We just immediately And after a few years, we Valley to Napa." "Napa Valley." "We're in Napa." "Napa Valley." "Napa Valley." "Napa Valley." "Napa Valley." "One of California's "Napa Valley in the 1960s -- good food, famous Oh, no. No. At that time, California not very well known. Yountville -- it was And then, there was a So you want to drive slowly, over any drunk people That's the state of It wasn't a town. It became a town. When we got there, we had I kind of had done my bit and was ready to spread My aim at that point was Because I knew I could do it. So we went to look this little building a sharp corner, almost Built of fieldstone -- somehow, it kept ago when it was actually All the crooked walls, Don and I had our from the very beginning But the owners didn't want Around that time, there was of the next generation -- I call them kids -- who started to work to put They had very good palates, It was a no-brainer. Don and I opened We called it the Vintage Cafe. We served hamburgers fresh and really local. It was good. It became apparent to come to Yountville. And Yountville -- it except our cafe. So within a year or so, We just grew. Opened the Chutney Kitchen. Added catering, luncheon for the Napa They just loved everything. But I found myself relegated costs. I simply didn't I wanted to be able to Around that time, a friend Lorraine -- came in and Guess what, Sally? The French Laundry Well, opening a restaurant we were crazy. In '78, opening night, we out just in time for I was the chef. Don, the front man. All the kids, too -- Kathy and Karen were on Kathy did the flowers. Johnny was in the Eric was washing dishes, helped as well. So it was pretty much $12 per person -- going big-time. [CHUCKLES] I was successful in in the right place. Start complex, follow and then more complex -- texture, color, Local ingredients, And then, pile that high It was a little bit of heaven. One of my compliments was when somebody tells with us at the French They'd say, I could tell We started out with mustard and chutney. And then, there was that For the entree, there was or Zanzibar duck -- and then, followed with just lemon For dessert, cheesecake You want more? You're hungry, huh? It's fun to feed It's just -- it's We opened full and were Weddings, events -- we knew We wanted that spirit. We embraced that spirit. Julia Child came two or three -- at that point, as famous And one time, she and said, My dear, what Now, I said, butter, She said, butter! I should have known! [CHUCKLES]:" "Sticks of unsalted butter -- delicious!" "16 years, we were open. Amazing. Absolutely amazing. Somebody was proposing to He wanted to open another San Francisco, New York, If I were to do a I think I probably could do But it would throw my There's no way around it. And I value my lifestyle too So the French Enter Thomas Keller. This really charming He made a name for And then, after a he was down on his luck. I don't think he had, Credit cards were But he had a lot of had ambition and his drive. Around that time, I was And Thomas came and leaned went out into my herb garden, and looked the kitchen outside a little. He said that night, he This was his dream. We had our trepidation, but let him try. We sold it." "Chef Thomas Keller of the world's most including the French Laundry." "French Laundry --" "The French Laundry." "And it would make Keller and turn Yountville into for dining." "The best restaurant "So he did it. He went on and on and on. He's still going on and on. In high school, I was Vice president of everything. I gave the salutatorian and high school. And when we graduated, got the Outstanding Student The highest honor. I went home and cried. Yeah, I thought that I And my mother said, let her Don't worry. There will be moments We were the lucky ones. We found a way of life And Don was always there I call it going And I think he But I have lived that satisfaction from the that I don't need to be I just don't need that. Yeah. John and I, we'd And he has always honored us many people would do. What more could Me, Sally Schmitt -- one of the first to cook real California food. Back when there But see, I didn't want I just wanted to cook."