Hi! Today I wanted to talk about Slash so that I can demonstrate these. These are very confusing to people and I hope that today I can clarify things for you a little bit. So we're bit more straightforward: C/E. So first I want to remind you that whatever letter you see to the LEFT of the slash that is the chord that we're playing. So to the left of the slash is a C. That means it's some kind of a C chord. OK that's the biggest part that we have to remember because sometimes you'll think well is it an E chord? Or is it a C chord? But always the letter that comes first to the left of the slash that's the chord that we're working with. So, when we have a chord like C/E first thing you're going to do is you're going to think about what's in a C chord. And in this case we're just talking about Triads so I'm not going to talk too much about sevenths right now. We're just going to talk about Triads. So we've got a C chord but to the right of the slash it says E so everything is what is to be at the bottom of the chord or to the left of the chord (bottom is always to the left) So this is a C chord, E is supposed to be at the bottom. So if I know that this note is supposed to be at the bottom of the C chord, I will take my C and put it up here on the top. OK, you can see, it sounds almost the same; it has a little bit of a different characteristic but basically it's the same chord, just in a different order. So I took the C chord and I did what we call an inversion. I took the bottom note put it on the top and this is called the first inversion (1st inv.) You don't necessarily have to know that in order to read the slash chords, but I'm just letting you know. Anyway1st inversion means bottom note comes to the top, once. OK 1st inversion bottom note comes to the top once. All right so now we've got a C chord with E at the bottom. Now let's look at the next one: It's a D-flat chord with A- flat at the bottom. So once again to the left of the slash is a D-flat so it's a D-flat chord, but this time it says it's an A-flat on the bottom. So we've got the A-flat on the top so we have two ways that we can think of this. We can either invert it twice which means bring the bottom note to the top once, and then bring the bottom note (which now is an F) to the top twice. OK so now we inverted it twice. We had a D-flat chord, brought the bottom note to the top, brought the bottom note to the top again, and now we've got a 2nd inversion of a D-flat chord. So it's a D-flat chord and A-flat is at the bottom. But an easier way to think about this, if it's a 2nd inversion, meaning that the note that's on top of the Triad, the 5th: 1 2 3 4 5 that's the 5th, that's the 3rd, and that's the root or the 1. So if it's a 2nd inversion, meaning the 5th is at the bottom, you can also just take the top note, put it on the bottom. That is if it sounds good. If it's You might want to do the two inversions that way, but if it sounds good just bring that note to the bottom. All right so if the 5th is on on the bottom like the A-flat 1 2 3 4 5, you can bring that to the bottom. If the 3rd is on the bottom in this case the E, 1 2 3 E is the 3rd note note of a C scale if that's on the bottom then you might as well just take the bottom note bring it to the top, but in some cases you might want to bring your chord down an octave, or up an octave. You can just see how it sounds, and then when you decide whether you're going to play it here, or here, maybe make a note in your music or something so that you consistently know to go up for this one, or go down for this one. OK let's try one more let's try an F# Triad. OK so this we know is an F# major Triad because it says F# to the left of the slash. To the right of the slash tells us that an A# is at the bottom. So since that's the third, 1 2 3, we can just bring the bottom note to the top. That's the 1st inversion of an F# chord. Now that might run into our melody if we're playing the melody (not singing) it so we might want to take that chord and just bring it down there. So you've got an F# major and then you're going to have the A# at the bottom. So I'm going to bring that F# from the bottom to the top. OK hopefully that part made sense. The second tier chords that I have here are a little bit more confusing. Now most of the time you will see that your slash chords have a note to the right of the slash that's IN the chord, that's a simple note FROM the chord. So C/E E is just the 3rd. And D-flat over A-flat the A-flat is just the 5th so those are simple. It gets a little bit more complicated when the notes to the right of the slash don't appear to be in the chord (they are they're just different notes that are not so characteristic of the chord.) So now we've got a G/F. OK so remembering that the letter that's to the left of the slash, that's the name of the chord. So we're going to think G chord, and the note or the letter that's to the right of the slash in this case is an F, right, so we don't think necessarily of F as being part of a G chord; it is, it's actually the 7th, or we might call it the Dominant The point is they want it at the bottom. OK so we can take the G chord and just add 9the F) to the bottom. Now that might sound a little octave here. And then we're adding an the chord. So you've probably heard this this, something like that, so it may sound a little weird at first but in the context of a song, it'll sound great. OK so that's how we do that and let's try this one here, this one's a little confusing because we've got an E-flat chord. remember the letter that's to the left of the slash that is the chord we're working with, so it's an E-flat chord and they want an F on the bottom. OK but F is sort of in the middle, so what are we going to do? Well what we're going to do is we're going to play that F on the chord. Now I can still play this E flat chord if I bring this E-flat to the top of the chord then I can have an E-flat chord -- and this happens to be the first inversion -- with an F on the bottom. OK and the reason why we do that is because the chord says to the right of the slash an F and that means this is the note that we want at the bottom so I'm putting the F on the bottom, and the other three notes of the E-flat chord E-flat * G * B-flat I'm just going to change the order, put the E flat on the top so that that F can be at the bottom. OK and let's try another one this is a D/C# at the bottom so... we've got a sound pretty horrible to you, but in the context of the song... that's how it may be playing out; it may keep moving down down.... So we call that a descending bass line and slash chords are often used to give us that sound of the descending bass line... the bottom note that keeps going down. Ok I wanted to tell you also that you have some other choices here. You can divide these chords up between two hands. Let's say if you're singing the melody.... If you're singing the melody then you don't necessarily have to have these notes of the chord all clustered together (in the left hand) like this. You might spread them out between two hands. So on the C/E you could just put an and put the rest of the C chord in (the melody) let's say. And for the Db/Ab chord. So I'm playing a D-flat Triad bottom. Similarly with F#/A# I the A# in the bass. And let's bottom. So that sounds great but what if you're playing a melody? if you're playing a melody what you can do is maybe take let's say we've got an E-flat chord over here. Now I can take two elements below this melody... OK. And let's OK so maybe I would take a couple of here. OK so I could do... but I can take a couple of elements from the D chord let's say F# and A... etc. That's a more advanced skill being able to take a couple of notes from a chord from the triad the G, the E-flat, the C, D-flat, F#, D, take a couple of notes from that put it in your right hand underneath the melody. That's a little But anyway for right now you understand that a C/E is this, a Db/Ab is this: A-flat on the bottom, an F#/A# remember is an F# chord with A# at the bottom here or here. A G/F is a G chord with F at the bottom. An Eb/F means we're going to play an E-flat chord and F is going to be at the bottom. So we'll take that E-flat chord, put the bottom note ,somewhere else in this case on the top and or in the case of the d/ C sharp we can easily put that at the bottom or we can divide it between two hands. So leave me a question at the bottom if something wasn't clear. I can always have a followup to this lesson...give me your comments give me your thoughts I'd love to hear from you! So thanks so much for watching and good luck with your slash chords! bye