On the 5th of October, 1930, a and burst into flame, killing It wasn't the Hindenburg. Instead, this was its first overseas voyage. The conception, a fraught process, and its tragic end would be Zeppelins, blimps and other airships are that it's difficult to imagine At one point in time these powered balloons the Empire State Building was constructed in the full expectation that visitors in the vision of the future wasn't to be... but for a II it did seem that airships were the future of the world into this future the British government Their intention was to create fast, comfortable far-flung colonies. At the time heavier-than-air involved, so lighter-than-air travel was the important for the future that its development Therefore the Imperial Airship Scheme funded not would work on two separate airships to be known ultimately have to meet the same specifications, approaches to getting there. The R100 team was Conservative in their outlook they would Informally the R100 would come to be known as the often called the &quot;socialist&quot; ship. It would be Royal Airship Works, and would make use The R101 team were based at the There, inside a vast hangar, the R101 was These formed a framework that was then covered hand-made gas bags that were filled with order to make the whole craft take flight. suspended beneath the gas bags... and Though the walls might be made of canvas, enjoy silver service in the dining room and Incredibly there was even a smoking room. This hydrogen is incredibly flammable. A single spark Because of this, within the smoking room, people absent-mindedly taking them out of the to enjoy your cigar and would then do so while Smoking, it seems, was simply too essential By 1929 this elegant skyliner was ready for some hitch. Spectators in London were awed by the and during another test flight were dipped its nose in a salute to the King What these spectators perhaps didn't realize is just a result of the crew on board struggling to dip unexpectedly. There were a few reasons for gas bags simply weren't sufficient and all its crew and equipment. The solution to every single bit of unnecessary weight, including limiting the luggage crew members could take with plastic. At the same time they added an extra and sewing it in to give them some extra lift. however, then another problem came to light. The holes and tears - possibly as a result of an treat the airship's outer skin. This process (new The R101 team rushed to patch the holes and then couldn't help but rush. Despite working with many under a lot of pressure to get things right... and had built an almost unbearable level of excitement was it that almost a million people came to see it Worse still, the politicians who had argued for the project to get results... sometimes with Air Minister of the UK) was extremely keen for the Imperial Conference in London in October 1930. He during the conference itself to demonstrate No excuses could dissuade him. After a test flight to Canada. Why shouldn't the Failure wasn't an option. If the R101 team state-funded airship development... and The trip to India had to happen on schedule. the R101 team rushed their final flight It was very clear that they knew their margins allowed to take only a single change of clothes oblivious to this attempt to cut down on the load. by several crates of champagne and a heavy antique The R101 set off on October 4th in driving with the airship having to jettison a huge in order to complete its takeoff. As it headed that it was surprisingly low in the sky. despite foul weather. It radioed back to base, Observers on the ground in France were positively To some of them it was so close to the ground for them. At around 2:00am in the morning the R101 it out of this dive momentarily, but after just the crew on board a gas bag had split, unbalancing second dive. The R101 - moving at a stately hour - smashed into the ground. One of the engines fire rippled through the whole craft. Of the 54 along with many of the designers and crew who had An inquiry launched in the aftermath of the the designers had long been aware of: the lack test flights, the pressure to complete the project might never have happened were it not for the The crash of the R101 effectively put an end to Though the rival R100 had been more successful for airship travel. The R100 was broken down the Hindenburg in New Jersey would put the final Though airships would see some limited they would never again be considered The story of the R101 can be seen as a story of project pushed development too far and too fast. capable, dedicated workers: engineers, They were people who were just doing a job that World War One great civic projects like an airship many of the crew on board the R101 knew that the craft anyway, and did the very best they feared for their lives - just as they had done