I want to start Ray, you have a book Principles for dealing with the changing world order in which you take a very broad historical view of a very broad view of history and look at cycles and think about and study them and think about how the world is evolving and has evolved. And if I can sort of summarize it a little bit, it's, you're looking at the cycles and then you're looking at the present moment and you're seeing where we are in those cycles and it doesn't look so good. Is that, is that, is that it in a nutshell in a nutshell? I will embellish on it a little bit. Like I'm a very practical market guy who's got a global macro investor who's got a place bets. And in my life, there have been a number of times where things came along that I never saw before and they surprised me cost me money. And then I realized that when I studied history, that they happened many times in history repeatedly. So there were three things that are happening now in our lifetimes that never happened before. And that led me to do the study and then I found that there are five big influences. OK. Uh The three things is the amount of debt and money creation, the monetization of the debt and creations of huge amount of debts. And I wanted to study the rises and declines of reserve currencies. And all of that. The second is the amount of internal conflict, populism of the left populism of the right that is operating as a conflict, almost a threat to our system. And number three was the great power conflict between particularly China and the United States. So in my whole lifetime, the United States was a more dominant power and now we have a great power conflict. So I needed to study those three things. And then in studying that history, I found out that the Fourth Force was Acts of Nature, droughts, floods and pandemics killed more people and toppled more orders than the first three. So they're a big issue and of course, climate is a very big issue, cost wise what it means. And number five, of course, is man's evolution in their understanding and particularly technology. And so we know that technology is going to be a giant force. So I needed to study the patterns and or the histories and the cause effect relationships. And by studying it over that 500 years, um it, it helped me a lot which by the way is not just in the book, but also um I did a video that I think it's about 40 minutes called The Changing World Order. And if you want to see the video, you can get it in a nutshell. So help us understand how you think about taking five very, very broad observations, trends, things that you see from history. How do you take that and turn that into investable actions or, or even forget about investing or take investing. But then also take how you live your life, how you think about your aspirations, how you think about where you want your life to go, where you want your children's life to go. How do you take those big things and turn them into daily decisions? The first thing I I need to do is uh is convert it into data so that I can objectively see things. So you'll see in the book, for example, there's relative education levels, relative 18 measures that go back over the 500 year period so that you can see the cause effect relationships. I then take those and convert those into indicators. And then um that then helps me in my decision rules. I call those principles. But in other words, if this this and this is happening. Um So for example, um I wrote the book about three years ago and there's an arc there about the cause effect relationships. And since then, there's the January 6th, there's the internal political conflicts. There are these conflicts, you know, blossoming and I understand them better because I know how to measure them and use them as indicators such as economic warfare proceeds, military warfare doesn't mean anything is predestined. But when you can understand it, like the progression of a disease or something, it's important. And I think that a lot of people make the mistake of seeing everything close up, up close. And so they don't see a lot of the big things that are happening. They're focus on today's news, today's developments and then they don't have that arc, but there is an arc since over the last three years. It's sort of playing out in the direction of that arc. So I understand it better. I use the indicators and then I make the decision. So you see the arc and we can, I think if I'm not over interpreting the arc as sort of in this, this side of the arc, not this side of the arc. Well, I, I guess so let me, I'll describe a, I'll describe a little bit the, the arc. Um If you, if you want. Um OK, there's, there's a world Order and there's a um domestic order. And so at the beginning, this world order began in 1945. The end of World War two, there's usually AAA civil war or an external war that changes who wins, who loses and how the system works. Then a new system, a new order comes into power. And then at that time, um then there's a rebuilding and also nobody wants to go back to war and there's a dominant power because whoever won, nobody wants to fight the war. And because there's a restructuring of, of everything, it begins an new that you eliminate the debts, you will let you do that cleansing and then you rebuild and that's a period of prosperity and so on and it goes on and people extrapolate that prosperity, they become comfortable with it. But the issue is then as they do that, they tend to require more debt for a variety of reasons. And also um when the country becomes the world's reserve currency, other countries want to save in that currency and that creates more debt and more more. Um uh and then also by its very nature, capitalism creates very big income and wealth gaps. So as it emerges, you have these larger wealth, uh larger and larger wealth gaps and you also have uh larger values gaps. So, and that happens domestically internationally, the same sort of thing happens in that countries rise. In other words, the gap in the control doesn't any longer remain dominant. So there's competitors and countries and so on and they rise and we don't have a legal system that resolves those disputes. So because of that, then you come into a period of greater conflict and and and later, so you have the elements that I talked about in the beginning, the debt element, the capitalism element, the splitting and between the various interests and also the wealth and the values differences. And then you have the great power conflict. Now how that's produced, what transpires is that after such a long time after wars, people, the new generation never experienced war. And then there is an inclination to have conflict because let's say today, I think we're in the environment that we see that you have to pick a side and choose and then there's a conflict on that side. The idea of compromise sounds weak. It's one of those things what compromising, what's essential to me, I can't do that and that creates then threats in the system. You're describing the current, that's how you see the current moments. That's where you see us right now in Yes. Right. There are irreconcilable differences. We're now talking about the political part of that. Right. Number two is what I'm referring to. We also number one, the increasing debt loads, the increasing power conflicts. So all of those things are kind of on the they all relate to each other. Right. Right. So, so you have the increasing debt and then the question is, can you cut spending or do you monetize the debt? And OK, so think about how we're going to deal with the debt issue in the future and the political parts of that and that has an influence of how you obey or are you going to monetize the debt? I can't believe that. I mean, I'm a journalist, I'm a professional skeptic, but can I take the optimistic side for a moment? And there have been a lot of predictions that the US would decline and the US would lose its reserve currency status and the Euro would take over and China would become the world's largest economy. And the US was on a sort of inexorable decline and none of that has happened. I'm not, I'm just describing what is and the cause effect, relationships, what we do now determines what will happen. You don't think it's baked into a cycle of history that inevitably we're going to have some crash or some big. No, I think that the whole, it all comes down to how people deal with each other. OK? It all comes down. We have more resources than we've ever had in the world. We have uh more of almost anything that we have and how we deal with each other, whether we're going to fight about those things or whether we're going to deal smart. The issue is in this dynamic is that the polarity becomes so great that the decision making becomes so bad that it makes it difficult. And then in, in addition, there are the realities that have to be dealt with such as, OK, it's not the same when you, when you have a lot of debt and that you have to get into a lot of more debt in order to have your spending than if those circumstances weren't the same. So when I look at countries I look at, you know, basically what I would look as individuals do they earn more than they spend? Are they operating well together? And are they at risk of a war? And so I think that, uh, those are going to be the drivers of what happens in the future. I think we're going to see it in the elections and so on. I think that it, but it's not just those, it's the five. So like for example, if we're dealing with, let's say the climate issue, the climate issue estimated cost of that is $8 trillion a year. That's monetary part of that $8 trillion a year is equivalent of eight and a world GDP. I mean, that's all very expensive. So there's an economic component and environmental component and then of course, technology is going to have a giant effect. We know we're talking about A I and so on. So we can see that the interrelations between those are, you know, going to be important. So basically what I do is there's a cycle think of it, like if there's a disease, I use cancer as an example. There's stage one, there's stage 234 and so on. Um you could see what the stages are by the symptoms and you can know how it ordinarily progresses. So you have to know those kind of cause effect relationships. Those stages are *** out in the book. There's six stages of a typical cycle. So all I'm doing is I'm following. How is it going according to those stages? What are the cause effect relationships? And I'm understanding it better and helps me bet, which was the same as in the thirties. I studied my studies, the thirties allowed me to make the good decisions in 2008 because I understood that dynamic. I want to zoom in on the helps you understand how to bet and really zoom way in from the big, the big to the very small. So maybe we could ground this with a very basic straightforward markets question, which is everybody has been thinking about interest rates. The thinking about consensus thinking about interest rates has changed massively over the last year. What do you think will happen with interest rates by the end of this year? Are we going to see cuts, no cuts, hikes? What, what is your take on? I, I'm gonna answer your question and I'm, but I'm going to preface it with what are the determinants that make that? I'm trying to see how you get from and I'm trying to, I'll tell you so. So um for example, when I look at the bond rate, bond interest rates, you have to have interest rates um high enough that it satisfies the creditor without having them so high that it hurts the debtor. So too badly. And so um we look at the real interest rate to be a measure of that. So as you look at the sort of the core inflation rate at a, at you, you whether you say it's 2.5, 3, 3.5 in that vicinity, let's for simplicity, call it um three. And then what you do is uh on a real rate basis, you need 22 and 2, 2.5 under normal conditions. So that brings you up to the vicinity of a, of fiveish give or take a little bit in terms of the bonds. Uh let's say, and then you ease monetary policy when you have a crisis and you have an unemployment. So you, you have a situation where um are, do we have a crisis? Um No, you have the stock market making new highs. You have the unemployment rate at low levels and you have a chronically high inflation rate relative to the target. So no un under those circumstances. No, I don't think interest rates should come down and I think it becomes a bad deal. If they come down. In addition to that, you have a supply demand issue, that's important under normal circumstances. What I just described determines the pricing. But if I, but what you also have a supply demand, so we're going to have to sell a lot of bonds because if the government makes a lot of debt, you've got to sell a lot of bonds. There's issues in terms of supply demand issues for those bonds I won't get into but foreign buyers of those bonds, other people in terms of those bonds. So I would say that if I'm looking at the bond rate or if I'm looking at interest rates, I don't like bonds and I don't, and I think that the risks are more on the upside of rates than they are in the downside of rates. How do you, one thing that did interests me is that a lot of the kind of conventional ways of thinking about um about markets have kind of been jostled in the last several years and 11 that's uh prominent right now is gold. So, you know, you, you real interest rates have been rising. Gold is rising. What's up with that? We, we have a huge amount of debt and we're creating a huge amount of debt and most likely uh there's gonna be a monetization of debt because if you look at history, when it all comes down to, how do you deal with the debt if you pay it back in heart money, that's a deflationary contraction. And there's usually the monetization if you take what's going on with Japan. Now, example is a very classic example. What they've done is the Bank of Japan has bought a huge amount of bonds, ok? And all central banks who have bought these bonds have big losses in these bonds. Ok. Now there's a dynamic that's underway of um, they need to have interest rates at a higher level. Why shouldn't their interest, real interest rates be comparable to our real interest rates? If that happens, then they, they're gonna have losses in addition to others having losses. And when that happens, it makes the bonds less attract active unless you get to that attractive real rate with, let's say if they go from a minus 1% to a plus 2% or, or a 3% change in real interest rates, it's a devastating thing. So when we look at Japan or we look at other countries right now, we have that dynamic going on. It's a dynamic by the way that we're not used to seeing but has happened repeatedly in history. Um And then if you take the question of what is money. Um and, and you look at issues of conflict, wars who can trust what want money in this environment of great conflict. Historically, in wars, each country does not want to even lend to the other country because they're worried that if they're lending it, they're going to be paid back into valued money and that political element, they don't accept even each other's money. We're going into that pattern that we may not accept each other's money in different ways. So what becomes an alternative money? So you could think of gold as almost being the mirror image of the value of those bonds in a sense as an alternative investment, it was the core, it's of, of what money is until and then the cycle we have the evolution cycle in 1971 it changes. But you're, now the question is, what kind of money do you have? And so it's a safe haven kind of money. It's the third largest reserve currency of central banks and getting bigger and getting bigger. And so so in that sense, gold is sort of a, a I, I'm losing the, the numbering of your, of your, of your, of your topics. But gold is sort of like a, a hedge against number three. Again, it's a, it's a great conflict hedge again as opposed to a and uh it's both conflict and also value of money. So if you have a lot of debt, um you're gonna have to pay it and you'll have a choice, you'll pay it in hard money or you're gonna pay it in soft money and when the central banks get into that position, they play it in soft money. So when you look at the prospective situation of just the debt money question and then you overlay that on top of the political situation question, it's a favorable investment and it's not a hot investment and in terms of sentiment and so on, you know, there's not much talk about gold, which also is a good sign in terms of that. Now, I'm not saying that people, let me be clear. I'm not saying people should run out and get a lot of gold and I don't, I don't want to get can you, you can, you can wow, isn't that interesting? But, but I am saying that is for the reasons I'm describing it is a diversify against the other aspects of the portfolio. If you were to do a portfolio optimization of saying how much would you have in that because of the divers benefits and so on under normal circumstances. Without having a view of gold, you would have almost 15% in the portfolio. I'm not saying it should be that number. I'm not saying that. But if you look at it, I think people are long money and debt and their short gold as a percentage of their portfolio and the dynamic is changing, it's making new highs. But so I think it has to be a part of a relatively small part but it has to be a part of subs. Can, can I ask you to con continue on this on that theme? This is the future of everything. Conference. Um Many of the people in the audience here are starting out in their careers and getting going and I was wondering what advice you would have for them. If they had $10,000 what would you not not Ray Dalio you after a five decade career and, and having made lots and lots and lots of, more than $10,000. What would you sort of Ray Dalio five decades ago in the present suggests to people here with? Well, I, yes, so I would say the first thing that you have to do is think about the purpose of money and that you're saving and immunizing yourself against the purpose of money. And what is most valuable of that almost if you were to think? Can I buy? Well, maybe it's buy my apartment or secure my um future. Um If I could pre buy my kids' education, if I could pre buy those types of things so that I can immunize myself, I can hedge myself that I'm gonna be good and I'm going to be stable. I know when I started working out, I was uh uh uh through when I was in the position you're describing, I said to myself, how many weeks, months or years could I live without our money coming in if I should be, if I should be dropped and you know, I lose my job or something. How do I establish that security to basically immunize those types of things? So I think that starting out with thinking about the purpose of the money and how you immunize yourself against those things is very, very important. Then when you go to higher levels, then you decide how you're going to take risks relative to that. So I would say, but I, I, I'd say if I was to say one headline, it would be first immunize yourself against those things. And secondly, um think about um uh you know, your returns in real returns. And most importantly, how you diversify. Well, the power of diversification, the holy grail of testing that I, when I discovered it, it meant everything to me. Uh was, can I find um optimally 15 good uncorrelated return streams? Because the power of diversification, good diversification means that you can reduce your risks by 80% without reducing your expected returns. And by able that means you improve your risk return ratio by a factor of five. And if you can understand how to diversify, well, immunize your um liabilities that you, I think that that's the approach that I would take. I I'd like to take some questions from the audience. If you have a question, please pop your hand up. I'm gonna ask Ray one more thing. But then um then we'll come to questions in the audience. Um So um so sticking with that again. Um How would you think about that question? The answer that you gave is something that I think is kind of has been universally true for quite a number of years. Diversified investments, diversified investments have been something that lots of people have have had at the core of thinking about portfolio theory for a long long time. You're describing this new changing world order, things are shifting the world that will be around in 40 years for people in this room is not going to look like what the world was 40 years ago. Does your advice change or is it despite the cycles of it means it more so it means the uncertainties are going to be great. Think about the implications. Let's say A I is going to have on companies who the winners and the losers are like we have a lot more uncertainty about who winners and losers are. If I take any one of these factors, what it does is it creates much more uncertainties. And so it makes diversification. And then you think about diversification of asset classes, diversification of countries where you're diversified in all of that diversification is going to manage matter, I think more, not less there. There's a question in the back there I saw but if that person has lost his hand, how about right here in the front, Mike behind, things seem to be increasingly correlated and it's harder. I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. Things seem to be increasingly correlated. So it's harder to find the real diversification. Can you mention some assets that are really uncorrelated these days? So first of all, correlation is an outcome of the determinants of the pricing correlation doesn't intrinsically exist. And if you look at the pricing of asset classes, it makes sense. So for example, um stocks will go up when growth is faster than discounted and it will go down if it's less bonds are the opposite sort of way, generally speaking. So, um I, the way I think of the diversification is that there are four main quadrants in, in that, that means inflation rises or declines or growth rises and declines. And if by looking at those and putting those into those four quadrants, I'm trying to then create that, that's the template how diversification changes through times is a function of those drivers. And so when I create the diversification, those are the drivers I look at of course, the tightness of money and the looseness of money raises or lowers all boats or all all. So if you look at the structure of the determination of the correlations and you, so you have that structural diversification not just looking at what the recent correlations are because correlations change over time. So um but the the determinants of those correlations don't change or they change very little because every asset is um every investment is a lump sum payment for a future cash flow. It's true of all investments. So when you're looking at it and you say I'm gonna make a lump sum lump sum payment, what are the determinants of those future cash flows? Ok. The determinants are those factors I just mentioned