Ladies and gentlemen, Sit back, relax, click Oh, nice. I've never asked you guys to Comment where you're You don't have to do that. You also don't have to That's up to you. We don't want to be pushy. But we do want you Intro. (SINGING) Tall guy, beard, dude perfect's in Overtime. Tall guy, beard, now we're heading onto Overtime. Coming up on this we're kicking it off then Top 10, a brand new and Wheel Unfortunate. Let's dive right in. What are you doing? What are you doing? For those of you Overtime 11, Coby was for going overbudget. I'm making an One-game suspension. Nooooooo! If he talks, we already decided Last Cool Not Cool, it was This one we'll just say you All right, I'm I got a treat for you. I'm a food guy. I'm in. I'm hoping it's food related. I took it upon myself and got for an entire month. Oh, dude. Hey, here's the deal. I brought him up here, and he to enjoy during Cool Not Cool. All right, Chef All right, guys, here we go. What do we have I call it the three We're going to have Alaskan king king caviar. You know what? First bite Gar? Guess what? Oh, he's in. My man. He's in for a green. It's the best crab Easiest green of my life. It is going to be a Who's up next? Oh, I'll go next. Pretend you're going out You want to dress Are you guys familiar with ice? Like that you put Are you familiar Yes. This ice is so drip fam, no cap. And I'm talking about this, OK? Let me show you. So the Texas, obviously for Check this one out. This right here, you That is a recluse. A lot of people have FOMO, One man in our group is a FOBI. He has a fear of being included. Also known as a recluse, Gary I don't know if I'll wear You should put it on. Oh, OK. Yeah. It will make you feel good. This one's actually for Cory. He is a shoe guy. And last but not least, the man enjoy that! OK. All right, make some room. Here we go. I'm going to present Thank you, Chef Airric. And he loves steak and lobster. So right here, we have two dry-aged, topped with Australian tails with broccolini Broccolini. I don't know if I voted. I appreciate the gift. Thank you. Oh, also, how could I forget? Guys, I got the editors Check it out. Instead of a DP shirt they thank you. And I am a heavy, heavy green. Glad there was no budget, would've blown it. Sure. Absolutely. That lobster this necklace is a for the three of you guys. I scoured the internet-- Foreshadowing. --and got you guys CoJo, T-Tone, and G-money. Sneaker heads at home. You guys know. For me not being a shoe Yeah, so that's a green for me. You got me 13. Super cool. Thank you. All right, guys, can I Oh, please. Please, Chef Airric. Dessert is here. Can you pass that to Thank you. Chef Airric you're going We have caramel cheesecake famous 14 karat gold and chocolate, topped with a salt. Doesn't Coby love cheesecake? He loves sneakers, I think he loves Cobes, what do you think I almost got him. I really want him because I'd love I'm up. I am going to ask us to leave and actually leave the drip embrace what I brought us. Really? We have to leave? Real fast. We'll be right back. It's worth it. Oh, this could be Like you guys, I also got Well, not everyone. What you're about to see No way. Dude! Are you serious right now? Yeah. No way. I can't take it anymore. Have you lost your minds? If he talks, he is an Ladies and gentlemen, please, for the next Wheel Unfortunate I feel like we're in Drive the speed limit. It's only a lease. We've got to return 'em. Oh, the doors lift up. I'm sorry, Coby. Dude, thanks, Cobes. I don't even have to Hey, my wife's going to want Bentley, start. I have never felt so left out. [CHEERING] See you Cobes. Have a great day. That Rolls Royce-- I cannot tell you guys You went above and beyond. And for that, that's Cody, did you know your car is I know it's the fastest Green. You're welcome. Rolls Royce is How about that I mean, if I haven't And make that one Repeating green. This was an anomaly We pretty much blew through Not Cool. One time thing. Lifetime budget. Yeah. Let's give it up for Thank you, Chef. Appreciate that. It's time to head to the next is bound to be potentially controversial and argumentative It's going to get nasty. --in Dude Perfect history. Let's go to Top 10. Welcome to our brand new Today, we will be discussing Your Top 10. OK, my Top 10 is what We've got a potential I guess you'd call this And then we've got our I'll put them in. I want to go on record. Tyler hasn't seen In fact, he saw-- It's fair. --Top Gun about a That's fair. He's never seen Gladiator. And that's not true. What happens? I'll tell you what happens It daggum better. Can I have a moment of honesty? You may. I get Gladiator, Braveheart, up a little. They're very-- --they're very similar Yes, they are. I'm going to kick us off. In my number 10 spot, if that he needs to drive a Mini Top 10, Italian Job, there it I'm not going to fight it. So far, no huge objections. I'm not mad. I'm not happy. Let's continue on. Let's take this For example, a movie this one could be [BUZZER] You don't even Oh, my. Honestly, this-- That's the number one Gross-wise. Jurassic Park. Eh. I'm not going to lie. I really thought that whole You know what? I'll be honest. Gladiator, it's on my Number 11. Are you serious? It's going to sit down here. Everyone hold up 'cause it's one of the would have put for Gladiator. Ready? Set? OK, coming in at number got to make it up there. Over Gladiator? Come on. Yeah. There it is. Coming in at number I think a lot of times that are at their prime. Tom Hanks. For example, Ben Stiller. I would argue Night at the No, you're not serious. Unbelievable. Ty, real quick. Will you look me in that's the number eight Night at the Museum, I don't even think those are movies. I mean, Zoolander's Have you seen Zoolander? No. I've never seen Zoolander. Have you seen Forrest Gump? I have not. Have you even seen End Game? I have not. Are you kidding me? Sit down. You threw it on the ground What is happening? Night at the Museum, You did all three things. He likes movies he can quote. Let's round out this foundation Number seven, Shooter. We have two Mark Wahlbergs Taking it up a tier. These are some pretty Number six, Big Daddy, OK? As a single dad, he I cannot believe Top five movie of all time, Tier three is a joke. Claimed by some people in the history of the world. I'm not kidding. Google it. It's a one-star review. 1% on Rotten Tomatoes. Then go in and watch the and you will be so Gentlemen, we got our The number four greatest movie-- To you. --is a movie that will make It will make you feel good. Oh, my gosh. It's a Jack Black movie. This is insane. School of Rock, baby. Unbelievable. Give me the stage. Let's rock. Let's rock today. You know what I'm saying? If he can quote it, he likes it. I feel like I need to go here because I'm realizing with there's only three spots left. He's in trouble. I am in trouble. I got to give a shout out of all time. I know where he's going. Rush Hour. Chris Tucker, Jackie duos to ever do it. I'm agreeing with Thank you. Totally deserves an There is a theme that I kind Yeah, trash movies. --as far as a And that is why Daddy's Home-- I agree with you. --is an honorable mention. How is that not Swap it out. Replace Master of Disguise. With three-- no, no, Mark Wahlberg films in There it is. So you're telling you're going to pound a on a Tuesday at 5:00 if it's on? It is a great pounder. And when you think of the entertainment value I said in my honorable mention Tucker were the greatest duo to I was incorrect. They were the because the first greatest Wilson in Shanghai Noon. It does not get It does, and it did. With the unbelievable and the comedic relief top three movie of all time. Who do you think is the Jackie Chan would be up there. Can we flashback to when going to be comedies? Comedy, comedy, comedy, comedy. Give me a quote from that movie. You know a quote. You have to. What's wrong with my horse? Is he dead? That was Jackie. Go watch it. Watch it tonight. I might actually There's something Movies that are Do you think about some of the Miracle on Ice, Little Giants. Sports movies do unless it's Remember the Titans. Remember the Titans is an an honorable mention. An honorable mention. There it is. Can you, please, replace the Master of Disguise That's a top five movie. In all honesty, does Voodoo Yeah, it's free. Yes. Hey, hey, hey, hey, here we go. Two spots remain. Major Payne is number one. Cory, you are so because Major Payne No. It's not number one. It is number two. Is he serious? You're not serious. I am 100% serious. Major Payne is right there. OK, it is come to the time where movie. I know that it is classic movies of all would be very proud. I just need to That one's not in the top 10. I just needed to get It was a distraction. Because the single greatest Is this the Top 10 When you can watch a and you still laugh, There it is. Ty's Top 10. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Home Alone you can also watch. Home Alone I've never seen. So I coulnd't rate that one. What? Haven't seen Ocean's 11. Interstellar, never The Wi-Fi in the Lord of the Rings, I've fallen watching it. It's trash. Tolkien, that's classic Tolkien. I feel good about it. I think everyone at home or disgrace. Don't take this like this is just a giant joke. How could I not take Folks at home, if you want to AKA, mine, which I feel with some action, some go to Vudu.com/DudePerfect, Ty? This list is honestly absurd. It is not. And that's actually a great Our good friend Michael We accomplished an It was absurd. Let's take a look. Welcome to Absurd Recurds. It is a beautiful day to try Michael, thank you Glad to be here. Why don't you tell the are attempting to break today? Tyler you are attempting Records title for most drink using one hand. The mark to beat is 48. OK. Let's talk a little strategy. I'm thinking we So [IMITATING CAN OPENING SOUND] of coming back, we move over. Smart. You don't want to waste time. Shorter movement. And then we're coming back down, Your mark to beat Is it not? Yeah. The goal is to get I think we're ready. I feel ready. I feel ready. Whew. Tyler, are you ready? I am ready. OK, for the record, It's such a satisfying noise. That's 10 seconds. 10 seconds. You're fine. You're fine. I shook one of them up. You have time. You're good. Good, good, good, good. Come on. I know you're getting tired. 20 seconds. 30 seconds remaining. Oh, yeah, dude. You're going to need more cans. Let's go! What you do now will Come on! Hey, come on. Do you even care? 10 seconds. 10 seconds. Come on. Come on. Five, four, three, two, one. I think he did it. [INAUDIBLE] [YELLING] Are you not entertaineed? I'm telling you, you feel And then you're just Oh, I thought I was Look, I'm bleeding, Michael. You are. Do you mind if I grab a sip? No, go ahead. So, Tyler, I have The mark to beat was 48. Today, you had 52 it's a [CHEERING] Congratulations. Great job. That's absurd right there. Man, that feels good. I completely abandoned the game I went right up. And then instead of going Folks at home, there you You saved that one 53, new Guinness World Record. Well, back to the desk. Thanks, Michael. I think my fingers are bleeding. They're still bleeding? Because that was a while ago. Oh, yeah. You're right. They were bleeding. That's pretty bad. You should probably Anyways hey, we would love What is the most absurd think of? We'll pitch it to our see if we can get it approved, All right, well, moving excited because I was and pulled a hat out But we don't need to because headed to Wheel Unfortunate. All right, Cobes. Ladies and-- oh, sorry. Wiggled off camera there. I'm full of life, full of Forrester, fresh off of All right, we've got a special You know, I heard the he wasn't even He volunteered He loves me so much. Please, put your hands Coby, I found a little a limited edition with some real Ned hair on Check that out. You know, it's when they print You're going to want Thanks, Ned. Do you mind if I just Yeah, I'm sure That's not a big deal, for sure. Absolutely. Don't ever do that again. Last time you were had to sit in a box of snakes. I know there was a lot out there for you. Yeah, I'll address it. The snake really Did it hurt? Yeah, it hurt. I think there's one if you would hold my mic. [MUSIC PLAYING] So let's take a look at some got on the board. Be handcuffed to an You know, as much as that would be pretty terrible. Eating dog food like cereal, Drive until you run out of gas, So I got some new ones up there. Could be good. Not as good as old because I'm the best. Stop running away, I'll get ya! All right, well, grab a hold of that wheel? Give it all you got, Bud. Say it with me. Spin that wheel. All right. Notice you tried to put a Thanks for volunteering Really appreciate you-- oh, look I got a little excited. I thought he was going But Coby Cotton is going to run out of gas. You know, come on Let me explain the situation. I'm going to need you over your gas gauge. And go about your normal day. When you run out of gas, Just figure out how to get home. Say it with me. That's un-- unfortunate. Unfortunate. That was the worst job folks, a lot of people say I think what we found one man for the job, and that's signing off for now. Drive your car until Come on, people. It's fine. Ned told me I have to This is so ridiculous. OK, it should be good. This is so dumb. All right, Will, thanks on this adventure. Yeah. I kind of have to. It's so unfair. I bought an ostrich pillow, I want to drive a super car. Not to mention the get to eat the steaks Yay, I'm turning onto 380. Dumb. These guys are cruising So if I turn around guessing it'll take an hour [BEEP] Great, gaslight. Oh, Will, we're losing it, dude. Hold on, I'm pulling Oh, my god. We're in the middle Where do you think that last Five miles? At least five miles back. Do I walk that way where or do I hope that than four or five Surely there's one less Gotta be. Well, there's some billboards, Surely in the next Will, is that a gas station? Yes. There's a gas station. I'm saved. Five miles later, Man, oh, man. Well, guys, life lessons with And if you do, don't talk. I'm going to drive home now. Love ya. I could be wrong here, found yourself in a situation You mean have I run out That's what I'm asking. Yeah, I have. Yeah. I felt right at home. You looked like a pro. I've done it too. I've run out of gas three times. Three? How? Once with him. He was the one driving. He blamed me. Shut it down. Thanks for watching Overtime 12. And if you're not already click down here so you don't Special thanks to for making this video possible. If you want to see all of click over here and to win a signed Also, if you want to see the Signing off for now And my Top 10 movie It's so bad. It is amazing. See you next time. Click our list.