3D Printers can produce quite a lot of waste, Particularly the very popular Bambulab printers time you switch from one color to another I recently printed a multi-color version of only took six whole days, but it also purged is kind of insane! The good thing is I have a filament extruder! So can we recycle filament poop into new, Let's find out more! Guten Tag everybody, I'm Stefan and welcome This video is sponsored by VoxelPLA, which model. On such long and big prints, you need a reliable VoxelPLA provides. Their Pro PLA, which comes in 12 different free within the US if you purchase 3 spools larger purchases. Voxel recently expanded into selling high-quality for the Bambulab P1P and what I like most, The Bento Box is a two-stage HEPA and activated and P series 3D printers as well as the Voron It comes mostly assembled, so you can easily reduce the emissions during printing. So, if you live in the US and want to stock for your printer, then go to VoxelPLA.com! I seriously have to admit, even though I do pains me if I have to throw 3D prints away When printing regular parts, you can always need, or if it will land in the trash very Yet sometimes you don't really have an option! The most popular multi-color printers at the with their AMS unit. They use a so-called multiplexing system, can feed multiple, in Bambulab's case, up and even multi-material printing. This system is simple, reasonably cheap, and on the market, but having a single nozzle comes with a problem. When switching between colors, you need to before you get rid of the previous color. The Bambulab printers famously generate all out of its back and which will considerably Instead of throwing them in the trash, I want and make new filament from it. I'm a bit lucky in this regard because 3DEVO shredders a while back which I can use for This equipment might not be in the price range of concept! And if you are interested in seeing if this make sure to be subscribed, because I bought that I'll be assembling and testing very The filament poops themselves are too big so I had to shred them first. This machine shears the plastic into small bottom. Once I had a bunch of material chopped up, to make sure that no big pieces were still As I already said in the beginning, this is I had to learn the hard way that cleanliness Anything that's in the shredded-up material The multi-color print poop right here all low melting point. So when collecting the material, I really from polycarbonate prints in my pile because Another problem is foreign debris. Last time I had several clogged nozzles because filament. To get at least magnetic particles out, I box with all the shredded material and moved make steel particles adhere to the magnet, But now to extrusion. I have a 3DEVO Composer at my disposal, which It's by far not cheap and certainly not at a larger scale, but it gives me the option the need for a whole extrusion line. So I turned it on and waited until it was Then I started flushing out all the old material At some point I added the transparent hopper So normal plastic pellets are round and flow Our regrinds, on the other hand, are all very blocking the flow to the extruder screw. The vibrations help the particles flow and The extruder itself is basically a big auger material from the feed zone all the way to On its way it slowly melts, the air bubbles mixed. So, unfortunately, we probably can't expect extruder but rather a mix of all the colors And what do you get when you mix all of these Yes, exactly, poop brown, which is kind of be printer poop. I let another couple of meters of the new of time to settle and then started the spooling So, working with shredded prints and print noticed that when just taking a look at how Such a professional extruder has a closed-loop The molten material comes through a nozzle filament diameter. The right dimension is achieved by stretching it, the thinner it gets. So, a diameter sensor measures the thickness, filament. In theory, this should make sure that we can diameter we want. Unfortunately, if the flow through the extruder enough, and we get either a too-thin, or too-thick And this is what unfortunately happened on see that on the graph but also when take a it out of the machine. Printing it went okay for a bit until a thick the print. Even though the print itself looked okay until sections of thicker and thinner filament on Okay, so that's unsatisfying, but I had Years ago, I built myself a filament pelletizer This machine chops down filament into small auger. I didn't have the old electronics anymore it to my old Ender-3, which's running a installed. The idea here was that the more regular shape fed in the extruder, resulting in a better It's an additional step but also used in be worthwhile. So I started the extruder for a second time, extrusion, I started feeding our DIY filament At first, the results looked significantly of outliers. The roll of filament looked okay and still Also, the initial print results looked significantly Unfortunately, when I later came back to the I got filament jammed in the extruder. Upon further inspection by just running the that I again had blobs on the filament, which that the material should have. Yet I couldn't give up! I wanted to succeed in converting multi-color At that point, I remembered that I had similar the material just wasn't dry enough. Most of the purging poops I used for my first able to absorb moisture for months. So, for the second batch, I mostly used waste To dry the material even further I played is an additional force to pull out any moisture I tried pure vacuum drying in the past and it up two notches. Not only did I add two big bags of desiccant pot onto the bed of my QIDI X-Max 3, which the chamber to the vacuum pump for 15 minutes. After a day, I shredded the material, put and then started extrusion. The first interesting thing was that the color a greenish trashbag color instead of the brown That's simply due to the different colored I first thought I'd also have to extrude it again. Yet this second batch extruded very nicely range. The melt itself also looked so much smoother had my second spool of filament made from did it look well! At first sight, I wasn't able to see any print. Of course, with this greenish color, I could I had no hiccups at all and ended up with I could see tiny variances in extrusion rate, material made from 100% 3D printing waste! Remarkable! After the first failed batch of material, one would turn out so well! It was another good lesson for me to work me what the challenges are in trying to make Of course, if you consider the price of the something that's economical on a small scale looking at all of the mess and microplastic Yet I still think it was another great proof filaments are possible. Not everyone can and should afford such a Still, there are alternatives like the Artme3D could make sense for maker spaces even if like this working and not only looking at Fortunately, there are more 3D printing recycling We have the RecyclingFabrik in Germany, but US, that accept scrap prints for recycling And you can't only recycle 3D printing waste where people use it for injection molding machine on a CNC. If you're interested in anything like that, and make sure that you separate your print right from the start! And I'd love to hear your thoughts on recycling What are you doing with your failed prints, it sometimes wasn't as perfect as filament Leave a comment down below!