Transcriber: Amanda Zhu I love science. But I have to admit you can get pretty obsessive I used to work in former East Germany right after the wall, and I was on a quest to find the signature in my carbon cycle data It's very windy in the Southern Ocean, and there is this wave that circles around Antarctica endlessly. And here I am looking for the wave in my carbon data when I spot an anomaly. We know, because we're putting that the Southern Ocean CO2 but this is not what it does - there is an anomaly. So I storm into my neighbor's office, and I say, &quot;Oh, I'm so excited! I'm so excited! I made a discovery. There is an anomaly. The Southern Ocean is not What he says: &quot;But what does it mean?&quot; &quot;The end of the world is coming and I storm out. (Laughter) I am not proud of myself. (Laughter) Every year when the global temperature of the year and we have yet another warming record, I go, &quot;Yes!&quot; And every year when the Australian Weather Service adds a color contour to their weather maps because the temperature is getting so hot I go, &quot;Wow!&quot; And when parts of US, get an astronomical 26 inches of rain in one day during a hurricane, in part because of the atmosphere, holding more water vapor, do I think about the rivers Do I think about the houses No, I think about the evidence, I think about the signal and I think this is But yet you will not hear me tonight trying to convince you and we might want I have given up. I am here to talk about the science. (Laughter) (Applause) I have to confess - confession - that every few years I have my own doubts. Every few years I think, &quot;Dear, dear! What if we are wrong? What if we have missed something?&quot; And then my heart beats a little faster, and I get very anxious. I lock myself in my office, I pull out all of the data, and I look at the map: where is the warming? Europe, America, Africa, Asia, Australia, the land station, the ocean observation, the satellite data - snow and ice are melting, tropical species are moving the Arctic is melting coastal waves are rising, the water cycle is speeding up so much &quot;But why?&quot; I ask myself. Do we understand the processes? Yes - physics of greenhouse gas is well known. Is the warming unprecedented? Yes - faster than anywhere Has the hypothesis been tested? Do the numbers match? Yes. Take the 20 most sophisticated and they can only reproduce when they consider the increase not only this but all of the warming trend not the little wiggles - and yes, we will still have but the trend, all of it. And then I ask myself the killer question: &quot;Is there any other please, people, do come up (Laughter) And yes, we monitor the sun, (Laughter) And yes, there are natural cycles, and this is not what they look like. This looks like climate change driven by increasing greenhouse gases voila! And then I can relax. (Laughter) But I am not always this anxious. There are also perks When I discovered my anomaly, I had a moment of fame, or maybe infamy, I should say. So the future Prime Minister then summons me in his office So I go to Westminster me with a printout of my anomaly and he with a piece of ice in a thermos - pure 100,000-year-old ice extracted from the depth of Antarctica by my colleague Rambo I could not believe it. Everyone was mesmerized It pops like Rice Krispies. (Laughter) This is what old ice does. It pops - little pops of old air And this is how we know and how unusual our atmosphere It was magical, the ice bit. So, as soon as we get out, I ask Rambo, &quot;What happens to this ice now?&quot; And he goes, &quot;Uh, it's going to melt,&quot; (Laughter) with the &quot;Are you really a scientist?&quot; (Laughter) &quot;What? When?&quot; I grab the thermos and run. Norwich - I don't know Norwich - that is Nor-wich, but we don't actually say the w - Norwich. (Laughter) Literature, full of exceptions; physics, predictable. (Laughter) So, Norwich, East Anglia, the end of the road. (Laughter) I call my husband, &quot;Meet you home at five. Get all the kids together. (Laughter) Don't ask any questions. (Laughter) Buy orange juice. Buy gin and tonic.&quot; (Laughter) Longest train ride ever. I do not want to open this thermos. But by the time I reach Ipswich, I have a little peek. Ipswich - did you hear? Ips-wich - wich - (Laughter) just to be different from Norwich. (Laughter) So eventually, finally, I get home, pull my much-cherished atlas open the Antarctica page, put my finger on Dome C, and say, &quot;Children, this is priceless.&quot; I open the thermos, We all lean forward, all five of us, and we breathe in (Inhales) and then we break the ice into ice cubes (Laughter) (Applause) Orange juice for the children. (Laughter) Where was I? Warwick, Warwick. So I hear there should be a few students (Audience) Whoo! Huh? Huh? So Warwick. That is an interesting one, Warwick. (Laughter) Why not War-wick? Or ... Orick? (Laughter) Ork, ork, ork, (Laughter) like the emperor penguin from Antarctica. It's nice to work in a university. I don't know if you have noticed, but every scientist competes Physicists boast of gravitational waves; biologists, of gene manipulation; engineers, sending Tesla into orbit. I hear a lot &quot;Technology will save us.&quot; Who is that, Technology? Who do you trust to save us? Take me, for example. You can trust me, I hope, but would you trust me to save you? (Laughter) And the engineers - between you and I - (Laughter) shall we trust the engineers to save us? (Laughs) Why is it, I wonder, now we have beautiful electric cars, almost as cheap as petrol cars, way smarter - they make no noise, they pollute very little, they almost drive themselves - why is it that emissions is one of the biggest sources of emissions and in this country they are going up? It is because it is not Technology will not save us technology is already there! We are just not smart enough to see it Take Wi-Fi. I completely missed it. Here I am, working in former East Germany. There is this guy there, I don't know about you, (Laughter) IT people, they have all the data but no name - all called IT.helpdesk. (Laughter) But the head of the IT department, I have to talk to him once a year (Laughter) They know these things, IT people; So on D-day, every year, One year I see him in the distance. We approach. I go, &quot;Congratulations, Bertram. this is what they say in East Germany. (Whispering) I think it's congratulations (Laughter) &quot;So what's up since last year?&quot; I go. &quot;Fabulous progress. Wi-Fi is in our institute,&quot; he says. &quot;Wi-Fi - you can read email &quot;Wi-Fi? OK. See you next year.&quot; Typical IT conversation. I totally missed it. It took me years to realize connecting individuals I did not see it even when it was right there People ask me all the time, What do I do to solve climate change? Me, personally. I know that for the warming our emissions need to go down to zero, not a little bit here and there but zero, across all of the sectors of the economy, through all of the activities That means a complete transformation to move away entirely from fossil fuel. And still, people, I have given up. I will not try to convince you I have given up because you need to reach You need to decide for yourself. We do not teach gravity at school We take the apple, we climb up the tree, and we let it fall - and here is gravity. You are completely free. I will not confront you, I will not make you feel guilty, but I will not stay still This is what I do. I am the Antarctic Circumpolar Wave going around in circles endlessly. I nudge you, I repeat myself, I show my anomaly, I show my temperature data, I speak your language, &quot;Ork, ork.&quot; (Laughter) And every time I do this, I explain why it is that I have reached my own conclusions and then I walk away. And before I walk away, though, I will ask you to do one thing, a little homework. It's not in the exam. (Laughter) I know people that secretly - already act on climate change, secretly. I think it would be very good if we could raise the voice one notch. So therefore, I would like to ask you to consider not only to do but to broadcast it a little bit - not boast, no, no, no - broadcast. For example, you could say, &quot;I recycle this plastic bottle also because I have seen Blue Planet II and I cried when the turtle You could say, &quot;I cycle to work because it is good for me For example, you could say, &quot;I eat meat-free today and good for the planet And this is when made and combined with all the leaders starts moving in one direction. This is when it becomes so normal to deal with climate change that our understanding changes entirely. This may not seem like very much, yet I am quite convinced we will recycle everything. I am quite convinced that before I die, we will no longer eat animals. I am quite convinced that before I die, we will breathe pure air and before I die, I will see the end of this nonsense of environmental destruction And this will not be thanks it will be thanks to you, and you, and you, and I will have nothing to do with it. I have a mountain of data and yet I feel so powerless. I will not save anybody. I rely completely on you - completely. Thank you. (Applause) (Cheers)