The most controversial makeup brand that I have ever come across. You either love it or you hate it, or you love to hate it. Bobbi Brown launched Jones Road in 2020, on the week of the presidential election, in the middle of the pandemic, and on the day in which her 25 year non-compete was up, ballsy right? So ballsy, I kind of love her for that. On the website, it says Jones Road is a new approach to beauty. These are intuitive products that are easy to use for both the expert and the novice. Products that meet you where you need to be met, and allow you to choose exactly how you want to look and feel. They're also created following the Credo Beauty Guidelines, which also makes them clean. You guys are curious about it? I know from my comments. So today we're going to be doing a full face of Jones Road. We're going to be reading the product specs. We're going to see how it looks on the skin. We're going to read some reviews, watch some controversial TikToks. It's going to be really fun. Let's go. Okay. Let's do what we always do and start with the eyes first. Now, as you guys can see, I already have my brows on. The only thing from this line that I do not have are brow products. Okay, I'm sorry I didn't get the brow products. I kind of forgot, but we can start now with our eye prep. So the way that I'm going to prep my eyes is I need to cancel out some of this redness and some of this discoloration, and I'm going to do that with the face pencil. I have had this for a few weeks. I actually use this product in my Choose Your Own Adventure video. If you guys remember that video, and I have to tell you, it is a product that I am repeatedly reaching for. It's very, very easy to use. I love concealer pencils like this. It's something that's just convenient to reach for and grab. I find that it does provide a pretty decent amount of coverage, and it's not overly greasy. And it just, I don't know, it works. I do really like this. I do grab it all the time. I'm just going to very lightly set that, because if we don't set concealer on the lids because it's a high movement zone, it's going to inevitably crease, like right in here in the in the actual crease area. Now, one of the things that has really stuck out to me about Jones Road is that this is the makeup brand for the person that doesn't want to wear makeup, for the person that wants to look really pretty, but doesn't want to spend all this time building transition shades, building out smokey eyes, doing all the things they want, like a five minute face. That's a true five minute face, right? Not a makeup artist version of a five minute face where we still do tons of different tones and colors and blend them and all that. This brand is for the everyday woman that wants to look fresh, pretty natural, very quickly without all the fuss. Right? And I think that's a reason why a lot of makeup artists don't like it, because it's not really like a MAC or a Makeup Forever, or, you know, those brands that really focus and cater to the makeup artist. This really is for the everyday woman. So this shadow okay, the Just a Sec eyeshadow. I got this a few weeks ago and I have found myself reaching for it all the time. The color that I have is bronze. It has kind of this cushiony consistency, and you don't even need a brush to apply it at all. It's one of those shadows that are one and done. You know, you pop it on the lid, you blend it out with your fingertip. One and done. Okay, let's read some reviews about this product. This one is two stars. It says gorgeous but not crease proof. Okay. Savannah writes I got Golden Peach in the startup kit and while it is gorgeous color and a fantastic texture, it is a fantastic texture. I can validate that. I really do like the texture of this a lot. It's not like any other cream shadow I've ever seen. It's it's cushiony. That's the only way that I can describe it. It's quite pigmented, so fantastic texture. It's not suitable one and done shadow for me because it creases like no other eyeshadow I have ever owned. I've tried it with a primer and without, but it creases all the same. It seems like all the shadow on the lid somehow migrates directly into the crease, and I'm left blending it out all day, which leaves me with no shadow on my eyes and lots of sparkles on my fingers. So I'm going to be honest, I haven't had that issue. She might not be setting her crease sometimes if you don't set with a powder, just like I said, you will get creasing. Regardless of what shadow you use. You'll get creasing from the concealer, you'll get creasing from the primer, you'll get creasing from a cream, for sure. You do need to set it, but let's wear this for the whole day. Let's look at it in natural light. Let's close our eyes and we will see if this actually creases. But then we have Ramsey here who says this is the perfect quick I look this is such a perfect product. If you're looking to brighten your eyes very quickly, I can finish my eye look with a minute with this, some eyeliner mascara. It looks so classy and refined with little to no effort. This product is a must have if you're looking for a little something sparkly and easy to use. Fantastic! See, that's the thing with Jones Road. A lot of makeup brands. I mean all brands, not even just makeup brands. You're going to get mixed reviews. But for whatever reason, with this brand, they're so extremely divided. You know, you love it or you hate it. Like I'm not playing. There are so divided. Okay, the next thing we're going to try is the best pencil. The claim to fame with this is that it's a precise, crisp line that glides on seamlessly and can be used with shadow on top or all by itself, highly pigmented. This formula is based on 1970s no frills, ultra dense formulas, but updated with the clean and modern ingredients stack. This looks a lot like the Makeup Forever liners, which I love. It's the same kind of wooden pencil vibe, so let's see if the formulation is similar to that. Okay, so the brown is definitely a cool base brown I would say it's not like a warm teddy bear, red-based brown. It's a little bit on the cooler side. What do I think about this? I don't know you guys. I don't really have any like crazy feelings about this. It's not, do I hate it? Absolutely not. Do I think it's like mind blowing or awesome? No, but I feel like Bobbi even said it really is like a staple liner. Like, if I look back here, she did say, right, that this is a no frills liner. Is it mind blowing? Not really, like,, no, I'm not going to say that it is, but it is good. Okay. It's fine. It's good. It works. It works really well. Okay. Now I'm just going to clean up a little bit of fallout. I find with this eyeshadow, you know, even though it's a cream shadow, I do actually get a little bit of fallout from it. The glitter does go under my eyes, so I like to do it before I do the foundation. If you look at my makeup removing wipe, it's just a little bit. It's not like outrageous by any means, but it's enough that you don't want that staining your concealer. What The Foundation, the What The Foundation caused a war on TikTok. It caused an actual little bit of an internet war. Do you guys want to see? Okay, first let me tell you about this product. And then while I apply it, I'll show you this internet war. This product is oil based. And you can tell you can definitely see that it's oil-based. The claim to fame online. Okay. This is what they say about it. It's a tinted moisture balm meets traditional foundation with light to medium buildable coverage. It's ultra nourishing formula blends seamlessly into the skin, leaving you with an even fresh complexion that looks like your skin on its best day. You can get a brush for it, so Jones Road has a skin brush that goes with it, which is just a very traditional kind of old school foundation brush. I've used this a ton since I've gotten it, and I've always used it with my fingertips. Now, one thing that I want to tell you guys about it, I'm going to use it with this brush today because I want to show you, since, you know, Jones Road has it. But one thing I want to tell you about this is that it is very wet. It is an extremely wet product, and that's why it has so many negative reviews. So I've managed to make it work for my skin. I have combination oily skin leaning more towards oily. I'm just going to put a little bit of eye cream here, because under my eyes is the only place that gets dry and crepey. But the only way that I've been able to get this foundation to work well for me is by not using skincare under it. And I actually learned that from Bobbi Brown. She did a real about it, and she explained that you can use it just on its own in replacement of your skincare. So what I do in the morning, if I want to wear it and I want to have a really natural kind of glowy makeup day, is I use my sunscreen, I let my sunscreen absorb completely. So I have sunscreen on right now, and then I use my eye cream after I've done my eye makeup. And that's it. I don't use my vitamin C serum. I don't use my any other serums or moisturizers or anything. It's just way too heavy. If I do that because my skin is medium, you know, combination, oily. If yours is drier, you might not have that issue. But while I apply this and you see how the formula goes on, watch this TikTok war. You're probably asking me, Meredith, what is this? Well, to be honest, I'm not really sure, but we're going to find out. So Jones Road came out with this, and it's called What The Foundation. I think that's a fair name. The hair's got to go up for this bad boy. I'm excited. I got two shades, light and porcelain. You know, me and my hands. So let's just go right in. It smells very strong. Let's apply. I mean, I am the foundation queen, so. I'm not sure what to make of this consistency. My hands can't... What's going on here? You guys, I'm really trying. It's going to be a no for me. I really wanted to like this though. Oh, I have so much to say about this. Okay, so she obviously goes viral on TikTok a lot for these really extreme applications of foundation. It's kind of her thing, right? She applies a ridiculous amount of foundation. This video went mega viral and got, you know, Jones Road got a lot of hate from it. Now, I think this is so unfair because this is absolutely not supposed to be applied like that. Also, I really don't think that this foundation is targeted to this age demographic. You know, this is a foundation that is for, in my opinion, either the young woman who has very naturally beautiful skin and she wants like a quick, glowy look, that very modern, Hailey Bieber vibes. You know, this would be great for Hailey Bieber vibes. Okay, you already have to have naturally good skin. If you have very mature skin that's dry and you don't love really full coverage or foundations that feel really heavy, you're going to absolutely love this. This is the perfect foundation for that because it's oil-based. So as you can see, it's very glowy and luminous, but it has very sheer coverage that's super soft and pretty. That's what this is for. If you have very oily skin, this is probably not going to be the foundation for you. And actually, Bobbi Brown did say that in this reel. See, watch this. But before we watch that, you have to watch this because she clapped back and I thought it was hilarious. So I always love learning new makeup techniques. And I learned one today. I'm not sure if it's going to work, but I'm going to try. Didn't really work. So the reason this is funny is because Bobbi Brown is iconic. You guys, she's been a makeup artist probably longer than this girl's been alive. She is a big deal. She literally is considered a celebrity. She sold her brand, Bobbi Brown to Estee Lauder, I believe. Like she's not someone that's no one. You know what I'm saying? Like, obviously the foundation isn't going to work if you put it that way. But with that said, this foundation does have its limitations, and I do understand why some people don't like it. For one, it does have a strong smell in the jar. I don't find that the smell is that bad when it's on your skin for a while. You know, after you put it on, it's not a bad smell, but it is like a kind of iconic, What The Foundation smell. It's something that I've never smelled in another brand. It almost smells like essential oils. I don't personally love the smell of it, I'm not gonna lie. But I mean, it's fine. Another thing about it is that it is wet, very wet. So again, oily skin. It's not great. So let's watch this clip from Bobbi explaining that what the foundation is a tinted moisturizer meets foundation. It instantly makes your skin look better. It's supernatural looking and some of us don't even need a moisturizer with it. It works all by itself. For me, it's like face lift in a jar. It just makes my skin look good, gives me a lift, and I look like I'm not wearing anything, which is why we called it. I like to use just a pea sized amount. I use my fingers mostly. When I do someone's makeup, I use the skin brush. The trick is you don't need a lot. A little bit goes a long way. If you want or need additional coverage, you don't need to add more foundation. I recommend pairing it with the face pencils. I typically apply what the foundation first and then I go over it with any pencils I need. Okay, so the reason that she's saying that you don't need more foundation, you just need to use the pencil. It's because this isn't buildable. Okay. I'm just going to call it for what it is. Is it nice? Yes, I like it. Okay. I'm not hating on it. At all. I actually really like it. And I think a mature woman would love this. You know, it's so good for what it's good for. But it's not buildable. So on the website, okay, it says that it has a light, medium buildable coverage. I just don't, you know, it's the same with the Chanel product that I talk about that I also really love. They say it's light medium two, but it's not. It's light. It's sheer to light. This is sheer to light. I don't think it's buildable. It's not. And that's why they always say if you want more coverage, don't use more foundation. Use the concealer. Because if it was buildable, if you used more of the foundation, it would build. But this is very oily, so you can't really stack it or build it. You can cover on top of it with this, and this mixes really well because this is kind of oil based. This is a little bit denser. So the density on the oil makes it like blend nicely. So I think they should change what they how they describe it on the website. Because if they did they would get probably a lot less returns and a lot less criticism about the product itself. That's just my $0.02. You know, being a makeup artist for a bajillion years, that's just my $0.02 on it. Take it or leave it. So because of all this backlash online about this foundation, we've heard so many things about it. This is Bobbi's response to that. There seems to be some confusion on what kind of coverage you get from What The Foundation. There's confusion because it's not light to medium coverage. And it's not buildable. Okay, let's just see what she has to say. What The Foundation is Jones Road's world's take on what a foundation should be. It is a skin like finish and it is, honestly, it's like a tinted moisture balm, but it adds coverage to most places where you need it. So, I'm going to recommend that you apply with a brush or your fingers, so that's all you need. That actually even a lot because it has beautiful oils infused. It gives the nice glowy finish. It will absorb into the skin because it is an oil. It's an oil. Just like your moisturizer is oil because oil is the best thing for dry skin. If you have oily skin, you might not be someone that likes the finish of What The Foundation. Yes. Also, if you like full coverage, you're not going to like What The Foundation. No. Exactly. I happen to not like full coverage. I like light to medium coverage. And by the way, you could also use your face pencils either just to get that extra redness. I always get it around my nose especially. It's a season, in the spring, it gets a little bit red. You can also use it if you have any kind of breakouts or uneven skin tone. And people have even use the pencil all over the face And more coverage, you know, you can also use it with your powder if you want, but I like it on me, on bare skin and it's enough coverage for me. So I hope this answered some of your questions. That did answer our questions, Bobbi, that did answer our questions. So on top of it, because I have oily skin, you guys saw that I was getting very shiny. I just used okay, the tinted face powder by them in the color light, and it took the shine right down. So my skin looks very, very skin like. Now I'm going to take the same Just A Sec shadow and the color bronze. I'm going to use a little smudge brush and I'm just going to bring that under the eyes. I love this cream shadow. I don't care what anyone says about it. I absolutely love it. It's one of the nicest cream shadows I have ever tried. I love the color. I love the iridescence. I love how it blends. For the first time in my life, I'm not loving the wing. Okay, so I'm just going to kind of blend it away. Take it off. Okay, let's do our finishing touches. So let's do lips. I can handle not having lips. This is the lip pencil. And this is in the color mauve. So this is said to be the ultimate you but better lip product. Lip pencil is a richly pigmented pencil that defines and fills in your lips for a refined, modern look. The creamy formula is derived from the perfect blend of waxes and oils, giving you a lightweight, breathable, and barely there finish. The eight nude shades match the color of natural lips, providing you with multiple options to add a subtle enhancement or play up a bolder look. Okay, so this is a very standard lip liner. Again, very similar to the Makeup Forever one. It looks similar. It's kind of a similar consistency for one of the color families of these are great. She picked some really great neutrals. Natural pretty colors, blendable formula. I just don't see what could be negative about this. So let's see here. So it says, I expected mauve which has some pink in it. This is mauve but this liner is very brown. It looks dull on me and doesn't flatter my skin. I do like the way it goes on. That was smooth and easy to apply. Okay, that's just a color issue. It is a browny-mauve for sure, but mauve is like a purpley brown. It is mauve. It is. So, sorry, Susan. It just is. And then Tracey wrote, it's just okay. I thought it might be more silky, like the face pencil. It's a nice color for me. I don't normally spend this much on a lip pencil. That isn't marvelous. Guys, I feel for Bobbi Brown. Not that I should, because she's probably like a millionaire, but I feel for her because, like, how can she get it right? Like a lip pencil is a lip pencil. The colors are pretty. It is blendable. I just don't know how you could formulate a lip pencil to be any different than this, but some people do love it. Like Sherie, five stars. Perfect color for me to refine the shape of my lips, especially when combined with a face pencil to reduce discoloration around the outside edge. I don't necessarily where a gloss or lipstick over it. It lasts for hours even throw me on. Yeah, you can use this as a lipstick on its own. Just fill your whole lip. And like I did, the only thing with that it can look a little bit dry. But you can do that with any lip liner. I always use lip liners like lipsticks. I'm just topping it off with this. This is the cool gloss and golden shimmer. This instantly gives you like a minty sensation. This product I don't really like. I'm not going to lie. I have so many glosses and I find that the minty sensation of this is actually a little bit. It kind of seeps into your mouth and you can taste it in your mouth, which is, which I don't like and I don't know. I'm not sure why it does that. I just find that this is such a basic lip gloss that doesn't last long on the lips. Yeah, there's nothing special about it, you know, for the price. This one's a no for me. I'm going to be honest, this one's a no for me. Everything else so far has been fine. Okay, we're going to leave the most controversial product for last. And that's the Miracle Balm. Okay, but before we do miracle balm, let's do the mascara. So this is Jones Road, The Mascara. Before we apply mascara, let's curl our lashes. The last color that I'm using today is by Rephr You guys, this is the best lash curler ever. I have no lashes. They're super thin and they're also very straight. This is like the only lash curler that gets right to the base of them, and that actually makes my lashes look somewhat decent. I have this Shiseido one, which is iconic. Everyone talks about that one. This one's even better than the Shiseido one. I'm telling you. I'll leave it linked for you guys in the description box. Rephr is an amazing brand. Everything they carry is amazing. Okay, Colleen writes five star is my new favorite mascara. I'm in love with this mascara. I've never had a mascara give such pop and feel so soft. I loved the curved wand and felt like a pro did my lashes in a few seconds. Okay, I actually really like it. I think it's really really nice. It's buildable. It's not blobby. Oh, this is a really nice mascara. If clean beauty is important to you, then maybe this is the mascara that you want. And now the only thing is, I'm finding I went a little heavy on the eyeliner, so now I need to bring it underneath or it's not going to look balanced. That's better. We're having like a smokey eye vibe now. I feel like my lips need a little bit more pigment, so I'm going to go in with another color that I have. And it is this one. It's called Nude Rose. I'm just going to outline the perimeter just to see if I can give myself a little bit more definition. That's better. Right. Okay. Let's talk about this Miracle Balm. Oh my gosh. This is so there's a lot to say about this okay. Let me tell you first what it claims to do okay. It's all in the name Miracle Balm is a secret of no makeup, makeup, a wash of soft focus moisture to perfect and enhance the skin. A light reflecting super product that's as versatile as it is simple to use. Wear Miracle Balm alone or layer on top of foundation for an instant refresh. So the way Bobbi says to use this is to actually take some of it out, okay, like this. And then warm it up and then you can apply it with your fingers or with a sponge like this. And what you get is you get a very sheer wash of color, but you get like a light reflecting situation going on. Oh, Miracle Balm, Miracle Balm. This to me feels a little bit like Vaseline. And I think that's honestly the purpose of it. It's supposed to give you that fresh, glowy cheek, okay, that people like a lot, but to me, I just, I, I think it's a, it's a bit too glowy and not pigmented enough. But with that said, that's kind of what it's supposed to be, right? So it does what it's supposed to do. It is what it's supposed to be, but I find that I never reach for it. I have so many products from Jones Road that I reach for all the time. Even with my oily skin, I do reach for the WTFoundation. This I just find it glowy, but it needs, I just think it needs more pigment. I'm not going to lie, I think it needs more pigment so that you can use it as a blush because it's just not enough on its own. I don't like it. I just don't like it. You might like it, but I just don't like it if you tried it. Let me know what you think in the comments. This is how my makeup looks in the studio lighting. And this is how my makeup looks in natural lighting. As promised, here's a little eight hour update. Okay, so I must say she wasn't wrong about the creasing. I am getting a little bit of creasing that I never really noticed. I don't think I looked at my face super closely before to notice, but since it's been eight hours, there is a little bit of separation in the crease of the eye shadow. It doesn't bother me that much to be honest. If I wanted to touch it up like say I was going from the office to a restaurant or for drinks, I would just grab, grab it again on my finger and press it in. I would likely just pop this into my purse. I know that's not ideal, but you are going to get that with any eyeshadow cream eyeshadows just don't tend to last a crazy long time. Something else you can do if that's really bothering you, is you can get a really heavy duty setting spray like this one. This is the one size Until Dawn Mattifying Waterproof setting spray. This is like the most hardcore setting spray ever, so, you know you could do all of your Jones Road super natural stuff and then just use a really heavy duty setting spray. If you want to extend the wear a little bit longer. This isn't the longest wearing, most bullet proof makeup. It's not. That's not what it's supposed to be. You know, when it comes to it being a radiant, fresh, natural look, I really think Bobbi Brown hit the mark on this. I think she did an amazing job with this product line. Let me know whether you love it or hate it in the comments section below. This video is over.