If you have the ability, kill me. Do you think I won't dare? We both agreed. I'll accompany you to the thank you banquet. What kind of prosecutor can a girl be? How come you don't keep your word? You promised me, please pay attention. Image: You are the hostess today. Go ahead. Twelve Laws of Equals. You also like it. Bach, I like Jay Chou. Just kidding. It seems that you like to play Bach. Why didn't Jiang Yuan come? The nominal chairman of Jiutai Group is Jiang Yuan, but the actual person in charge is Jiang Yuan's wife Ma Shanshan . That person over there. You said you just came to Xinzhou City. I have been in Xinzhou for so many years. I have never seen Jiang Yuan participate in any business activities , but this Ma Shanshan is so smooth in doing business . Everyone in the industry knows it. Bach 's music is quite difficult to memorize. She has such a good memory in just one night. It's pretty good. Do you know me tonight ? There shouldn't be anyone here. You don't know the daughter of the Jiang family? Ren Tianyu is not interested in getting to know you , so let's dance together. I do n't have time. Are you in a bad mood? I found that the way you interact with Shantou has something to do with your overall temperament. It's pretty consistent, isn't it? Embarrassing. Thank you , Tianyu, come here quickly, Guo Jie. You are still not a human being , I said, what are you doing? Stay away from me. Did you hear me ? Get away . I told you, I told you not to touch me. I have warned you many times . Stay away . Pay attention to me. Don't touch me. Be careful, I will kill you. If you have the ability, you can kill me. Do you think I dare not? If you have the ability, you can kill me . Do you think I dare not? Suspect Wang Wei, is everything you said to the public security organ true? I said everything is true. They remember whether it is true or not. I don't know. Did you sign and fingerprint every interrogation transcript? I fingerprinted it. How do I know if those transcripts are all transcripts? Yeah, did the investigator show you the transcript after the interrogation ? Did he show it to me ? Why did you ask me? Did you ask him? Are you playing word games with me? I don't dare to answer whatever you ask me . Wang Wei, you are already sitting down. After being imprisoned once, do you still want to go in again? I don't want to, but why don't you come in too ? Come on, hurry up, Mr. Wang, don't get excited, listen to me, you have to get the Majero coins first before we can become helpers, yes, yes, these are the rules, yes, yes, don't move, police, don't move, don't move, don't move, what are you doing ? Restore data. Yu Chu and Yin Chu are waiting. Hurry up, don't move, be honest. Dianniu Ruibo, including more than 20 people who were with him, were all arrested. Before I interrogated him, I want to give you this opportunity to take the initiative . What is the difference between taking the initiative and not taking the initiative ? I think you have experience or you want to No need to be humble, just ask. Thank you. Thank you for your hard work . You, ah, caught Niu Ruibo, we can finally arrest Wang Wei. After following him for so long, we finally got him to speak. This is a victory achieved by our joint investigation of the case by one and three departments. Come on, let's have tea instead of wine . You can come out on the weekend, but you are alone. Are you okay at home? You've arranged the food and are writing at home. Ye, be good . Don't forget that there is a parent-teacher meeting at Keer's school the day after tomorrow. Why did you really forget ? The day after tomorrow is the trial for the case of falling from a building. Then I'll go for you. Thank you. No need to thank you. Look at me. It's going to be troublesome again . Don't bother me. She is her godmother. You are a godmother who is more qualified than me, your biological father . Don't blame yourself too much. There have been a lot of things going on in the procuratorate recently, and many cases have been handed over to you. Ke'er is very sensible. She will understand. How are the preparations for the case of falling from a building at a drinking party the day after tomorrow ? It is said that there is a key witness who saw the case . Is there any problem? Happy birthday to you , baby, happy birthday to you, Mom Mom, kiss Mom, I'm already eleven years old. What's wrong with eleven years old? Eleven years old is also my mother's baby. Kiss me. You care about your wife. This dad can't control our family. Your mother is the biggest and you won't let me kiss you. Mom insists on it. Dear, don't run away, Xiaoyu, run quickly, don't let your mother chase you, help me, Ren Lu. I have sent all the information about the hotel fall case that will be held in court tomorrow to your email. Why did you take the initiative to apply to be the defendant's defense lawyer when you knew you would lose this case? What I need is that winning or losing in this case is not important. Good night, please bring witness Jiang Wenjing to court. Prosecutor, you can ask questions now. It's his witness. Please tell me the details of the day of the incident. On that day, my mother and I attended the Jiutai Group's appreciation dinner. I was invited to play the piano on the stage. After the performance, I went to the second floor to take a breath . That's where I saw the victim and The defendants were pushing each other and I heard they were being killed. People say you have the ability to kill me. Do you think I dare not? Be honest, I tell you to be quiet. The prosecutor can continue to ask questions about what you did after the case happened. I ran downstairs and told everyone not to get close to protect the security at the crime scene . Seal the scene quickly and ask the waiter next to you Call the police immediately and feed 110 Why are you everywhere like this ? Who has lipstick ? I have it. How do you know to protect the scene and outline the body? Because I am studying law and I have passed the judicial examination and will go to the prosecutor's office for an interview next week . It has always been my dream to be a prosecutor like you. My idol witness needs to answer the questions I asked . There is no need to mention the two men you just mentioned who were arguing and pushing each other. Have you seen it before ? If you see them again, can you recognize them? But one is dead and the other is the defendant. Are you sure? RUSH. I have a good memory. Whether it's a book I've read or a person I've met, I'll remember it very clearly. The prosecutor's questions to the witness are here for now. Defendant, do you have anything to ask the witness? Let my defender ask. Defender Ms. Jiang, please ask me about the lobby on the day the crime occurred. Is there any music played there? Yes, what is it? Do you remember Mahler's Eighth Symphony so clearly? Of course, I have listened to this piece more than a hundred times . Do you still remember what part was played at the time of the crime? First In the Allegro part of the movement, what do these questions you asked the lawyer mean? Si, defense attorney, please pay attention to your question. Witness, did you see how the victim fell? It was probably because he was pushed down by Wang Hao. I saw them pushing each other before, and I wanted to run over to see what happened. As a result, he was blocked by a pillar, but only for a few seconds. The victim was pushed down the stairs at that time . Don't beat around the bush. Please answer me directly. Did you see my client push the victim downstairs? No, but I saw them pushing each other before. As you said, the previous pushing and fucking previous behavior can be used. To prove that a crime was committed later? No, but Then why do you think so? Because I heard the victim say before that you can kill me if you have the ability. Then the defendant said, do you think I dare not? So I have reason to wonder how far you were from them when I heard these two sentences. Were they the only two people talking at a distance of about ten meters ? I'm not sure. Based on your conversation with the prosecutor just now, I learned that this was your first time meeting them. In other words, you were not familiar with their voices, right? Since you I wasn't familiar with their voices and I wasn't sure that they were the only two people talking and having such an exciting exchange. Xiang Le , not to mention you are ten meters away from him. Why do you think these two sentences are what my client and the victim said? Even if it is you, why are you so sure that you have the ability? You killed me. It was the victim who said it . Do you think I dare not? Is that what my client said and not the other way around? Because I I have been paying attention to the two of them before , and the shape of their mouths when they open and close their mouths is consistent with the voices I heard . As you said, you can judge the content of other people's words by the shape of their mouths . And I was just asking you, do you know lip reading? Does this have anything to do with the case ? You can't judge the content of my words based on the shape of my mouth , which means you don't understand lip reading, right? What's your question? Please answer directly . I don't understand . But who opens and closes their mouths to speak ? Can I still see it? Ms. Jiang, please. You need to stabilize your own emotions before you stabilize yourself Let's ask some quality questions in the Brain Bar. It's not that my questions are not quality, but that there is a problem with your judgment, Ms. Jiang. You didn't judge what I said through my words. This is a fact , so you can't pass theirs either. Judging from the shape of their mouths , what they say is correct Are you just making unreasonable and litigious sophistry? Ms. Jiang, please don't attack me personally. Can you answer my question directly ? It's not right . Presiding Judge, based on the question I just asked, I think it should be clear to everyone. Ms. Jiang only contacted me through my client. The victim had an argument and She heard a few lines of dialogue , but there were many people at the scene, and everyone could have said these lines of dialogue , so she could not determine that these lines of dialogue had any direct relationship with my client and the victim, let alone that these lines of dialogue were from Who said it? And Ms. Jiang herself said so. The music at that time was so exciting that it could cover up the human voice , so now I even doubt whether Ms. Jiang really heard someone speaking. Even if she did , it was just the witness who subjectively combined the scenes she saw and the sounds she heard. To sum up, All of this can only be regarded as Ms. Jiang This kind of subjective speculation is irresponsible in this solemn court, and it is even more irresponsible to my client. Here RUSH, I implore the collegial panel not to accept Ms. Jiang's testimony. How many other chief judges and prosecutors are there? A question needs to be asked of the witness . Please ask the witness. the sound of human symphony Is it possible to cover the sound of people talking in the corridor at that time, especially the sound of people arguing who are only ten meters away from you? The frequency of human voice and music is different, so it is not so easy to be covered up. And I have been paying attention to them. The more you pay attention to some sounds, the clearer they will be. When you heard those two sentences, which direction did the sound come from? The second floor At the corner where they were tearing apart , were there anyone else around Guo Jie and Wang Hao at that time ? Were they the only two presiding judges ? We should judge the issue from the perspective of ordinary people and use a generally recognized common sense of life to measure it. The witness just said it very clearly . The reason why we think the conversation originated from the defendant and the victim is because the sound came from the direction of the two of them and they were beside them at the time. There is no other person and the voice and movements are coordinated. I am afraid that this is how the public judges the voice. So if we follow the defender's logic, is it necessary to install a special sound receiving instrument on the defender's vocal cords today to determine which sentence the defender said? Did the words come from the mouth of the defender? Ke'er's godmother , my dad doesn't have time today. Dad has something to do today. I know my dad. I have something to do every day. Isn't it the same when godmother comes? Think about it. Think about what to eat. After the parent-teacher meeting, godmother will take you to have a big meal. Zhang Mingwei's mother, Ke'er, is here with me. You are not allowed to look at other women. Think about it later. What should I eat for my son ? I want three packs of French fries, four hamburgers , and two large Cokes. After eating so much, I have become a big fat man. I have to bring it to my father. Just now, the girl in the court said that she wanted to be a prosecutor . She! I don't have that kind of psychological quality . Prosecutor Yin. Prosecutor Yin, you were really awesome just now . Thanks to you, Wang Hao will definitely be able to convict me this time. I will go to the prosecutor's office for an interview next week. Maybe I can learn more from you in the future . Jiang Wenjing is now I 've left the court. I have to do other things. Don't follow me anymore. Okay , I 'm sorry . Prosecutor Yin . Goodbye. Let 's see you at the prosecutor's office. As expected of a prosecutor, he speaks well. He walks so handsome and even his back looks so handsome. If I put on those clothes, I would definitely be handsome too . Don't really ignore me. Why do you stop ? Why are you looking for me ? What are you laughing at? Is it that funny? Yes, let me ask you. What were you doing in court just now ? What do you mean? What's wrong with me? You said I don't understand lip reading. You 're just trying to change the concept. You 're right. I saw that you were very cooperative just now. You cooperated with me. I was knocked unconscious by you and fell into your trap. Do you have any evidence? I am a witness. Then you did well as a witness in court. You apologize to me . I'm sorry. I was wrong . What did you do ? If it wasn't because you were good-looking , I wouldn't have apologized to you. What did I do? I 'm giving you a phone number. Who wants your phone number ? It's not mine. You'll know after a while , you bastard. My car is towed. What should I do? Make a phone call. Didn't I give you my phone number? It's a pity that you threw it away , but I memorized it. 34534578 Baby, wake up. Mom and dad, I don't know, they went out early in the morning with a black face. Come on, come over for dinner. Come on. She has a black face all day long. You have to talk about her. You also said that your mother , look at you, how did you mess with her? Since last night, she has been unhappy with me. She didn't want to do this or that. She didn't want to do that this morning. You went out without even eating . I told you, my family said it. I have been watching you for a week and you are not allowed to go out. How on earth did you provoke her and not let her go out ? This is too overbearing. This Ma Shanshan is making a fuss out of a molehill on me. Didn't you say the wrong thing? You said it What's wrong? It's nothing. She's just menopausal. Don't say that to your mother. Dad, you eat first. I'm going out . Wait, wait, wait, why are you going? You can't go anywhere . You messed with her. I want to let you out . Am I not going to be punished too? You old man ? Dad, you can imagine what will happen next. I beg you, have mercy on your dad. Let 's eat. Dad, you are the head of the family. Why do you have to listen to Ma Shanshan for everything? I think equality between men and women must at least come first in our family. Implement I support you to be the master of the country Just from letting me out, don't do this. You ca n't sow discord. My relationship with your mother is higher than mountains and longer than water. My support for her is certain and will not change for a hundred years. When Dad lets me out, she won't let him go . Do you want to let me go or not? I can't let go and stop eating . If you don't eat, if you don't eat, if you starve to death, forget it. I 'm telling you, you just don't eat and you will starve to death. You can't go out alone. It's all because of that bastard lawyer. If it weren't for him, would I be able to say that in court ? What should I do next? I signed it so quickly and didn't read it. I've finished reading it and I don't have any questions to ask. Are you referring to the performance indicators in it ? I thought you would bargain with me. You invited me in as a partner and returned 60% of my points. Such a good treatment and such performance requirements are normal. Lawyer Ren treats himself. You are very confident. Mr. Lin, I am a little sad when you say that . I always thought that you gave me such good conditions because of your work for me. Accept that you are testing me. I am a lawyer but also a businessman. I trust my own judgment but I dare not take risks. Trusting your ability and testing you are not inconsistent. Smart women are the most attractive . Smart women like men with courage. Na Lin The general meaning is that you are welcome to join us and have a great time cooperating . Half an hour is enough. Thank you for today. Otherwise, my dad would not let me go. I'm so happy to come out . I'll just give you the title of Yao's Fashion Editor-in-Chief. Your dad was very happy after hearing this. He asked me to take you away quickly . You said he really didn't have any doubts at all . He was so special when I walked in. I was happy and then I said you want to go to work at my place. He agreed with both hands . Fortunately, your dad is easy to cheat. If your mom did this, it would definitely be useless. Do n't be so pretty. You're just so embarrassed. Acting, do you really think he has no doubts at all? Does he doubt it? Of course, we have to find a place to celebrate in the evening. I know, my Chief Prosecutor Jiang , let's go . I just met the director of the Political Department and he has to go out for an emergency meeting, so I will conduct a new interview later. You're the one to preside over it. I'll prepare it. I'll see you later. This is the verdict of the falling case. Thank you , Prosecutor Yu. You are the interview prosecutor. For the official, my name is Jiang Wenjing. The interview is in the conference room on the left in front. Prosecutor Yu. We have met before . Do you remember me? Sorry, I don't remember . It was the speech you gave at Xinzhou University that reminded me of you. She's that girl with a good memory. I didn't expect you to actually take the prosecutor's exam. Thanks to your speech, I found my life. Career direction , but it's not that easy to be a prosecutor, and I won't do it for personal gain just because I know you. I 'll do your best during the interview. I'll try my best. I 'll see you all in a moment. Good morning, my name is Jiang Wenjing. Do you think you are different from the other interviewees? What are your advantages compared to yours? My grades are good, especially in criminal law , and my eloquence is also very good during school. I have won the title of the best debater in the school many times. I also have a very good memory . This should be very useful. How can I prove it ? The most basic thing is, do you have any other ways to prove your memory? Today is my first day at the Procuratorate , but the road I have walked I can remember exactly how everything is arranged, right? Can you tell me, there are ten pots of green plants placed in the lobby on the first floor . From the door to the corridor to this conference room, we passed through eleven doors, including the seventh one. The conference room is being renovated. There are a total of twelve paintings hanging in the corridor on the third floor. The fourth and eleventh paintings are the same. Contents in the bulletin board 4 F. Prosecutor Yin and Prosecutor Yu are both on the public list of the top ten public prosecutors. Prosecutor Yin is third and Prosecutor Yu is seventh. It also states that they are ranked in no particular order. How do I know you are not making this up? She is right, I have counted them, and Prosecutor Yin, the leather shoes you are wearing today are exactly the same as the leather shoes you wore in court last time, but they are not the same pair. How do you know because you wore the same ones before? The pair of leather shoes had a chip on the right heel and today's pair are intact so I assume you have two identical pairs of leather shoes. The pair I wore last time in court did have a chip on the right heel but I had it patched last week. So the pair of shoes I wore today are the same as last time. You have just proved your amazing memory very well, but you just went to the extra mile and said that my shoes appeared last. I 'm sorry , I've seen your resume. I 've studied political science and law for a bachelor's and master's degree. It's a good thing to be smart, but don't be smart. As a prosecutor, you need more than just a camera-like brain. Do you have the habit of review ? Pan, you have appeared in court once before, although it was as a witness. Do you remember which sentence you said in court was wrong? I was indeed the defendant's lawyer, but what I said was still the truth , not the defender. I asked you a professional question at that time. As a law major, you should be able to answer it , but you answered it wrong - can the individual's past behavior prove that he has committed a corresponding criminal act this time ? Is this how you answered in court ? Is that right? Being a thief for one day does not mean being a thief for life. But there are exceptions to everything. For example, a murderer with special habits will leave a special pattern on his victim after committing a crime. So, can the murderer's behavior prove that the victims with special patterns on their bodies were all killed by the same murderer? For example, if the murderer continued to behave within an hour, he was seen beating the victim continuously, and the victim was found and killed an hour later . Can the murderer's previous continuous beatings prove that the murderer subsequently committed murder? Can Wang Hao's pushing and rubbing of Guo Jie be a continuing behavior? Although you I didn't see Wang Hao push Guo Jie downstairs at the end , but can the previous pushing prove that Guo Jie was pushed downstairs by Wang Hao ? Yes, but you said no in court. That's right . You were just a witness at that time , but if the prosecution According to official standards, you shouldn't make such a mistake . She has just graduated and needs time to grow. Criminals will not give her time to grow. You asked me to book a table to drink with you to celebrate. The result is that you are alone. I keep drinking here. Prosecutor Jiang, can you please? Miss, please pay attention to your wording. I can't be a prosecutor anymore . Don't call me Prosecutor Jiang. Just call me Miss Jiang . Why ? Isn't it because that bastard lawyer has a human-faced beast and a sinister, cunning, despicable and shameless heart ? Isn't that the same thing? How can we call it almost the same thing? Why did I get involved by him at that time ? Why didn't I react at that time? Even if I didn't react, why didn't I scold him at that time ? Even if I didn't scold him , why did I answer his question? Calm down first . What's the use of saying this now ? What were you thinking at the time ? Didn't I react at the time ? Yao Zhen, I can't be a prosecutor now. Can't you just let me vent? Okay, okay, okay, but you can say it now If you keep doing this, I'm leaving. My dear, please don't leave me. I'm particularly vulnerable right now . I need you so much right now . Can you tell me why you need me so much tonight? Drinking without considering my feelings at all. You don't know how miserable I am today. Jiang Wenjing has good expressive skills and quick reactions , but until now, these have remained in the form. At the formal level, you have to know that you can't deal with all situations with technical writing , but please remember that to be a prosecutor, you need to face various complicated problems in the case, and you must always be alert and stay calm. Strictly speaking, if you are as impetuous as you, Yin Chu, who is not qualified to be a prosecutor, is right. To be a prosecutor, you really need to stay calm and be alert at all times. You should pay attention to this in the future . That's it for today's interview . I will inform you after the discussion. Who is this Yin Chuan ? Why is he so direct? Why does he say that you are not qualified to be a prosecutor ? I think he is not qualified. But he is a prosecutor, and he is a very powerful prosecutor. Well, that doesn't matter . Just don't be a prosecutor. What's so good about it ? You don't earn much . You work around lawsuits every day and you are exposed to unhappy things. You might as well come to work in our company. Anyway, that's what you told your dad today. It's okay if you don't want to go to work . Let 's go out for shopping and travel. I guarantee you won't want to be a prosecutor in a few days. That's not okay. Being a prosecutor is my lifelong dream. I can definitely be a prosecutor . Okay, Miss Jiang is the most ambitious. Please pay attention to your wording. You want to call me Prosecutor Jiang . Are you schizophrenic? Cheers to our Prosecutor Jiang.