An economy is a collection of production and towards solving the central economic problem. The problem is that we only have access to for human consumption of goods and services This is the foundation of economics, every policy, or experiment is ultimately an attempt very nature, has no solution. Economics is considered a social science, "rigorous" fields don't always welcome the same processes to explore the world around And, as with science, or anything that is disagreements between practitioners at all history of the subject. The economic schools of thought are very broad groups. Now the first thing to know about all of these with one another on most issues. In the same way that two physicists will obviously rest will remain at rest, but might disagree Two economists will obviously agree that there but they might disagree on the long term implications The reason you are much more likely to hear physics are threefold. One, the foundation of economics is an unanswerable philosophy and morality in this academic pursuit, it with mathematics. Two, economies are really hard to experiment If there is some radical new theory about if it will work is to get that tax law passed If the experiment doesn't work, then oh This difficulty in testing theories also means in the same way they would be in a chemistry And three, economics is something we all feel The economy impacts our financial situations, crime rates, and basically anything else that As with anything that people are invested And those opinions are held by everybody from guy advocating for a seed-based economy. If this contention wasn't enough then there of thought difficult to deal with, and that them. There are plenty of economists that agree of thought and then disagree wildly on some Which is actually a good thing. But more on that later. For now, to try and make sens of this wild schools, Classical, Austrian, and Keynesian. To show the differences between these schools solving the central economic problem in key What they suggest the role of government is. What do they think the role of the individual What they propose doing in an economic crisis. And finally what is the key to delivering [ INTRO AD - START ] [ INTRO AD - END ] Now economies have always been a thing, and they were attempting to satisfy their desires to them. This went on for an extremely long time and harboring economies that they didn't think Everybody from Aristotle to Jesus presented yet thought to ask what the question was. (insert jeopardy) Can I have how to satisfy 1,000 alex? --- ("that is correct") this all turned around though in the 18th gave birth to economics and formed the foundation Classical School The classical school of economics, as the of economics as a separate academic pursuit, The early practitioners of economics, namely how the world was operating to increase the They found that the world at that time was mercantilism. Which could realistically be it's own economic flawed. This system relied on economies just desperately by either exporting more than they imported, colonies or by plundering it through hostile Now we have explored mercantilism and adam more insight on that, go and watch those videos. But the big takeaway here is that mercantilism throughout history. These nations were extremely basic and their the strength of the harvest in any given year, could claim. More or less it was a zero-sum game, if someone because someone else was getting poorer, and Having a perfectly run fiscal and monetary overall prosperity of these types of very It would have been like putting nitrous on It wasn't going to do anything and it would with its needless complexity. This was all starting to change though when the wealth of nations. The first steam-powered factories had sprung wealth was not been grown or mined it was This was a chance for all people to become &quot; .&quot;== Now this sounds like some commie nonsense there is an optimal distribution of wealth It definitely should not be equal, but it up a tiny nobility either. The Reason for this was not some virtuous to develop markets and divide labor. To show the importance of this Smith used A small sharp poky metal stick, which sounds But if a single worker was to wake up in the 1 single pin they probably wouldnt be able the materials, refine the steel, forge it, Of course, if all of these tasks were done focus on their role and producing pins would So much so that there would be an abundance of the workers that contributed to this process. Now this example of one person making a pin was effectively how economies operated. Feudal villages would produce pretty much households would be more or less self-sufficient. The reason why people did this is that there basic at best and most peasant workers didn't it. But, by moving into factories and earning to make purchases, which gave the entire economy Immanuel Kant a legendary philospher of all the Groundwork and Metaphysics of Morals. Where he quoted that. "All crafts, trades and arts have profited worker sticks to one particular kind of work all the others, he can do it better and more Where work is not thus differentiated and the crafts remain at an utterly primitive So with this new understanding of how to build of these early philosophers and financiers Markets should be free because the more that another the more they can specialize and count the goods that they need. Nations should also do the same thing, stop does what well, once this is known trade amongst Production is the most important part of the making this more efficient so that more wealth into complex products. Government intervention in free markets should contracts are upheld and fraud is not allowed And of individuals, classical economics assumes is perfectly rational and will always make their own selfish interests. More or less classical economics argues that a better place by being extremely selfish. I guess Gordon Gecko was a classical economist Now these theories worked very well, and when force behind the development of jobs, companies, But these ideals weren't perfect,and now from around the world. The first to really shake up this new way from vienna who went on the form the, Austrian School The Austrian school shares a lot of similarities that have now gone on to define this field same way, adam smith didn't know he would Rather what these early academics were trying economics primarily by realizing that an economy but rather it was a collection of individuals. With this, these scholars started adding in and specifically how they valued things. Carl Menger was the father of the Austrian to the theory of Marginal Utility along side The theory of marginal utility was an extremely It argued that goods provide a utility, but unit of that good there is. For example the extra utility someone gets is pretty big. Suddenly they can boil water and make tea been able to in the past. Going from 1 kettle to 2 kettles also has at any given time, and if one breaks down ready tea and coffee making duties. But 3 kettles 4 kettles 20 kettles? Th ere is only so much tea and coffee a household taking up so much space that people want less item can have a negative marginal utility This ran contrary to the classical school as much stuff as possible and then letting Now again this might sounds obvious to us things. The first was that this theory was a huge problem, sure they still had unlimited desires those desires, but they added the Asterix over satisfied so an economy must avoid that to satisfy other desires that haven't been The second was that this was the first inkling genuine sustained growth. Before the 1800's the idea that anybody bizarre, but with factories all across Europe of everything, the decisions that everybody I afford this, to, would I rather have this This deeper understanding in a world that culminated in the Subjective Theory of Value. This theory argues that an item is not worth into making it, but rather it is worth a function For example, a worker could spend their entire the world has ever seen, but that hole is was dug 3 feet deep before hitting a solid Or as it relates to industry, a factory could probably be better than a car made out of and 10 times the costs of materials to make stronger. Now since people are not going to pay 300 Camry, these types of subjectively inferior Who is it that decides that these goods dont Rational consumers. So suddenly the Austrian school of economics only was it a medium of exchange that let decided what it is that would be produced Suddenly, the most important thing in the but how carefully you could decide what to Consumers were no longer units of labor, no Austrian economics is today seen by most conventional a few reasons. The first reason is because as we will see it's no good to just give them free rein And secondly it is very controversial because than rigorous mathematics and statistics. This makes alot of their theories non-falsifiable. Which is plain English means impossible to it just means that because there are no rigorous hard to say this outcome here proves something Now because economics is a science, it is robust framework for being tested. You write a hypothesis, you conduct an experiment, If you can't do that it is not science. For this reason people like Paul Krugman have of philosophy rather than economics. Ouch. Outside of academics, the Austrian school simple logical nature, in part because it part because it does away with alot of the boring and in part because it contributed world works. Just because modern academics snob this school were any less important. Today things like marginal utility, consumer things that students will learn in their introduction But there were still ways to improve upon into a workable framework for how to run a do. Which is where John Maynard Keynes Came in. If a regular person has heard of any economists influential economist of the 20th ceturary all governments around the world manage their His contributions were plentiful and too extensive was of particular importance during his lifetime policy. Since the role out of classical economics many many times more complex. Factories, markets, advanced financial systems, now commonplace and the ebs and flows of national harvest but rather by the business cycle. Around the early 1800's economies started be explained exclusively by outside forces, within the nation. Since consumers were the center of modern as much as if not more so than real forces This again shows that this school of economic started writing his most widely recognized interest and money" during the great depression. Now these types ups and downs could be very an economy in the long term. For example, who would want to invest in a was going to come about every ten years which Well nobody, but businesses needed funding The solution was to try and smooth out this the spending of consumers. Nations would do this through fiscal policy, less government money during economic booms, an economic downturn. Higher taxation effectively forces people go quiet as crazy with their spending and quiet as crazy, conspicuous and gatsby esque. On the flipside when that tax is lowered and well suddenly people have a whole lot of extra and spend to make the economy not as terrible Keynses plan was not to completely remove like this, to like this. Now the benefits of this are kind of hard but the good times are not as good, so what Well the argument is that by making both of and people could plan for long term growth, downturn. The Austrian school hated this idea because would limit efficiency. This disagreement often saw Keynes at odds culminating in some fantastic debates and definitely go and watch after this. Now you can see keynsian economics in practice In response to the economic fallout of the dropped their taxes and rolled out massive to make the downturn a little less severe. The one critique that most modern economists are very quick to roll out the keysian fiscal about the higher taxation and lowered spending In the next video Economics is a very diverse study that is By its very nature it is going to cause some yes even some controversy. Now this is not that much different from any of scientists about a new theory in their opinions on it, its just that the opinions because in many ways it is us who are being These three schools of economic though, classical, they disagree on, but as with any competing Now so far as we have seen these have been than a revolution, which seques us nicely Marxism. But for now at least remember that amongst still all working towards a common goal, solving They agree on far more, then they disagree on is the importance of investing in the future. Fortunately, this is made a lot easier....