- As a kid, I would often connect two ends of a wire to a battery to get the current flowing through it, and then very quickly joined My hope was that if I then I would catch the current, and it would just be going round and round in that loop of wire for ages. I don't think it's possible, to get electricity flowing round and round in a loop of wire. All you have to do is make one end hot and one end cold like this, you can see there really flowing round and round I say that all you have to do is make one end hot and one in cold. Actually, there's about the wires, they're like wires normally are. Instead they're made of One is called Chromel, the and there's nothing particularly special about alloys in general. And alloys just a mix of different metals, in this case, mostly nickel, but with a few different ingredients to differentiate the two. And remarkably, when you made of two different and you heat one of the junctions, while cooling the other, electricity will go round, It's an incredible effect that turns out to be incredibly useful, especially when you consider So in this case, we're using a difference in but the opposite is also true. If you present a voltage then it creates a Those two phenomenon together are known as the thermoelectric effect. And I'll talk about both in this video, but specifically in this case, where a difference in that's called the Seebeck effect. What causes the Seebeck effect? Well, let's look inside You might know that metals have So normally electrons to their atoms, but in the case of metals some of the electrons within the bulk of the metal. That's what makes metal conductive when electricity is moving through metal, it's because those free These freely moving electrons unless the metal's at I'm showing that thermal of the electrons, because that's all thermal energy is, it's atomic scale jiggle. These freely moving electrons the sea of electrons. But thinking about the electrons as a gas is actually a more useful And you probably know the gas expands. In other words, the particles of the gas get further And that's because as you heat the gas they get more thermal energy, the amount of jiggle goes They're bumping into each other So they're pushing themselves And the same thing happens with the gas in inverted commas of As you heat one end of the bar those electrons will move And while you're cooling, the other end they're gonna contract. They have less thermal energy. They're bumping into each less often, they can get So the overall effect now on the hot end, and a surplus So what that looks like from the outside is a slight positive charge on one end, and a slight negative So that's the Seebeck but crucially the Seebeck in some metals and less So imagine taking a different cooling down the other but that charge separation because Seebeck effects isn't as strong, because the lattice of ions of the metal have a stronger grip on those electrons. So a greater charge but in the case, what happens if you take these two different metal wires, and join the two ends together? Well, the Seebeck effect is strong in the top wire in our diagram here. So the electrons are being and in the bottom wire at the So those electrons are being And they're actually So the top wire is pushing clockwise, and the bottom wire is But because the Seebeck effect is stronger in the top wire, the top wire wins, or to put that in less the net effect of the top and the bottom wire pushing anti-clockwise is a net clockwise push of the electrons, so you get a flow of electrons When you have two dissimilar like this, it's called a thermocouple, and a thermocouple is behind a lot of thermometers especially those probe in the food that you're cooking, or the one I used when I was calculating absolute zero, that time. If you look inside the tip of one of those probe two dissimilar metals joined together. The voltage you get from the If you want a decent voltage you need to put a load of And that's actually what's So in here, you've got loads up and down, up and down, So the whole load of the A whole load of junctions This is called a thermopile, and the voltage you can get as you can see here. A thermopile is an important You might call it a So your boiler has this Actually modern boilers but one of the jobs of a pilot light is to ensure unburnt gas So the pilot light is always lit. It's right there next to the burner. So if any gas comes out of the burner it's gonna get lit. That's how the pilot light But what if the pilot light goes out, you need some way to detect that, and then switch off the gas supply. And that's where the thermopile comes in. If you look just above the you'll see a thermopile. And that generates enough voltage to power a solenoid that can So if the pilot light goes out the thermopile cools down, the solenoid shuts off, You could instead use producing a tiny voltage, and use that as a switching mechanism. So you have a separate power and the thermocouple is The issue then is every the gas valve closes, and Conversely, a thermopile system You've actually experienced in your boiler, if you've after the pilot light's gone out. And to relight a boiler with you have to push the dial in when you let go, you give So if you don't leave the after the boiler is relit, the thermopile doesn't have When you let go the solenoid closes again, and you have to try again. I mentioned that the opposites is also a thing. In other words, if you apply one junction will get hot, and the other junction will get cold. That's called the Peltier effect. It's analogous, by the from my video by Entropy, you can use the difference in or you can turn a thing to drive a difference in temperature. Anyway, I'll show you an application of the Peltier effect in a minute, but first what causes it? To see why the Peltier effect is a thing we need to look at metal to the way we were when we were explaining Let's think about the energy So let's imagine we could from a metal and then They would start to occupy that they can, i.e. I, the ones closest to the nuclei of the metal ions, and will go in the next level up from that, and the next level up, You think of those as the but in a metal you get to the point where it's not orbitals anymore, it's energy bands where are kind of shared amongst the atoms. But in any case it's analogous to pouring balls into a beaker. Gosh, I haven't poured for a long time. At the moment, this analogy It's missing thermal energy. At the moment this looks So to add thermal energy we need to put some jiggle in there. And it's only the top most electrons that are able to jiggle. In other words, they're able to jump up and down through higher energy levels, and that's what I've I want to be clear that when you're filling it's not like they're sloshing around at the bottom of the metal It's that they're close to the atoms, and until you're looking that take up the whole bulk of the metal. It's just that we're on the vertical axis. Importantly, different of electrons, different and so they'll fill up So here's a different metal here, and you can see those free electrons, that are jumping up and down, they're higher overall. So we can bring these two metals together to form a junction. And in reality, there would between the metals, but because it confuses what So now what we're gonna do we're gonna apply a voltage as just pushing the electrons. In other words we're going in this case we're gonna push them from the left and see what happens. Well, it's a bit like bouncy at different levels. The bouncy balls on the lower shelf we're gonna push them across until they get up onto the top shelf. Well, let's look at what when I release them onto the ground, they've got about 60 But look the ones that happen they've only got about 10 And that's because there's between kinetic energy and In other words, when a ball is bouncing it's constantly converting between kinetic energy and At the bottom of the bounce, it's got loads of kinetic energy no gravitational potential energy. At the top of the bounce, all that kinetic energy is converted to gravitational potential energy. And if at that point, you well, it's just gonna because it has no kinetic energy. And the same is true across onto that high It's not an interplay and gravitational like with the bouncy balls, it's an interplay between kinetic energy and electrical potential energy. In other words, the because it's a negatively charged particle near a positively charged nucleus that it's moving away from when it moves up through the levels. The important thing is those up onto the shelf, they're not bouncing so much anymore. And that bouncing up that kinetic energy it's So it's thermal energy. In other words those electrons that they have less thermal energy, they cool down the metal. So when you apply a in such a way as to push to the high shelf, you The opposite is true when you push the electrons off the shelf, they gain kinetic energy because And that gaining kinetic to a gain in thermal energy, If you make use of the it's got a Peltier element If I connect these two wires to a nine volt battery, The other side gets really cold. I pulled this one apart so you can see what's going on inside. It's hard to make sense of some bits have stayed stuck to the floor, some of it stayed stuck to the roof, but hopefully you can of thermocouples all in And it's actually different in here, as opposed to different metals. With a heat sink and a water bath you can even use a Peltier ElectroBOOM made a video a while back that's worth a watch. And I know that Alpha Phoenix in an upcoming video huge single crystals of water. So subscribed to Alpha Phoenix in advance, so you don't miss it. It's a great channel anyway, I'll leave a link to their and on the end screen. So I thought I'd share some more Blinkist recommendations for you. Blinkist are sponsoring this video. It's an app that does It condenses non-fiction They're also audio narrated, so you can listen to them in the car. Here are my recommendations &quot;A Short History of Nearly Very good, I read the &quot;Talking to Strangers&quot; &quot;The Book You Wish Your Parents Had Read &quot;and Your Children Will It's another parenting book that's been really good and &quot;Born a Crime&quot; by Trevor Noah. That's just four recommendations. There's so much to choose from. They've also got some great audio books that you can get a lot The first 100 people to go will get one week absolutely cancel whenever you like. It's an opportunity to try it out, but if you want to carry on, you'll also get 25% off membership. So the link is also in the description. Check out Blinkist today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe and I'll see you next time. (electronic swooshing) (upbeat trumpets begin)