Hey, everybody. Don Georgevich here with Job Interview Tools. There's three questions that matter the most here? Why should I hire you? And why did you leave your last job? Those are the most important questions on If you want to know how to answer those. You can ace your next interview, hit the "Like" All right. Those questions, "Why do you want to work "Why should I hire you?" "Why did you leave your last job?" are It doesn't matter what kind of job interview CEO of a company, you could be interviewing doctor or lawyer; it doesn't matter, car salesmen. Those three questions are going to get asked Now, the cool thing is if you mail all three job. Now, you've got to be qualified too, but those So, let's dive into it. Why do you want to work here? Now, most people, when they get asked this like, "Well, because they need a job" And you know what? I'm going to see that in the comments right There's going to be all kinds of people saying, need a paycheck. I've got to feed my family." You know what? Those are great reasons, but those are not they ask, "Why you want to work here?" What is it about that company that means something What is attracting you to them? These are the questions I want you to ask of why do you want to work there? Now, I love to use Google and Amazon as examples, Those are places where people can go and expand and there's so much room for growth in those whether you're a software programmer, you're There's a lot of opportunity for you to work grow and contribute. So, I love to use Google as an example because too. They build all kinds of products that impact Google Maps. People love Google Maps. It helps them get everywhere they want to So, if you were interviewing with Google and Maps team, you could say, "You know what? I love Google and I specifically love what helps people every day, millions of people want to go. And that means something to me." So, if they ask you, "Why you want to work "It's because that means something to me." That's the key to answering, "Why do you You want to connect it? You want to connect your reasons to working you inside and help you grow and give you employer; to a bigger cause. And not just contribute to the employer, but And you can do this with any type of position. I mean, you might say, "Well, you know what, I'm only interviewing for an I.T. Assistant position. How is that going to help me?" Well, think about it. If you are interviewing for an I.T. position, that's what I.T. does. I.T. creates all the information technology users get what they need to get, so that they So, it's your way of contributing to a bigger You might say, "Well, you know what, Don? I'm interviewing a Walmart. How does that matter? Why do I want to work there?" "Well, you know what? Walmart gets a lot of people coming in every And interacting with those customers and helping So, you connect your needs to what their needs and help them grow and that helps you grow That is how you answer, "Why do I want to You got it? Okay. So, let's move on to the next question. Why should I hire you? Now, you can't just say, "Well, because job, so that's why I think you should hire You know what? There's a lot of people that have the skills. What they're really asking you is, "Why "What is it about you that stands out?" "What's different about you?" These are questions I want you to ask of yourself. You have to compare yourself to the other And maybe you don't know who they are. Obviously, you don't know who they are because But what is it about you that's unique? Why should they hire you? What can you do to contribute to them? What can you do to help them solve their problems? I mean, think about it. Why are you even there interviewing for a It's because they have a problem and they problem; that's the key to the question. So, you have to understand what the problem If you don't know what the problem is, then You can't. How do you find out what people's problems You ask them. And, you know, not just say, "Hey, what But you dig deep and you ask them, "What And you can dig deep and find out what they're And you say, "Well, you know what? I can help you with those kinds of things my past jobs" or "I have done those kind kind of things, volunteering"; whatever I've learned how to do that. I've studied that and I can help you do it. And here's how I can help you do it." So, that question about, "Why should we That's more like a problem solving question. They want to know how you can help them solve So, you have to connect what you can do best But first, you have to understand what they "Well, you know what? I can do all these things" and you might them do those things better than anyone else. So, it helps to know a little bit about maybe the job or some of the demographics of the And just think about think about, "What why am I better?" "What makes me stand out from everyone else?" And that's how you answer, "Why should I Got it? All right, Next one; last question. Number three. "Why did you leave your last job?" or Now, a lot of people might say, "Well, I they don't want to talk about it or they left Or you know what? Maybe you're still working, but you want out. So, the employer wants to know, "Why do Why do you want to leave what are you doing You see, employers are smart. They know that most people leave their jobs the people they work with or number one; they It's not about salary. Yeah, sure, some people might leave because reason is the boss. They hate the boss. You don't want to go in there and say, "Well, because they're going to think, "Well, if going to like this boss over here?" And they don't want to bring you into their So, they want to know why you leave; what appeal to you anymore that they can bring you're going to thrive and you're going to Because that's what they really want; they They don't want you to come into their company you had in the last company, because the same Sure, you'll come in and you work for six then you'll be like, "You know what? It's just the same old thing. The grass really isn't greener on the other And then after they've spent a whole year you, training you, teaching you and then you They want to avoid that because you leaving miss hires cost the company a lot of money. A typical miss hire can cost the company anywhere costs, all the way up to a million bucks. So, they're very serious about who they bring And they want to make sure this role is going you. So, when they ask you, "Why do you want or "Why were you let go?" you want to for more growth opportunities than you have And you want to identify that; you want identify in your current position and you want to show I think I have a lot more opportunity to grow Over here, there's a ceiling and I just keep unfulfilled. But over here, I think you have a lot of opportunity Now, you also want to connect your needs to So, you want to understand the job description, what they're looking for and what the plans And then get them to talk about this; ask going?" things like that. And then connect your needs to that and say, These are the things that I am looking for. You have what I'm looking for. This is why I'm leaving, because I don't have this is going to make me happy. And because I'm happy, I'm going to work hard and help you get what you need." Does all that make sense? Is that simple enough? I mean, you know, why do you want to leave It's because they don't have what you need. But you also don't want to say things like, or "They make me travel a lot." And let's say this position here is 50 percent want to work in my old job because they make Well, they're not going to want to bring you so they're not interested in you. Does that make sense? Bow, if you say things like, "You know, They make me work 40 to 60-hour weeks there." And they might say, "Well, this job here, So, that's not a good reason either that they hey, this company, we work long hours too." So, you have to understand these things. You have to understand these subtleties. So, how do you find these things out? You ask them questions. You ask them questions what the job is like. "You know, what are the hours like?" Take what you really don't like about your qualify you to either work there or not work Make sure that this company doesn't have the It's all there is to it. So, you got it? Those three questions; "Why do you want "Why should we hire you?" "Why did you leave your last job?" Nail those three questions and be qualified. And you will ace it. You'll ace the interview and you will be in And you're going to get the job; maybe, maybe It's hard to say. You're not going to get every job you interview; But at least you are positioning yourself And that's where you want to be. That's where we have the most chance. Now, to go a little bit further, because they're I've got a great guide for it's called The This book has over 140 different questions It's got over 40 different behavioral questions And it's going to cover those three questions cover, "Tell me about yourself", "What "What are your strengths?" All those questions, because obviously they Your interviews are probably going to go on to ask you maybe 30 or 40 questions. But this guide has got most of those questions. And are they going to cover the experience the computer problem?" No, because you have to know that; that's This guide here is going to cover all the you and it's going to give you the right framework So, when they ask you those tricky STAR questions they are, this guide is going to give you words to use and how to pitch yourself so This guide is awesome. This guide has been around for over 10 years. It's available in hard copy. This book right here like you see. If you order this copy, I'll ship that out It's also available in an e-book. You can just download that really fast from Now, if you get the hard copy, it also comes Now, this book also is available in audio So, if you like to listen or watch, you can and you can listen to them in your car until is over a couple of hundred different audio Now, this is the only book on the planet that track MP3, video and e-book; nobody else does They either come out with a hardback or they all three. I'm the only one who does that and probably I'm able to put it in all those different styles that people have of learning. Some people like to learn by reading a physical Other people does love listening and watching the e-book, put it on the phone or their computer can download that instantly. So, grab this book before your next interview; I guarantee you, it's going to make a big, It's going to help you go farther. It's going to make you shine in the interview. It's going to make you shine. You are going to look awesome in your next I totally guarantee it. All right, my friend. That's all I have for you today. If you like this video, "Like" it and And subscribe to my channel, so you can get All right, that's all I've got you. See you in the next video. Good luck on your next interview. Take care. Bye now.