Hi everyone! As promissed, today I'll give you a report about behavior of my alternative driveshafts and will talk about new attempts to reduce noise in the car. Earlier, I announced the relocation of the handbrake from the transfer case flange to the rear wheels. This may seem strange to many of you, but one instructive story will help to understand my motives. I'll tell you about my very first trip behind the wheel of Hunter. It was bright, but very short! To get a better acquaintance with this monster, I rented Uaz. Do you remember, there was a Victory edition? Unfortunately, not all dealers offered a test drive, so I found a rent-a-car company. I thought I would go for a half-day ride. Uh-huh ... Dreams, dreams ... In 15 minutes I was peeking under Uaz trying to fix it. Although at first everything was fine. I liked its fervent nature. Tossing and bouncing did not bother me at all. A spacious salon, great visibility and seating position seemed to be made specially for me. I drove a few kilometers. Then I spotted a nice area for parking. I stopped. I thought, I would go out and examine everything thoroughly. I put the handbrake on, as there was a slope. And I made a little excursion for myself. I opened the trunk, checked the boxes for spare parts, sat in the rear seat, looked under the hood. Again I got behind the wheel, started the engine, released the handbrake, tried to get a move on ... but it just roared, stood still and the engine stalled. What a nonsense ... I got out again, walked around the car. I thought, possibly I had parked in a pit, or could there be a stone on the way? Nothing like this. No obstacles. Something was clearly stuck in the mechanism itself. I took it from rent-a-car, so I couldn't use force. I phoned the guys. After 15 minutes, a guy drove up, he sat behind the wheel trying to move. Again nothing came out. The guy engaged the front axle and with all his foolishness -- pushed the accelerator, and again - nothing. Uaz did not move an inch. It just turned into a real estate object. Having analysed the situation, we came to the conclusion that most likely the transmission brake cylinder had jammed, and it is located ... inside the drum on the transfer case flange under the protection cover. Something like an egg containing a needle-life of Koshchei Immortal. We weren't in a mood to lay down on the wet and muddy ground to unscrew the cardan. And hardly there was such a curved key in the car. I got my money back and went home, but the manager stayed there waiting for the tow truck. Finally, he said that just yesterday this transmission brake had been removed and repaired and clearly something had been done wrong. The most disappointing in this situation is that if Hunter had the usual handbrake blocking rear wheels, then such a problem would not have arisen at all. With a raised handbrake, one can drive half a day without noticing. But with the transmission brake it seemed to be smeared into the asphalt. Another interesting point. Hunter has external eccentrics. One can easily reach out with his hand to loosen the nuts and shift the pads from the drum, thereby loosening the parking brake. Again, if Hunter's handbrake blocked the rear wheels. I went home, thinking over the episode I had just experienced. The main conclusions I made - I will certainly buy UAZ, but it will be necessary to do something with an ancient drum in my car. And I shouldn't really rely on servicemen. As you know, I bought Hunter. I checked the handbrake several times. Everything worked well. And I forgot about the drum for a while, because I was fighting with original driveshafts. By the way, the front driveshaft with cv-joints by Sonda works great. It passed about 7000 km. No problems. But the rear shaft installed after some hesitation didn't last long. It was made by ZAO Kardan (city of Syzran). In less than a year, at the speeds above 70 km/h (43 mph), I heard the usual rumbling again. Especially when releasing the gas pedal. I already knew that this sound indicates the problem in the rear cardan. The play in the splines was substantial. I wrote a claim to Syzran, describing the problem. Surprisingly, they reacted very promptly and replaced the defective part with a new one free of charge. This time I decided to doublecheck a new item and took it for the inspection. In the dynamic balancing workshop they looked at the splines, rotated the cardan on the machine. Everything was fine, one can say almost ideal. I hope the second driveshaft from Syzran will last much longer than the first one. But let's get back to our drums. I again remembered of the transmission brake when I was fighting with the vibrations. For those who do not know, the handbrake drum weighs as much as 3 kilograms (6.6 lbs). Can you imagine? These 3 kg rotate all the time together with the rear shaft, which weighs 6 kg (13.2 lbs). Unbeleivable! As you can see, the drum is not perfect inside. It's all rough, uneven. In my drum, only three balancing holes were made ... Those drums in the store had 8 to 10 holes. A separate question - are they good? Are they in the right places? So I started to question the quality of my drum. Was it properly balanced? I took off the drum and called the first balancing workshop I found. They refused. I rang a dozen of other companies, but none of them was able neither to rebalance it, nor even to check whether my drum is balanced or not. Because ... they did not have the necessary equipment. Dead end. And then I remembered that UAZ Patriot doesn't have the transmission brake anymore. This is something from the last century and is not compatible with speeds above 100 km/h. The parking brake on the Patriot now holds both rear wheels. And that is correct, because, in difficult conditions on roads of different surfaces, an ancient transmission brake can present a bad surprise. For example, in winter when you need to move uphill or park the car. Here is a simple demonstration. This is a car model with a conventional differential gear. We lock the driveshaft imitating the engaged transmission brake. This is a furniture panel, on which we have glued a piece of foil. In our case, foil represents a slippery strip of ice on the asphalt. First, we put the car with the locked shaft on the usual surface. The transmission brake holds it without any problem. But as soon as one side of the car is on ice, the wheel begins to slide and turns in the opposite direction. Now in a slow motion. At the same time the second wheel standing on the asphalt ... rotates thanks to the differential and the car rolls down. In real life it happens faster. Now let's replace the transmission brake with the usual parking brake. We remove the latches from the shaft. We return the shaft back, everything rotates normally. Now we will block the rear wheels. On both side, the pins have been inserted. We simulate the traditional parking brake on both rear wheels. We put the car on a slope with different surfaces. One of the braked wheels could catch on to the asphalt and the car stands still. We let the car go of the handbrake, it immediately rolls down. Here, of course, one can argue - park the car in another place, engage the front axle, etc. Maybe. But sometimes there are emergency situations. Let's not forget that the handbrake is also an emergency mechanical brake. In the transmission version, it grasps very sharply and rigidly. If it stopped the rear wheels, then the braking would be more smooth and predictable. Returning to the story with the rented Hunter, I have to remind that this item in case of a breakage makes Uaz immovable. That's what I personally witnessed. Therefore, because of the above-mentioned reasons, I decided to get rid of the pre-war atavism. All the works shown are for the information only. Repeating is solely at your own risk. Just a few minutes of the turner's work and there was just a shim left from the drum. It weighs only 300 grams (0.66 lbs). The remainder of the drum weighing 2600 grams (5.7 lbs) is traditionally sent to scrap metal. The flange is returned back. We attach to it a shim cut from a drum. Guys! It became much better without it. The endless strikes in the transmission have disappeared. I would like to express a brave idea that the original drum could have lead not only to noise and vibrations, but also to breaking the transfer case bearings and the driveshaft. The drum is liquidated. What's next? You can't live without a parking brake. I decided to simply order a set of modern braking shields and cables produced for UAZ Patriot. It is clear that the cables are not for serious off-road, but I drive on roads even if they're bad they're still roads. I began to order the parts ... But refused! The kit cost 17000 RUR! Almost $300! Plus, I would have to take off / put on the hubs, pump the brakes. It's expensive and time-consuming. It's not my way! I solved the issue for 1250 RUR ($20) without taking anything apart. The help came from... Granny Volga. Its pads, cables, equalizers fit Hunter well with minimal adjustments. Hi to everybody from the Soviet planning system! Just imagine, they used to produce cars, ambulances, minibuses, SUVs, trucks using a common basis! Fantastic! Now keep watching my hands. I took out the pads from UAZ. Next to them are the black pads from Volga for comparison. That's how they look inside. Now some parts are being produced as for Volga 3110. The OEM numbers are under the video. We make a window in the shield. It is advisable to examine the Volga shield before starting the work. I made the window using a good drill. I threw the cable through it and fixed with bolts. Further it was necessary to fine-tune the spacer bar, because it did not fit. I knocked out the pin and moved the bar inside the bend. I put everything back, adjusted, screwed up and began to lay the cables. I made two simple corners. One was fixed on the muffler clamping, and the second one - on the cross-bar of the frame. The Volga equalizer fits ideally UAZ plug. It is sewn, locked and ... can be checked. Although dozens of UAZ-drivers have done it before me, but still it's a moment of excitement. Everything works. The last touch - I poured two tubes of anti-wear paste of Liqui Moly into transfer case. It received many good comments. I thought that it would not get worse. Also I wrapped the handles with a roofing sealant, so that they wouldn't convey noise to the cabin. Now we can measure the noise level. Here are some measurements for the benchmark. The silence in the house is within 40 dB, the sound of a working washing machine is about 56 dB. The spin cycle increases the noise up to 72 dB. Let us remember this figure. The upper limit of 120-130 decibels is the sound of a jet aircraft. Let's see, where our UAZ will be on this scale. We were very fortunate, because I just met a friend of mine who drives an absolutely standard UAZ. His car has another gearbox (ADS / Baic), unlike my Dymos. Well, it will be even more interesting to compare. Let's start with the measurements of the standard UAZ, and then I will summarize all the data in one chart. Temperature outside:+5C (41F), both cars' engines are at working temperatures. Studless tires. Standart UAZ. Idling. Standart UAZ. Heater. 1st position. Standart UAZ. Heater. 2nd position. Riding at 60 km/h (37 mph) Acceleration up to 80 km/h (50 mph) Eighty! (50 mph) Acceleration: 80 - 90 km/h (50-56 mph) Ninety! (56 mph) Here are the measurements. It's funny that at a speed of 80km/h the sound-meter showed 80 dB. The same thing at 90km/h. I guess, it can be used instead of a speedometer if that thing gets completely broken. Anything below 65 dB is tolerable. The faster we went, the harder it got. Noises on the highway are approaching 90 dB. I searched around the garage for a long time to find something as loud. Got it! Electric planer machine! What if you'll have to listen to the planer for two hours? And our people drive UAZ for twelve hours or more! And if you'd like to drive at 100 km/h (62 mph), imagine that you are listening to the angle grinder without interruption. Although, it will burn faster. Let's add these two to our graph as a benchmark. OK. Now let's listen to my car with some improvements. I wrote out everything that could affect the noise level. Push the pause button, if you're interested. DYMOS gearbox / Sonda cv-joint shaft in front / Drum removed / Yokohama tires / Springs from Niva, leaf-springs with liners / Anticorrosive layers: bottom &amp; floor. Oil in axles &amp; transfer case: 75w140 / LM additive / Motor of the heater 90 w / Handles are covered / Pockets in the doors, seat covers, carpets Now we'll compare the cars. On the small screen I will repeat the measurements done for the standard Hunter, and on the right there will be measurements for my car. Then there will be a comparison chart. Let's go. Idling. Heater. 1st position. 2nd position. Riding at 60 km/h (37 mph) Accelerating up to 80 km/h (50 mph) Eighty! (50 mph) Acceleration: 80-90 km/h (50-56 mph) Ninety! We add measurements to the chart. The heater noise was almost equal in both modes. The device almost does not detect the difference. Although it is noticeable for the human ear. The accuracy of the sound-level-meter is 1.5 dB. Maybe different frequencies are recognized differently. My UAZ is a bit noisier when idling. But I had an empty trunk, while in standart Uaz there was a tent and other equipment. Maybe it's because of accuracy. Other data is completely consistent and in line with our perception. Let's keep on the chart only the measurements in motion . Everything that is louder than 72 dB (we recently came across this figure), is already hard to bear. Almost all driving on the highway is too noisy. But at least my UAZ does not get into the level of a planer or an angle grinder. We rode for half a day on both cars. In all the modes, the difference of 5-10 dB is very noticeable to the &quot;naked&quot; ear. The faster we drove, the more obvious it became even without measurement device, that the standart UAZ with the ADS gearbox is much noisier. Dymos gearbox, front drive shaft with cv-joints and elimination of the drum are key factors in reducing noise. In my opinion. And I already know what to do next, because I want more comfort on the highway. The measurement was a little bit brief, right? To be honest, we measured noise just for fun. Nobody expected any discoveries. In addition, we met in the city and all the time there was something disturbing. Either a noise of sweeping machine or speed cameras. But! I measured separately the noise in my Hunter a few more times. And each time the data fell into the same range, so these measurements are absolutely relevant. However, if this topic is really interesting for you and you want me to expand it further, let me know. I'll take the noise-meter again, set up the gps and will just go for a ride with camera. And how loud is it in the other cars? My favorite magazine <<Za rulem>> (Behind the Wheel) measured repeatedly the noise level at a speed of 80 km/h (50 mph). Here are my measurements in UAZ at this speed. The journalists collected all the data obtained during several years in one article called &quot;The quietest cars.&quot; The link is in the description. It is surprising that at 80 km/h (50 mph), no modern car has reached the noise level of a washing machine in a spin cycle. Suckers! The cars from premium class are not noisier than 59 dB. Mass-market cars get into the range from 60 to 68 dB. Particularly, our beloved Duster at 80 km/h showed only 62.9 dB. Thus, our Uaz is again ahead of the whole planet. Hunter is louder than the noisiest car, which means ... I've got some work to do again. And now... commercial! <<Silence>> earplugs! Only our earplugs reduce the noise by 30 dB and turn every UAZ into a Rolls-Royce! Only for 100 rubles! ($1.5) Do not miss it! Well, the earplugs ... could be an option! We gradually come to the end of this video. It was devoted to the elimination of the brake drum. So, having removed it, I found a very interesting possibility to reduce noise at high speed. Now nothing can stop me from installing a cv-joint driveshaft produced for Gazelle 4x4. Can be done through these original flanges. This is a branded expensive item produced by Dana Spycer (Spain), according to reports it withstands angles of up to 35 degrees and is designed for diesel torque. I just have to make up my mind and buy this potentially eternal shaft. In the next video I'll tell you how the engineers of UAZ help us to save money and show you how to adjust the angles of the front wheels with minimal means. See you!