FELIX OBERHOLZER-GEE: strategy is a little Often, we have a sense, in you have to be super senior. If there are a lot it seems very complicated. Nonsense. Strategy's simple. It's a plan to create value. The way a company plans to the strategy of the company. [MUSIC PLAYING] Of course, it's natural What are your margins, the return on invested of course, shows the It's an endpoint. It's a consequence. It's not actually The strategy is about looking planning for the future. We want to start with a we create in the first place. Value for customers, value for suppliers. Value is the difference to pay and willingness to sell. There's a really to show this in a figure. The figure is called and literally we have willingness to pay. At the bottom, we have and the difference is the value that If I'm more successful, I can only do this in two willingness to pay or by Now, I'm going to ask, OK, so What is willingness to sell? Willingness to pay It's the most a pay for a product or a service. Charge me once cent more, and Now, the company is not going of course, and so over the price has to be otherwise people will not buy. The success for a difference between I don't know about you. I have a hard time My willingness to pay for $8 easily. I go to Dunkin' They sell me coffee for $2. Big difference between and the price. There is a lot of value Customer delight, the difference and price, is significant. Willingness to sell is a little to pay. Willingness to sell is the that an employee would for this particular company. So think of a person I could sell my I could sell my How do I choose between the two? How fabulous is the job? How interesting is it? Will I like my colleagues? Value for employees is the and my willingness to sell. It's a measure of the the person is and what the company can offer. [MUSIC PLAYING] So total value created is the to pay and willingness gets split three ways. Some of it goes to customers. That's the difference between Some of it goes to the difference between and compensation, That's the margin That's financial success. In the end, how reflects the amount of So one natural question I can raise willingness to pay? And there are really The first one is the quality of where quality can mean to different people. But the higher the quality, the more appealing to is willingness to pay. And then there are to also increase that are a little less obvious. The first one is with A complement is a that supports willingness Think razor, razorblade. Think printer and cartridges, machines, and espresso capsules. And the third is For some products in some the product is, the more the greater my Social media is a great example. If all my friends oh, it's so much better My willingness to pay will of Instagram increases. There are really two ways to be for talent. The first one is I should The moment I pay you I'm going to be more competitive The second option is I make the job a better job. I create more attractive Maybe I have a Maybe I have more Maybe you can work Whenever I make the job a is going to go down. And so at the beginning these things are If I pay more money, I create and if I make a I lower willingness to sell, It creates more value, but If I pay more, that from the company to the There's no value created. Value is just redistributed and the people who If I make work more attractive, willingness to sell goes creates value. [MUSIC PLAYING] Let's talk about the You might know Best retailer in the United States. And if you go back everybody, including was convinced that Best Buy was Why? Many other electronics retailers and with roughly seemed impossible to At one point in time in a single quarter, and then and remember, strategy It's all about either or decreasing and that's exactly what he does. Instead of building big big warehouses from he starts thinking about and they start shipping typically from a store that is you are. We increase willingness to times, and then a second idea environment. He goes to Microsoft, he goes and he says, well, you can and you can build really at millions and or you can have a store in where people are products in the first place lowering willingness to sell Now, what does it Instead of selling now, I'm dedicated to the the Microsoft store or the is the Sony store. I know so much more about I can do a much better job which products are My job is easier, I Willingness to sell look at employee engagement they are at an all time high So what they Best Buy do? It increased customers' and we have fewer Next, they lowered and costs fall for Best Buy. The middle portion we have less pricing Not surprisingly, the They go from losing $1 to having a return on invested Amazing. Why? Because we started with ideas before we thought about how to that we created. [MUSIC PLAYING]