[Music] The Doom series has many iconic villains. Each forces of Hell. Doom 3 was a little different to resident evil, horror based style gave us, The rip and tear, on the move combat style we were Despite a different playstyle, the villain of frustrated with a company that cared only for to the deaths of countless humans in Mars City. he connected to the ancient civilization that Here, we explore in the lore and story Many years ago, an ancient civilization called The Praelanthor, this species advanced weaponry as their species grew. what is known however is that they almost met exploration of teleportation technology. throughout the many civilizations to come. managed to open up a portal into another they realized what they had done. The demons suffering as they could, and soon, they flooded The Praelanthor fought as hard as they could, but they had developed, they found themselves on became apparent that no matter how many the scientists had an idea and began to develop The technology of the ancient Martians was much and in order to forge this weapon, many were sacrificed in a ritual. From this, A powerful device that grew stronger through the Martians also discovered how the demons of an artifact called The Heart of Hell. In the to capture the artifact and sealed it away in a In their final stand against the forces of The Soul Cube and used it to seal the connection but their actions stopped this invasion. their dead, the artifacts they had developed, across the ruins of their civilization of As for the survivors, it is believed that they On Mars, what remained fell to ruin, and Soul Cube and its power as they continued to Many years later, by around 2100s, the Union UAC were the largest corporations on Planet Earth weaponry, defence contracts. On Mars, they found legal obligations that restricted them on Earth, the team here expanded their work into and soon, something much more advanced. his title being The Director of All and genuine interest in Mars allowed the UAC in 2115, the team here discovered something ruins of an ancient civilization they estimated to By around the 2140s, the UAC had set up support they came across many stone tablets full Betruger worked with his team to decipher these Martians and what had happened to them. life to this company, he grew frustrated with they cared only about money. Not the science on Mars had allowed his team to expand their They were exhausted and overworked. This had led give him more staff, and a bigger budget so with the unethical experiments they performed. the team discovered what remained of their humanity essentially, reinvented teleportation Betruger had dedicated his life to the UAC, and been what he was remembered for. Without him, exciting field of study. Teleportation. technology of the ancient Martians. He took to work as hard as he did. He demanded for those who did not give everything they so tirelessly in the pursuit of science, but, By Betruger's side was Ian McCormack. A the team set up a functional teleportation another team discovered another ancient artifact, had referred to. Only at this point, the team Over in Delta Labs, Malcolm and Ian were amazed with the help of the Martian Tablets, had did have a reputation for his obsessive need for pushed Betruger to excel, and as a result, had For around their first 12 experiments with their and watched as they appeared in the desired that the teleportation technology essentially transported them and then reassembled them. Ian soon found an issue. From the designs and have been instantaneous, but it was not. the team decided to send through a video perspective of the object going through. Ian and Betruger made a huge discovery. from location A to location B, but, during a few frames of a different location in between A different realm with This was yet another breakthrough in Betruger's for the development of teleportation the discovery of a new dimension with new beings. enter this dimension and bring back the creatures and the device had not been tested for human use. clear that he cared only for the advancement of side effects of human use of the teleporter. Ian McCormack doctored several reports for had been conducted with living tissue. security force were sent through. These would but also bring back subjects from within by force. More and more subjects were collected and learned more about this realm. Ian however soon from the other dimension, they were found to one soldier attempted to chew off his own fingers. Despite this, Betruger ordered for the new teams were sent in. Each time they returned, Nightmarish creatures and sighting. Eventually, just a normal dimension, it was Hell, and the This did not disturb Betruger. He cared was a sacrifice that had to be made Not everything was as it appeared to had seemingly formed a connection between something much greater than himself, and the human Humanity had repeated the mistakes that the team worked on the Martian tablets and discovered hero that had closed the connection between had however already been ongoing for the past demonic force. He was told of the power of The ancient Martian sites, and that, he could trade corruption was strong in Betruger, and with this Ian McCormack watched as this happened. This him from entering. In the teleportation to come back, confused on what had occurred. with the demons. They feared The Soul Cube and army of demons, and immortality if he allowed them Betruger accepted this offer, and returned bargain. McCormack and the rest of this was different. He looked and sounded like their Dr. Malcolm Betruger believed he had made the from The UAC Board had forced him to take drastic Elliot Swann only confirmed this for him after he transfer requests from his facility. Elliot had and he was not satisfied with Betruger's answers. to do. In which, he ended his meeting things will happen here soon. Just you wait.&quot; and re-entered Hell. Within, he handed over the bay. Before Ian McCormack and his team could warn the Portals across the facility activated With a demonic army under his control, Betruger the invasion. He was however met with some across the facility to take out the demons, numbers. This invasion also had a huge side developed zombie-like traits, grew irritable and the security units that had travelled through Betruger noticed that there was one Marine that seemed to be unaffected by the demons he the waves of demons that appeared before him command of Sergeant Thomas Kelly, to send out If the Marine chose not to send out this through a video call, Malcolm explained invasion. The fleet that was on its way to spread the Hell invasion to Earth. over the following hours, Betruger attempted to hordes of demons, and after many failed attempts, into Hell in the hopes he would be trapped there. at first, but the marine soon began to defy his The Soul Cube, but he also escaped Hell To counter this, Betruger, with his Caverns of the ancient Martian sites so that Betruger was angered by the actions of the the effects of his connection to the demons against the Marine that just would not die. the portal open until they arrived. Despite his he realized that his plan had failed. used the power of The Soul Cube to seal As Betruger had found himself within Hell when was trapped there. His actions had led to the His plan had almost been successful, it was just Dr. Malcolm Betruger had joined forces with the he became a part of this immortal population. a part of something greater. Betruger became The of Betruger's original form was his head, which creature. Over his time in Hell, Betruger learned For a year and a half, Betruger served in Hell's the UAC sent out a new research of the Ancient Martians. One of the teams Upon the touch of the artefact, the marines the connection between Hell and Mars Betruger used his power to invade Mars. He sent through Hell Hunters and hordes The marine that had activated the artefact marine that had defeated Betruger's original their souls into the Artefact. Upon doing so, he In Betruger's realm, he berated the Marine. This to him. Betruger, The Maledict, referred to to a much greater power. His children were his he made it his mission to stop this marine. searched for a way to destroy The Betruger however tracked down the Marine Although The Marine had the power of the artefact, Betruger. When the human woke up, Betruger he return what was theirs. Stolen by the Ancient The scientist that had betrayed his He hoped to use the artefact to lead a new shoved the artefact into the mouth of Betruger had an instant effect on Betruger's body. His and so too did what was left of his human form. human skull. And thus, another Hell invasion Dr. Malcolm Betruger gave his life and dedication profit. He was overworked and genuinely passionate this story, and yet, the board of the UAC of their staff - and as such, his actions. life and work environment he hated by a demonic Betruger's time with the demonic forces his actions however led to the deaths of in the Doom Universes, we know the fate of it would appear that other scientists Doom 3 falls into an interesting category community. The fact it was more of a stealth/ was something that put a lot of people off. We will ignore 6 ever happened. For me, Doom Mission DLC was a standout for me. The constant reminiscent of the other Doom Games. Overall, game. It is Resident Evil wearing a Doom skin. this video. As the player, our interactions with of other characters gave us a better insight. Doom 3. Not that awful film. I did want to add good but the dates in them contradict parts This was the lore and story behind Dr. Malcolm then please leave a like. Drop a comment below and disagreed, or generally disliked this, then also appreciate you watching the video, it! Subscribe for more content like this too! tier patrons and channel members who got access Queen Arby, FluffyTheDragon, ChickenGuy791, Ruben A.J. Mantyla, Vrona_, Comfy, BGgames and Aprofis! like Betruger as a villain? And do you This is where our story ends.