Transcriber: Tijana Mihajlovic I grew up moving all over the place. By the time I'd hit 10th grade, Math is extraordinarily sequential. By the time I'd hit 3rd grade, Basically, I flunked my way through elementary, middle, So it's a little strange looking back now because today and I'm passionate about my job. One day, one of my students and he asked me, &quot;How did you do it? And I thought, you know, I mean, here I was, this little kid, and I just loved language and culture, and that's all I wanted but I didn't have the money so I enlisted in the army to learn a language. You can see me there, about to throw a grenade. (Laughter) And I did learn a language. I'd learned Russian, and I ended up working out as a Russian translator. So, I just love adventure So I also ended up in Antarctica, That's where I ended up So I always say - (Laughter) I had to go to the end of the Earth (Laughter) But I begin to realize something, though. I was doing all these adventures but somehow they were always external. They weren't internal; When I'd worked in the military, I worked with all these and they had these powerful techniques I thought, you know - I'd look sometimes and they had these calculus and it looked like hieroglyphics to me. But I thought, &quot;What if I What if I could learn that language?&quot; I mean, the world's evolving. Language and culture are important, but math, and science, and technology What if I could learn these new ideas and add them to the ideas So, when I got out I decided to try and change my brain. It wasn't easy. But if I knew then what I know now I could have learned much more easily So, several years ago, as I begin trying to answer that student's question, I begin reaching out to top professors people who not only had knowledge but also who could teach effectively. And I asked them. I said, &quot;How did you learn? And how do you teach, What I found was the way they learned, and the way they taught was often similar It was almost like this kind But we often didn't know So I begin researching neuroscience and reaching out to talk Here is what I found, As we know, the brain But we can simplify its operation The first is just what I'll call The focus mode you turn your attention to something But the second mode is a little different. It's a relaxed set of neural states It's a number of resting states. So it seems that, when you're learning, you're going back and forth How can we better understand these modes? Through analogy. What we're going to use You all know how pinballs work. You just pull back on a plunger, and the ball goes boinking out and that's how you get points. What we're going to do is and we're going to put it So, there it is. There's the pinball machine on your brain. If you look, this is the analogy When you're learning, as you're focusing on something. It involves thoughts perhaps historical patterns, or you're familiar So you think a thought, and it takes off, pretty much along the pathways But what if the thought you're thinking is actually a new thought, that you've never thought of before? Well, that's symbolized towards the bottom To get to this new place, I mean, look at all the rubber bumpers How can you even get there? You need a different way of thinking, and that's provided here Look at how far apart from one another. When you think a thought, it takes off, as you're attempting So, you can't do that careful, that you can in the focus mode, but you can, at least, to grapple with these new ideas. The bottom line for all of us when you're learning, you want to go back and forth and if you find yourself, trying to learn a new concept and you get stuck, you want to turn your attention and allow the diffuse modes, to do their work in the background. How can we actually use If you look at this guy right here, one of the most brilliant Dali was the very definition You can see him there. He's got his pet, Ocelot Babu. What Dali used to do as he was solving some problem was he'd sit down and he'd have keys in his hands. He'd hold those keys, and he'd relax, Just as he'd relax so much the keys would fall from his hands, and off you go: he'd take those ideas from the diffuse mode where he could work with them, refine them, and use them You might think, &quot;That's great! But I'm an engineer. So how can I use these ideas?&quot; If you see this guy right here, one of the most brilliant What Edison used to like to do, he'd sit in a chair He'd relax away, kind of thinking that he was trying to solve Just as he'd fall asleep, the ball bearings and off you go: he'd be woken up, and he'd take those ideas back into the focus mode. He'd use them to refine The bottom line for all of us whenever you're sitting down to solve a new problem even if millions of other people or solved the same problems, for you, it's just as creative as it was for famous people and you want to use But you might say to me, You know, I just love to procrastinate. This back and forth stuff is great, I cram at the last minute. So, let's talk just a little bit What seems to happen you look at something and you actually feel a physical pain in the part of your brain So, there are two ways The first way is you can just And research has shown that within a few minutes But the second way is you just turn You feel better, right, right away. (Laughter) So, you do this once, you do this twice; But you do this very often, It can really cause problems So, how can you handle it? A very simple way: The Pomodoro technique, as it turns out, Any timer will do. Then you just take it and make sure - so, no instant messengers, and you work with focused Anybody can do 25 minutes, When you're done, you do something fun; just a little bit, What this seems to do is this: you are enhancing, your ability to have focused attention, and you're also practicing Now you understand that relaxation is also an important part there are things going on The only thing is this: you want to make sure and say, &quot;I'm going to do in these 25 minutes.&quot; No. You just sit and say, &quot;I'm going to work and that's the key. Students sometimes make the mistake of thinking that some are their worst traits. What do I mean by this? Let's take the idea of memory. Let's say that you have You can't seem to hold things You watch these other students and they're able to grasp all these ideas but you can't. Well, what this means is: Because you can't hold other ideas are often creeping in. If you have problems with the tension, you're always kind of diverting off you are often more creative, because these new ideas There's another thing, Some students compare and say, &quot;You know, These other students, they go past me so fast.&quot; But, think of yourself as a hiker. Yes, a race car driver gets there but a hiker has a completely A hiker can smell the pine air, they see the rabbit trails. In many ways, your experiences and you don't jump to conclusions. So if you are a slower thinker, yes, you may have to work harder but the trade-offs in many cases you gain solid mastery So, there is something called What this means and you can be spinning your wheels because you're not using There is such a thing as test anxiety, but in many cases, surprisingly many, it arises because you've just come (Laughter) and that is that you have just learned Researchers, with both are finding powerful insights One of those ways Exercise within a matter of a few days can increase our ability and researchers the neurophysiological pathways Tests. Tests are the best. Test yourself all the time. Make flash cards, mix them up, study them and this brings me to homework. When you do a homework problem, Would you ever sing a song once Test yourself, work that homework problem until the solution flows Recall. When you're looking at a page as you're trying to learn people's tendency is to highlight, right? There's something about the motion that makes you think but it often isn't. Often times, people will just reread, but that too is simply The most effective technique look away, and see what you can recall. Doing this, as it seems, that help enhance your And finally, don't be fooled that understanding alone is enough Understanding is truly important, but only when combined in a variety of circumstances can you truly gain mastery So, in closing, I would like to say that learning how to learn is the most powerful tool Don't just follow your passions; broaden your passions, and your life (Applause)