Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. Take a look at this. Simple enough, right? But watch what happens next. Okay, what the heck is this thing? Mostly people eat it like a soup, out of a bowl with a spoon. But is it a soup? The word 'soup' comes from words that originally meant &quot;to absorb liquid&quot;, which dry cereal But words change. What if cereal is actually a type of salad? And milk is just a dressing? Or maybe, dry cereal is the actual meal and milk is just a condiment or a coating. Adding milk to dry cereal might be like adding ketchup to french fries, or icing a cake. Honestly, there is no real answer. The answer is whatever we agree the answer should be. We make up the words and we make up the categories. If you ask me, cereal is soup, but it's not Cereal is also salad, but it's not salad salad. What I just did there is We do it all the time but usually for emphasis. For example, &quot;I like you&quot; but I also like like you. Tomorrow's event is fancy, but it's not fancy fancy. When I say &quot;soup soup&quot; or &quot;salad salad&quot;, I am using reduplication in a way that is known a word to express a focus on prototypical in contrast to French types. A Caesar or vegetable are more prototypical types of salad than, say, potato, taco, fruit, The increasing progress of technology forces and more often. For example, now when talking about a book, you might need to clarify whether it is an The original physical paper type. The phrase paper book is a retronym. A modification to an old word made necessary new. Before movies with sound came along, silent movies were just called movies. Before voicemail and e-mail, snail mail was And before mobile phones, your landline or Or in many cases just the phone. This is Morse code for a smiley face emoticon. It's a happy beat. The eyes of the emoticon are a colon, which up until as recently as the middle of the to represent a pause. It was an especially helpful direction to people reading text out loud. It was used all over the place. In personal letters and all over America's Declaration of Independence. You may also notice that it looks a little bit anatomical. The Oxford English Dictionary has a name for this punctuation mark and that name is &quot;the dog's bollocks&quot;. In other words, dog balls. Although other emoticons were definitely used earlier, as far as official dictionary entries an official name was an emoticon for a willy. This also means that America's Declaration of Independence is, punctuation-wise, covered in dog wieners. Nine of them, to be exact. What I'm about to do is called drawing. When I am finished, what I have created is called a drawing. But it's finished. Shouldn't it be called &quot;a drawn&quot;? A similar version of this problem is often Why are they called buildings if they are finished? Shouldn't they be called &quot;builds&quot;? What's really going on here is a phenomenon known as 'verbal nouns'. A noun formed from a verb. It's often easier to &quot;noun-ify&quot; a verb than Why call this a structure resulting from the it a building? Where does the word 'nickname' come from? Did a guy name Nicholas one day decided everyone a literal nickname? No. Nickname is a product of rebracketing. A process in which speakers, often unknowingly, create new words by moving sounds from one word to another. For instance, the English word alligator is the lizard. El lagarto, el lagarto, el, alligator. Eke used to mean &quot;also&quot;, as in you could have a name, and you could have another name that was also your name. Your &quot;eke name&quot;. Eke name. Eke name. Ni, ni, nickname. Here's another funny thing about language. If you're noisy in class, you're disrupting class. But if you sit around silently paying attention, are you rupting class? You can be disgruntled, but can you ever be gruntled? Words that would seem to have a related word Maybe they were in a pair at one point in they only seem to have one, but what you think Some definitions like &quot;soup&quot; and &quot;salad&quot; are fuzzy. Other words, well, they're just plain silly. For example, the sun does not rise every morning. The Earth actually just turns you toward it, but yet our word for that phenomenon is sunrise. Languages are full of expressions like that. George Steiner wrote colourfully about this, of technology, have beggared both the reach and veracity of natural language. In consequence, the commonplace relations of language to phenomenon infantile. They are a bric-a-brac of inner From the perspective of the theoretical and babble.&quot; Whether spoken or typed or tabbed or felt or signalled, language may be inevitably full of idiomatic expressions and expressions that are incomplete. And categories that are fuzzy. But hey, at least it's our fuzz, and at least fuzz is entertaining. It would be nice to just know everything and have absolutely nothing to explain or demonstrate to anyone else. But then again, as Emily Dickinson once said, &quot;a letter is a joy of earth. It is denied If we were all omniscient, we'd have no reason be anything new you had to tell someone else. We would have no reason to debate the soupiness or saladness of cereal. No reason to wonder, no reason to read, or to watch. I'd have no reason to say and as always, thanks for watching.