All right, we're checking out the harder my fingers gravitate We wanted to find out which cars and so my nightmares were realized and designed a course with but multiple loops in each segment, Alex said that the loops that they have to be seen to be believed. He's given me a huge number of cars and an infinite amount of times This is where it all begins. The fact that these are the smallest There's multiple sections to the-- Oh, wow, I've been doing that I've almost forgotten Oh my God, he didn't-- It's not even straight By the way, This is just the first loop I've been doing Alex and Petey's other ridiculous Oh God, that my wall riding Now, as you can imagine, as time goes on, it's not just loops There's still always the Petey and Alex ridiculous Actually, can I just cheat this? Yes, ju-- Oh, no. What? Oh, they put invisible walls I figured they wouldn't let me cheat it, but I didn't expect it to happen There we go. First loop, no big deal. Now I'm starting to get it. In fact, let me put my helmet on because when I hit obviously, between living and dying. All right, so this is a normal loop again, I like it. the motorcycles do pretty good with loops. I have done a lot of loops. Oh, it sticks the landing. No, [laughs] come on. I've done a lot of loops with motorcycles. That is a large spattering of jam. Oh, yes. First loop. Look at that. and aimed up for the second loop. Second loop. The big thing is when-- Okay, well, I guess The big thing is when-- Oh, my kneecaps. When you're upside down, Oh my God, there we go. It's hard to go not too far That's the second loop This is license plates? This is a loop made of license plates. Can I just jump this? [chuckles] It's so small. It looks like you could just jump it. If I jump this, Okay. You can't fall through the hole. I'm just testing something real quick, Oh, God. Oh, thank God it fell. There is an invisible wall there. Look, you never know, all right? Sometimes they may-- Oh, wow. Oh, wow. Oh, I almost slid to my sort of death, but on the right part of the death Okay, so the motorcycle We have a lot of different vehicles What is this? What is this? I feel like I've seen I'm literally breathing in tetanus. Just-- Oh, wow. The traction on this is garbage. That's okay. It did pretty well. All right. Blood poisoning mobile, No big deal. That was great. Okay, now this one, Oh, wow. The top speed on this is tr-- Oh, I'm going to make it. Oh my God, yes. [laughs] The top speed on this thing is garbage, Man, whoever did the alignment This loop goes into a loop, Okay. We got a really small entrance here. I got to watch out. Oh, all right. How did I land this like this? Around the license plate. What's funny is to do the license plate, No, no, no, no, no, no. [laughs] Not today, Satan. This thing almost comes off so you hydroplane while you're doing this. There you go. Perfect. Woo. [chuckles] Oh, this is just front wheel drive. I have almost fallen to my death Okay, so now we have a long narrow Get as much speed as we can, this almost looks more like a wall Oh no, I hit the invisible wall too. There is no way this car can do that loop. You know what I want This thing has pretty good speed too. The speed, the traction, the nose Oh yeah, Man, the back end slides out all the time. It doesn't need a lot of speed and now I kind of know which roadway A lot of these roadways are bent, just like my faith in Petey and Alex. Out of the way. All right, we're just punching it, Oh yes, nice and smooth. Okay, now this is the left-leaning a little bit more to the left, perfect. No. It's okay, if I can do it once, Perfect and there we go. Oh. I'm going to pretend You guys haven't even put and this track is already Nice lean over to the left. You can coast this once you get kind of past the halfway point, perfect, and full spin Vin Diesel Style. What is that? What is that? Why are there two teleport Whoa, what the--? How--? Oh, so this is a loop Look, it's a full loop You put a wall here. Okay, so now we're truly not only has the most traction I think I can probably still do this. Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Oh, I was totally wrong, I'm right back where I started, come on. Today's episode of GrayStillPlays, A few hours later, you can't do it, it's impossible. Well, this looks stupid. You thought I was going to go for the brass knuckle car, didn't you? Listen, every once in a while the limo Today is not one of those days. What have I been doing? Just use the right car, Gray. Now, I feel like I'm back First loop, done no big deal. Second Loop, Third loop, watch this first try. Third loop. Okay, that one, that one made Anyway, third loop done. Fourth loop, big speed, Whoa. Baby, hey. Perfect I planned it that way. Don't mind me I was just dining Come on nice and clean, there we go. All right, You lose all your momentum but this car has enabled and so we got the loop Oh my god, [chuckles] this is only the second level and the loops are getting ridicu-- What? Stretchy loops plus I threw Thanks, guys. Yes, I know, it's a bug but I don't know, The one thing you have to consider You never know. It's possible that this whole holding incredible In order to unlock the traction, Now, I'm not going to lie very back because I am going to need Oh my trippy god, I'm never touching that bug again. Listen, it had its chance, Now, the stretchy loop looks like you could just stretch this but it still-- I'm pretty sure my tires just left the-- Oh, come on, man. Ugh. Did I land on the green? [chuckles] Wow. People train their whole lives Hole in one. but you still go fully upside down. It's not as easy as you think Man, my God. It's not as easy as you think I love bad choices. Hold on. Yes, I wasn't short first, It is a windmill made out of windmills. Look at it. Oh, God, I can't focus on it. Oh, there we go. Oh, yes. Oh, that's good. Okay, stop. It's a windmill made of windmills. It's windmill-ception. It's windmill-plication. I don't even know if I could-- [laughs] Oh my God, there's so many. Okay, now maybe it's just me, but this next loop looks I assume I could just slam the gas down and do a nice calm, smooth loop. There we go. Yes. That wasn't that bad. What? Whoa, whoa. No, no, no, no, no, no. Oh my God. I almost saved it. Oh, there's a fire loop. The windmill turned sideways. Can you hear the sound of hatred? Because I've got plenty of it for you, Oh boy. I mean, I don't know. It's got really inflated tires. Maybe that'll allow Oh, wow. Because of the size I hadn't really thought There we go. Yes. Through the windmill of windmills. Okay. I'm starting to get the hang Perfect. No. Oh, that windmill goes right How are you even supposed I'm not giving up Alex. I don't care. Oh, yes. No. Ah, come on. I want to die. I said, oh, yes. [laughs] Fire loop. No, I was so close. I've got it. I've got the pattern. I've got the pattern. Oh, yes. Just this one time. Let me have this. There. Ye-- No. What is it? I can land this. I can land this. Hold on. I can land this. Landed it. Is it like a heat-seeking windmill? Look at it. Oh, it's like rotating That's weird. I've only gotten past this thing I don't want to do this thing over again. We have to make this fire loop. I cannot fail this. Please, please. Clearly - What? What is happening? What is this? What is this? What is this? What happened? Oh, no, no, no, no, no. Okay. I'll pick a different car. Oh yes. You like big money? Yes. You like red cars? You like speed. Oh, we got all of it. Now we're going to be doing loops and I'm not going to hit You ready? Watch this. Bam. No windmills. You want me to do it again? Watch this. Watch this. Around this. No windmills. Bam. Okay. Fire loop. Perfect. Speed-- No, no. Woo. You've got to be kidding me. Ah. Let me have this. I'm getting so close. Oh, yes. Oh, hold on. Hold on. This feels like the run. This feels like the run. Here we go. Go full speed. Full speed. I'm not even going to look. I'm not even going to look. I don't care. Yes. Checkpoint. Checkpoint number two. Done, baby. I am so concerned right now. That was a meteorite A meteorite on a loop board. Oh, of course, Why wouldn't there be? Hey. One of your meteorites Anytime Alex puts a hot pink car in, There's no way. Whoa. Really? Anytime Alex puts in a hot pink car, This thing glues itself to the road, I think I can twirl this around. Well, maybe not. I don't think this thing has enough speed, but I'm going to give it one more try, just to see if I get as much and I really stay nice and centered It can, it can make that loop. Now we at least know I'm going to go for two. Went down the other side of the loop, I'm not-- Really? Come on, man. It was like the biggest-- It was like a part of a moon hitting me. Oh my God. Oh, I didn't have a meteorite this time, but I do not have enough speed at all. All right, look, Hey. [?] Okay, I still get to use to use them infinite times. It's just funny that the car just All right. The first loop. Good traction, good speed. This thing is like the total package. Second loop. I almost got Just then, I don't know if you saw it. Ooh, this is a bumpy road right here. I can't see. Perfect. Second loop, done. The loops are already getting Oh, come on. This meteorite. I think I can get underneath it. I can't get underneath it. This meteorite is blocking I need-- [laughs] Okay, thank you. I was going to say, I need Are you ready? Big loop. Oh, wow. Oh, God. I don't even-- This car doesn't stand at chance, I need something with speed. Flappybirds has speed. Flappybirds has a lack of traction but it has the speed. It just needs to actually Okay, no. This second-to-last loop is starting to become somewhat ridiculous. It's not easy. Don't get me wrong. I'm going to keep doing it, We're just going straight No, I just lost a ton of speed. Come on. Just get up all the way. All the way. All the way. All the way. All the way. All the way. All the way. Can I fall onto it? No. The Wastelander has done well in almost-- Oh my God. The Wasteland has done Oh my God. I love meteorites. They're my best friends. Not going to lie. I've never wanted to strangle This may not be the car for this. The Wastelander has done so good when it comes to climbing over things or dealing with bumps or speed but loops maybe-- Wow. Okay. I was going to say loops, The top speed is a little bit lacking. When you're doing something like potholes, you really don't need this insane speed. I can't make this loop with this. This is impossible. Big speed. Big speed. Nice. Secondary, big speed. Oh-- It's fine. It's fine. We're doing good. This run's doing good. I feel so satisfied right now. I think everything's about to go right. Yes. I'm sure that my psychiatrist good things are bound to happen. Stick to the wall. Oh, yes. Yes. Oh, we have A checkpoint Welcome to my nightmare. I'm doing loops bigger than skyscrapers. What is this? &quot;We didn't do windmills in forever.&quot; You did windmills like an hour Like 10 minutes ago for anyone watching. Oh, what is this? What is this? This is a nightmare. All right. It did really well. Now it does have something but it had pretty good-- I couldn't even get up the first loop. I have to go straight for this car. I didn't realize the sheer Ooh. This loop is so ridiculous. I can't even see. It's wide, there we go. Well, once I get to the halfway Oh, my God the last loop Was this loop developed by the devil? You can't stop me, Alex. I'm going through your wind-- Oh great. Yes, just going to slide down into the-- [laughs] I liked that I had to die to get stopped. I'm going to give this one more try. I was going to say, I think Oh, there's a windmill on the drop too. I just realized that. We can make this loop. Boom. First loop, done. That's a lot of windmills here. Okay, second loop I'm going to slow down because I want Oh, my God. I don't know what to tell you, Look, it goes over the skyscraper. Yes, these loops Alex are really high. Yes. Do you know what else is really high? My blood pressure. Yes. Nice 180. We're going to roll on down. Oh, okay. I want all the speed for this. I want as much speed as possible. This car is really good but I need Let's do this. No, no way. No. Ow. Oh, God. Oh, ow. Oh, oh. Ow. Okay. Oh. right into the middle of the road. Attempt number 17. We got to go first-person because I can't tell I'm trying to keep it in third Oh, my God. I can't see. Yes. Oh, my God. Yes. That's what I'm talking about. Come on. Oh, there's boosts on this one. Hold on. Stop. Stop, stop. Alex. [chuckles] All right. What? Oh, my God. Oh, no. Oh, no You could fit a small planet That's no moon. All right, and now we do have boosts. I think this might be possible Maybe they'll help out because again, it's really hard for me to describe I mean, a great bird's eye view That's nice. You think you can stop me? You can't stop me. A couple of windmills. I eat windmills for breakfast. Although, thanks to Alex and Petey, I-- Oh, wow, this is getting kind of narrow. I eat windmills for lunch and dinner too. What just shot me off the board? Did you put ramps in here. Hold on, I need to see if I can land this. I need to see if I can land this. I'm going to cheat this whole thing. Oh, we can beat this. Last try in this car. I want to give something with a little bit more stick. There we go. I'm just going to guess I'm just guessing Even with the boost, it runs out of juice. Now we're talking. If I can beat wall rides with this, it's got a pretty good chance It keeps its acceleration Oh, that's not a good start. It keeps its acceleration You get to keep the same speed Which is good. As long as I can get to-- I don't believe it. It cannot make it past this loop. You put the Batmobile in here. Yes, this has a boost. All right. Maybe with the boosts Hold on, No. What I was trying to say is maybe with the two boosts combined Oh, yes. It can do this loop easy. Okay, still boosting. Just boosting the whole way. Every chance I get. I'm like just rapid fire boosting I will keep my speed upside-- Perfect. Yes. Once the camera flips, really easy to do. When the-- Hold on. Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. Yes. Epic save. All right, Alex, you're going down. I should probably alternate them. The boost and the boost. The boost on the ground There we go. Hold on, hold on. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on. I got to aim this. I got to aim this. Come on, baby. Come on, baby. Oh, right there. No. There's two cars [sighs] You know, when in doubt, you go to the-- [laughs] Did you shove your Wiwang How did you fit it in it here? I hate you so much. I hate you so much. Okay, let's do this. This first loop, watch this. Look at this. Look at this. It's like fly paper. I have done entire boards with this thing. Upside down. I have done upside down boards Second loop. With the width we're going to be able to do this. We're going to be able to do this no as long as I don't get hit by a windmill. Oh, my God. Hold on. I actually need It's the only way backhanded into the abyss by a windmill. Look at that. No problem. All right, it may be a problem. There we go. Nope. Let me dodge this one, too. All right, one more wind-- I missed all these. And now, in first person, this last stupid loop. Tell my family I love them because by the time they're all going to be 40 years older. God, if I had kids, They're probably going to have grandkids Oh, my God. Almost lost the tip of the nose. I have been on this loop it feels I'm coming down the other side There is an end to this insight. I can come out of first person. I can get right in the middle. I can see the end to all of my pain Well, Alex and Petey made a bunch of loops and I feel like I want and strangle myself with them. Anyway, folks, Until next time, stay foxy and much love.