Transcriber: Graziele Cavalcante The answer is yes. I did I remember the exact day and place I didn't even know it. It's April 26th I'm listening to a podcast, as And I heard the podcast guest I'd heard so many of these 30 to 60 authors and business leaders If I had the same mindset now that I did I was such an idiot. I heard those statements expressed with I was entering college. I didn't and then I felt actually pretty irritated. Much of this refusal of misery Just five months earlier, I had as he passed away after a six year battle Following that experience, I promised myself I would not spend As I learned that time is never promised. My irritation intensified the fact that these personal development people specifically. This didn't make Aren't we the ones that need to mindfulness and emotions the most? Over the next decade, I was supposed to potentially find a life partner, handle personal finances and retirement, maybe even start a family and many other But here I was with thousands of other the same piece of advice for most of the You'll figure it out. I just don't And although this advice is slightly we are rarely if ever, given practical, making the anxiety, reducing moments Because we didn't know how to navigate And so with that moment in the gym, I found my mission to change the and 20s could and should be. And after a bit more study, it turns out two points in specific down How we train our brains now in our 20s ourselves up for a less stressful Your brain is a complex system You can think of it like a The more you drive specific routes, the more ingrained those habits and And that is why it's so important we start we continue to drive down now because and difficult to rewire your mind 30 years has become hardware. And point number two. Teenage love was also on to the fact that the decisions we make in But that is why we need proper emotional and mental skills to help guide PhD clinical psychologist, notes The Defining Decade These statistics that 85% of life's most defining moments Not the most important, not the Definers are often happening Your 20s coincide with your More than 50% of us will be living with, dating or married to our Your earning power is generally decided and as you probably know that's where you will have But your personality and your brain before or after. These statistics the decisions you make in your But to any young adult listening, I do Correlation does not always whether we like it or not, we do have some big decisions to Let's dig even deeper. We're humans not statistics as I mentioned so instead of going to Google, to create my own type of study I've spent my career thus far and 20 somethings about what they actually for their life. I wrote a book I started a podcast educating them on the education system generally I created an online platform reaching and now I stand here today being a physical representation of what is Where are our teens in 20 somethings The common thread did not have to do with It didn't have to do with being or being overly stressed The common thread was much a feeling of being constantly But it's not the 21st century that is the It's that historically we put any true emphasis on the development We need change. Our young adults, Raising our children and young and emotional skills to better create a their communities and society at large. What is going on inside the reality of what is happening These emotional skills, these are These are life changing, life saving, So how do we make this change? Well, it turns out changing the way a little bit difficult, which, you know, But still, with my work with young I have found three core pillars of have a simple foundation of better better decision making skills and Which brings us to pillar There are many unhelpful social constructs Being the grade on your paper determines Or you're supposed to be nothing Or my personal favorite. This needs to be But the most harmful of all is the way many of us are socially and successful life looks like and My dad was a very money driven man, And as his daughter, I inherited a The idea that if I just made enough money, But for years I watched that same Absolutely destroying his ability to So I asked myself, okay, the success of my life based off of How do I determine that I'm living a And I contemplated that question for an answer. Living in alignment. Living in alignment is aligning your and your thoughts with your So when your head hits the pillow at Am I living as aligned as And you can truthfully answer that is what peace feels like. Because there's nothing more to the only person that is in charge And that's a very blissful, fulfilling I urge you to take audit of and mindsets you have inherited. Question why you think, believe, act And from there you can reconstruct your and the future that you want As we unlearn social conditionings, we free up space to then create Which brings us to pillar number An authentic way of being for ourselves. In order to align our way of being, we must become healthier and more self Most of you, I would imagine, know the Therapy, journaling, meditation, and other growth methods. But what I want to talk to you about is why we do Because if you've gone through any sort of it's pretty gruesome and it's pretty hard. I want you to think of it like this. For analogy sake, let's say your but you've never built a house before. So the only way that you can do this the way everyone around you teaches And after 20 years of living in you come to realize that maybe some of the practices people taught you about the best. And you know this because there's areas of your house that or malfunction. We use these the tools that no one ever taught us. We can then use those tools to a house that doesn't feel like it's as we learn how to reconstruct our views for each of us, our foundation as our communication skills improve As we learn to trust people again, our AC kicks back on as we learn how And pillar number three is doing. Some years ago, I had convinced a plane with me in New Zealand. And she had asked me if I had for this company that we were jumping with And so as we were sitting I started looking up reviews and articles, and it turns out a plane of theirs but no one died. So I figured So, like the wonderful daughter I am, I told my mom it was perfectly And considering that I'm here today and So that's that's good. But the interesting thing about skydiving you expect. The world always made but it's not that scary and You're falling too fast for your brain and before you know it, you're just slowly the view. Skydiving is more And I've come to realize that making bold to skydiving. The people in our have never actually gone skydiving are the reputation of it being The same goes for making bold changes. The people that have never actually done Are usually the people that are making us Quitting a job you hate or coming Ending the relationship that you know It is very scary. But if it does feel it will bring you more peace than chaos. It will allow you to live more aligned. And that is why it will bring you this The courage to jump when you know your That is the art of pillar number three Unlearning being and doing. The concepts that I teach and yet when I share them they harvest life changing results. When I share these simple mental and DMS and messages like this. I'm 18 years old and I'm raising me and And your videos have helped with I read your book and I don't Or I consider making another And your videos saved my life. We must stop this generational cycle and emotional skills as it is one of the To any young person listening. Our 20s don't need to be so confusing Start being intuitive and intentional No waiting for a traumatic event or the stereotypical midlife crisis Take radical responsibility as soon and fulfillment are born. An idea we're The sooner you grow, the better.