Good evening, everyone. So glad you could make The chair, Anita Berrizbeitia with the [inaudible] so she's asked me to introduce Michael Jakob. And I do so with great So just a very In conformity with the which typically allows and/or numbing enumeration laurels, and institutional sometimes oddly constellated intellectual geographies the possibility first a few words about [? vita. ?] A documentary philosopher and scholar, and editor of a prominent Jakob teaches at Grenoble University and at hepia. The latter, hepia, because of my pronunciation-- and I when I'm nervous or rushed, might at first sound, sound like Hestia, the god or ordering principles as such who was venerated Rather, hepia is an acronym. As naturally rendered in universalizing and stands for the The highest ambitions internal to these were examined in the The Swiss Touch in sought to establish-- not to establish or validate architecture, but a certain general idea. Lately, we speak and think specifically and what they once were or had been, but one made so more a republic of four national are officially recognized federal confederation, called a country without utopia, that unite in a collective a phrase Jakob derives from Albrecht von Haller. A more recent literary scholar Lytle Shaw saw in the and the photography of the [? wehrli ?] a struggle In [? shaw's ?] the struggle is tragicomic. As for gravitation, we from other more reliable sources I think I've already while presenting Jakob's very that some thought to the question of the We are, after all, to hear about the new generic. As you'll note on the lecture like a picturesque eye-catcher, a sign, if any, that there is appears, or perhaps less. Literary theory, a field phantasmagorically provides the most relevance, the most comprehensive discourse That distinction belongs semantics, in the service of make universal sense of the of the generic name and One of its fondest was the Genevan exile, an [inaudible]. But certainly, the best known is [inaudible] discourse in Rasselas, an epilogue to cite the name of a The business of the is to examine not the to remark general properties The poet does not number or describe the different shades Needless to say, from Johnson's prescription poet may vigilantly remark upon William Blake, most this latter platonic &quot;To generalize is to be &quot;Particularize is alone And this all on the minute discrimination&quot; George Saintsbury, the connoisseur-- and I think that matters in this context-- was more measured But despaired of the we are off to sacred heights now &quot;consult the laziness and by merely portraying prominent Such an accommodation rule out poetic strangeness. It would rather make convention the poetic kingdom of heaven. Who am I to say, which is said to be above, What I can say most assuredly Samuel Johnson's man. He is vigilant, careful, a creative and playful to use Johnson's phrase, a that which is apt but also finding what no and making his recorded found thing in the world. To read his most recent book, is to recognize instantly and by he is, which is what any to be. What is the new generic? Is it merely the newness of Can the generic in I can't wait to hear. So I will take my in the audience and invite Thanks a lot. Thank you. Thanks. [applause] Thanks a lot for the invitation. The general idea of is a rather simple one. And it's a straightforward one. Can we speak today of the rise architecture and, in the planning disciplines? Are we faced to an with the result of a Does contemporary design And if so-- and I really it's the case-- for what reasons? And should designers And should we educators react becomes more uniform? My idea is to put it right now that we are, with the strong and negative fabricates an increasing designed landscapes The terms we use in order are, however, never neutral. And they need some form Banal, ordinary, uniform, generic, the same, sameness, there exists a lot of which we can use to describe the Banal, for instance, common to all, means so as to be obvious and boring. Generic is that which lacking imagination or if you want. Ordinary is something with features, the normal. The ordinary is not It is commonplace. Standardized is something Sameness means lack of variety, This extremely rapid that there is a system judgments and we deal with the We could organize it by a of propositions-- original versus unoriginal, interesting versus boring, individuality versus standard, distinct versus uniformity, and so on. The term I find at least in order to because it relates not only to standardize. I don't want to start with criteria, but with given that it suggests a process, a general framework, Let's initiate therefore a brief survey concerning and standardization. Standardization begins, as with a small object, the screw. The first national was the one regarding this thread angle of 55 degrees. Joseph Whitworth, the promoter Whitworth, or BSW, that the British railway Standards go from the tiniest and then to the English founded in 1901, that is, to From the beginning, is, however, not limited of industrial objects. It is rather a process of technical knowledge. Multi-disciplinary by essence, aspects at the same time-- economics, politics, science, and even culture. If we consider as another essential we get aware that it touches the way we actually As for measurements, forget that [? condicere, ?] the and of other standardized with the French Revolution shared by everyone. This is the original meter Another aspect we have to and I'll come back is the almost of standardization to the of communication. We can easily trace a of the global and a very important instrument to the railroad system and to the contemporary Standardization is, On the contrary. Think of standardization an industrious-- or here if have system and more and more important and what happens when things And standardization So it thinks of of industrial parts in American of muskets, for example. And once standardization in the 20th century, the of mass production to very well suggested in Huxley's he speaks about Or we could think here again or think about Westworld and A relatively recent example of is the container. Containers existed already But standardization in the 20th century. While the first international the new ISO standard, usually 40 foot or was imposed only after an 1960. This kind of centralization no real questions. The disappearance of differences is no problem. But it's, rather, the If it comes to objects things are, however, In an important book The Shape of Time by George Robert Smithson's puts up a very interesting His main idea is that objects The series begins which permit the development And then the series lives on the series comes to an end. The series of start in the 19th century. And once the international every possible development comes to an end. Let's come now to to enter the problem so the relation between fields relevant for What about difference, variety, in architecture, then in in urbanism, and, built environment in general? Dealing with architecture we could speak of by highlighting several aspects. Take the formal the reproduction of almost the Examples could go from the architecture to the It is typical, for instance, the age of neoclassical Normally, when we see always-- we say they Another example is the use of the same material. Still another one is Here the results that the general as a model than a real type. Still another aspect constructions built by applying Quite often, all these aspects Think, for instance, of or large paneled of the former East Germany. Plattenbauten, a type of large, prefabricated became, after a [inaudible] the standard methods is the new development The architects of this we could make, rather developed subtypes like P2, WBS 70, or WHH GT 18. Models that marked, a general impression of Here you see the material. And here you see again, you know, these in the former German Here again. But I ask myself if the the famous urban housing Missouri in the mid-70s-- you remember that Charles begins with the of Pruitt-Igoe cannot be read as well, besides the well-known crime, and Here you have the famous image. After this first negative think of some positive examples. At least, take for example, Bath, celebrated beautiful and picturesque recognized as a owes its celebrity of its material, golden and to the form of The effect of repetition was understood as for a disposition responding to One could, of add to these examples of many gated communities, of sprawl scapes, and of by an extreme sense of Here again, examples of-- whoops. What about the quality of the one which we saw before-- compared, for example, What happened between Riverside landscapes and sprawlscapes? Let's remark before continuing that the existence raises almost immediately of aesthetics, of psychology, Does the work of art has in order to please? For Walter Benjamin, the historical with the Industrial to reproduce the same object lost its aura. Erotic objects have a strong while post-erotic object Or is Kant's right when he touch us by their form that the form of this the form of this building of the other factors? Naturally, I will of the idea of standardization of standardization raised But there are other we can cite when we look Think of, for example, of Ernst Gombrich speaks about an or universal need And he thinks that at fundamental perceptions, we But is the role of patterning really universal or of an order-oriented ideology? We know that Gombrich from Karl Popper. And Karl Popper insists himself So does this mean something inborn, is Or is it, on the of the 18th and 19th century only in the theories Jay Appleton, for in landscape studies we recognize a certain it's always recognizability which makes that, which Is an urban landscape or is uniformity the best There is, of course, which is fundamental is the sense of autonomy, of the work of art. From the 18th century on, uniqueness becomes And normally we expect now us a high degree of uniqueness. And the same objects we don't please us originality or individuality. Let's add to this a second layer, introducing the banal and the ordinary. Ordinary is something versus the extraordinary calls for our attention. Things that are confused with ordinary things. Banal is that which without necessarily Something ordinary doesn't something ordinary does not But once we observe is isolated in its context. The opposite of something banal a construction that of the extraordinary-- our attention. The French architect was one of the of a banal architecture. For him, the banal but [non-english speech],, already existed. A banal architecture is one an architecture that, at least Perret would claim that his Le and 24 meter scheme, are Another aspect of positive is the use of new Le Corbusier, for instance, a general constructor for who just did the job. It was a constructor in the Alps. So the making of the but the result And Le Corbusier, as very often liked to affirm And we see the trace of like the [inaudible],, where with its extremely There are still to think about when the horizon of our inquiry, One essential element of samples or catalogs, standardized architecture. The history of this books of the 18th century of the Beaux-Arts style, where you can choose the is still to be written. There are a few studies of the standardization. And I think this would be, would standardization, both in and in other disciplines has of these publications. Even in this famous photograph in New York, we see that is, well, naturally individual. And it's a skyscraper, but the base is still We could cite, at the same time, to work against Loos and his famous for instance, where we see critical of standardization, both in the eclectic we called the modernists. And sometimes he went complicated infinitely inside his constructions extremely individual against any possible standard, seemed to not to be logic. Given that architecture and that the main context the problem of can only be treated framework of the urban fabric. Even a very brief of uniformity versus confronts us immediately with Let's not forget, first of all, was an essential value the other values, even if has more to do with architectural sameness. The Vitruvian reminds us, however, of of order. The importance of order of cosmos, that is, the For the ancient Greek, we finite totality, built by the the supreme god if you want. The seven planets, and many other sacred by the number of the harmony of the universe. That utopic projects of Renaissance, for Here you see the four as general structure or These ideas will [inaudible] ideal city, and of ideal city, ideal cities It is, however, only in the the term order is, of the key concept [inaudible] is probably the starting that still influences around the world. He received the city of of Paris, the body of city being destroyed by [? baron ?] and landscape architects and to in order to transform [? joao ?] [inaudible],, he understood immediately-- maybe he was the of this transformation-- and he showed how the old was transformed into something And Baron Haussmann's project with the boulevards, created the cityscape marked standardized boulevards, From the second half stressing the importance of the became a fundamental goal. The new cityscapes And this was not only but in the margins as in the new standardized Order and uniformity the condition or, if you want, of modern beauty. The French even invented of the [inaudible]. [inaudible] from the controller of the roads. In 19th century in [inaudible] Paris, the [inaudible] who had to he had to control the roads and that corresponded to The uniform cityscape, in our contemporary urban by condominization becomes Metropolis. Lang is, by the way, very much aware of the of an urban pattern by almost total uniformity. His deconstruction of a highlights the contradictions with a strong tendency There is, on the one hand, to create unique and highly We saw the Plattenbauten before. You have architecture And on the other hand, with the power for equally interested primarily not for political, This is a general to keep in mind if those voices throughout called for a critical and homogeneity. Bruno Zevi, Architectura published in 1945, can Zevi, who founded the APAO, Architecture, the excessive of tautology The principal aim was what he termed Fascist architecture is and forgets, quite often, of the building. It is characterized by in symmetry, symmetry for the Most of the buildings looked like boxes, [inaudible],, entities with no to other buildings and the 20 years later, Aldo Rossi citta, the architecture Rossi interprets the city and as a main scene of he further underlined that thanks to the idea they have It's a very idealistic of the city building itself. Dealing with individuality Rossi stresses of monuments versus all constructions. &quot;A monument stands at &quot;it is usually and becomes a place Monuments are always while all the other Let's take a source, for an advocacy for the in the urban context. Kenneth Frampton's Towards a Critical Regionalism. Frampton starts with a citation Ricoeur, worried about the civilization giving rise Ricoeur regrets &quot;we find everywhere the same bad movie, the same and aluminum atrocities.&quot; And I would add today myself, the same plazas, the same and so on. The contemporary lack is, according to Frampton, by the imperatives Confronted to the victory or what he calls the we should carefully opt for being capable to combine the individual and the abstract. Critical regionalism of resistance and could be the solution between universal civilization providing a synthesis diversity, and universal imposed by the system. Frampton calls, on the one of world cultural intended we have learned to mix, architecture or mixed salad And he invites us, to face critical especially when we rely on technology. Before I come to landscape let me mention still another The French philosopher and has highlighted during a phenomenon identified by In opposition to places that the mankind until very recently well-identified places bounded hypermodernity, he speaks about highly standardized realities. If Auge starts like Frampton of bounded places, stresses that even these are in reality social Places, lieux, have They provide a They are relational, to other places, And they are historical. They have a minimum to them a sense of stability. Non-places, on the other They are non-relational. And they exist in a According to Auge, our produces an increasing With non-places, he intends One is a certain places linked to the transport train stations, gas stations-- or to commerce-- or to the tourism industry-- The other thing which his towards these places. When we actually find we never really experience them. We're never interested in They have no history or form. We just use them. We're simply there, but It doesn't matter. Contemporary tourism-- worldwide-- contributes to the dissemination ex-territorial spots have any experiences. The anti-utopic quality becomes even problematic that most of them are linked to These appear on of the atmospheric spaces of total control. And a culture of can add, in its turn, on how these places are With a final result that So the non-places they never create a sense or relation, but A counter example, for cited by Marc Auge would be Nader Tehrani's gas station in or a commercial center So we could imagine Let me now go a step further to similar phenomena in At first hand, landscapes of all these realities by standardization, Landscape, perceived a place of land, a piece of at a certain moment. It is, in order to use time flowing into space. Landscape is, therefore, and individual. It is unique. It is always this one The English poet Coleridge around 1800 and tried to fix the perceived was always desperate of finding the right words I cite, &quot;The Head simple for a painter and how laboriously and and how slow and dragging I give it?&quot; He complains, &quot;Oh, how slate and limestone lies. Silly words, I'm Impossibility to and given only in a moment. Dealing with landscape, arrive to this Landscape experience is but the result of very We learned, in order to identify a series of and with it so only from Take, for instance, In order to recognize it, and a half centuries to learn its new language. People like the actually developed a catalog And it is in search for these that the tourists of the tend to-- had to look out. See, there was a whole industry so picturesque landscape to be seen. It's not naturally given-- and people naturally to other of Gilpin's publications. Another instrument used in is a Claude glass. By using it, the traveler has provider by the scopic device of a well-defined Here you see Claude glasses Gainsborough using or today's Claude This is our contemporary So we fabricate landscapes. And we learn to do The reality of the impressions out there correspond to a global That is, landscape painting, of the 17th century, paintings of Claude Lorrain. In reality, the range is quite narrow. And it privileges repetition of the-- recognition of the We learn to appreciate the sublime, the to painters like Claude of the 17th century. British travelers, for before the 19th interested in the British They, rather, went to of the British to the classic beauty which they So, in general, travelers organized their tours and photographing photographing in their standard landscapes. The second effect of had even more The pictuary style applied architecture went so far as to number of landscapes that Worlitz in Germany looked or Stourhead in Britain. And they all looked, like a painting You never know where we are. So you're picturesque. At first sight, we very highly exceptional individual with their owners and But if you start see that it's almost the again and again. So from Kent and Brown and up to our days, that we build landscapes that have to be very in order to please. My point here is of perceptive and is characteristic for and that in dealing this has to be waved So standardization existed in the Take, for example, Tuscan landscape as we see it today is an invention of the 18th century. Before this kind of They were used So this is a But today, it is taking as the Naturally, with time, And especially in there were many other I don't have the but, for example, the invention in the 19th century-- the French, the they invented their And then they tried to keep-- try to make everything possible or something identified had never to change. I will come now to and to another way to of standardization, Naturally, I will some examples concerning landscape architecture. But before coming to, which I always like to mention. Landscape architecture It has existed Arguably, it starts with It's the year of the And it's his business card Every time he found a client, this business card. And he calls himself So let's say our for two and a half centuries. And the strange thing is has almost no history, to find a history, a architecture. Not very strong And even the corpus of landscape So I had the chance around the world with this exhibition. And I liked always to ask what is your corpus? I mean, what are 10 And even most of them stopped colleagues who were in they would cite their own work. Well, this is another work. But it's very difficult. So I always say, it's a Where if we were in-- I don't know painters-- we could agree, there were some And they had some talent. So we won't start again. But in landscape knows what is the corpus? What is the standard? What is-- where do we come from? So this makes it even difficult I mean, what do we speak about? What is landscape So I think it's-- it's into consideration. So and maybe-- and this is this has an effect and standardization. Because landscape architecture we don't have a in what sense you want. But there is not So very often, we are The same forms come back again And we would like to ask didn't you see that there or some other guys who So you should look to people So this is-- I think It's not the problem I but I want to mention it. So what about difference, and a culture of difference So my main example I took one example by I think you know his work. And this is Cardada in the southern part, in the And I like to show it it's a polysemic object. I don't think we have so many architecture. So what do I mean by I will try very, very rapidly I take as a polysemic which is many things at the same So this is an There is a first there is a second platform. And Burgi built it. So this is a beautiful platform. And the starting what happens when and you're confronted you will experience and you'll see And his idea was well, which is not built out, which is not generic. He wanted to do but at the same time, for the local elements. Here you see the context. It's on Lago Maggiore, not very And when he started to he was very much aware It's a Swiss context, too. You know, Kenneth is the first painting in and maybe in European-- landscape painting can recognize a certain place. It's a Bay. It's Lake Geneva. And you see [inaudible] behind. And so there is a history of Alps in general and And we have many, And when Burgi started to build the platform a dialogue with the he knew that the mountains were that they were interpreted and of, generally in a And only in the 17th century, And then in the 18th century, This is Caspar Wolf. And Caspar Wolf made a very the sublime quality of the Alps. So when Burgi he related himself to the and to the history the modern subject, which and to elevate the world from upside down, revolutionary. But, naturally, Burgi in the 20th century. And there is a history of the to the world, which is to look from upside down. And in the 20th century, for became extremely influenced. This was a photographer He pretended that he would his plane at the same time. I think it's impossible with 20 kilogram camera. But still, he was extremely And so there is a history and to relate our world, to And Burgi creates this to many, many things. For example, this is our view from the You see these platforms, which was very typical. Quite strange that thought that it's at the top of the mountain further step to go even higher, gives you the ultimate really, site. And you see how tourism in the 19th century almost a ridiculous something. So what is-- if you will find hundreds and They're quite sad, very I would say. And Burgi wanted to make And I think it's really which transformed this project For example, he knew very well of panorama. When Barker invented at Leicester Square, he of the mountains. He remembered that the Barker's project was, there's to travel and even if it's dangerous. And why use your And I will show you the world And panoramas became And they influenced and many, many And so people went and then they could have a So Burgi tries to do That's what he had not in mind, we find in the Alps. And he wanted to do He was beware of the-- almost the happens if we arrive How do we look to the world? And at the same time, he They said, you're a You like nature. And why do you use concrete? And what about concrete here? And he said, no I think I can live with it. And there is a And concretes are stone. And stone is my theme. Because here we are where two geological and the European You see the same landscape, are very different. Because one of the-- is 380 million years is 120 million years old. And as the two-- the African and European That's why we have so many And he tried to explain this by And he integrated this So you'll see it's very-- it's It's very simple. It works with citation in order to let us And I think was very happened in the Alps, throughout the world. So in the 19th or transformed almost all of And this is the price, you know. These are the wonderful five So you could here, sit there at the old balcony with wonderful landscapes. But that's the price of the brutal transformation And it continues. For example, we have these kinds And that's what he And I think the and the almost the poetic is really the result of how you project this. And naturally, he of the discovery of the You remember Petrarch. Sometimes we read that Petrarch Jacob Burckhardt said this. And that Petrarch when he went to [inaudible]. So the discovery of is something very specific. And it has a history. It's not given for in every It's a cultural possibility. And then take the round why did he choose it? I don't think he had but we could think of of [? noguchi ?] and I think the round which we'd call agorotic. It's like a forum. And therefore, to build his there are many, many, of citation and suggestions. So I create something that but it's not simple at all. And another idea well, this is something which And the idea floating, it's so important. And the idea of architecture, [? burle ?] and [? ledoux ?] in architecture as an elevation above the world. And then the relation and the aesthetics of rocks. This is, by the way, a painting. It's not a photography. So I think he had a what do I want to keep And there are many other stories I'm sure many of you know So they're iconic And they have something especially philosophy of time, hundreds of millions and the time when you come Or this is Monte Verita, in around 1900 where from everywhere to Europe And they developed modern and et cetera. And it is not very far So all these themes come And at that place, And this fountain, you see, And here you see the fountain. And that's how he choose it. So that's the history And that's, again, the And that's making of And then it will So it's something very And he spent a lot the right place and the right-- the right material. So it's something And later it was destroyed and And one of the starting to speak about standardization in Geneva at the CERN. And he works on-- there is a tram here. And so it's an urban project. And here you see the plan. And he wanted to And he told me, it's impossible. I cannot build my bench. So he wanted to drew the fountain before. And he said, it's impossible. Because they asked to buy benches in a catalog. And he said, it's not only but it's about certification. He said, if you don't have then you cannot go on. And so he had to-- so he couldn't do it. And it's these kind of So they told him, if you we'll give you a catalog. And it's almost impossible even in Switzerland. You know, in even in a European community. So we're a very free country and But it doesn't work certification, standardization, So this was-- I think this is a I mean by standardization and original. Then another example, is square in Milan, Piazza And Piazza Gae an example of a really, very, in landscape architecture It was quite a poor quality. And you see we But we could be very easily in And by the way, said, oh, Milan is So they said, finally So you see how something is something extremely it was celebrated as well. We too, we have these new urban And you see here. And if you look to it, So it's a sort of And this Dubaization, you You see, it's horrible. I mean, it's a sort And people even celebrate it. They think, wow, it's full of-- and you see no life here, eh? So they celebrate it, but And then, again, And you see-- no, You see the solar tree. But this solar tree is I mean, it should be forbidden. And it's not [inaudible] solar tree of 1925, was really a scandal, which is a provocation, and which No, it's really these kinds They should forbid it. I mean, they're a tree. We still have trees. So why solar trees anyhow? And so you see the So that's how Piazza Or, for example, I was And another standardization, you You see in the whole country, everywhere. So you see the same Probably it's a wonderful who does this in But for the whole it's an extreme standardization. And so we go towards Or this is a wonderful faux palm tree. So now the telephone companies, with palm trees. And you find it everywhere, of these things. So this, again, is So we have in landscape generally standardization And we have to ask ourselves, Why are we confronted with this? Naturally, there are standards. And more and more And we have in the US, But I think it's more-- the whole situation is more It's linked to globalization Take, for example, if we important international Or do you think SOM I mean, this very-- this is the main example And probably, I think they're But it could be, you could be everywhere. Or if you take AECOM, you It could be everywhere too, very Or here again, you And why do all these So maybe before coming to how can we interpret And how can we interpret the So as you heard, I still deal with literature even if I'm mostly now and related disciplines. But I will make a short Because I think what interests Who is responsible Who is responsible in architecture? Who is responsible in landscape architecture? Who is responsible in general? And I think we need to identify at least to start to think about So if you take literary in the 18th and 19th was about the author. So we had the figure And the author who was the author in the So think of the parks of They're full of these sculptures and Tolstoy. So it's the author. And what does the author-- well, the author, It's a text and a novel, And so the author, there is The author writes a poem. A composer composes So the author is So there is an author. And we can take him But at the same in the 18th and 19th Everything which, is a result, not only of Take, for example, poetry. Well, when you write a And the sonnet but it belongs to literature. And it belongs to a And in the system have the system of So every discourse is and the result of a And then Kant comes And he says, there is the autonomy of works of art. Once a work of art exists, Once the architect finishes And it exists like a poem. And it's-- well, he goes And so it's autonomous. And you have to interpret And this is the autonomy. Very important idea comes back they say, don't don't rely on the system, And so the author is something The author, anyhow, about the intentions And an author is It's far too complex to And but there is autonomy. And the system, to be careful with And then, in the 20th century, And what do I mean Well, if you want to you have to understand So it's what we It means that every object in culture, has to be So every novel is the And every building, has an implicit And this is structuralism. It means in order to you have to understand And this became quite important and many, many other people. And then came And they said, the We think that there are people who wrote the book, the author who writes the system which writes books. Because the system you find it in [inaudible] they say there is a general and of the language. And it's much You think you're the author, You think you're the author, that you're not author. And then so the actor And then in the 20th century, [inaudible] and said, well, there is It's the reader. And there needs to be And so now, finally, where we take all So why do I speak about this? Because I think it's Because we can ask ourselves-- ourself, what happens when we're What happens when we deal with a Who is the author? And how strong is the author? And naturally, we can to a very strong author. Sometimes we have strong Think of Niemeyer when they designed Brasilia. It's strong authorship. And in many other cases, the And then we have the system or it can be very strong. And then the reader. Well, the reader is normally extremely weak. There is a tradition of of planning generally that doesn't really count. I mean, we're still of architecture and planning And we're very happy when and when it's well done. And once we finish it, once we finish a square, once we go on to the next one. So we're never interested in [? dixon ?] calls the afterlife. But we're just in the And [inaudible] the is always the poor And we have to ask dealing with standardization where does it come from? Does it come from the system? Does it come from the author? What happens or is what happens here? So I think this model And it's an extreme which became extremely in the 20th century. But it's-- I find it an to ask, who is responsible for Who's responsible for the or the lack of quality Who's really responsible? And, well, I'm afraid that a little more complicated with Alles or the super You know that now we And landscape information And I think things may become And I was three weeks College Station in Texas. But the good surprise, besides were armed, so it was a even if in Switzerland, we But there my careful what you say come with their Smith &amp; Wesson. So I was-- but I And I saw the biggest BIM cave And Julian Kang is no 300 degree BIM cave. And naturally, it's And there is a story behind But in a perspective well, I was amazed Because it's a promise to replace the world. I think it's both a very old Probably we're still in the of modern space. And this is 16th century. How people imagined that of the great or what the [non-english speech],, so the view of the world. So I think the BIM are representations of a was born in Europe and starts with Brunelleschi And then it became this link And one of the examples I think the landscape and from the 15th century. So this is a BIM cave. And here you see the grid. And it's used in the-- back in the 17th century. But the BIM cave we'll have in two or it has to do something Because this is the panorama Barker's panorama. And the promise to see the world you went to Leicester could see Paris or or any other reality. And the new BIM, the promise of a to enter another world, And this will mean that architects and architects, not to have any real contact And it becomes even a reality. This is in Estonia very proud that this was done But at the same time, So how-- and it's naturally So how all these standardization, BIM, and so on. And, of course, the is Plato's cave because And well, you argues that we'd but we actually And so I ask myself, What kind of perception, of all this new And do we see the world So probably the things I'm how do all these our perception of the world? And I think that's where we deal with these phenomena. Thanks for your attention. [applause] Thank you Michael for that And I want to turn directly I know Michael's very happy Please. Thanks. I was wondering about And I think that, for example, town as well as in or something there is So within that, like Siena, for will be built using the And I think it's true So now that the zone of is global due to is there any-- do there's any way to without stopping communication? Well, two observations, Yeah, well, Siena is don't think it's standardized. If you look to the you know, the painting is a portrait of the city. And the city portraits And all the houses And there is a and I would even say a sort So the reality of the European is identity through And you have poor some houses which are very poorer people. And it's almost programmatically And it's quite late, in the 18th and 19th century comes up and that it So I think it's extremely linked to some ideologies. And your second observation, can we avoid standardization? I don't know. I try to understand So I think I'm interested and try to see, what are the And it's not easy because that's one of the ideas is that all these oppositions So and especially when we our landscape define as beautiful landscapes by ideology. For example, people don't but 20th century there is a history, a linked to ideology to far right ideology. Take, for example, [inaudible] [inaudible],, his book where that the bad landscape. And you see that a certain can be interpreted very of some philosophers of So I don't think we're-- I think it's far too dangerous we're for standardization, we don't have to stop it. I'm interested in saying, And let's understand And let's see, in some cases, And in some cases, So I don't think it's far too-- maybe we can do some once we understand in its full complexity. But we're not there. And so it's the same with BIM. So I went to this was interested in the So I work now on a project, how our interpretation of the world, So we have a project ongoing architecture studios, And I'm interested how everything, Google Maps, how the digital so that actually people And so I'm interested before trying to judge it to Yeah, thank you so much. I'm really interested in the and maybe to expand your, as Many of the examples you used seemed to either put it in a or viewing landscape or you're looking at items, almost sit on or seem to Whereas myself as a I think generatively as moving earth and planting and the very stuff of and not the stuff that So I wonder if you about the generic architects in this missing more with you about, such or Capability Brown in the United States, whereby medium. So the generic in landscape of landscape architecture? Yeah, vis-a-vis moving and inhabiting the actual to the view of an existing of the viewer in terms of which your examples used-- viewing platforms, solar of patterns, which I However, it's of the very landscape itself. Well, the first idea is that in the 18th century, you have all these people who Take Repton or Morel. Morel, who, by the way, an And he became the first around 1800. But the result they had something extremely generic. You remember when says if as a landscape want to work, you have to And it's a sort of And it has to be has to correspond in which you know from painting. So actually what they created And they used all the and everything. But the result had to be static. So there is a because the or picturesque garden of moving around and where you walk. But at the same time, of a picturesque garden, So the possibility to, and to freeze it. And if you didn't have frozen living paintings, then So I think that's that standardization and then in the 19th century. In contemporary, well, architecture is more as you said, what So we should start And who does landscape And who are the authors? And what is-- there is a field and planners-- well, who is the So what happens in these places? But I think another I don't answer, but still-- another thing I'm or I answered only half-- is the history, the influence on the form, the and of landscape architecture. So what happens, software and the create certain realities? What happened there? And so what I in is, how does everything create the reality And with BIM, it's fascinating can say it goes to the machine to the 3-D and to the production. So I think we go Because now-- while in the result was 2D, it it was a beautiful So you go from 2D to 3D. Yeah? Perhaps this is more another particularly on the last-- on that little diagram that the system, the And I'm wondering if in the sense to rethink that are producing this generic. Because exactly these landscapes beyond the form and are the result of issues of marketing, issues So I'm wondering if you have the conversation about the the stakeholders these images of landscape could be a good moment to bring, Yeah. Yeah, probably the sort so going back to what be important because, author and authorship And the reader or spectator And the one reality which is the system. But if we start with-- we have to define what we-- when it's very different than and the post-structuralists in the end of the 20th century. So probably, is digital system, to say that we have a sort of which has become so powerful at the moment. So even we as designers And the system will design the And this would be a sort which produces-- even our desire will So I think this is probably has to inquire. But I wouldn't have a system theory which I could cite But certainly, yeah, maybe in hermeneutics, the So because probably the thought that the language to define all the discourses. And language brings So probably, there is a sort of is extremely powerful today. And the rhetorics of non-written conglomerate which actually shape the world. So I would-- one of the into is a return of rhetorics. So that's one of the But I don't have Yeah. Yeah, thanks for your It was really fascinating. And Q&amp;A sessions is great too. My question relates, you concluded the lecture, the conclusion that you a little depressing in a way. And I'm wondering if or if you think that digital could perhaps usher in returning to Brunelleschi and dome and using the model and as the means to generate architecture. Whereas now, you know, you but you still produce a You still hand that to You are still-- you still have dimensional abstraction. Whereas, potentially you could just live in the dimensional and build in Is that a positive development? Would you see a return through the ability of the have more influence more use of local materials, abstracting to the but producing a document set? I don't know. Yeah, well, first of all, I And I don't want to sound You know, already he said, oh, now all these It's the end of culture. It's horrible. Because before And everyone had an And now all these young all these hipsters, they read. So it's horrible. It's always the end so I don't-- I'm not interested criticism of our tools. I think it's like people and everything becomes poorer. I don't think so. We have to use it So this is clear. And that's why the link there is something very intelligent in But still, they are an They're not the reality. So it's a very, very And many people like have said probably the of the Brunelleschi model, is because it's an extreme If the world becomes if I can control it, I And it's so powerful because it's so the true model, et cetera. So when you speak about and other things, about the quality I saw in many And probably, this is something And even as students, you have to be at the same time slow. And to be extremely have to use all the devices And you have to be the So you have to know everything But at the same time, you and you have to take your time. And to take your time have wonderful ways to use all But maybe the next day something which you draw. And I think many that probably the compromise technological and but I believe a lot in the And because I think it's and what you do with your You take your time. And when you take you reflect, so your reflection. And I think there is a distance. And when you have a look differently to And the danger of everything to the digital is that you And so probably, we have organic and mechanic but certainly not depressed. Festina lente, Will you all join me in for this beautiful lecture? [applause] Thanks.