In a light filled warehouse Hundreds of workers are police and military and shaping shirts, with crye precision, a multicam, then packing it ready to be sold often on Amazon. Amazon.com has perhaps tens products that are available presently being used by forces all around the But in March, Crye filed a against counterfeiters. It's a problem, Crye says. Costs it millions of happens with alarming At what point of your job counterfeits? Um, unfortunately, it's In 2020, Amazon launched a team up with brands and law investigations like this. We're not going to stop counterfeits in the Amazon Amazon also has online tools Project Zero that give and remove counterfeits. But retail experts say it's So even if that product is make money every time their website, so they're pull this stuff down CNBC went to Virginia for an counterfeit crimes unit, and Crye precision what it counterfeiters in their Counterfeits are a decades marketplaces, including third party site in 2000. The explosion of digital increased the amount of consumers for purchase, there's quite a few more available for purchase. By 2016, sellers told CNBC. The problem was growing openly court Chinese Sales from Chinese based than doubled in 2015. Absolutely. It got There's there's zero doubt I mean, that opened the In the next few years, big Nike quit selling directly counterfeits and the Wild marketplace. Then came the shopping frenzy in the Amazon was doing better meant more incentive for The pandemic obviously put bit because suddenly A lot of folks were People were chasing goods in some respects. So in June 2020, Amazon Crimes Unit, or CCU, as a analysts, investigators and like CCU head Kebharu It was called upon from the company at the time, Jeff In over four years, we counterfeit bad actors or criminal referrals. Now, Smith's CCU team has We're all over the globe London team members in Amazon says it partnered the world to seize 7 and execute more than 50 and employing 15,000 people In China, for example, last investigations that and arrest of over 100 We also partnered with the raid action, where one of involved and embedded with related to counterfeit Amazon also sues brands like Yeti, Game Crye. Shade is completely off from very strict about. So this thousands of soldiers. While counterfeits have for high end brands. The smaller brands like Crye a This was a counterfeit brand They have an Amazon Unfortunately, they were contracts as well. Genuine multicam. Black has a lot of black dark environments, as you on this small panel of it, It's actually got a lot so it's going to be pretty Unlike counterfeits sold on shoppers have less authenticity before a Although there are some Looking to see if how long business, how long they've platform, do they have a Things like that. Although, to. Complicate matters, sometimes buy a slew of appear legitimate, even for Like Crye, it can be hard counterfeit online listing of legitimate resellers. The colors are pretty close the brown is fairly close very close to the olive. And they're they're using well. So that, you know, If all we have to go off of internet. When we see a shirt and pant for $40, we know almost for possibly be authentic just simply be impossible multicam fabrics at those Low cost counterfeits hurt Amazon's reputation at Early on, Jeff Bezos consumer trust. And so, you an earnest disincentive for products on the platform But as counterfeits find categories online. They can customers too. Counterfeiter doesn't care Now a seller consultant Amazon's fraud and product roughly 2007 to 2015. Around 2013, Greer recalls Apple charger. There was a person who was dying in the UK from a It was counterfeit. Had place like it just looked the inside it would plug zap you really hard because For years, Amazon's lawsuits that it's only the sellers and therefore not third parties. But in a federal regulators be held responsible for It could be something that with lead or, you know, if infant's toy, if it battery that is, you know, overheat. Some of Crye's camouflage is innocuous products on to wallets to belt bags. But for Crye's biggest police, the authenticity of essential for keeping them These shapes and colors are grass but being viewed will be concealed. This though, because it is When viewed under night solid white. So if a on his back or carrying it, away. In another high stakes the office of the Inspector counterfeiter operating Navy Yard. The government agency who under the impression that flame resistant, which they We were able to seize the resistant materials and in company are in jail as we Cry says its partnership enforcement resulted in California, and the seizure counterfeit multicam goods. They've really given us the least insofar as the Amazon far more headway than we do on our own. We cover the cost of the that they may not have that for them. We cover We cover the cost of a they may not have the counsel, Smith says. The CCU also shares data sellers with law citing several times when pursuits. In a prosecution in the where an individual was years for selling and servers, and was $100 million in illicit Amazon has also recently over a new type of Social media influencers, generic link schemes, where link and direct their an e-commerce store. And when that customer receive a counterfeit Of course, plenty of cases by the CCU, so Amazon has like Brand Registry, where approved, use tools to counterfeits through a We can upload images of I guess it's some level of there and will cull what it problematic products, and review and validate the brand. Registry tool also has our allows brands to affix products that can help our enforcement identify products. Sellers on brand registry robust program launched in which auto scans billions counterfeits and let their own immediately intermediary. Tools like that aren't many other platforms that weren't available on Amazon It's undeniable that They've also gotten a lot still is appealing target Amazon can only pursue they are, and online place to hide. It's very easy for for a up a storefront on a marketplace in good faith, whack a mole is going Once somebody has set up probably started moving of counterfeit merchandise, Why Amazon has rolled out a verification tools in Involve things such as through live interviews, such as bank accounts and actual seller who is Grier went through the a new Amazon account as a I had to do a video employee, and I got a code on it, and so they the person who is on my ID, address that I had access And for new sellers of major Cuisinart. Amazon will items are legitimate, from perfect. We've also identified bad fictitious IDs to set up gates. We've identified schemes, where bad actors a way to get past our With the rise of overseas and varying international harder to tell who you're contact in case of a China historically does not for intellectual property, intellectual property held or companies, and as a has become sort of a haven activity. In the US, there's a new designed to help the Inform last year, requires online get detailed information sellers or face penalties violation. The measure was about transparency, you know, the dark corners of the that a lot of these high either stolen or behind a screen name and Last year, Amazon says it selling accounts from being ill intent. Still, solving simply not be possible at marketplace like Amazon. This is always going to be a fight. There's no doubt Bad acting printers on its face look quite real So without Amazon having experience that we have to slip through. Plus, the that Amazon sells creates impossible mountain to stuff doesn't get through.