I'm going to start that I saw in my inbox recently. Now, I have a pretty unusual inbox because I'm a therapist and I write an advice column so you can imagine what's in there. I mean, I've read thousands from strangers all over the world. And these letters range to spats with parents or siblings. I keep them in a folder on my laptop, and I've named it So, I get this email, and I want to bring you and read you one of these letters. And here's how it goes. &quot;Dear Therapist, I've been married for 10 years and things were good That's when my husband and now we barely have sex at all.&quot; I'm sure you guys were not expecting this. (Laughter) &quot;Well, last night I discovered he's been secretly having with a woman at his office. I googled her, and she's gorgeous. I can't believe this is happening. My father had an affair and it broke our family apart. Needless to say, I'm devastated. If I stay in this marriage, I'll never be able But I don't want to put our kids stepmom situation, etc. What should I do?&quot; Well, what do you think she should do? If you got this letter, you might be thinking Or maybe about how especially because of her experience And like me, you'd probably and you might even have some, how should I put this nicely, let's just call them &quot;not-so-positive&quot; Now, those are the kinds of things when I'm reading But I have to be really careful because I know that every letter I get written by a specific author. And that another version It always does. And I know this because if I've learned it's that we are all unreliable I am. You are. And so is everyone you know. Which I probably shouldn't have told you because now you're not Look, I don't mean Most of what people tell me just from their current points of view. Depending on what what they leave in, what they leave out, what they see and want me to see, they tell their stories The psychologist Jerome Bruner &quot;To tell a story is, inescapably, All of us walk around Why choices were made, why we treated someone a certain way -- because obviously, they deserved it -- why someone treated us a certain way -- even though, obviously, we didn't. Stories are the way But what happens when the stories we tell are misleading or incomplete Well, instead of providing clarity, these stories keep us stuck. We assume that our circumstances But what I found time and again in my work is that the exact opposite happens. The way we narrate our lives That's the danger of our stories, because they can really mess us up, but it's also their power. Because what it means then we can change our lives. And today, I want to show you how. Now, I told you I'm a therapist, and I really am, I'm not being But if I'm, let's say, on an airplane, and someone asks what I do, I usually say I'm an editor. And I say that partly I always get some awkward response, like, &quot;Oh, a therapist. Are you going to psychoanalyze me?&quot; And I'm thinking, &quot;A : no, and B: why would I do that here? If I said I was a gynecologist, would you ask if I were (Laughter) But the main reason I say I'm an editor is because it's true. Now, it's the job of all therapists but what's interesting is that when I edit, I'm trying to teach a whole group using one letter each week as the example. So I'm thinking about things like, &quot;What material is extraneous?&quot; &quot;Is the protagonist moving forward are the supporting characters important &quot;Do the plot points reveal a theme?&quot; And what I've noticed is that most people's stories The first is freedom, and the second is change. And when I edit, those are the themes that I start with. So, let's take a look Our stories about freedom go like this: we believe, in general, that we have an enormous Except when it comes in which case, suddenly, Many of our stories We feel imprisoned our relationships, our pasts. Sometimes, we even imprison ourselves I know you guys all know these stories. The &quot;everyone's life courtesy of social media. The &quot;I'm an impostor&quot; story, the &quot;nothing will ever The &quot;when I say, 'Hey, Siri, ' that means she hates me&quot; story. I see you, see, I'm not the only one. The woman who wrote me that letter, she also feels trapped. If she stays with her husband, but if she leaves, Now, there's a cartoon of what's really going on The cartoon shows a prisoner desperately trying to get out. But on the right and the left, it's open. No bars. The prisoner isn't in jail. That's most of us. We feel completely trapped, stuck in our emotional jail cells. But we don't walk because we know there's a catch. Freedom comes with responsibility. And if we take responsibility we might just have to change. And that's the other common theme Those stories sound like this: a person says, &quot;I want to change.&quot; But what they really mean is, &quot;I want another character Therapists describe this dilemma as: &quot;If the queen had balls, I mean -- (Laughter) It makes no sense, right? Why wouldn't we want the protagonist, who's the hero of the story, to change? Well, it might be because change, even really positive change, involves a surprising amount of loss. Loss of the familiar. Even if the familiar is unpleasant at least we know the characters right down to the recurring &quot;You never do the laundry!&quot; &quot;I did it last time!&quot; &quot;Oh, yeah? When?&quot; There's something oddly comforting about knowing exactly every single time. To write a new chapter It's to stare at a blank page. And as any writer will tell you, there's nothing more terrifying But here's the thing. Once we edit our story, the next chapter We talk so much in our culture But part of getting to know yourself To let go of the one version of the story so that you can live your life, and not the story about your life. And that's how we walk around those bars. So I want to go back to the letter She asked me what she should do. Now, I have this word ultracrepidarianism. The habit of giving advice or opinions It's a great word, right? You can use it in all different contexts, I'm sure you will be using it I use it because it reminds me I can help people to sort out but I can't make Only you can write your story, and all you need are some tools. So what I want to do is I want to edit this woman's letter as a way to show And I want to start by asking you to think of a story that might not be serving you well. It might be about a circumstance it might be about a person in your life, it might even be about yourself. And I want you to look Who are the people who are helping you to uphold the wrong version of this story? For instance, if the woman told her friends what happened, they would probably offer her Now, in idiot compassion, we say, &quot;You're right, that's so unfair,&quot; when a friend tells us that he didn't even though we know this has happened because he doesn't really and he probably (Laughter) We say, &quot;Yeah, you're right, he's a jerk,&quot; when a friend tells us even though we know she tends to behave in relationships, like the incessant texting that tend to lead to this outcome. We see the problem, it's like, if a fight breaks out it might be you. (Laughter) In order to be good editors, not just to our friends, but to ourselves. This is what's called -- &quot;delivering compassionate truth bombs.&quot; And these truth bombs are compassionate, because they help us to see The truth is, we don't know if this woman's husband or why their sex life or what those late-night And it might be she's writing a singular but there's probably something else that she's not willing or maybe even herself, to see. It's like that guy You all know what Rorschach tests are? A psychologist shows you some ink blots, and asks, &quot;What do you see?&quot; So the guy looks &quot;Well, I definitely don't see blood.&quot; And the examiner says, &quot;Alright, tell me what else In writing, this is called point of view. What is the narrator not willing to see? So, I want to read you one more letter. And it goes like this. &quot;Dear Therapist, I need help with my wife. Lately, everything I do irritates her, even small things, like the noise At breakfast, I noticed that she even tries so it won't be as crunchy.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;I feel like she became critical of me I was very close with him, and her father left when she was young, so she couldn't relate There's a friend at work and who understands my grief. I wish I could talk to my wife but I feel like she barely How can I get my wife back?&quot; OK. So, what you probably picked up on is that this is the same story just told from another Her story was about his story is about a wife But what's remarkable, what both of these stories are about And if we can get out and write the story suddenly that other character and the plot opens up. That's the hardest step but it's also where change begins. What would happen and wrote it from another What would you see now That's why, when I see people I sometimes say, &quot;You are not the best person because depression distorts our stories It narrows our perspectives. The same is true when we feel We create all kinds of stories, distorted through a very narrow lens that we don't even know And then, we've effectively become I have a confession to make. I wrote the husband's version You have no idea how much time I spent debating between granola I wrote it based on all that I've seen over the years, not just in my therapy practice, When it's happened that two people involved have written to me, and I have two versions of the same story sitting in my inbox. That really has happened. I don't know what the other version but I do know this: she has to write it. Because with a courageous edit, she'll write a much more nuanced version Even if her husband and maybe he is -- she doesn't need to know Because just by virtue of doing an edit, she'll have so many more possibilities Now, sometimes it happens and they're really invested We call them help-rejecting complainers. I'm sure you know people like this. They're the people who, they reject it with, &quot;Yeah, no, &quot;Yeah, no, that's impossible, &quot;Yeah, I really want more friends, (Laughter) What they're really rejecting is an edit to their story And so, with these people, And what I do is I say something else. I say to them, &quot;We're all going to die.&quot; I bet you're really glad Because they look back at me the way you're looking back with this look of utter confusion. But then I explain that there's a story that gets written It's called an obituary. And I say that instead of being we get to shape these stories We get to be the hero we get to choose what goes on the page and shapes our realities. I tell them that life is about deciding and which ones need an edit. And that it's worth the effort because there's nothing more important than the stories I say that when it comes we should be aiming for our own Now, most of us aren't or at least we don't believe we are. But it's a role when we feel anxious So the next time remember, we're all going to die. (Laughter) And then pull out your editing tools and ask yourself: what do I want my story to be? And then, go write your masterpiece. Thank you. (Applause)