Hello. I'm Caroline Steel. This is the BBC World Service. And welcome to The Engineers. This year we're at the Science Specialist And we're here to focus defining our era, artificial intelligence. I'm joined by a panel of three world enthusiastic audience in Imperial's Already a computer can defeat the world's greatest player at our most complex The first movie written entirely by AI has just been released, our first antibiotic in three decades. Together we've brought together three engineers to discuss their work Paolo Pirjanian is Armenian, but he was born in Iran rovers for NASA. He's now founder and CEO of Embodied, that builds emotionally intelligent robots David Silver is from the UK, where he's Research Lab. Google DeepMind. He led the team that used AI to defeat the world's best player And he's working on artificial general Regina Barzilay is Israeli-American and Health at MIT in the U.S. She created a major breakthrough and also led the team that used AI to discover what is hoped to be So please do join me in Regina, let's start with you. So what is it that made Sadly, you were in the perfect position Yeah. So actually, as a faculty and I was working on And in 2014, and I was treated in the United States, And what I discovered going through or not even basic information technology Neither the diagnostics And, you know, after I was treated, as to what I want to do, because it was the first time and I've seen a lot of very sick people And I was thinking, What can I do? And MGH - this hospital at MIT - they are separated by a bridge I'm saying, how come we have but none of it is actually coming So after I finished my treatment, I started kind of going from doctor to doctor, asking them, you know, how I'm a professor. So there were not many takers, we found somebody who... it was who had the idea that we can apply AI to do early detection of cancer. Thank you, Regina. David, and you did a PhD in reinforcement What is reinforcement learning and Yeah. So I guess I started out in the games I went back to academia and I was working And as a big part of building for those games, that kind of makes And I found myself by the methods that were being used And it felt like what I really wanted to do was build I discovered this idea of reinforcement very much like those that animals where the system is able to learn and error, from trying things out So is it sort of like when we learn to not touch fire because at some point and we learn don't do that in the future Is it sort of like how humans Yes, it's a lot like that. So in fact humans are believed to have, which is devoted to providing a signal, that makes the brain actually learn to do more of the good things And so actually, that's inspired learning to make machines But a machine doesn't feel heat How can you reward a machine? Yeah, so for a machine, it's just a number. So you give it a positive number if it's done something good something bad. And at the end of the day, stems from that one single number. So this one single number, enormous power because it's the signal Paolo, you said your experiences of feeling alienated in foreign countries made And I'm sure much of our audience but for most of us, they stay imaginary. How did you go about making a real one? So unfortunately, there's a lot of people in need of companionship or therapy, and there's a massive gap of labour force that can provide us, as an example, We know the prevalence of things Ten years ago Today, it's one out of about 30 kids. So the experiences I had, at a very young age, I mean, these are amazing people, but yet you are different, So this is not too dissimilar that has a hard time expressing themselves And that was the genesis of creating human emotions, with a child, and it'll help them such as eye contact, so that the child has a chance Thank you. Regina, what can AI do when it comes to understanding So I think a big question is always, And unfortunately, today we rely on humans to make predictions. And as a result, many times or they are diagnosed much later. And one question that really troubled me and when we already developed a model, and rediscovered the mammograms already had on a tiny small cancer. Now, for human eye, for radiologists, it's impossible to diagnose it There's So what AI can do, it can do a lot of tasks Take all the data that we have and remove the guessing Thank you. David, AI had already defeated the reigning well before you started your project AlphaGo and the rules of Go Basically, on each turn, and you gain territory and the player with the most territory So why is it harder for a computer Which sounds more complicated. So the game of Go where it seems at first glance But once you start to understand it an onion, you discover more and what's amazing is that when humans If you ask them to describe how they did They've used incredible intuition. And so these amazing professional players to this game have built this incredible and intuition and creativity considered to be very human So while chess, it was possible to succeed in the game of Go, that wasn't enough you just have this handful of stones imagine what the game will pan out like, with this sort of intuitive sense And that required some Paolo, debatably even more complex Your human centred robot forms How can a robot do that? Well, first of all, it's important to make clear that the robot is not meant It's really almost like training and then be able to practice The way the robot forms bond is that humans are wired to bonding. We create connections with inanimate objects all the time. I mean, with a robot can smile back at you and can speak to you It's actually not that hard And children open up to to these robots in ways that they may not even open up Thank you, Paolo. Regina, you not only made an impact AI to discover what could be our first new antibiotic in three decades. It seems it can be E. Coli, MRSA, which are currently resistant So I think we all wish it success. How did you do that? So I should say that, you know, developing with an immense competition, to antibiotics This happened to be an area are not very active because economically So in some ways we do need to have I met a colleague and he was working. He was from biological engineering, And he was describing the big problem which are effective against bacteria, drug But at the same time, are not toxic to humans. They have some molecules screened against, We started with that and then we just gave to the machine, And for each molecule you knew It was kind of the first attempt How do you look at the structure of the molecule and predict We found a molecule that didn't look like And it turns out in the lab using a different mechanism of action, And that's what made it so effective David, let's go back to you. So, so far we've been talking one task - that's known as narrow AI, but you're working towards Could you explain So if you think about humans this wonderful and beautiful thing which are incredibly diverse, where, you know, one person might choose to and another person might specialise in becoming an amazing chef and another person, a scientist artificial intelligence, we want systems but in a similar manner to humans, any number of problems that's capable of doing amazing things And that's what we refer to as artificial And how far off do you think we are from So I think it's going to be a spectrum And I also think it's likely that there are many breakthroughs before we can really crack, level of intelligence that humans have. Regina, you've developed but it's only employed Why is AI not used The problem is that but this technology is And if I would ask the audience, you know, your physician, and I'm sure not So I think the technology for many of the tasks but there are many other questions One is the regulation or regulations, UK, US - continue to change. Another big problem is people And today the American doctor when they see a patient. So it's not much of a motivation. So just to clarify that, did could actually make them lose money I'm referring The way the billing is done it somehow relates to the time So if you have something that makes Very depressing. And Paolo, what about your challenges? The robot you've developed What's next? I'm very of creating social emotional AI systems that can help humanity become its best. If we can intervene early with children they have a chance of really integrating doing really well. When we think about other vulnerable areas of our life is when we age. Social isolation, being lonely, health issues, that leads We can have the same systems Once we figure out the physical task, you can also imagine meaning that they can be not only but they can also be a companion let's go for a walk together a lot with independent when we are at that age. Do you think we'll see robots any time soon, I think it is within the next decade. Oh wow. David, you're working on Gemini, and you aim for it to be able to do People would probably be very happy definitely would be. But novels, should we really be letting So it's a great question. I think I wouldn't see it as taking over I think what will happen, or providing an incredibly powerful tool So we've already seen this we've developed technologies kinds of media to basically create things So, for example, there's a music that was released recently, Will.i.am when he's playing with it And he's just so excited his songwriting process So I think, you know what I really hope AI and the humans kind of work together So, you know, I'm excited to be in a world the most amazing novels that which go far beyond the ones Thank you, David. Thank you. This is The Engineers - Intelligent We've discussed medical AI, of artificial general intelligence Has anyone got a question Okay. Pretty much everyone has a hand up, Could we start If you could stand up and say your name Thank you very much. Hello, my name's Simon. The British a leader in AI and sees the way to do this They're looking at doing that AI where you don't understand Does the panel think that's the right So, yes. David, what do you think about legislation I think we need some kind of regulation. I think it's, you know, an area to have more and more consequence So I think regulation is important. I think some of the areas in various summits over the last year - One thing I would say to come up with like a one size because it's So you know, the regulation quite different to the kind of regulation So I think, you know, and make sure that whatever we do, the consequences of what There's a lot of anxiety about the pace AI is moving, right? We have people resigning, leaders for more safeguarding the threat to jobs, Regina? I actually feel quite opposite. People are really suffering. It's hard for patients, it's hard There is a lot of technologies and because we cannot get together make, you know, the payers take part of it I think we are really making many, Thank you. Paolo, what about robots? Are they going to take all our jobs? Yes. Yes. Okay, great. We've got it. We finally have On a serious conundrum to think about legislation, yes, there are definitely risks so that no one with bad intentions On the other hand, potent technology. It could change everything in our lives including being strategically important technology to master from a national perspective. And from that perspective, let's say part of what are our adversaries going to do? Are they going to So it's a bit of an arms race. And I think for that reason, practically speaking, to regulate it to that international regulation and agreement across all the powerful nations to say And I haven't seen that work out very well Fair enough. Audience, we have time for a couple more questions. So hands up. If we could go to the man Thank you. Hello, panel. My name's Rob. And I'm a business and sports coach. And I'm wondering is possible for helping humans at a sport. Good question. Who's our greatest sport enthusiast? Perhaps this one is for you, David. Can we be using AI to improve sports It's a great question. There's a lot of really amazing research You know, one thing which we've been doing a collaboration with Liverpool Football their tactics. So that's one example. I think, you know, the amazing thing so refined in terms of the particular that people take that actually, to new discoveries And so it's been really fun actually, Very cool. Thank you, David. I can see we've got lots of young people Does any of our younger audience If so stick your hand up. There was a young lady with a ponytail. Yes. As AI develops, I reckon that humans probably depend more on AI Is there anything we could do to develops, humans still develop and learn? Ooh, good question. So will we stop learning, as I'm going to put that to all of you if that's all right. What do you think, David? I'd like which is like a personal friend, and everything we do understands just how to teach us and help us Regina, what do you think? Do you think we're just going to end up AI for everything? As a non-native speaker of English I remember as a young professor like reading my papers and making sure, we don't have and so I make a lot of mistakes I see now how I write papers. Actually, and I can really focus on ideas So I hope that we will find a symbiosis. We don't really, but we can just do more and focus I would like to imagine Einstein had access to these tools today, as they were at a time imagine what they would have done and if they had access to these tools. In the next five years potentially, you don't need to code. You will just tell your favourite AI system and you can accomplish what would So it will make you more prolific. Thank you. I think it's fair to say all three of you Audience, thank you so much for your questions. I wish we could take more, That's it for The Engineers - Intelligent Machines I'm Caroline Steel. On behalf of the BBC World Service our partners the Royal Commission for the Exhibition Please join me in giving a warm round AI engineers Regina