- All right, let's get started. This marinated short of our Butcher's Feast and Omakase, and we call it the &quot;meat dessert&quot; kind of. It's sweet, crispy. - We go through a shit ton of meat. I believe we go through about - People might think that that we could be sick and Cutting this, marinating it's so much fun. - But a lot of time, too, What we're gonna do, just and you're just gonna work your way down. - Short rib is considered but the reason why the because it needs a lot of knife work. - Unlike conventional steakhouses, we need to create a lot which is meticulous, you you need time to age it, it - There's a nice feeling about taking this clean off like this. I mean, I guess if you you just kind of get into the groove, and something just feels that's a clean cut. So this is clean. From here, we're just Once you cut this in half, - People think that, on the table, little do they know. It's definitely a very - Final butchering stage of the short rib, it's gonna be scoring on making sure that we're not and then we're gonna flip it around, do the similar thing, gonna and if you do it correctly, it should kind of do a little stretch. Short ribs usually are longer cooking techniques, with a correct marinade, or five minutes, and tender, a lot of flavors, and it kind of stretches So for me, this volume from the get go was just a normal day, a mountain - As a chef, having really that's not granted, it - When you look at a swan they look so graceful. Underneath they're paddling like hell, and I think that's what our operation is. - So after this, we're gonna that's made in-house with all and it sits in the marinade about minimum of six to eight hours before it's served. - [SK] All the food that we do over here, there's nothing that If we don't pay attention then the result is wrong, then we can't really - So after the short rib, we eight more cuts to cut. It's a morning of butchery today. - A lot of times when you look at Cote, it's &quot;get lit and have a lot of fun,&quot; but you cannot achieve that in the time, the muscle, - Yeah, so right now, for dinner service. The sink on the right is which goes to every table. The julienne, or cut the scallion and you cut scallion like this A week where it broke and we had to, there was six of us with knives, just trying to julienne this for hours. - That happened to me when It was a Friday night, Saturday night. I don't want to go back. (laughs) - And, you guys, you just gotta I can't even pick this up. These guys are probably six cases of scallion, and this is on the daily prep so we can feed our guests - Cote is a steakhouse, but we I'm from Korea, so are both of our chefs. So it was a very important mission for us to bring forward - So this is the first So we take the outer leaves - And what we didn't of a westernized, Americanized - And usually the stem is the part that gets salted the least, so there's more area for Salting is the most important part. If you mess up on the salting, the cabbage won't eat and instead of being crunchy, it's gonna get a little bit mushy, and that's when you kind of fail. - [SK] So this process, there's no fast forward for this one. Literally every single - [David] If you cheat, you waste- - [SK] There's no going back. - [David] 10 to 14 days - Right, so this is called Topanyeom, which is a 1,000 day aged salt, which is typically super coarse. In Korean, there's a term which is your taste of your hand. It's a key aspect of Korean cuisine 'cause a lot of the recipe - And usually when we do kimchi in Korea, usually three moms are together, and they get piles of cabbage. - [David] Aunties, your - Yeah, aunties, and huge, huge kimchi production - My parents and my at a Korean steakhouse, Korean restaurant. But when I tell them I'm making six cases of kimchi a week, they'll be like, &quot;What are you doing making kimchi? Oh, you went to culinary I could have taught you that.&quot; So after this video goes out, we might get a lot of calls from family. - My background, after basically both of us were coming from a French-based restaurant. I never thought that I was - [David] Here he is. - Here I am, and then I really like it because when I came here, I was like, oh, this feels like home I know kalbi. - After a certain point, or think back, it's like, what now? The more and more you think about it and what holds you to your past, I think really starts to bloom, and I think that's why we're here. - But now it's like on a restaurant scale. So it's a little bit because we always try So these guys are gonna and it'll be ready to be All right, so you want to make sure that there's a crunch, it's not gonna have the texture Mm, salty, crunchy. Everybody can scoop to their hotel pans, and we're gonna stuff making sure that we get So once you stuff it nicely, I'm gonna put it into this bucket, have this closed off, for about 10 to 14 days. Two, four, six, eight, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 30 buckets of kimchi at a time that's being stored in the walk-in. It's our secret sauce, right? - Sourcing to us is probably one of the most important things. So right now we have two We're actually looking to Owning a restaurant, we get to taste a lot of different things, but This is definitely one - So I brought in six different kinds. - We want to bring really, Having a great relationship And ideally, I'm looking for with almost like a white hue - [Shaoching] Oh, I see. - But our restaurant is a that kind of lighter pop kind of brings that kind of excitement to the table. This is the hybrid that we Oh, man, that's so delicious. There's a reason why we use this, huh? - [Shaoching] And I have brought in today white sturgeon from California. and I also brought in another species that's a Siberian from Uruguay. - If you're gonna taste it, taste a lot, right, so you can actually - All the big chefs do that. The next one, you should try the supreme. Supreme, yeah, it's white - That very pleasant salt, it's not that kind of bitter salty. - The next shipment, I'm I have to really pick... when - I want big pearl, kind of gray with the whiter hue, if you could create that. (laughs) - Okay, I can create that, I'm - Shaoching, thank you It's always a pleasure. - So all the trays that this is a big part of and our opening runners and the prep team, they really get into this This is for every table with us tonight, kimchi to We're gonna work on the raw bar. I think SK prepared some - Super excited, what you got? - Live king crab, live spotted prawns, and live razor clams. - [Simon] I'm excited, bro. - [David] Cool. - [SK] Let's do this. - Last year we introduced We call it the Grand Plateau. - And we got this amazing - [David] Damn. - [SK] Look at that. - It's missing that je ne sais quoi, so we're actually trying to add that final shine - So we're gonna do a spotted prawns, all live. - [SK] Yeah, so sweet, so - So Chef SK and Chef David, behind this operation. Normally a steakhouse is that requires very powerful chefs, whereas Cote, that's - Butchering all day and then into getting these how to poach, how to cook, how this is when our chef mentality We're like, zoom, how do I make this the that we can make? - Cote, we want to position in between a steakhouse where everything's just a funnel through, and there's a super chef-driven I think somewhere in - [SK] All right, and All right, first here is the oysters. - I feel like Simon Kim is a medium. I try to kind of stay in and what chefs want to do. Initially, the tension between the chef and my vision has been kind but at this point, we've We've really worked just like one being. - Dealing with Simon's a a pain in the butt. He wants to be the best version of it. - But he's always a great supporter. Yes, he pushes, but we all know that, where he's coming from, we - Working in the kitchen, you of what the guests want about, what do I want to We really want to respect and Simon brings definitely So I think this iteration, we're gonna try to meet all of his of what they have in the market currently. (gently chiming music) We love caviar here. I think we've definitely of the ones that we've had in the past. Decided to put the caviar on the top to give that super luxe feeling. I mean, we'll probably he'll give us shit a little bit, and we'll figure it out. - Basically, he's gonna be but now we're gonna talk doesn't make sense. - And we're gonna need to and then he'll be like, &quot;No, I think that's a little too crazy.&quot; And then we'll be like, that you like and that we did it, and then what can we do?&quot; - What's going on, chefs? - What's going on, Simon? - Ooh, it looks really nice. of a different version of our tower. And the middle tier is - It's really beautiful. I think the razor clam's to eat, unless you're very I think it's gonna be a little difficult. Maybe we get individualized so that everyone gets one, because if I'm with four of my friends, if I make a mess, I'm What is this, spotted prawn? - Yeah. - [Simon] That was live, no? - Yeah, yeah. Only the best. - So sweet, yeah. The spotted prawn looks really good. I don't know, caviar on top, it definitely looks like a But in terms of elevation wise, right, being in such a top position, it's gonna be a little difficult, right, 'cause imagine, I'm assuming it's gonna be not that Otherwise the customer has to go through, do this, and that's not So I think we need to figure out something that's a little easier But otherwise, I love the king crab. I think it's gonna taste super delicious. Live, live, huh? - Yeah, all live. - That's awesome, wow, that's amazing. Yeah, king crab, it's in terms of costing, do you think, what do you think this is gonna be? - I think it's gonna be pretty pricey. (group laughs) King crab only has six legs. (laughs) - [David] And there's two of them. - Yeah. - I think we're definitely onto something, but I think we need to figure out, A, we don't want to make it too expensive. I think the entire Grand than $225 for sure, right? I think caviar can be so if somebody wants it, because this thing is gonna - Right, it is, yeah. - Yeah, but it looks - All right. - Thank you, Chef. - [David] We got beef coming in. - At a steakhouse, everything Beef is king. - We got American Wagyu flat iron. - And of course, trimming 'cause we receive everything, and we need to now take out the silver skin, and then make it just really presentable. - Oh, look, more short ribs. This arrival comes in almost every day, maybe twice a day, if - It all depends. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - And I don't know what but what they with not only the rib meat, but with the short ribs, with the flat iron, typically considered like a prime cut or a premium cut, it's unbelievable. - [SK] What we have here which goes on our Butcher's Feast. - So Butcher's Feast is the foolproof way of enjoying Korean steakhouse. - We just gotta say this one of the most underrated So the reason a lot of by this cut is because of this. So inside there's this thick membrane, or we call it the sinew. So this part, it's hardly noticeable. It kind of blends in with the beef. We're just gonna go and take off the hard sinew, and you'll be able to and it'll be a very tender Next, ribeye? - So we have our own dry aging room, number one, because it's a swag. - So this is our dry aging room. I'm gonna be taking out a couple of the ones that are ready. We age them about 45 days minimum, and we'll cut it, portion it, and we'll be ready for service tonight. - It's so important that and that beef never leaves our sight. - [SK] The meat is dry it's a little... you just if you follow the lines. - We're in full control of our aging room. It's important that we are in control of every aspect of our steak. - And show you the way. See, it's simple. We're just gonna go straight to the saw, and then we're gonna cut it into about inch and a half thick cuts. Not a lot of restaurants have a band saw because of it's dangerous, space, whatnot, but we figured this is into our operation. And all of these are good to go. And what Victor's gonna do is he's gonna scrape off this fat, The next step after this is on the grill, so when we butcher, normally we would take this part. Next, we'll take this off the bone. So this will be used and the cap, or the spinalis, All right, we have the last part of... oh. We have the last part which is the hanger steak. - Back in the day, when you go to a Korean barbecue restaurant, you needed to go with a Korean friend. - If I have to pick one cut it's probably the hanger steak, (laughs) 'cause it never comes in So this sits close to the organs, so it's definitely been more iron rich. I feel like this represents to what beef is supposed to So it always has two sides, a thinner muscle on the other. - So we wanted to demystify it, right? You can walk in and and you'll get everything that at a Korean barbecue restaurant. - And one side is clean. Many houses, if you were I think it's okay to leave but since we're gonna just want to go down the middle, follow this line that's but more a slanted horizontal line. Skin the silver skin. We like to wrap the beef. I think it definitely absorbs the blood, which prevents it from I think it dries the which gives it a nicer crust. So this is gonna be our So what we want to do is make sure that it is thick enough Here's the hanger steak. Next, the ribeye. - So Cote is kind of perceived 'cause it is, we have the - [SK] Flat iron. - But if you came here and it can be in and out at $58 per person. - [SK] And then the marinated short rib, so that'll be the feast set. - This smokeless grill of every single table is center of Cote. It's the most important piece. A steak is like a brand new Mercedes Benz. The moment it leaves the it depreciates in value. So what we did is we which is a charbroiler, out to the table. If you're gonna ball it's about seven different cuts. - And we're gonna go from next cut will be the skirt steak. There's the ribeye cap. - And you get to eat all different beef, but very small portion. It's about lighting your palette, as opposed to consuming - And then the Cote steak, So that's the Omakase for four. This would also be finished (gently chiming music) We got through most of our butchering. I think Victor's got a Most of our runner teams getting ready for service. - We have a lot of regular customers that we're very grateful to continuously. They patronize us, so we - [David] Next thing we - We want to bring really, - I never got a chance to - One of the most expensive - $300 per pound, all right? Uh-oh, moment of truth. Whoa, so we have the Miyazaki that we serve currently at So that it doesn't flare, I'm gonna trim this fat a little bit. Shall we, excuse me. All right, so we got our Only thing we're gonna do - So all of these things we want to be the one that - [David] You know what, - And make sure that we bring value and quality to our customers. - [David] I'm kind of nervous to cut it, but you know what, let's try it out. - And 99.9% of Kobe in This is actually born and This is my third time - Third time, wow, lucky you. First time for us. - [Simon] All right, let's do it. I'm gonna do actually Kobe first, yeah. - [SK] Okay. - [David] Okay. - Exploded and disappeared. - But that is really light, right, it's not as- - It's very different, yeah. It's funny. - I mean, if you even and all the fat that came to the Kobe, it's completely different. This just eats so much smoother, or- - It does, it doesn't on the fat right now. - [Simon] How much more expensive is this? - [David] Double. - It's double, okay. The question is, is it (David laughs) - I'm not 100% sure yet. - I think what we should do let's special it, and see how and then see how that goes. Very excited about this. So it is 4:30, chefs are on his mise en place. In 30 minutes, guests are So we're gonna get busy, thank you. (group applauds) - [Amy] Simon, you want - [Simon] Yes, we actually that's not on the menu right now. We actually got some Kobe beef. I believe it's going to be $64 an ounce. To send you off, a lot It's a good amount, of information to learn, right, hospitality is about The hospitality of pleasing at five o'clock, but it starts now, right? We please each other, we create a culture where we are constantly in habit and when the five o'clock it's natural for us to So much love, thank you. (group applauds) - It's about five o'clock, We have our egg souffle, We want to make sure everything which is the things that we (dramatic orchestral music) We might have to season the and we got a big, fresh push ahead of us, so let's get ready. First push, okay, we're five oysters, table - [Chef] They want this out. - [David] Bacon and Can I have the two oysters Service. Can we take oysters, table 32? Two steak and eggs, table 22. - For me, dining experience Of course, there's the nourishment and the ingredient has to be great and the technique has to be great, but I want to bring real joy. When our customers come in, we kind of purposefully for a little longer so it kind of renders, and we go, boom, and People go, &quot;Wow,&quot; and as a restaurateur, those kind of small moments of where we wow our - Followed by, can I have one, two, three, four scallions, please? 15 should have left, go, go, go. (overlapping chattering) Now the hotline's gonna get busy with all the stews coming in. Fire two stews. 23 out, 33 out, next table, 64. Oh, damn, SK? Four ounces of Kobe on the board. Can you, guys, next, with the four ounces of Next, 61, Pedro, if we can go 61. - So I'm from Korea, I became an American, and I have a love for that's who I am, it makes me Simon Kim, it's Korean and American. (speaking Spanish) I So it's ultimately a steak dinner, but there's a lot of elements The customer doesn't to a Korean restaurant but ultimately, they're and way of eating. That approach is something that I really appreciate about Cote. - We're done with the first push. As soon as we send out the What's going on? - How's it going down here? Pretty rocking upstairs. - Yeah, I mean, first one was pretty hard. - You ready for the next round? - Yeah, of course. Thank you, always a pleasure. Always a pleasure. - [Simon] Thank you. - Thank you. When our customers leave Cote, I want them to feel like of their lives and they that they have ever ate, It's simple, they had and they ate the best and let's do it again. (upbeat jazzy music continues)