- Today we are gonna rob Chandler, smash that window. (glass shattering) You're probably wondering This is Chandler's dad's house and he thinks he is currently competing in one of my Last to Leave challenges. Our next contestant is Chandler's father. Todd, get in the bed. Last to leave the bed wins $10,000. - Bring me the money. - But, that's just a diversion. And while he's competing, out of his house and leave Chandler's dad is going to lose - Dude, I don't want to be in I don't know what he's gonna do. - I know. This is terrifying. Chandler, what are you holding? - My family. - You're stealing them? - I'm stealing my own family. - And we have a giant moving I guess I'll just put this here. Let it be known that this I'm gonna have Todd count it. - Robbing this house is really easy. - Don't say that outside. - What? We can't say robbing this house. - We are robbing the house, - Okay. Don't call the police, please. And I brought back up. We have Carl and we have Tyler because we have to move a lot. I'm putting Chris in charge of you guys. Me and Chandler have to go You guys keep robbing the Chris is in charge. - Yes, sir. - All right guys, Jimmy left me in charge. Make sure you're doing to be doing. (change clatters) - Are we doing it good? (upbeat music) - Todd, it's been a - Doing great, man. - Have you gone crazy yet? - You don't want your snacks? - Not right now, man. I'm gonna have to get him (chuckling) - 'Cause usually when he just gets out. - I took care of that this morning. So I'm good on that front. - Yeah. You texted me - Guys, let's give him some solitude. As you guys know from this Don't talk to him. Let him lose his mind to Everyone just get away from him. - All right, y'all heard the man. Bye. - Let's see what damage What are you guys up to? - Nothing much. Just robbin.' - Heck yeah! - We said robbin.' - [All Chanting] We said robbin.' - Come on, neighbors. - Shh. Robbers are supposed to be quiet. But screw it. - [All Chanting] We stay We stay robbin'. We stay - We're robbin' the neighborhood! - That was a joke. That's a joke, everybody. Honestly, robbing's kind of Comment if we can rob your house. - It's just a prank. It's just a prank on my dad, guys. - We're totally not stealing anything. Nothing suspicious here. - We own this television, I promise. - Let's go look at Chandler's old room. Lock the door. Don't let him in. - [Chandler] Hold on. Let me- - Hey, we're in here. - This is Chandler's old room. Guys, let's find something embarrassing. Why is that so low? - Chandler has a teddy bear. (Chandler screams) - Why is there a teddy bear on your bed? - That's not mine. I don't know how- - Chandler has a teddy bear. - That's not mine! - [All Chanting] Chandler I want you guys to comment &quot;Nice teddy bear, Chandler.&quot; - It's not mine, guys. - Let's leave Chandler No, let's go out. Have some alone time. - It's not my teddy bear. (upbeat music) - Oh, god. This couch is heavy. Let's put this down. I think This furniture is getting heavy. Hey, can I have five movers? (dial tone screeching) - [Man On Phone] Sure. - The movers can't know - Yeah. - If the movers ask, this - Oh, I get it. - Before we go any further, I wanna make sure the viewers know that this is actually okay. I got permission from all - Yes. Brought my sisters. - When he comes home he's gonna be shocked and he's gonna lose his mind. - Yeah. He's gonna freak out. - But after that we're gonna He's gonna get $50,000. And if he wins the current And seeing how he's he'll probably be the winner. He's going to be happy, I promise. (upbeat music) - So far everything's going good. Looking forward to dinner. Looking forward to another lunch, and then some dinner and then - We got one box filled up. We're gonna take it to the truck and keep going until everything's empty. - You're the bottleneck to this robbery. - Come on. - Families are love, memories, laughter. We can prank and rob each other. - Good news. The movers are now here. Hey, I want the whole house Let's start in the back left Huddle huddle. Don't forget, they can't know - Shh. Oh you mean- - Hey. - Whoo. - I bet Todd's just Inside, outside, USA - Carl, We need to move - Okay. Yeah, it's just- it's in the car. - You left your keys in your car? - Yes. - Perfect. Now I know where his keys are. We're gonna take all this furniture and dump it in Carl's house. So after we surprise Todd, with the house just full of furniture. (upbeat music) We're back at the studio where Todd is. Now we need to come up We should make Todd think - You're right. - These are the three people all make believe. I think Tom got out. - Yeah. Tom got out peeing. - Todd, I have good news for you. Tom made a mistake and already got out. - Sorry, Tom. - You still going till you get the dub. - Oh yeah. I'm not going anywhere. - I'm gonna go check on Craig. Chandler, you wanna sit here and bond with your father a little bit? All right, so next we're and see how he's doing. That was a lie just to throw him off. We're back at the house. Let's Are you guys playing Frisbee? - You gotta take breaks in - Here. Here. Can I see that since we're- - Don't our Frisbee. That was a little uncalled for. - What are we doing in here, Chris? - I was just showing you - You wanna know something? - It was empty before I left. - Okay. This room wasn't - All right. All right. To I'll give you that. - Zach's gone. Chandler's on - My dad just texted me. He - Chandler went to use the bathroom and then just left to come here and forgot to say bye to his dad. His dad thought he was pooping This is Mike, he's one of the movers. Basically, all I need you to do is act like your name is Craig and that you're currently - Sure. - [Todd] Hey, bud. - Hey. So we're at the with Craig, your worst enemy. - [Todd] What's up, Craig? - That's Craig, just so You might not have but I really appreciate it. - No worries. (upbeat music) - Boys, the house is almost empty. - Todd is gonna freak. - My dad, literally, is = Let's rehearse it. Come over here. Chris is gonna act like Todd. - Dang, blast it. They - Now we gotta lay stuff inside because a robber would also Chandler, you see these drawers? - Yeah. - Make it look like they were robbed. Chris, there's a fridge here. - Putting you in charge This is a bunch of broken glass. You're in charge of making sure all the windows look like they're broken. We're being respectful. Instead of breaking all the windows we're just making it look like we did. - So I know Jimmy told me I'm actually gonna get and I'm gonna go upstairs. I'm gonna take the toilet out. If you're gonna rob a house, It's like a rule or something. He's taking out the toilet right now and they're gonna think - Oh. (upbeat music) - We have a problem. - WOuld a robber leave all - This is gonna take like two hours. (upbeat music) - Wait, why are you guys- Chris. Why are we stealing a toilet? - I thought it would be comical. And I was right. It is hilarious. - Yeah, but. Whatever. I'll also buy him new curtains. I'll also buy him new windows. Can you guys just calm - Cassidy, Hannah, I need you to guys come to the house and see how empty - So Craig, I'm gonna to act like you got out. - All right. - Hey, so, Todd, we Craig, like Tom, he had used the bathroom and he got outta bed to go pee. Do you wanna say anything? - You're lucky I got a small bladder. - I've had to go twice, man. I stood up in the bed - Tell you what, Todd, we're We'll be there in a little bit. - What's good, Mr. Cockyboy? I told you the man was He fell out the bed trying Oh! hang in there, Sydney. - Perfect. Now Todd thinks But in reality, it was only ever him. Now it's time to set up the hidden cameras to capture his reaction. What I'm gonna do is put so he doesn't see that. Then I'm gonna put it deep When Todd comes in this will easily capture him, - Wow. It's been a while. - We put some stuff here on the ground. So, you know, it looked - The toilet? - Chris got a little toilet Don't worry about it. - Oh, my gosh. - The entire house is now empty. - It's so empty in here. - He's gonna freak out. Oh, my gosh. He's gonna be so tired and on his bed and it's not here. Wow, dad is gonna lose his mind. - If he doesn't get mad about anything, he'll get mad that all and the A/C's going. (laughing) - You guys killed it today so I wanted to give you guys (all cheering) - Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate that. - The house is empty except trash. The 50 grand is still here and all the hidden cameras are set up. I'm gonna go end the I can't wait to see how he reacts. We're back at the We have his family. We're gonna go let him know And, who knows what happens then? All right. Todd, we are back. - We were checking on Sydney. - She said she didn't feel And I was like, well, if Tom got out and then Craig got out - No way. For real? - Seriously? - [Jimmy] Yeah, man. - [All Chanting] Todd. Todd. Todd. - We are currently 10 minutes That is Todd and Chandler. We are gonna follow them all the way home. And the boys fixing the plumbing, said they needed five more minutes. - Uh oh. - So this is gonna be a very close call. I hope they get out before Todd gets there or Todd might start (chuckling) Cut the car off. Cut the car off. Okay. All right. Let's go. Let's go - Oh, god. What the hell? Move, son. Trish! - [Jimmy] Oh, my god. He's freaking out. Dude, he's freaking out. (suspenseful music) - [Chandler] You're gonna - [Jimmy] A's just a prank. - I'm killing all of you. - [Jimmy] It's just a prank. It's just a prank. - I had a damn stroke, man. - [Jimmy] Did you notice the duffle bag? - The who? - Guess how much money - I have no idea, man. - $50,000. - Yeah! - We're gonna redo your entire house so we just took the liberty of getting rid of all the furniture. So then we could just But in the process we wanted You know, just for fun. - Your whole family was in on it. Your wife, she spent the day That's getting moved in tomorrow. - Are you serious? - You're the best. I swear to god. - I'm glad you're happy. (all cheering) - [Jimmy] 50 grand plus - You and me, we going on a vacay. - Oh, no. - I just remembered something too. Tom, Craig, and Sydney, (laughing) - Y'all suck, man! Damn! - I asked him if he still wants it, he was like, &quot;That cocky Craig.&quot; (all laughing) - Hey, all right, let's go - Yeah, let's go to Carl's house. - But we'll see you guys tomorrow morning. - [Trish] See you later. - I hate this. I really do. I'm so nervous. I don't - Why you nervous? - 'Cause I don't know what - We're just having a sleepover, Carl. - I hate this. - [Jimmy] You ready to go inside? - Yeah. Oh my- (laughing) Mom? - [Jimmy] I didn't have of Todd's furniture. So I - You did. The moving trucks. - [Jimmy] Yeah. I had to return those. - It goes forever. Literally forever. That's the wall at the end, - [Jimmy] Carl, did you say - What'd you guys do? Why?! - [Jimmy] There's more furniture. - [Chris] Look, you got a - [Jimmy] All right, Carl. - [Chris] Enjoy the Chan room. - [Jimmy] Bye. He'll be fine. It's been a few days and now we're gonna let Todd Come on in. - What do you think? - [Zach] Wow. - [Zach] It looks completely - Dude, this is crazy. - Come down here, everybody. - Whoa. - And the best part is this - This is great, man. - And here's the next room. Honestly, this looks very different. Also we hire painters to come how your wife wanted. So that's - Wow. - Whoa! - This one is a massive transformation. - Sick. Can I get this in my bedroom? - There you go. - Oh, this one looks crazy different. - [Todd] Jimmy. - [Chandler] Oh wow, Zach - [Jimmy] Yes. - Oh, my gosh. Okay, this is- My god. - And now we're going - [Todd] Oh, my lord, dude. This is crazy. Oh, this is unbelievable. - [Jimmy] So Todd, you have You have your $10,000 from the challenge, and we made sure the You're good with how things look, right? - Man. I'm so happy with My kids are just ecstatic. These last three days been crazy. - [Jimmy] Yeah. It has been. I just wanted to make sure so the viewers know you don't hate me. - Man. I love you, man. - We're good robbers! Mister B 6,000 oh oh Mister B 6,000, yeah you know his name He changed it once or twice But I think it's here to stay (explosion booms)