Please welcome to the Commission chair Lina Khan. [CHEERING] Hello. Hello! Hello. Hi. It's lovely to see you. You run the Federal That's right. The whole shebang. And you are in charge of-- from monopolistic but also dealing with protecting consumers. That's right. I mean, the short of it that the American public is in the marketplace or tricked. And so we enforce the and consumer protection laws. And how is-- well, please. [CHEERING] Now, I just want that you were not bullied or I don't want to be how much pressure do these Trade Commission? In other words, how much do you're trying to put from becoming monopolies of business practices? Well, look, monopolies the anti-monopoly laws. And so that type of But we have a fantastic team. We're a small agency, And we play to our strengths-- being strategic, and for the American people. So these are separate things. Monopolies, the way I oh, that's only one company. But don't we have Consolidation has made the entertainment by like six companies. Is that considered not a Yeah, look, we've on how are companies behaving? Are they're behaving suggest they can harm their suppliers, and get away with it? And that type of is really what ends up monopoly power because they but they know you're stuck. And what would be How would you judge that? Because I know That's right. JON STEWART: And that's So our lawsuit does allege that they've maintained through illegal practices. And, look, there are that you can show a and has monopoly power. One is you can what's the exact What's the market share? But, again, the most how is the company behaving? And as we lay out Amazon is now able to get away So just to give JON STEWART: Yes. Over the last littered their search results that internally are irrelevant and but they can just do billions of dollars in money. They've also been the fees that small to pay to sell through Amazon. And so now some have to pay one out of It's basically a JON STEWART: Wow. And so those are just that we point to note that this Is there anything in that also suggests that? For instance, if you were of a nerdy dude who sold into, let's say, a does that also suggest or some type of injections? You know, we haven't tried to but it would be interesting to I think quite favorably. For instance, so what So you've got I'm assuming you've got a But let's say you're How many lawyers do they have? I mean, you know, if they can buy as many I mean, the FTC is But when we're going of these monopolistic they can outmatch us, just if you're If you're adding paralegals If you're just they outnumber you 10 to 1? Sometimes they can, yeah. I mean, we have lawsuits of big companies. And just in terms that they can pour we're pretty outgunned, And this is where it comes being entrepreneurial. So this isn't about This isn't about going after because this is The SEC I think is overmatched And you don't have but just nod your head. [LAUGHTER] Utterly overmatched, so And then they can't So then they're You give us a cut and we'll all be done here. How do you handle It's not just about a fine. That's right. I think we've seen, look, over we've seen how businesses as a cost of doing business. And we need to make deterring illegal behavior. And so that can mean naming We in some of our lawsuits-- Oh, snap, you just I like that. So have you had We have had I mean, we had a Shkreli a couple of years ago. [LAUGHTER] Oh, it suddenly turned into What's going on? And he went to jail? He went to jail-- Do you have to refer or do you have an So you're right. We don't have But the remedy we were able was to effectively business in the Right. Now, I imagine that the in the pharmaceutical industry, drug and jacking I don't know how many I mean, he did How do you keep that the pharmaceutical industry? I mean, are they colluding as Why are we having so and prescription drug prices? I mean, look, of reasons why for drugs are unaffordable, right? I mean, I hear weekly, monthly who are having to ration Absolutely, and Shortages of those drugs. And there can be and monopolistic behavior Just to give you one they've been JON STEWART: Sure. But they still cost So our staff took a close look. And we realized that that had been listed for They were bogus. And so we sent letters around these patents. And in the last few weeks, de-list these patents. And three out of the have now said within they're going to cap how much So you being we're going to see how far with it and do these that we don't run up against an Are they waiting you out? Look, it's possible. But that's why you need to going to be around deterrence. And so one big area is understanding, what is the problems, right? Let's understand who rather than just going Right, and I think there's probably a biblical in cause of the whole about the tech companies. Because they are the new They are the companies that-- and you see this where they are fined for monopolistic had to pay an enormous fine. Microsoft has found guilty of certain when it comes along. How do you handle incredibly consolidated So we have a lawsuit Right. We have another What is the one So that one was filed before but basically it alleges that the transition from it realized it really And so it ended up in buying And the lawsuit alleges were anti-competitive, violated the antitrust laws-- JON STEWART: Right. --that instead of Facebook instead bought its way Now, why is that Wouldn't they say, well, We're so successful, And with that extra money, we and we turn those So, look, one key tenet that you can't go of your biggest competitors. JON STEWART: Oh, you're You're not allowed Can I tell you So I had put in an offer I had come out. And I'm going to And because it's Oliver, I Is that what He obviously didn't take it. But you have to make whether or not they are They used to call it But couldn't you say they are kind of working So, look, we are whether some of the investments entering into right may, in fact, be giving or giving them If we get any hint that there in the marketplace, we take and won't hesitate One trend that we're is the way that algorithms may And so if you of competitors in a market-- be it hotels, be it casinos-- and they all decide their pricing decision they may, in effect, even if they're not and making secret deals. That would be like you can get us on Expedia or can get us on-- but all those algorithm, would that mean and you are not getting the might get from those 10 to for the cheapest hotel rooms? Is that the idea? That's right. You may collectively because all of these companies They're inputting And that algorithm allowing them to collectively are having to pay more. And it's not I mean, you could look where you would say, and they dominated They didn't buy up But because they had access to and those types of things, they them all out of business. And even at that moment, they But, boy, could they. And, boy, could they on supply chains. And, boy, could they that people, even if still have to have Is that something that Look, monopolies in a whole bunch of ways. You're absolutely right that Yes. It can be lower wages. It can be suppliers getting or seeing their It can also be shortages. I mean, we've seen over Sure, baby formula. --baby formula, IV bags-- Adderall. --adderall, basic forms-- [LAUGHTER] I see the audience has but has an interesting What do you do So, look, we are there dominant are using their muscle contributing to shortages? We've also seen you concentrate production, And so a single disaster, a single shock can lead the I mean, the short all your eggs in one basket. And then you guys have to separate the eggs. It's curious to me that the other methods of working to ask them to curb their for what they get, of the American system. So, look, we have a whole in place that are actually our markets are and not as subject to these-- Without killing innovation. Exactly. Right, that's the balance. But 40 years ago we radically veered off more hands-off approach. And now we're living of those decisions. Is industry more I mean, my gut would tell You have larger up, in the pursuit of growth, It feels that way to me. Do you have the that that's actually the case? On the whole, yes. I mean, you always want to do But if you look at airlines, look at meatpackers, at huge parts of our you've seen huge JON STEWART: Less So you go from just to a very small number. And, again, that and American communities and even leads to, falling apart in the sky. Wait, what? [APPLAUSE] I always thought that This gets us to So now they're saying this new kind of called AI, that's every aspect of American life It's already being Apple has bought 30 AI models. Microsoft has probably bought. Google has bought. They all buy AI startups and And they're already to see who will be or this will be an oligopoly. I've got to tell you, I wanted And Apple asked us not They literally talk to her, having with what you do for a living. I think they just-- [LAUGHTER] I didn't think they cared They wouldn't let us do did in the first act on AI. What is that sensitivity? Why are they so afraid to out in the public sphere? I think it just shows one when you concentrate and so much decision-making in I mean, going back all there was a recognition that the Constitution to in our political needed the antitrust and against concentration because you don't want in the same way that you But then it it wasn't until the Sherman I mean, when did Was it the beginning when they finally probably put a halt to this? That's right. You initially had But the first federal antitrust And it was absolutely a Revolution and a that that had concentrated. Can we just hold Can you take the I want to take a single I don't know which one. Let me take this one. [BLEEP] nailed that [CHEERING] Came out of nowhere. I think I might have learned Stuck. Has that been So we had some follow-on follow-on in the 1950s. And then since then, it's So for the most are still based on those What would you you put forth to technology that is looming? And I'm not talking I'm not talking deciding you can't say that I'm talking about in terms these few companies controlling Look, the first thing clear-eyed that from the laws on the books. We see sometimes businesses try oh, these technologies are Let's just take a And that's basically what ended And now we're reeling And so we need to make Web 2.0 is-- You know, the rise in the early 2000s, the initial innovating, but ultimately ultimately adopting that are premised on endlessly And hoovering up data and are clearly harmful, but to political discourse. And it's pretty wild how And every now and called in front of Congress. And Mark Zuckerberg, you know, Like and Subscribe, you know? But are you are you optimistic up to this in time before happens through AI? Well, look, there's no JON STEWART: Right. We are the decision makers. And so we need to use the have to make sure that these on a trajectory that and we're not subjected to Right. Boy, would you stay forever? Because it's incredibly Thank you so much. FTC chair Lina Khan.