Want to make the most out of your I'll show you how to use, organize, covering both essential features and exciting new this tutorial will help you take control Imagine having your tasks and events in one lets you sync Calendar and Reminders, giving you setup, you'll be able to see everything in one enable this, open your Calendar app and tap on &quot;Scheduled Reminders&quot; and make sure it's enabled. it. Once it's turned on, any reminders with due Here's an example: if you've set a reminder in calendar so you're always prepared. Even better, calendar, it will automatically mark it complete makes for a seamless, no-fuss workflow--perfect Choose the perfect view for your schedule with In the Month View, tap the &quot;Customize&quot; button and Detailed views. Perhaps the biggest change Monthly View. I pretty much use this view and the Monthly View only showed gray dots on days--not useful at all. However, the calendar so you'll know exactly what's happening color-coded to identify different calendars pinch our fingers in and out to show Moving on, the Stacked View arranges events organized overview. For a minimalist look, ideal for a quick, high-level glance at your calendar to your needs, whether you prefer One of the most convenient features in the widget to your home screen, giving you quick app. To add a widget, press and hold the tap &quot;Edit&quot; in the top left corner. Then tap &quot;Add you'll have six types of widgets to choose from. I view of your upcoming events without taking up too If you need more details, just tap the widget is always front and center, so you'll have an Managing your calendar is easy and hands-free. and even read your day's schedule out loud. Just Tom' tomorrow at noon,&quot; and Siri will handle the &quot;What's on my calendar today?&quot; and get an instant constantly on the move, Siri's integration with The iOS Calendar app includes helpful shortcuts Day, or Week View, you can press and hold saving you extra taps. If it's a video meeting, access when it's time to join. For in-person travel notifications based on traffic, helping tap on &quot;Travel Time.&quot; Then, enable travel time and the type of travel--whether it's car, walking, look at the calendar, the travel time is added creating events in iOS 18 is quicker and more in, these shortcuts keep you organized If you have recurring tasks, the iOS Calendar app up a repeating event, start by creating an event where you can select daily, weekly, monthly, tap &quot;Custom&quot; under Repeat. Here, you can each month&quot; or &quot;every 5 days.&quot; This feature calendar is always up to date with regular bill payments, or personal reminders, setting For collaborative events, the Calendar app and attachments, making it easy to organize When creating an event, tap &quot;Invites&quot; to add They'll receive an email invitation team meetings or group plans. The &quot;Notes&quot; and documents for quick reference. For example, or important files directly in the event. Just your Files app, and it will attach right Alerts in the iOS Calendar app are can set up two alerts per event, giving you close to the event time. For instance, there before an event to make sure I have everything just prior to the start time. Best of all, these so you'll never miss a notification, If you have personal and professional commitments, keep your schedule organized and uncluttered. Tap all your available calendars, each color-coded and social events. To add a new calendar, then tap &quot;Add Calendar&quot; again in the menu and set up alerts if you'd like. If you you do that from inside the Google app or website, Keeping work, family, and social events organized schedule. With iOS 18, mastering the From setting up widgets and customizing views control of your time and maximize productivity. click the link in the description below. Thanks