Narrator: 70-year-old Vasanti Meghwar spends her days making So does her son, Poonjo, his wife, and their son, Dileep. It's the only life the The family borrowed money from more than two decades ago Now, they spend long under the scorching desert sun and firing bricks in Narrator: And they don't know if they'll ever get out of here. The owner of the kiln tells them he's keeping half of the money they earn to make payments on their loan. But Poonjo hasn't seen the contract since he signed with his And there's no record of Narrator: The Meghwars are in Pakistan who spend to pay off debts to wealthy landowners. These bricks will be used across Pakistan. But families take home so little, they often have to keep Lawyers say these bricks of modern-day slavery. So how are so many families stuck in this endless cycle of debt? And why are they being overlooked? Narrator: This brick kiln is in the heart of the Temperatures here can reach 150 families work and live here. Most people are at the very bottom of the Hindu caste system. They're called Dalit, and they often work the The Meghwars' family of five shares just a one-room Narrator: Dileep started when he was just 7. Narrator: Every day, they of 1,500 bricks. They get paid $1.50 and are told that another $1.50 goes toward their loan payments. But they have to keep Narrator: And they don't know how much interest is being added. The family thinks they Meanwhile, the owner of the kiln could bring in that same just by selling the Insider reached out to the owner. He refused to comment on how the quota and debt scheme works. Still, the family does not blame him. Narrator: To make the workers first need to dig up dirt. Narrator: Then, Dileep adds water and mixes the mud for hours Narrator: Breathing in all this dust is the main cause of death here, especially among children. Narrator: The Meghwars One day, the family borrowed to pay a hospital bill. They say it was their only option, because like millions they don't have a bank So the Meghwars weren't even They still don't know. Poonjo's mother, Vasanti, joined the family here 12 years ago to help erase their debt. Narrator: The 70-year-old says this work has worn down her knees and made it harder to walk. Narrator: While her family keeps working, Vasanti leaves for a while to make lunch. Narrator: Inflation has Narrator: Donkeys help from the plots to the kilns every day. The bricks are buried inside where they'll bake. Workers stack them so that Narrator: They cover the top with sand. Then they make holes and fill the gaps between This part of the job is so dangerous, workers didn't even want Narrator: The ground here is hot, and the temperature inside the kilns can exceed 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit. Sometimes the tops of In July 2022, three people were burned alive when they dropped down Narrator: Construction use these bricks in everything from lining bridges and canals to building homes. Narrator: The bricks are but making them causes a lot of pollution. More than 20% of brick have chronic breathing problems. These fumes are full of which can harm the eyes, There are about 20,000 kilns and 100,000 more scattered They account for over 91% of As of November 2022, Pakistan's Environmental Protection Agency has closed nearly 70 kilns Another big problem with Zahid Thebo has worked with of the Rights of the Child, His team visits brick kilns to check up on working conditions. Narrator: Child labor is But estimates have of workers at brick kilns are underage. And in some places, more than The owner of the kiln where Dileep's at denied that any children work there. Narrator: What happens at brick kilns falls under the legal And it isn't just happening in Pakistan. Reports suggests there are trapped in modern-day slavery across Asia and the Pacific regions alone. The only industry where it's more common than in brick production is farming. Pakistan's constitution made Narrator: The department of told us it can't prove there's because there are no records that the families officially work there. But experts say kiln owners which makes it easier Narrator: The Brick Zahid refers to didn't get back to us, but their website says they're committed to eliminating bonded labor and protecting workers' rights. Zahid says his NGO brings Narrator: Since it started in 1992, SPARC has helped free over 17,000 workers. Narrator: The NGO moves the families to a camp called Azad Nagar, which means &quot;free city.&quot; Most here still work at kilns, but they don't owe money. Narrator: Pannu Faqeer when he was 8 years old after his family took out a loan. Narrator: We reached out to who denied any allegations of violence. A court order helped over two decades ago, and he's been living here ever since. Now he works with Zahid Narrator: Pannu travels if they get a date. But he says he faces and was even attacked during near the colony in 2013. Narrator: He says it's to help others like him. Narrator: But residents here and there's no school. The NGO says it has requested Narrator: Still, people feel lucky to have and today they're celebrating Narrator: Zahid is the guest of honor. Narrator: Back at the kiln, Poonjo's wife, Rani, starts She's kneading do to make roti. Narrator: With this debt their options are limited. Narrator: Dileep also says he has little to look forward to except hanging out with his friend. Narrator: For them, it's of rice snacks once a week. Narrator: Dileep says he doesn't think he'll ever have the chance He has accepted his fate, but he hopes others don't take