[auctioneer speaking] country music -Hello. -Hello. Do you have any Swartzentruber clothes? -We don't. Nobody does, huh? -Swartzentruber Amish wouldn't -Do you have any old order? -Yeah. Do you think I'm a I should go black? -Yeah, that'd be fine. They're not hemmed. -Oh the bottoms? -Yeah. Okay, we have the pants and the two shirts. I'm gonna figure it out. -Okay, 'cause we had another man... [giggles] Your friend might want to show you. Brian, you want to help me with the pants? That's what she said. I'm gonna need help over here. These have single buttons but this button is your belt. So you'll put that on first. The front side? So when you put them on this will be hang down. Put this around your waist button this button here and then you'll tuck your pockets in pull this up and start at one end and just button across. -Okay. -Make sense? -Yeah. -It's too tight. -These are too tight, huh? -Oh my, those are way too tight, yeah. -You don't go skinny style with Amish, huh? -You don't go skinny style with Amish, huh? your belt can you? -No, that's not happening. Yeah, we need to get a bigger pair. -Step it up? -Yeah, definitely. -Oh, you tuck this? -Yeah, there ya go. -No, I think this is a perfect fit. Like this/ -Yeah, as long as it feels comfortable. Yeah, your doing it. -Let me get a shirt on. What do you think, Brian? -Yes. -Is this the look? You'll fit right in. Gotta say, these clothes Very comfortable, I like the pants. It's a good fit? Yeah, I'd say those fit you good. They feel okay? Feel great, comfortable. Now, you're sure this isn't I'm going Swartzentruber and then Old Order. -I'll tell you one thing. The Swartzentrubers But it's gonna be hot tomorrow. -Well, that's your choice. Clip them on in the front one. This a better fit? -Let me see, do you have them down there? Are Amish shorter than me typically? -Not all of 'em but you you have a very long back. -You do this, there we go. -There you have it. I'm sorry I haven't used them for so long. -That's fine. -You don't use them do you? -You don't use them do you? -How do you do these things? I'm not sure. Peter had it. You're looking... I like the vibes. -Is this working? -I'm liking it. country music Good morning, guys. The Amish do many things differently for example health insurance. Most Amish people do So instead they come to pool their money to pay for people's treatments for their healthcare. How do they do that? Through auctions. So today we're going to and see a little behind the scenes and how the Amish collectively help one another. country music You're great with words. -There's an auctioneer... Brian's okay with being on the camera in the very background, right? Okay. What you were both telling me is there are a lot of cars because there are a lot of English outsiders... Auction today. Gotcha, gotcha. And there we go... So we're gonna jump and then into an auction. It's my first auction. I get the little thing or I raise my hand or how's it work? -You raise your hand and then you just keep raising it And then you pay. -I'm gonna get you a new buggy. [chuckles] Today's video is not sponsored It's sponsored by Cuts clothing. Though nobody shows attention to Cuts clothing offers the next best thing. Look, finding a super-durable non-wrinkle, and most importantly long lasting t-shirt is not easy. So here it is, I found it for you. Yes, Cuts are spendier but there is nothing average about them and they work for everything. From spending time with one of the Amish to wearing out for a Cuts also makes fantastic Click on my link below to receive 15% off your next order. Again link in the description below 15% off. Okay, back to the Amish. &lt;How are you? &lt;Haven't seen you guys for a while. [auctioneer speaking] My name, Peter. [auctioneer speaking] -Okay. -Nationally. [auctioneer speaking] [auctioneer speaking] Really nice solid wood. Hard tables, hard chairs. The Amish do excellent furniture. Look at that. Beautiful. I think it's the biggest industry in Amish country is furniture. Agriculture is not the biggest. -Yeah. -Okay. [auctioneer speaking] You can just set it on the ground. [auctioneer speaking] [auctioneer speaking] So you're gonna have animals and whatnot out here? -Okay. So Henry, your last name? You started this when? -Wow, how's it gone? -I'm just gonna wait for the train to go by. [train passing] So you started this 35 years ago. You're first auction you got 20 grand? -Yeah. Someone told me a half million. -Today it will probably be -And so this is just -Four counties. -Okay. -We have Tuscarawas, Coshocton, That we cover. There was a few benefit options in the area but not very many. So I said, helps people in that kind of situation?&quot; So that's where it started. -From my understanding this goes to kids that need treatment, medical treatment. -Up to age 18. -What do you think about English people outside of the community that don't have maybe the support? I'm sure there are organizations that exist but... -Well, we're kind of stuck -Okay. -But the English people are included. Everybody's included. -Oh, it's not just for the Amish? -Oh, no, no, no. Because there are a lot -Oh yeah. And we help English people. It's not just for the Amish. It's for anybody in those four counties. -Do you notice... Let's go over to these Do you notice a big difference when something like this Do you notice that the more connected or? -Oh yeah. -Okay. And so why do you do it? You just get a feeling of -It's a good feeling. It is a good feeling. And you're helping somebody and it's just, yeah. It's just great. -And it takes a lot to do this, huh? -It does. -These buggies are being auctioned off? -Yeah, oh yeah. -Whoa, how much does this retail? -Oh this would probably be seven or eight thousand dollars. Someone that donates and $8,000 buggy is a very generous person. -Well, usually this would be -Okay. -It's not just one person. -So the church is heavily involved in this? -Oh yeah, yeah. -Okay. Henry, thank you. -You're welcome. -It's a great thing you're doing. -Nobody gets paid. They pay us all the same. -Pay's the same, right? -The same nothing but You're doing something good. We wouldn't do this. We call that scooping. -Okay. [auctioneer in background] This is homemade ice cream? -Yes. -Okay, I'll do one scoop. -One scoop. -Yeah, thank you. So that's how you do it? You put the milk in there? It's all mixed in bags and then we dump it in and it mixes it in. -So that's just milk? -So that's just milk? eggs... -Okay, and then you put it in this. -We mix it up -You mix it up. and then these guys are keeping it cold. Is that what's going on? -Yep. [man chuckling] That's great. Very delicious, thank you. [auctioneer speaking] Okay, so they're There's the [auctioneer speaking] AUCTIONEER: Now we got [auctioneer speaking] [laughter] [auctioneer speaking] AUCTIONEER: The total cash price $3,522. If you compare in today's market the building materials I don't think you could 11, 12, 1,200... [auctioneer speaking] All right, guys. There you go. An Amish auction for a wonderful cause. Helping the kids with all their medical needs. Quite a cool thing going on here in Holmes County. All right until the next one. See ya.