. Nostalgia and modern craftsmanship. (Hiss) And great attention to detail. The smell. The smell of coal. You can also smell the steam. The oil. - The oil. Steam or smoke. - Fed up. (Rattling) For Norbert Reichert and Rolf Zimmermann, steam train models are a passion. (Hissing) (Thoughtful whisper) I like turning and milling, I'm a toolmaker. And I'll be happy if it becomes a train that runs. (Locomotive whistle) It's nice when I go out after work and I turn around and see how far I've come. (Metallic noises) (Travel noises) In Ohringen, around 25 kilometers east of Heilbronn , Norbert Reichert puts together the necessary components for the first assemblies of his locomotive in the Zimmermann warehouse . So everything still fascinates me, even with the many locomotives that I have already made. The model maker has built around 500 locomotives over the last four decades. (Distant muffled noises) Our steam locomotive consists of two large components. One component is the boiler. Steam is produced using coal, fire and water . The second component is the chassis. These are the wheels, the axles, the bolts, the rods. This is all used to transmit power. And via the mechanics, the steam flow to the cylinders is then placed once on the back and once on the front of the pistons, so that this axle can then rotate and the locomotive can then move either forwards or backwards. The first assembly is the axles with the wheels. So, I'm now assembling the drive axle. Completely. Norbert Reichert plays it safe. The cast steel wheels are screwed and glued to the axle. Perfect. Now it's fixed. And now stay in there for a good hour . Norbert Reichert sees himself as the screwdriver and Rolf Zimmermann as the turner and miller. He makes the components for the locomotive in the workshop. Here he drills mounting holes in the solid frame of the chassis. (Machine noises) That's a craft that we do, that's mechanical engineering. We build a machine that will work afterwards. (quietly:) Eight... nine... ten... eleven... twelve... 13. (Metallic sounds) Over 1,000 individual parts are needed for a steam locomotive. Some are tiny. It's always a mess here. Patience and experience are required. With the steam feed pump we have the additional option of feeding water while driving and primarily while stationary. So, it is steam powered and pumps water. Norbert Reichert has to work with absolute precision, otherwise the pump will later not work or have no power. The small, the delicate. That's the beauty of it. Let's put it this way, with the steam feed pump, it's just the small parts. As I said, this is basically watchmaker size. Probably a little bigger. It takes him around 200 hours to assemble the locomotive. The company founder, Eberhard Zimmermann, invested around 10,000 hours of work in the development of the locomotive . Some steam locomotive enthusiasts spend over 20 years building their own steam horse. I now assemble the piston rod with the piston, pull and push rod. (Distant whirring) This is the stop for the pull and push rod so that it doesn't go down any further. Otherwise our tax times will no longer be correct. (Metallic sounds) I'm now testing the movement of the piston. Yes indeed. Small and yet strong. The miniature narrow-gauge locomotive can easily pull 20 or 30 children . Your model: the Wangerooger Island Railway. The company founder Eberhard Zimmermann recreated the BR 99 211 in miniature down to the smallest detail over 50 years ago. This locomotive will be the last in the series. Then all parts for this model are used up. Now comes the next part. This is ours... Because it looks like a lantern. (Quiet working noises) Many years ago, Norbert Reichert turned his hobby into a profession. Over the years I built models, car models and even airplane models for the Zimmermann company's shop window. Until I was asked whether I would like to build a locomotive. And I looked at a locomotive and I thought: I can't do that. Yes, but it turned out differently. And then I started at the Zimmermann company 42 years ago. And I've been making locomotives ever since. These are now our water connections. One suction side, one pressure side. (Spinning noises) Done. And hopefully it works too. The steam feed pump is intended to supply the locomotive's boiler with water when it is at a standstill and itself builds up a higher pressure than that with which it is supplied. Ah, water is coming. (Quiet conversation) Then let's see what's going on. Valves open, the steam can flow and set the pistons in motion. (Working noises) Here we are simulating the function of a finished locomotive or steam engine. (Rapid rattling) (Quiet conversations) (Hissing) The first assembly in the test. Test succeeded. The model makers are relieved. (Rattling and hissing) Joy. Yes, you can see that what you built works . (Rattling and hissing) The solid steel frame parts have now been painted. If the frame parts were made to scale, they would be much too thin. The whole drive holds up, the chassis can't stand it. Our frame is ten millimeters thick. He can take it. So, everything is built massively. And that is what determines the quality. (Distant whirring) I'll now angle out the frame... so that the two side parts are exactly... parallel to each other. Because otherwise I won't be able to get the axles in afterwards. I'll grease the axle guide slots now. That the axles slide in well. Our first axis is the guide axis. That means we have an 85 millimeter axle, including the axle body. And 85 millimeters internal frame width. That's why this is our leadership axis. Yes indeed. The middle axle has side play in the frame and compensates for unevenness. Otherwise the locomotive might tilt in the curve and get stuck. The linkage is now placed on the crank of the wheels. It transmits the movement of the cylinders to the wheels. (Working noises) (Put down) Yes, it's running perfectly. That's how I imagined it and that's how it has to be. In the end, the locomotive will weigh around 120 kilograms and pull many hundreds of kilograms. The father said: &quot;But we won't build anything botched.&quot; Yes, exactly. That was the senior's motto, we don't mess up. Yes, my father always valued... making the good even better. - Yes. Next, Norbert Reichert works on the two cylinders. This is now our piston. Also diameter 42. I'm now putting the piston rings on here... always offset. We have four couples. One pair is inserted per puncture. The cylinders are the power center of the steam locomotive. Here the heat energy contained in the steam is converted into kinetic energy by moving the piston. (Metallic sound) (Scraping sounds) (Scraping sounds) (Put down, scraping sounds) I'll now put the first two screws in here so that I've already centered the slide box. So now they are tightened. My slider comes in next. (Metallic sounds) With the driver. And now our slide bar is added. This is the slide box cover, which will then be up here later... It will then be screwed here. Steam flows in here. The steam now flows through here and pushes the piston backwards. The control then reverses. Now the steam flows in from this side and pushes the piston forward. And it's always changing... so that the machine is running. (Quiet whirring noise) Then a cover plate is fitted to the cylinder. That's just that the cylinder has a nice fairing and is nicely covered. (Metallic lutes) While Norbert Reichert puts together component by component, the shell of the 99 is made individually by the Waffenschmid company in Kochersteinsfeld. Only here can the boilers be welded to the high standards of the locomotive builders. Alex, will you please continue? These are the parts for the Zimmermanns. - Yes. Can you then staple the tube bundle? The tube bundle, the component that heats the water, is assembled in a template. The boiler is under high pressure. Alex Schmid works with high precision and otherwise welds containers for filter systems and space technology. (Distant machine noises) In the early days of railway history, locomotive boilers were made of copper. Some of these boilers exploded due to the high pressure. We decided right from the start to weld our boilers from steel. And welded steel boilers made from the materials we use cannot explode. He gets a bump, then he gets a crack. Then the steam goes out, then the pressure is lost. There are leaks somewhere inside the firebox, then, poof, something comes out. Then the fire goes out automatically and the thing goes out. (Machine whirring) Back in the workshop in Ohringen. Locomotives have already been sent from here to Indonesia and Japan. (Machine whirring) This copper pipe bend becomes part of the exhaust steam line, the exhaust of the two cylinders. This is now our exhaust steam line, ready to be soldered together. And in the slot that there is... there will be a partition wall in there afterwards so that the exhaust from the left cylinder doesn't blow over into the right cylinder. Now let's take it to Norbert, to brazing. This is flux that cleans the surface. And especially where there is flux... that's where the solder flows, so I can be sure that the solder will flow everywhere afterwards. Otherwise it will leak. (Hissing, hissing) (Seething sounds) (Sawing sounds) That's how it comes in. (Hissing, hissing) (Hissing, bubbling) And Norbert Reichert uses a blast test to check whether his workpiece is really tight . Yes, great. Clean the exhaust steam line. Aha, turn it in. Yes indeed. - And it slides well. And well and good. The two steam train enthusiasts now place the exhaust steam pipe into the chassis. Then they insert the cylinders and connect the linkage to the wheels. (Whirring sound) (Rattling sound) The boiler is back from the welder. The heavy steel monster is also provided with an insulating sheet. The sheet metal is first neatly rounded, then placed around the boiler and painted. (Metallic noises) (Rattling) (Working noises) (Metallic whirring) Now I'm going to put the sealant on it. And then the slide box cover goes on top. And then the... adjustment and sealing of the cylinder is completed. I have a torque wrench on my wrist, so to speak. As the saying goes: after hard comes off. All steam, oil and water pipes are already located below the cover plate. A fine job. (Metallic sounds) This is the reversal wave. I'll change course later. (Scratching metallic sounds) The locomotive's gearshift. If I drive forward now, I will steer forward. Now she is running forward. If I want to drive backwards again, that means I have to stop. Now I steer backwards, now she's running backwards. Around five meters of copper pipe are installed in the locomotive. (Clicking sounds) Norbert Reichert assembles each individual cable and provides it with a brass screw connection. (Metallic sounds) This lasts forever. (Metallic noises) (Metallic noises) (Rumbling) So, if you shut down a steam locomotive for a long time and you pay attention to a few little things so that the cylinders are a little oiled, so that the water is out of the boiler and the inside of the boiler is dry, Then I can easily leave a machine like that for ten or 20 years without anything happening. I'll take it out and drive it again. This is different than if you do this with a cell phone or with an e-bike. If you leave a cell phone somewhere for 20 years and think you can then make calls, it won't work. But if you shut them down specifically, then I can shut them down for 20 years. Then I take it out, put a fire in it and the thing runs. This is purely mechanics. If you break down a narrow-gauge locomotive to the gauge that we are building here. The five English inches are 127 millimeters. We have a scale of one to seven. That's what makes it so beautiful... Jim Button-like, a bit like that. (Metallic sounds) The steam feed pump now also finds its place. (Metallic sounds) Whistle test. (Melodic whistle sounds) Yes, well, you couldn't miss it. I am very happy with the pipe. (Metallic sounds) (Rustling) This is our steam dome jacket. Highly polished. That's why the cloth, so that my fingerprints won't show up everywhere afterwards . We do them ourselves. They used to be made from solid brass or copper. They are now made of steel and are copper-plated. (Metallic lutes) The water tanks in this model are made of cast aluminum. So, all the lines are in. (Metallic sounds) (Metallic sounds) The water level glass, we actually always want to see water there. Preferably half the water level, that's optimal. Because there is too much water in it, it could tear. Of course, too little water isn't a good thing; it's not good for the boiler. (Metallic sounds) (Working noises) And the piece of jewelry is ready. Ready for a first test. (Huring) Okay, that's enough. Are you looking at the container? - It's all ok. Let's open it. - Yes. (Huring) (Hissing) With water, compressed air and six bar pressure. One... (whirring) Two...three...four...five... six. (Mechanical sounds) (Hissing sounds) Some things are tight with compressed air and not with steam. It's always like this, it runs a little out of round with compressed air, we know that too. What it doesn't do with steam afterwards, it runs smoothly. This is a steam locomotive, not a compressed air locomotive. (Locomotive whistle, mechanical sounds) Fits. - Fits. Running, yeah. Yes indeed. (Birds chirping) The man with his machine, the man with his machine, that is me and my machine. The whole day revolves around him and his machine together, it's a team and it has to work. The Steam Railway Friends Friedrichsruhe club grounds serve as a test track . On sailing days, the model steamers meet here with their live steam models. In the heating shed, a preliminary fire is made with charcoal in the firebox . The heating fan in the chimney supports the process. (Hissing) (Crackling, quiet conversations) So, it's all a quality that brings together the most modern materials, modern manufacturing processes... then with old technology. And that makes the whole thing reliable and stable And it makes our customers happy so that when they fire up one of our locomotives... (hissing) Then you can drive it all day long and not stop after 20 meters and the thing works no longer. When the fire in the belly of the steel horse burns properly, hard coal is added on top. This coal has a very high energy density. (Hissing) After about 45 minutes the locomotive is at operating temperature. I'm warming up the cylinders now. That means they're still cold now. And condensation has formed inside, that's clear. And that has to come out now. That's why I'm doing it slowly now... Or yes, driving slowly until the steam flows out of all four valves. Then I'm sure the water is completely out. (Hissing) Then comes the pleasure for the steam train enthusiast: inhaling smoke, smelling hot oil and the wind. (hiss) (engine whistle) There are much more expensive hobbies, motorsports, sailboats. And we have a steam locomotive. And the only thing he needs to drive is coal and water. The locomotive in this version costs around 28,000 euros. That sounds like a lot, but it is an investment for life. (driving noises) Rolf Zimmermann is convinced: his locomotive is indestructible and, if properly cared for, will still run like it did on the first day in 20 years. Mechanical engineering with attention to detail. To the delight of all passengers, young and old. (Mechanical noises) (Driving noises) Are you as fascinated by craftsmanship as we are? Then subscribe to the channel now and never miss an episode. SWR 2024