- Running a PC and a You know what does? Hooking up this 3,000 watt refrigeration cooler directly to a CPU, at least I sure hope it does. By the end of this video, with any luck... Brian the Electrician. will have transformed into a CP cooler and To what? Like negative 40 degrees Celsius. It's going to be really stupid, and huge thanks to Thermal (upbeat music) First thing we need to do is figure out where the heck the thermostatic We've got our condenser here. It sends liquid to the evaporator that turns all of your liquid into vapour with a U sends it back to here into the compressor. But if liquid gets sent well, you put something into a compressor and things That's why you need a TVX. It turns out it's right Because we were afraid it The second thing we how the heck this turns on and off. So, this part right here and it's responsible for and sending a signal to the outdoor unit, which actually does I don't want to go down rabbit hole (beep) for the next 16 hours, so we're just going to take Now, I just need to go spend Honestly, this is going I'm sorry Lance. (laughs) Let's look at what we're of raw copper into, using the turmoil. You're probably familiar with and this is kind of like that, but instead of using water we're using the phase Via a copper tube, our at the CPU. When it goes and high pressure of the massive space in here, from a liquid to a vapour absorbing loads of heat in the process. After that, we've created refrigerant to navigate for To create this maze, we will layers and then solder them all together, sealing the whole thing refrigerant to escape, which given that there might be over - This is my first time so we'll see if we blow it up, I guess. Yeah, it seems to be working. That tool is great for chip evacuation, so I think we're good. Nevermind. - I'm almost wondering if we bit of an orifice in the with this sitting here, a pretty big opening. - We could just crush the end of that. It's just the most YOLO evapourator. - One thing we are going to make sure we put this before we solder down to the lower layer, because otherwise it won't go in. - It wouldn't be great. And I'm going to have to tighter. It was a.. we're So off to work on the to make it all fit. - Yup. This is why you when you're running new code. This was supposed to be but there's not enough space. So it decided instead it right down to the final which with a 16 inch cutter blown it right up. So - Grill the end down a open it back up and okay, So once we get the two major I can solder the tube into this lower layer. I can solder the tube where (upbeat music) - Oh, final piece of copper. This one looks pretty good Oh my tap just broke in there. I guess this was a very (beep) tap. (upbeat music) - That's cool. Now should do. - Oh it's finally time. - I might need the big head This is way too hot for the - It's actually soldered to the pipe - We have fire bricks down there to get it off. - Yeah I think we're going to need that. I'll try to move it I guess. (tools working) - So what did we learn Brian? - Firebricks are our friends? - Yeah, don't solder it to the base. - That's the first for me. Does anyone want hearing protection? (upbeat music) - Have you ever seen a Firebrick glow red? - It's been real hot. - Oh yeah. - Is that straight? - Close enough. - Yeah. You can feel the - The cool and spraying off of the thing and hitting the screw hole and coming out. Need to fix that at some point. - What do you mean? You - Still really hot, but the - I dare you to lick it. - I have an idea. - Oh yeah. - The top cools down. Oh yeah. It is working. (upbeat music) - Alex. There's enough thermal mass here. You could use this thing as a heater. I would just have to let it it up. Get some bare copper again. And then we'll solder on the last layer. You can solder the hookups And then we can pressure test it. Definitely going to need - Done - Wow! I don't think it's going to leak. - We did go through about a - That's a lot of potato cannon shots. - Would you really want to I mean, I've seen potato shot - Oh yeah. I used a settling. The my dad was like, you guys can't shoot Cause the windows moved too much. - It's got some good weight - We're in Brian's truck We just want to pressure test this. - See those jumps... 400 PSI. If there are any leaks that just my pressure's fairly small volume. We're good. No bubbles. - Good freaking job on the solder. Blocks pressure tested. Now we just need to get Most of the crap is gone now, but during all the soldering heating up, cooling down and so on, this So fortunately we have We're just going to mix up some oil, Oh (beep) not that much and a little bit of this stuff right here. It's just, what would you even call this? And now I just do this for quite a while. The lapping about halfway it was sandblasted, which reminded me that Why does this thing look like garbage? It should look like a $300 park. So there we go. Look at that Out of the sandblaster, the surface finish on I also went in, locked It's not a mirror finish, but who cares? We have Thermal Grizzly. That'll fill in all the little gaps there. And now it's time for If you've never seen a before, this is probably going but I swear this is much Just see the Vaseline squishing I say that it didn't deserve this, but like it's going to by the end of the day. - So what are the chances this dies? - I really don't think we're especially given how much But there is a reason that CPU the first time. I This is so gnarly Brandon. Oh, this is so hard to turn. Everything's so slippery So we have electrical. It's right in here and now it's time to connect this up and fill it with refrigerant. - First. We have to pull - Oh, now it's time to - We pull it into a vacuum to make sure that there's no contaminants Nitrogen doesn't compress not in an AC system. You will probably get some condensation on the low pressure side. - Yeah. If it's a problem, we can just insulate the whole thing. Got to use the sponsor of this video. Good old Thermal Grizzly Kryonaut. I'm gonna make sure it's So the sensory needs to get taped there, but we also just need to - regardless. - So I'm going to use the - Oh, we need an Allen What do you think the chances don't have is the one that we need. - That's definitely too big. So I'm going to say chances - You have the electrical connected. This is mostly a box now. We also have our electrical which maybe works maybe doesn't. Hopefully we can get Are we good? - Yep. - All Right. Let's hit it. - Oh. - Is it on? - Yeah. Oh that's cold. Oh E6 Okay. So it just shut down. But that definitely got quite cold. - Do we have a manual for this thing? - E6 malfunction of indoor fan motor. Exactly what you thought. - Oh no. I was thinking, just - Oh yeah. That's more smarter. I was thinking we just chuck - Well, I'm in, we could just - So good to cool. A - I actually melted in Oh my fans coming on. - So our controller isn't in here and the lowest, So when do you heat up the kick on. - We don't want to melt the probe. - It's on low. There we go. You can start to see the - 4. It's still going. - Oh my hands are cold - This whole thing is should we connect it to a CPU? - I think so. - Okay. - I'm very ready to. This very fast and -8 now. - This is really about is - Oh wait, geez. - Thermal paste? - Yeah. Thermal Grizzly if we forgot to put it down. So yeah. Thermal Grizzly sponsored this using their Kryonaut. They but that will just be metal at The Kryonaut is good for down to what? Like -200 degrees Celsius. Something absolutely ridiculous like that. - Oh wow. - Nice! CPU temperature of Not a bad start. Let's try what? 5 GHz. 5.1. Let's try 5.3 and We have so much cooling. We'll probably just get a - Oh, it kicked off. - (beep) - Sweating? - Yeah. Sweating pretty bad. Should have encased the whole something drips down on it. It's not even a stability This drive has risen (beep) on it. - It's not our jank cooling Yay. - Nope. - You piece of (beep). Although we're having it seems to have some sort something like that. For So preface. Absolutely do none of this. We have a professional electrician but basically we're ball steep in this. We were hoping just the compressor. - Okay, I don't know if I can say that - Our hope was that the So we could just have a switch. Turn the switch on, - To clarify, We were hoping the compressor It's looking like it's - So what we've figured out is garbage is to just feed it. Three-phase AC. We have that here. We could just plug it in and send it. - Full send on the three-phase. - So we thought we - 190 Volts DC at 180 Hertz. - Yes, But basically it might be easier to scoop I just really don't want - Making a dumb was a lot harder Either we can spoof all of and just potentiometer them Or we can come to this board the enable pin is. So now I spoofing thermal couples, whatever it wants and it'll run. This is probably going to existence with Thermal This is the temperature probe And it seemed to shut down when we hit about -20 degrees. It It might've been because but we're going to test it temperature and see what happens. Oh, there we go. Yep. So that temperature Now we just give it a minute? Wobble is concerning Hey Jamie I dare you to stick your belly in there. So we're now into the This is where we might be but we'll see. If it gets all frosty like all of this frost is Cause it warms up pretty As you can probably imagine to frost up. So that's why I'm concerned evaporator, but one of the sensors in defrost cycle. This is where having a proper help a lot. We're having a lot of blow back. It's at - 14 degrees now. It seems to be struggling to It's actually warming up Let's put the trial back and try this again. Come on, eat up, kick off, Come on..do it! That's a lot less sketchy So we should now see the evaporator goes down, which Wonderful. I wonder if turbo will help us. It's actually so stupid that - 20, shuts it off. That will be amazing. So we need to do two stages. We'll take our other air We're close to the moment of truth. If we're able to hold -20, that means I can finally This has been a lot of You really got your money's Geez. Oh! -20. There we go. Still dropping. Radiator a little bit, which is cool. It looks like we're not We're probably just right at to do. Like I can feel a bit of the heat coming through and that from going any lower. It's looking good. If it's Like they did a good job, I guess. Cause like who wants something That's -20 inside of their house. Look at all that frost. I really hope this works. If this is the last time that Kryonaut, I am so sorry, Roman. Going for the hard mount of course. I just want to get ahead of the 8,700 K is still a very good chip, especially when overclogged like this one is going to be it's really fast still. I want to turn the AC on now. Cause it can take a little bit, oh, that kicked on. Our That's already very cool. Yeah. That's sub zero. All right. So our CPU is currently at 0 degrees. That's that's pretty It's kind of weird that it isn't lower. I don't know if during a cinnamon Tron, if this has the heat but we're about to find out, oh, temperatures increased That's so warm, 4.8 GHz all core. It seems like it's doing fine. It's holding at 38 Well, the overclock isn't but it still proves this I could fiddle with it more, but I want to save all of my another video. That is cold! So Huge thanks to Thermal Grizzly Get some Kryonaut or Chuck in your laptop, your I don't know. Don't eat unless you want to. So I feel like this video hit watch your video where we Area 51M with Steve. That thing was insanely