Florida Man has had some crazy escapes - usually But every streak has to come to an end. Today, we pay tribute to those fearless Florida It's time for Dumb Ways to Die - Florida A salesman from Hialeah was in a hurry in But he may have been in a bit too much of He was near Lantana, and witnesses said he car swerved into the median lane - and crashed driver instantly. It seemed to be a standard crash, until officers It was an open sales manual - indicating that speeding through Florida. Looks like it wasn't just texters in the Self-improvement is a good thing - but it's Vera Lawrence was a middle-aged secretary a little more...prominent in certain areas. She didn't want a boob job or plumper lips She couldn't afford high-end plastic surgery, surgery party" hosted by a friend. Mark Hawkins, a wannabe plastic surgeon from and give women injections of silicone for After Hawkins left, Lawrence started having She was rushed to the hospital where she died. The cause of death? Silicone embolism, after the injections had It was the end of Hawkins' enterprise, as Not even the happiest place on earth is safe Disney World is known for its water activities, When Patricia Schenck and her son Brian were check out a small speedboat and zoom around and family as they waterskied. But they veered into the path of a large ferry Kingdom. While the ferry sounded the alarm, Schenck killed when the ferry hit her boat. The ferry crew rescued Brian, but the Schenck and geared up for a bitter lawsuit against Sometimes, pride goes before a fall. Molly Jerman was a former gymnast in high Still, she thought she was pretty flexible, in North Fort Meyers, she decided to put that She called out to her friend and yelled "Watch to the railing of the second-floor balcony. She proceeded to do a handstand on the thin to the hotel patio below. She was killed instantly, and police ruled It was just a simple case of a gymnastics was in the worst possible place. Sometimes when you've got to go, it's Shawn Paul Montero liked to party, and he bar in 2008. But he forgot one critical detail before he drunk's room before getting in his car. His first bad decision was driving drunk, on the list. As he was driving home, nature's call hit He pulled over at the side of the I-95 freeway freeway traffic didn't make for a great So he decided to climb the freeway wall - only to his death. When they say "Do not attempt this stunt", It was 2008, and the show "Jackass" was Led by Johnny Knoxville, the trained stuntmen by seeing how much they could injure themselves. Cameron Bieberle and Michael Smith were huge of their own. Bierberle would ride in a shopping cart and and picked up speed. But as they started their stunt, they hit cart's wheels hit a speed bump. The cart overturned, Bieberle went flying, Smith wound up being sentenced to four years never happened on Jackass. They weren't the only daredevils to meet Kleman Plaza in Tallahassee was a tall structure, And to a young man named Brian, it looked glory. Brian was known among his friends as a daredevil, when he saved a friend from drowning. But by 2004, his thrill-seeking had taken with reality TV shows about dangerous stunts. And when he saw the banister at the parking But he wasn't just going to slide down it. Instead, he boasted that he would do a running slide. Instead, he sailed right over the banister to his death. His friends were saddened, but not shocked. One even said this wasn't the craziest thing When it comes to strange deaths, it takes The death of Bryan Loudermilk was a mystery. He was found in a specially-dug ditch, with chest. Loudermilk had died from the pressure on his An investigation of his wife Stephanie gave to an odd corner of the kink world. It seemed Bryan and his wife had been involved black market, where Stephanie would step on But they had apparently decided to move on with Bryan in the starring role would be the The wheel was too heavy for Bryan, Stephanie breathed a sigh of relief. Sometimes, a few seconds can make all the David Pedroso was a daredevil, and that was Punta Gordo on his motorcycle - usually without But in 2008, he pushed his luck a little too The drawbridge to Manasota Key would frequently wasn't willing to wait for the slow ship So he decided he would beat the gate - gunning gates came down. It wasn't the best idea, as the lowering the motorcycle and dealing him a fatal head No one knows if he would have survived if wouldn't have hurt. When you race traffic, traffic usually wins. It was 2007 when Cammie Krusoe hit the jackpot, musicians, the Dave Matthews Band. She invited her friend Megan Thompson to join - only for a massive thunderstorm to derail The girls were soaked and seeking shelter, to get to the casino across the road - they of heavy traffic on Interstate 4. The young women raced across the highway, That then sent them flying into another lane, Sometimes, just getting wet is the smartest Sometimes you fish for big game, and sometimes Gary Cagle loved the water. The avid fisherman and free diver was regularly Keys, but he didn't always stick to the Goliath groupers are a protected fish, but He used his speargun to pierce the fish's and strong it was. The fish bolted, yanking Cagle along with He got tangled in the wire, and that's where to bring his knife. Unable to get free of the line and trapped His body was found a day later, still tethered a legend among other fish for the day he reeled But one man tested his fate with an even bigger Daniel Dukes was a drifter who mostly stayed name in 1999 - when his body was found at Not only was he in the popular theme park, massive Orca that was controversially kept Tilikum was known to be aggressive, killing were trainers. Dukes had apparently snuck into the park after either swim with the massive sea creature The incident wasn't caught on camera and - but getting up close and personal with an Not even the famous are immune from dumb ends. Roy Halladay III was an acclaimed baseball one of the most dominant pitchers of his day. But he was also troubled, and after retiring He was piloting a single-engine plane around air traffic controllers not getting any distress It brought an end to the legacy of a talented some disturbing things. Not only was Halladay's bloodstream full off risky acrobatic moves just above the water. He eventually climbed too high, the plane the water. We return to Disney World for this next high-altitude It's not uncommon for people to get sick The themed flume ride takes you through several But one tourist handled his upset stomach Feeling ill, he decided he would get off - in flumes moving through the massive mountain Sure enough, only seconds after he hopped exits, he was struck by another one coming But no one made a worse decision at high altitudes It was 1991, and a mysterious accident had A small Piper aircraft had just crashed, killing was also trained in flying. The plane had shown no sign of mechanical would soon become clear - nakedly clear. When the cockpit was opened, the two deceased harnesses. Apparently they had decided to join the mile-high At least when people do it in the airplane Want to learn about the Florida men who survived? Check out "Most Crazy Florida Man Stories". To learn about other Americans who tested to Die - USA Edition"?