Qin I love you So sweet and domineering Mo Qianqian, it's going to rain Go home and collect your clothes. Okay Mo Qianqian, you raise a monkey? Bring me a mountain. Master, I noticed that you haven't slept well in the past few days. Did I find some material specially to make a bed for you? Make this my bed. You see Wow, this is actually the best Hetian warm jade Warm in winter and cool in summer It also has the effect of calming the mind and nourishing the soul Huh, please It seems that your golden pupil has been cultivated to perfection. Even this Shibao Mountain, which has not revealed a trace of breath You can see through it at a glance Awesome, Master. Since my disciple's golden pupil technique has reached perfection Please Master Please allow me to go down the mountain to look for my biological parents. It's time for you to go down the mountain and practice. But good disciple Although this golden pupil technique is powerful But it can also easily backfire. It will definitely affect your support. Since Master is like this, There must be a solution. After you go down the mountain like this First, find a person who was born in a positive year, positive month, positive day and positive hour. A man with a mole on his chest gets married so This will naturally help to eliminate the backlash of the golden pupil. My dear, wait till you see him. Naturally, you can sense that he is the one who gave your orders. I'm telling you You must give birth to a son after you marry me Our family has been a single-line family for three generations. I can't stop here. It's okay to have a son Hey, don't look at me because I look young. But I'm already over 50. I have three sons. Your family heritage will never be broken. You are over 50. You are an old cow eating tender grass You asked me to mention your son? Shameless My request is simple If you give me 200,000, I will marry you But you have to have a house in the city. I want to bring my mother over to live with me. After all, it wasn't easy for her to raise me. I have to obey her. A filial son like you It only takes 200,000 yuan for the betrothal gift Too stupid Hey, it's no problem to bring your mother over. Then we will live with our family of 18. I respect your mother. You are filial to my parents, grandparents, and grandparents. Hey, don't run. I haven't finished yet. It wasn't easy for them to raise me You have to help me respect them. Why is it so hard to find the destined person that Master talked about? I'm in a hurry to get married and go find my parents. oops Grandpa, you are here for a blind date too. Yes, this is the 5 houses in Jiangcheng Yipin These are three limited edition Lamborghini sports cars. If you agree to get the certificate, I'll give you another 50 million yuan as a gift. How are you? I'm sorry, old man. Actually, I am oops Mo Qianqian and Zhao Jia falsely accused me of premature love in high school Write a love letter to Jiang Feng Leading the school violence and forcing me to drop out of school I didn't expect that he would be with Jiang Feng after not seeing him for a few years. How come the mountain Mountaintop Multiplayer When enough is enough, come down the mountain to cheat the old man for the minimum living allowance Oh, yeah. You don't even have a high school diploma. Only this old man wants you. Zhao family is better off without education than without quality Haven't seen you for so many years. Your mouth still stinks. Hey Jiajia Like us Why should people of this status lower themselves? I am just a clown who cares about every little thing. ah I see Luo Xingqian, you are jealous of me. I didn't expect it would be so many years later. You are more infatuated than this dog. I still miss my home scenery I miss him Mo Qianqian, let me tell you Where am I now? It is the largest The owner of the most authoritative antique dealer Ding Yu Zhai Like this person without identity Give me some shoes. You should stop wanting to eat swan meat like a toad. Did Mo Qianqian see it? This is the door to the treasure appraisal conference held by the richest man in Jiangcheng. Only well-known treasure appraisers were invited to buy tickets When I won the first place in the treasure appraisal competition Me He is the Taoist priest who is the official treasure appraiser of Shengshi Group. You and I are worlds apart. The treasure appraisal conference will be broadcast live By then, almost everyone in Jiangcheng will be able to see it. Doesn't that mean I participated in the show? Mom and Dad can see me I also want to participate in the treasure appraisal conference What? Do you know what treasure appraisal is? Isn't it very simple to appraise treasures? You are a poor guy coming down from the mountains, and you are appraising treasures? You haven't even touched the treasure. What are you bragging about? Did you see it? This is an antique hairpin from the Qing Dynasty that Brother Feng gave me. Hairpin glass is mechanically pressed Assembly line production Just a fake product produced on an assembly line You're still a treasure. Zhao family, you are so blind and you still want to be the king's teacher. Mo Qianqian, what nonsense are you talking about? Be careful, the wind is strong and your tongue is flicked You took one look and said my hairpin was fake. Even an old veteran in the treasure appraisal industry doesn't dare to say this How difficult is this? Jiang Feng, you gave your girlfriend a fake I brought a real Bodhi bracelet. But what a pity This Bodhi root bracelet is an entry-level All wrapped in pulp Are you sure? Sister, are you looking for death? My brother Feng, don't be angry. This poor guy He probably can't even get into the treasure appraisal conference. You can only brag here. Who said he couldn't go? Come on girl, take it Grandpa, this is actually true. Invitation letter to the treasure appraisal conference How can this be This treasure appraisal conference All held at my home Of course I can get an invitation. No, it's just this piece of torn paper. You said it was an invitation letter? The treasure appraisal conference was held by your family. Why don't you say you are the richest grandfather? Hey Guo Qingjie I really didn't expect this. You are doing it for money Any means can be used. You don't even let go of this old man with Alzheimer's disease. In this case Then I'll wait for you at the treasure appraisal conference. Bye-Bye It turns out that this old man has Alzheimer's disease. It seems that the invitation letter was picked up. Grandpa, where do you live? I'd like to take you back. You've been out for so long. Your family will definitely be worried. Hey, don't worry. Girl, what do you think? Do you want to be my granddaughter-in-law? Ah, Grandpa So you are here for your grandson. Does your grandson meet my blind date criteria? Of course I Call him now Grandpa what You found me a wife. That's right. Why don't you come over and get married now? Grandpa won't take medicine anymore. OK, I know. I'd like to see Which vain woman has deceived Grandpa? Ayan You can handle the treasure appraisal conference. I have something to do and I'm leaving first Hey Grandpa Pu just said his grandson would come over But he didn't show me any pictures of his grandson. You are the Mo Xianjuan that grandpa mentioned. Hello, my name is Hou Wenyan Prenuptial agreement is correct. You can marry me. But you must sign a prenuptial agreement Shangshi Group and my other products It has nothing to do with you I don't believe this money worship. I see this agreement. You still want to marry me No problem, I can sign a prenuptial agreement. But are you sure you are really Yang Nian Yang Yue Born on a Yang day and Yang hour? Yes, but Why does this jade pendant seem to have been cast under some evil spell? Even if we get married, I won't acknowledge your identity. This woman should give up now. Abnormal heartbeat He is the one who commands me OK, I agree Let's get married Mo Xuanxuan, I warn you again I married you just to comfort grandpa and cure his illness. Don't dream of anything that doesn't belong to you Mom, I won't let you succeed a second time. I didn't expect you to be such a narcissist. I admit that you are a little bit handsome But it won't let me see in broad daylight. I'll do it to you Why did you lend me clothes? I think there is something wrong with your jade pendant. It's exposed Talk about It turns out that it is my priceless blood jade. I'm thinking about it. Your jade pendant has been put under a spell. Evil spirits are eroding your heart at any time This goes on Within 3 days You will have heart failure Died suddenly I don't want to be a widow right after getting married. You'd better take off your jade pendant immediately. Find a stone box to put it in Stop the evil spirit that easily spreads You have to make your story more realistic. This jade pendant is the one I got from the Jade Buddha Temple. Consecrated by a high monk How could there be evil spirit? There's black smoke coming out of my head. Still stubborn. never mind This is for you I don't want anyone to know that you are holding two leaves there Sneaky What can't you do? Still a boss? I don't even know the name Xie Ye This is something that can save your life. Go back and read more books Why Don't throw away the medicine. Otherwise I'll tell grandpa Where to go to the treasure appraisal conference Mom and Dad I will definitely find you What are you doing? I'm here to participate in the treasure appraisal competition This was actually sent by Mr. Bo himself. Top VIP invitation letter Who is this woman? Is there something wrong with this invitation? Hey, no, no, please take it. Mo Qianqian Mo Qianqian, you really dare to come how You didn't bring your husband with him who has Alzheimer's disease. You and I know After all, I came to participate in this The treasure appraisal conference is attended by some upper-class celebrities If you want to come here to curry favor with the rich and powerful I definitely won't bring that old man. What a pity A country bumpkin like you Without an invitation, you can only kneel at the door. Who said I didn't have an invitation? No way Just a piece of paper given to you by a beggar You really took him as an invitation. What are you standing there for? Why don't you get rid of this poor passage? In case we disturb the important people Can you afford it? Please leave now. Did you hear that? Mo Qianqian, get out of here! I'm talking about the lady in front of you. You can't afford to offend Please leave now. You're not leaving, right? Visitors No, wait. Wait, I'm the treasure appraiser for this competition. I invited him You can't drive me away Look at this lady. Then let him in. So that I can get first place He also said it was because he did not participate in the competition yes I thought it was the security guard who seduced me. My Qianqian, you are really a woman who will do anything to achieve your goals Why are you looking at us? Shut up. your I'm sorry. Masaru, I found the young lady. Mr. Bo, you don't really believe what the lady said, do you? lady She's just a vain woman. Wait till I reveal her true identity I will divorce her Bo is still the most charming This woman wants to get close to you. You actually made up a story about the necklace that Vice President Lin gave you. This is what Vice President Lin did when he bowed three times and kowtowed nine times. From the Jade Buddha Temple How could there be evil spirit? Mr. Guo, Mr. Guo Go to the hospital quickly Mr. Guo, Mr. Guo Oh, I can't wake up. Prepare for others' funeral. Why do I always check my health two days ago? Why did you suddenly I'm also very strange But the test results showed that I always had heart failure Look at this No more than three lives Madam said that Bo Seng would not live for more than three days. Is this medicine real? That's right All right. Madam, you can't really be a master, right? No matter what, Sima will try his best What's wrong with me? It's amazing, ma'am. It's amazing. Bo Zong The doctor just said you have heart failure and won't wake up. I'm preparing for my funeral. But I really didn't expect Just for you a pill my wife gave me You woke up Your jade pendant has been put under a spell. Evil spirits are eroding your heart at any time This goes on Within 3 days You will have heart failure Died suddenly What did you say? Then what he said is true According to Madam's instructions Find a suitable place to put Ye Pei I called another car to meet Kong Dahui Grandpa found it for me What is the origin of this lady? What did you say? There's news about my daughter. Okay, okay, I'll be there soon. Blue found it Where is he? Jiang Chuyu said he was at the founding ceremony. There is a girl wearing our daughter's jade pendant Age is also in his 20s It's probably our daughter. Very good God bless you God bless you Lao Chen, let's go to the treasure appraisal conference as soon as possible. Welcome everyone to attend Treasure appraisal conference held by Shengshi Group The judges of this treasure appraisal conference are Mr. Yan, a well-known treasure appraiser Professor Wu Gang, Professor of Archaeology, Tsinghua University and Ms. Lin Yanglin, Vice President of Shengshi Group Everyone applauds and welcomes There are 5 contestants participating in this competition They are all treasure appraisers from all over the country The first prize winners Not only can you win a prize of 10 million yuan He will also become the official treasure appraiser of Shengshi Group. I'm on TV Mom and Dad should be able to see me. The rules of the game are simple These antiques on the table Each player chooses one The one with the highest value wins One hour limit Now the game starts You are a country bumpkin, don't you? Identifying antiques depends on You are really capable Mobile phone recruits you local old man Hey, keep your voice down. I was scared by dogs when I was a kid. Afraid of the dog barking at you Forget about you, a clown. I can only fight for this dog hoof myself Stinky bun will hum later See how I deal with you I choose this I choose this I choose this I choose Forton I chose first I chose first My head Old Zheng, look At the treasure appraisal meeting, the two girls were chosen according to their ages. Look who is our daughter? Waiting to the scene Just look at who is wearing it. According to regulations Two contestants cannot choose the same antique. I'll forget it then. Since Mo Qianqian insisted on snatching it from me I won't choose Let you and I choose This is good Now that our two contestants have chosen antiques Now, we would like to invite our treasure appraiser, Mr. Yan Antique appraisal The blue and white jar is well preserved Value: 500,000 Phoenix Head Pot of Yuan Dynasty Slightly flawed About 220,000 Hard powder stepped cup This product 330,000 is the bottom. Uh-huh Finally I saw something decent. Contestant No. 4, please tell me why you chose him. Please look at Eight-petal sunflower Shallow belly opening Side view of the elegant curve Wet glaze azure blue Ice cracks Natural Pendant Natural This is a green glaze sunflower petal from the Southern Song Dynasty official kiln Please give me some advice, Mr. Yan. Yeah, not bad This is indeed a green glaze accompanying table from the official kiln of the Southern Song Dynasty. The complete product is worth at least 50 million But unfortunately This bowl is not stored properly. Too big a defect Almost worth it now that it's heavily discounted I guess. 5 million But this one is among all the antiques today This is the one I like best. Contestant No. 3 has good eyesight Mr. Yan, why don't you take a look at the contestant next to me? How about his selection of antiques? After all, he claims to be a genius in appraising treasures. This is just an ordinary Rifu Buddha The value is no more than 200,000 The last one among all the antiques on the scene My sister was fooled. I chose it on purpose. I chose this Buddha head based on my eyesight. Haha, he also calls himself a swordsmanship genius Player No. 5 The most unacceptable thing in the treasure appraisal world It's you who are so self-righteous. The arrogant tower Well, since our contestant No. 4 has chosen this Song Dynasty official kiln Go ahead Then I announce contestant number 4 Zhao Jia and other contestants No. 5 Do you have any objection? I suggest you take another look. After all, the price you gave More than 1% of the value of the Supreme Buddha's Hand Ignorant child Do you think Jianbao is just playing house? This sword is funny It is the vision and experience accumulated over the years. You're an ignorant kid. How dare you lie to your ex-wife? This is the treasure appraisal conference Not playing house I'm not afraid of pretending to be awesome. Hey, contestant number 5 What's your basis for saying this? Yes, I know everyone identifies Buddha's hand It is judged by his intelligence and age. But this is not the only criterion Please see that the end of this Buddha's hand is very flat. There is only one slot on the right side. And this trough is from shallow to deep The Taoist must be standing on the right side of the Buddha statue. Go from top to bottom What does this mean? You just said it was just an ordinary statue of Lifo But if it's Lever Taoists will stand on the left or right side of the Buddha statue. Implantation slot Must be straight So it is enough to see that this is not a Buddha statue. A seated Buddha And I can conclude that This Buddha statue must be half-raised to the right So it prevented the activities of tomb robbers. In Buddhism Only one Buddha will half raise his right Sitting and Preaching Preaching Buddha It turns out that he is preaching Buddha. I'm so ashamed I didn't expect it. I have more than 40 years of experience in treasure appraisal. I can't catch up with you, a girl in her 20s. This Buddha's hand is just as this friend said Its value is 200,000 But its real value is tens of billions. The real value is at least 25 million Chen Rao My father believes in Buddhism I want to buy the Buddha Give it to my uncle as a birthday gift It will definitely please him. Hello Auntie There was a contestant named Mo Qingqing on the show. Protect her I'll be there soon What This is the first time that Ayan cares about a woman. Mo Qianqian, why are you so good? now that The antique selected by our contestant No. 5 is worth 25 million Then it's impossible Absolutely impossible Mu Qianqian is an orphan After high school, I dropped out of school and went to the mountains. How can she have the ability of shoulders You must have cheated. You can't afford to have a fight, can you? Vice President Lin, when I entered the venue just now I saw him and the security guard at the door The two of them are having an affair He must have seduced the security guard. Know the value of antiques So prepare these pretentious words in advance Catch him now. Don't let this woman get close to you. Ayan No.5 Since you cheated Yeah this This is the Suspended Paddle Buddha of the research war machine commander! How could you fall? Hey, contestant number 5 You broke the antique. The original price should be paid to the antique dealer. This is worth 25 million. You are confused Not just losing money Mo Qianqian, you are openly damaging cultural relics Vice President Lin, call the police immediately. People like him should be sent to jail for a few years. Please, it's just a 1:1 replica. Is it necessary to make such a big fuss? Who dares to say that the things we get from prison are fake? Hello, Mo Qianqian What a courage! Dare to say that our Ding Yu Zhai's products are fakes This contract is provided by your family Yes, our Dingyuzhai is the largest kingdom in Jiangcheng. I am also one of the investors in this appraisal competition All the antiques in this round are provided by my family How about it? Are you scared? Vice President Lin This is how Shengshi Group selects talents Such an ignorant yellow-haired girl Everyone can come to participate in the competition Boss Jiang is joking. This No. 5 player In fact, he is not our specially invited treasure appraiser. But squeeze in Our Shengshi Group is not worth much Yeah, I saw it too. I was just at the door I saw him flirting with the security guard before he came in. And this man is unscrupulous And he wants to team up with the security guards to throw me out. Mo Qianqian This is how you seduce me But a wild girl who doesn't even have a high school diploma In the absence of evidence They slandered our Dingyu products as fakes. Someone, catch him for me. I'm going to teach him a lesson. Who said I have no evidence? Well, first I have to admit Your counterfeiting skills are really amazing You should at least have the real thing or have seen the real thing. It's impossible that this appearance can be faked What about the year? This Buddha's hand has at least a thousand years of history How can this be faked? There is a very rare way to fake Buddha's hand Huoqingfa The Buddha's hand is roasted in a special way. You can make the Buddha's hand look At least a thousand years of history But only when a real Buddha's hand falls will cracks appear This fake Buddha's hand can only be broken into pieces. this You don't really believe his one-sided words, do you? Ding Yuzhai century-old shop Since my grandfather, people have been cheating on me. You're just screwing over your grandfather. All the products sold by the century-old brand are fakes What are you going to do? Blue and white jar is clumsy The glaze also presents a glass-like scenery Cut the fake I haven't seen this treasure yet. Imitation of the Yuan Dynasty Phoenix Hand Pot He's so small. A fake among fakes Pastel cup The angular lines are too bloated Clumsy Stand-in Are you looking for death? oops I almost forgot about this 5 million yuan official kiln small bowl The meaning of not repairing your feet is so profound You guys can't even see it Imitation antique Substituting inferior goods for good ones Jiang Feng, the one who deserves to die is you You bitch Smash my antiques I'm going to tear you into pieces My thief brother Mo Qianqian, you are finished You do it for show Smashed all these antiques. And said these are fake Total 30 million It's not worth selling you. What a sin! These are all cultural relics. How come a bold lunatic like you appeared in the sword appraisal? Sensationalism Deliberate mischief Mo Qianqian The treasure appraisal world cannot tolerate a fool like you who is blind and ignorant. Shut up, you people. He even claims to be an expert in treasure appraisal. Treat these fakes as treasures But they treat truly priceless things as decorations I think you are a bunch of blind idiots. I think you are a bunch of blind idiots. You give me money What nonsense are you talking about? Look at it This is a priceless treasure. Ha ha Joke Guo Sir, this is just a broken table. You really think we are stupid? Aren't you You are OK You are just an ignorant bumpkin. You pointed to a stone table and said it was a treasure. You also said that we are blind. I really thought you were a genius in treasure appraisal. But why is it that the joke of selling a pig to return the pearl has been exposed now? Sorry, I just overused the magic. The backlash began Isn't it said that marriage can restrain the backlash? It seems that we still need to find out the reason from the State Council. Huo Tianqi, you are ruining the reputation of the treasure appraisal world. And Ding Yuzhai's face Put it under your feet Boss Jiang, let me see. This Mo Qianqian is your rival Sent here to discredit you? Mo Qianqian Since you are so sure this is a fortress It's better like this How about we take a gamble? Okay, what are you betting on? I will immediately contact all the experts in the treasure appraisal field. Identify this table If this table is just a broken stone You just broke so many bones on me And called me blind I cut your tongue Gouged out your eyes Move your hands Do you dare to apologize or not? He actually dared to come up with his own counterfeiting method Must not stay Why not? If this table is not a priceless treasure I'll leave it to you. But what if he is a treasure? How do you say What should I do? This table should be yours called Ding Yu Zhai Yeah, that's right. If this table is a treasure, It belongs to me No problem. I'm not finished yet. From now on, you have to get out of the antique world. What did you say Forgery like you People who have no respect for antique treasures Stay in the industry It will only ruin the industry I tell you Don't be shameless Brother Feng, don't pay attention to him This broken table He can really fold He can't turn over, so you have to wait for him. A blind person is called a cripple Look at his nonsense Ah, this is a bronze mirror from the Spring and Autumn Period. Priceless Treasure Priceless treasure! Please ask Xiaoyong I have an unwelcome request. Can you continue? Since you said it was an unwelcome request, Then stop talking This this oh Xiaoyong, I just want to say that this bronze Belongs to Xiaoyong Then when I want to study it later Can I go to Xiaoyong's place? Can you provide convenience? Actually, who said the bronze mirror was his? You want to go back on your word Brother Feng didn't agree. How can you be considered to go back on your word? Please, we are recording the whole process. The TV stations are all invested by our family. Just now when you were smashing the antiques I have already asked the director to stop the live broadcast I admit that you do have some skills. But now this society is A powerless little person like you What will happen when you leave this door? Nothing If it's not broadcasting, how can I find my parents? Forget it, it's more important to save the bronze mirror first. Boss Zhang, we are here So many people Can you shut up everyone of my mouths? Are you going to fight our family to the end? Boss Jiang is right. This bronze mirror is a priceless treasure. Ding Yu Zhai's Private Collection Why would I give it to a country bumpkin who has nothing to do with me? I am Lin Yao, Vice President of Shengshi Group I represent Shengshi Group Support Boss Jiang in getting back the bronze artifacts Golden Age Group My cheap husband Isn't he the president of Shengshi Group? Vice President Lin Since your president hasn't spoken yet? You represent it. you Aren't you afraid that your president will stand on my side? It's awkward I have known A-Yan for 5 years. He always supports the decisions I make. This treasure appraisal conference has given me full responsibility. You're a bumpkin who suddenly appeared Why do you say Yan will stand on your side? Just because I am There are many people who want to get close to A-Yan. I don't care who you are. You just need to remember The place beside Ayan can only be mine This person seems to like my husband. Vice President Lin of Shengshi Group was informed of the time How about you guys? I support Boss Jiang Bronze Tongji belongs to Boss Jiang I support Boss Jiang Support Boss Jiang Support Boss Jiang Okay, keep your mouth shut. Go away Unrelated people who are still here What do you want to do? You want to fight me to the end? Boss Jiang just now I've re-watched it The antiques provided by your Dingyuzhai As this friend said Advanced is a high-quality imitation What I want to say is If this bronze mirror It fell into the hands of your top jade hairpin What will happen to you? What do you think, Mr. How dare you Still dare to dare I'm telling you old stuff If you don't want to lose your reputation You're a fool. Send the bronze mirror back to Hell Village I am Mo Xianxian I am determined to hand over the bronze mirror to France. Come and get it now. Hey what? Can't grab the Golden Boy Copper Well Are you planning to grab my phone? Who did you call just now? Of course it's the Huaguo Museum. Bo Zong Director Chen, why are you here? Mr. Bo, I received a donation call from a caring person. It is said that the long-lost bronze Donated to the museum free of charge Bronze from the ban That's a priceless treasure. Then you come here Could it be that This bronze mirror It was identified at a treasure appraisal conference. Who is the donor? I don't know the specific situation But I can tell you, the donors She is a lesbian named Mo Xiantian Ah, Mr. Luo, do you know him? He is my wife Mr. Zhao Mr. Luo, run! What happened to you? Dingding Yuzhai Boss Jiang He wants to steal the bronze mirrors from the contestants. Kicked us all out. Walk around and protect our loving people and bronze heads The letter is Are you saying you want to donate this bronze mirror? This is a priceless treasure. If it's on the shot This is a treasure worth hundreds of billions. So what? This kind of bronze mirror with cloud pattern is made by wax casting process. According to the waxing process, More than 1,000 years ahead of schedule Such a representative antique Only by handing him over to Huaguo can his greatest value be brought into play. Xiaoyong Gouyi Gou Yiya is pretending You think there's nothing I can do? I tell you As long as I'm ahead of them Just take this bronze mirror away. As for your making fake donation calls Just wait to die Zheng Jianqiang, I trust you guys If you want to grab Qingsong Throw it into the body of the old Chinese man I'll go over there too Looks like I need to fix this quickly. Then go find Bowenye The backlash is getting worse. Did you see it? Mo Qianqian This is the power of capital You are a low-class person. Even if you are lucky You can never cross the class line. If you know what's going on, Better to hide in the mountains. People like you who have no power, no money, no influence You are not worthy to come here and make trouble for me You dare, you dare You forge counterfeits at will Not ashamed but You are the ones who should go. Stop, I said stop. Something must have happened. What's going on Fang Zong is this crazy woman She hit me Look at what has happened to his eyes. He wants to steal my antiques. Mr. Bo, we have been working together for such a long time. You have to give me justice That's right, Mr. I saw it with my own eyes He was seducing the security guard at the door Then he sneaked into the treasure appraisal meeting Not only did it disrupt the treasure appraisal conference, And smashed all these antiques He is openly provoking Shengshi Group Ah Yan, I know you asked me to take care of Mo Qianqian But she really went too far. Not only cheating in the competition They also openly damaged the cultural relics of their partners. Now, they want to take the bronze and copper artifacts for themselves. He actually injured Boss Jiang Vice President Yu, you also said I asked you to protect her This is how you protect people. Ayan He is just a country bumpkin with no identity or background. Why are you protecting him? Who said he has no identity background? He is my wife I am his background I am his background What? You're married? So what should I do? Sheng Group is not a matchmaking agency Why don't you do it? What does it have to do with me? We have known each other for 5 years. Are you so cruel to me? Vice President Lin Please respect yourself My wife is still here. Don't say anything that will make her misunderstand If you have nothing to do Just go back to the company and handle your business. Mr. Luo, I will do it for your sake. Don't mind your wife smashing my antiques. But I must take this bronze mirror with me Boss Jiang, don't you know? Bronze bronze mirror It has been donated to the museum by my wife free of charge. Oh, so what? There are more fake donation calls. Is this the only one missing? Mr. Luo, are you going to... Are you going to terminate our business relationship of more than ten years? Boss Jiao I hope you can be like this city in a while What do you mean Who said Mo owes money? Miss Mo, which one is Miss Mo Xiantian? I'm here to pull the bronze mirror Is this bronze statistics or cloud statistics? Lady Bo's Righteousness On behalf of the entire ancient statistics, I would like to thank Mrs. Bo for her efforts. This is what every citizen should do. There's just one thing I don't quite understand I would like to ask Director Chen to explain this to me. Mr. Wu, feel free to speak up. What is the crime of intending to forcibly rob privately stored cultural relics? There are also counterfeit cultural relics for sale. This is forgiveness and punishment Serious circumstances Sentenced to more than ten years in prison or life imprisonment All illegal gains will be confiscated Please let me know Who is How dare you make such a big mistake Did Boss Jiang hear all this? Are you going to surrender yourself? I'll send you in. Boss Jiang, you should just turn yourself in. Or should I send you in? Ting Yuzhai Boss Jiang, it turns out to be you I've long noticed that there's something wrong with the antiques you're selling I didn't expect to think about it. Bronze bronze mirror Bullshit, that bronze mirror was originally mine If Boss Xiao wasn't Miss Mo You will know that there is a bronze mirror in it Besides, we made a bet just now. You have already lost Master Feng Jin to Miss Mo Shut up Do you have any evidence? You have no evidence Be careful, I will sue you for defamation You have evidence, right? Li Xiao filmed the video channel Who said the bronze mirror was his? You want to go back on your word Brother Feng didn't agree. How can you be considered to go back on your word? It can be proved from the video The bronze mirror was brought by Madam But Boss Jiang intends to steal the cultural relics He also attacked experts and professors in the treasure appraisal field. Arrest him and send him in with the evidence. Hey, I'm going too. I can prove All the items sold in Ding Yu Zhen are fake I will also take away my wronged Wrongly accused Everything has been resolved lady Should you tell me who you are? I It's time to die. My body can't stand the backlash of the golden pupil. Confirmed that just kiss him I was bitten by the golden tube The weakened ability will be restored Otherwise, it would not be nice to see so many people watching. oh Oh no I just want Mo Qianqian, what are you pretending to be? You just beat up a group of bodyguards. I can't even stand up on the ground Now you say you fainted accidentally Bozo, please don't be fooled by this woman. Are you saying my wife lied to me? That's right, this woman, Mr. Guo She is a scheming gold digger When I was in high school He just saw that Jiang Feng's daughter was rich. I've been seducing people After dropping out of school He was taken to the mountains by a crazy woman. Now it seems He must have learned some seductive tricks. That's how I tricked you into doing this, right? But my wife cheated on me. I love it My relative is just an orphan. Why can Mr. Bo be so materialistic? Yunxiao remembers his name and the prosperity of his family Guitar never back chisel yes Ma'am, let's go home. I can't do this if I don't leave Don't go Let's go etc. How do I get to the venue of the Girls' Treasure Appraisal Conference? I wonder why I feel he is so kind. in front of But now most people have left. Thank you, girl. Isn't this the bumpkin jade pendant? It's still the best mutton-fat jade. He bought such a good stick Jade pendant pair This is the jade pendant daughter Mom and Dad finally found you Welcome home, Master! This is the first time that the young master brings his daughter home The young master has finally grown up haha You mean you have been practicing in the mountains? This time I went down the mountain to find my biological parents. That's right, but the jade pendant is lost now. I don't know how to find them now. So you marry me It's so that I can help you find your biological parents. It's not me, it's because of my master's calculation He said I must be with a certain year, month, and day. Born in Yang A man with a mole on his chest gets married Only in this way can I suppress the backlash from my cultivation of the Golden Eyes. You are too feudal and superstitious. You are not feudal and superstitious Why put the jade pendant in the stone box? I am You are so alive and kicking now You must have taken the medicine I gave you. Yes, thank you for saving me. Why It's not a cure, the medicine can only temporarily suppress it You have been wearing the jade pendant for too long. The evil spirit has entered the body If you leave it alone, you'll die. I can completely cure you But you have to promise me Two things Make sure you don't play tricks on me Listen, I'm helping you. You are now possessed by evil spirits All over the limbs meridians If I rashly give you an injection or prescribe medicine Can only suppress I want to keep you out of danger. Only the evil spirit can be eliminated What does this have to do with handstands? Evil spirits can only flow out from the seven orifices of the human body. I'll make you stand upside down Of course, it is to better expel the evil spirit. Hey, don't shake It's only 3 hours No, it's now. Come on, okay? Well, the evil spirit has been completely expelled. Next, just warm it up. Madam, who did you just say is not good enough? Originally If I practice I can stand upside down for three days and three nights without any problem You only have three hours. No, it's not possible Okay, then I'll let you see if I can do it. Really can say it well I helped him cure his illness He gave me a power bank. This is charged What? Grandpa is sick. elder sister Thanks This is Why Humph, you are that little vixen, right? A lowly person like you is not worthy of entering my in-laws' house. Divorce my son now. Why are you here? The rebellious son doesn't even call me dad when he sees me now, right? This is your upbringing. Since you indulged this woman When I killed my mother You are no longer my father. What this woman The Woman She's your mother too. Hey, stop arguing. Let me save my uncle first. Save you What can I do to save you? Save you, a wild girl from the countryside What else can you do besides causing trouble? You don't know medical skills. Don't mess around Did the doctor check it? How to say Doctor says say what The doctor said your grandfather Grandpa is pregnant What? Ever since your grandfather fell into a coma? I have consulted many well-known Chinese and Western doctors. They say your grandpa is pregnant. Fortunately, I sealed it in advance. Otherwise, let outsiders know. This old man in my mother-in-law's family is pregnant. Isn't his in-laws' family a huge joke? No, listen to me. Grandpa is actually my father. I am here. I am uncle and aunt This is Dr. Zhou. I know my uncle is sick. Invite him here immediately. Let Dr. Zhou take a look at Grandpa. Oh, Yaoyao, you are so thoughtful. How is Dr. Zhou feeling? Mr. Bo Pulse is smooth and fluent It looks like a smooth pulse with rhythm. Ah, could it be that Master He is actually No, no. This pulse looks like a slippery pulse But there is also the disease of mysterious veins In fact, it is liver qi stagnation Abdominal gas obstruction So the belly is as big as a drum Wait till I lose the needle and exhaust My old man will wake up soon. Oh, it's useless. Grandpa is not pregnant He doesn't have abdominal gas obstruction. He was cursed. Only then there are symptoms of coma Your fake voice You can't cure it Where did this yellow-haired girl come from and talk nonsense? Guo Wenyan, this is the good wife you found, right? Your grandfather is so sick. You just let him mess around here. I don't have any more My wife doesn't need you to cure her. Grandpa is important Okay, wait for my old man to wake up slowly. dad Zhou Shanyi, what is going on? This should be because Mr. Bo is too old. Plus, he was seriously ill. That's why he couldn't bear it. Lord Zhou, please continue to save Grandpa Bo. I have no other choice now. You should prepare for your funeral. I've said it all, okay? You yellow-haired girl My medical skills are among the best in China. How dare you speak rudely to me? I said that no one can save a patient who cannot be saved. Who said he I can cure it Mo Qianqian, what time is it now? You're still talking nonsense here. Don't think you are A Yan's wife You can be lawless. I think this woman is a deadly star When you didn't marry her Your grandpa is fine. Nothing happened You just married her. Your grandfather is no longer able to do this. You should divorce him immediately. If something happened to grandpa, you are also responsible. It really can be cured Grandpa, don't forget who saved your life. Ayan, you don't really believe this woman, do you? You have a better way Well I The person that Ayan values most in the country is his uncle If Uncle died in Mu Qianqian's hands A Yan will definitely divorce this bitch good Since A Yan believes him Let him try it. But if he can't be cured If he can't be cured All the consequences Throw me a pill All people Give me a bloom Oh, good. I smell it This woman is your great aunt. If it's because of your decision Your grandpa is gone. I looked at the position of the president of Shengshi Group You can let it go, too. How can I let you be this straw bag? Is that what you said about your father before you die? Great! Wen Ye Your father is doing this for your own good. After all, this woman's origin is unknown. Dad is already dying. Let this woman toss again It's better to let the old man go with peace of mind. Don't worry, I will definitely cure grandpa If he can't cure grandpa I automatically withdraw from the group involved Please Wait, grandpa's condition is a bit serious now. I need to charge Hum, Mo Qianqian I knew you were a liar Just now I was here swearing Why wait now? Are you deliberately stalling for time here? Ha ha ha ha You yellow-haired girl I think you're all dizzy. Come and believe that he can save Buddha My Lord Do you all count mosquitoes? It keeps buzzing here. You can do it. No, shut up. Feed me I just consumed too much spiritual energy. I need to charge This can be a quick favorite So awesome He kissed me again in public Is it a declaration of sovereignty? He really pissed me off. Trying to marry me Shameless I think you just want to take advantage of Yan I didn't even want to save Grandpa Buddha. You are an uneducated lowlife. They don't even have the most basic manners. oops Are you sure you want to spend your whole life with someone like him? What does our business have to do with you? Bitch, I want to see what tricks you are up to. Ha ha ha ha Sensationalism I've never seen treatment like this. Mr. Luo Your lovely wife is not a country shaman, right? go Crazy babe Just two gestures like this can save people What do we need doctors for? You hurry up and follow this god I'll tell you about divorce due to illness Then quit Shengshi Group Because we are father and son. The family still leaves you with shit to eat Wait a minute What are you waiting for? Wait and let him mess around Kill your grandfather. Eight Formations How is it? It's better than ever. This is a strong selling It feels like the pulse of a 40-50 year old How is this possible? How is it impossible? I left a part of my spiritual power in Bo Ye's body Restored his body functions Although healthier than before Girl, you just saved me It is the greatest blessing for my grandson to marry you. Grandpa was cursed this time. Although I have strengthened your body with my spiritual power But we still need to find a cure as soon as possible. I was cursed. Um Then you can My rest direction does not include tracking But the person who can cast such a curse It must be someone close to you. Since I broke that person's curse He will definitely be retaliated against. Just wait and see Who's health suddenly deteriorated recently? Hey dad Ouch you You finally woke up Everyone is worrying me to death. Hey, I'm worried about you. I wish I was mad to death. How could this happen? I tell you Take this woman away from here now I don't want to see you Dad, look at you Don't say that. This is reassuring Now he is a hero in my mother-in-law's family. What dad? You're going to have a grandson soon. I wonder why this child is so weak. Don't worry, kid. I will definitely save all the angry Let you be born smoothly God 3 days left The woman's younger brother Just go and die Miss Mo, what do you want to do? Of course, it is a duty to fulfill I spent so much energy today to save grandpa. You won't deny it, will you? You saved grandpa I will admit it, of course. break me with your love preciously what are you doing Why hit me? You touch my butt, bastard You kiss me first I kiss you That's because you can suppress the backlash of my magic. Didn't we agree on this? I can save you and protect you But you have to be my power bank And help me find my biological parents The two times before that were also That's right you catch Ah Bo This is the information about Jiang Cheng's missing child 20 years ago. One by one After eliminating all the problems, we finally identified a family. President of Tiancheng International It is also the largest antique jade collector in China. Zheng Dongcheng's only daughter It was lost in the winter 20 years ago. Why do they look so familiar? Oh, they are at the treasure appraisal conference Looks like a kind uncle and aunt Are they my biological parents? According to the survey results These two people are most likely But what? They just announced Found his lost daughter A return party will be held tomorrow Zheng Dongcheng celebrated his daughter's return I also specially took a batch of the latest rough stones Sell Invitations were also sent to celebrities from all walks of life. It seems that they are not suitable for Yes or No You'll know when you go tomorrow. The raw stones they prepare are always the best. Just to pick out the injured Wow, there is so much spiritual energy here. There must be a lot of good stuff How come you can only appraise treasures? I also look at jade Of course. This is not enough. A while I want to pick a bigger jade for you and grandpa I'll make you a jade talisman. The bad guy hasn't been found yet. You fall first. You mean the one who harmed me and my grandfather is the same person? Nine times out of ten, give me jade The one wearing it is Lin Yao I took off the jade pendant and sent someone to investigate. Lin Yao is not him Should ask for another It's not hard to find this person. There is a way. It's like hunter and prey. Hunter's Trap Nature will wait for the prey to take the bait If you hadn't met me You only have 3 days to live So he will definitely come out and take a look. Is he dead? Want me to die at my grandfather's birthday party It seems that he still has a lot of resentment towards the country. Hey, look! President Zheng and his wife have arrived Mr. Zheng, the daughter he has been looking for for 20 years has finally been found No matter what this woman did before Now you have become a phoenix on the tree. What? The human world is originally a phoenix. The biggest antique dealer in China is his father. This title This proves that he has at least one trillion in assets. A true winner in life Oh, I'm so envious Now I just hope that my old man can suddenly tell me Actually, I was sent here too. My real identity The son of China's richest man Hahaha I don't care who my parents are. I just need to find them. Welcome everyone to attend my daughter's homecoming party Here I will formally introduce to you My baby girl Jiajia Stinky Shrimp Why is it you? Isn't this the little girl who showed me the way last time? How do you know my daughter? Of course I know But her mother She is my high school classmate Since school time. She loves to lie Later, I dropped out of school because of premature love. Yesterday at the treasure appraisal meeting He smashed all the antiques in Zu Yu Zhai Later, he relied on his status Seized someone else's Treasure takes the treasure for yourself They also sent Boss Jiang to the police station. What I thought he was a good kid. I didn't expect it to be so vicious. Auntie, are you sure that Zhao Jia is your daughter? He and I were classmates in high school. I have met his parents They look so alike. I think you should check it again. Of course I am sure Don't I know my own daughter? Today is my daughter's homecoming party If you keep talking nonsense here Don't blame me for not giving Mr. Bo face. Kicked you out Auntie, I'm just the money manager. Congratulations on finding your daughter. My wife and I went to pick some rough stones Don't bother me Why don't you let me say it? I just think it's a bit strange Mr. Qian just found his daughter Now like a jewel He won't listen to anything you say. Don't worry, I will explain this matter to you in private. Then let's go look at the rocks first, wait. You go down and greet the guests first. I'll be there in a minute Mo Qianqian, aren't you very good at identifying treasures? There are so many raw stones here today Do you dare to bet with me again? How do you want to gamble? It's very simple. We pick a rough stone from it. Whoever finds the most valuable jadeite wins. But if you lose I want you to kneel down and kowtow to me to apologize And get out of Jiangcheng Only Mo Qianqian left forever Only then can I secure my position as the daughter of the Zheng family Okay, I'll bet with you. But if I win Do you dare to do a paternity test with them? Guo Qianqian You are just jealous that I found my biological rich parents So I deliberately arranged Is it yo? What do you think? Husband, let's go. He called me husband and so on. Bet on it But if I win I identified her as their biological daughter. Never show up in front of me and my parents. A promise is a promise See you in 10 minutes Manager Zhang is the eldest sister What do you think? Do you want to do this? Yes, elder sister I am Qianqian now The eldest daughter of the Zheng family Even if you are good at sword skills But bet with me on my turf Really don't know how to live or die Why don't you go to see the raw stones and still eat cake here? Aren't you afraid of losing the book? Don't worry, he's a little Karami I'll just give him the water of the Pacific Ocean He can't beat me. Time is running out, stop eating I wonder why the popularity disappeared. You decide I see What happened? It's okay, it's just that the Zhao family is being too smart I just secretly replaced these raw stones with ordinary stones. I'm fine. How to change the original stone into ordinary stone Well, you won't lose. I've chosen Dad, what do you think of this rough stone? strangeness Shouldn't this batch of rough stones be at auction? How did it end up at the banquet? That's natural This is what I asked Manager Zhang to auction for me. High quality rough stone She is indeed my daughter, Zheng Zongchun Your father's stone It is easy to be surprised and inadequate That's natural Mo Xianxian, I have already chosen my stone You know you can't win. So Xiaozhi just admitted defeat first. Zhao Jia, you cheated so righteously Zhuang, you are really shameless What nonsense are you talking about? Cut me a professional treasure appraiser How can I cheat when betting with a country bumpkin like you? I think you just want to avoid gambling. So you deliberately wronged me What happened to Jia Jia? What kind of gambling is this? He is an orphan. My high school classmate He was jealous that I found my biological parents. So you want to gamble with me I felt sorry for him so I agreed. I didn't expect that after I picked the stone... He started to cheat again. Mr. Hou, if your wife goes back on her word, I think our cooperation with Sheng Group There's no need to talk about it. Cooperation is right After the boss of Dingyuzhai sent it in A thorough investigation of Ding Yu Zhai 80% of the shareholders in the store are fakes So the cooperation was cancelled. But we have a lot of business now We need a reliable shareholder. So we must find a partner as soon as possible. Oh, I see. Mr. Zheng, did I win? Tiancheng International will cooperate with Shengshi Group. Why are you asking this? He has already replaced the stone. I definitely can't win. You should try to cancel the bet now. Leave it to me Zheng Zongshengshi Group is the largest enterprise in Jiangcheng Tiancheng International and Shengshi Group cooperate I believe it must be a win-win situation You are right. But Shengshi Group is not my only choice Jiajia, you are daddy's only daughter. I will hand over Tiancheng International to you sooner or later So I'll leave this to you. You decide Dad, you are so good to me. Now the original stones have been replaced with ordinary stones. Even if he has the ability to identify treasures There is no way to capture the life This time he will definitely lose Mo Qianqian, if you win this time Tiancheng International Naturally, we can continue to cooperate with Shengshi Group But if you lose Mr. Buddha, you and Mo Qianqian are getting divorced. Drive him back to Jiangcheng Our cooperation this time is not completely impossible Mo Qianqian, I must cut off all your escape routes This time we have to swap I won't Don't worry, I won't lose. Floating Soldiers and Generals Big Soldier Little Soldier Whoever it comes to I've chosen him. I think about it, Mo Qianqian, you really don't know what you're talking about. Also select soldiers and generals You really think you are a god. Are you sure you should compare this stone to my daughter? I'm sure and I guarantee it I chose this stone But it is much more valuable than the one he chose. He Qianqian You're bragging too much. Be careful with this stone, it can't bounce with any force I'll scare you to death with a cockroach Well, now that the stones have been picked, Then let's break the stone First solve this good size sister I can't wait to see your jade This is a glass jadeite raw stone Price: 2 million But look at this jade stone Few impurities and high color saturation Market price at least 20 million Two and a half pounds, did you hear that? You've never seen so much money in your life. I tell you I was born in Rome And you are destined to be just a Roman in this life I advise you Or kneel down and kowtow to me immediately Then get out of Jiangcheng Hi Zhao Family I haven't even cut the stone yet. Are you so sure I lost? Did you do anything to these stones? Nonsense You, Jiajia, don't need to do anything This batch of raw stones It was supposed to appear at the auction. But I don't know why I got into the venue. So the quality of this batch of raw stones itself The quality is higher than the remaining stones screened at the venue. Since it is gambling on stones Then you can only gamble after you solve it. Go ahead. No need. My stone opens by itself See for yourself Did I hear that correctly? You really think you can do anything. I tell you Broken stone, he is just a broken stone Just like you No matter how you package it Can't escape the fate of being beaten back to their original form Wang Qianqian Since you and my daughter were classmates, Now, as long as you apologize to my daughter I can let bygones be bygones Just treat it as a joke between the two of you. Oh my god, she is Boyan's wife after all. I still have to give Bojie face. I don't know why See this girl I always can't help but feel soft No, I don't think I will lose. Don't know what's good for you Mr. Luo, since your wife insists on doing this, Don't blame me for being merciless. You guys better find a paternity test as soon as possible. When the Zhao family loses You should go get a paternity test right away. It would be good if you found out earlier that you found the wrong daughter. Why not find it again sooner? Paternity Test Jiajia, what did you guys bet on? Dad, look what you are doing Lin Lan These should be enough to turn stone into gold Guo Qianqian, what the hell are you doing? This is This is To become this Imperial green has been around for a long time. How is it possible? Absolutely impossible You must have cheated. This stone must have been replaced for you by Mr. Bo in advance Why You put these stones here yourself. I picked it in front of you. How can I change the stone? How is it impossible? You must have changed it. I have replaced these raw stones with ordinary stones How is it possible to open a stone tool? You guys just Xiaojia, speak up What happened to the stone? Dad, please listen to my explanation. Mr. Zheng means what you heard. Your daughter is trying to drive my wife off the battlefield. The rough stone you put All changed to Ordinary stones that can be found everywhere on the street This blatant cheating method of yours That's your Tiancheng International business philosophy You farted, I didn't change the stone Do you have any evidence? You wronged me Manager Zhang Mr. Zheng, please explain it to me. Why did I put the rough stone at the meeting? Now it's turned to stone Zheng Zongshi said I say I say Mr. Zheng Miss Dudu The brothel that made me hit You're talking nonsense. I didn't It's you who wants to swallow up the company's raw material Don't talk nonsense Miss Cheng Over the past ten years I work hard for the company I have been the same for ten years If the young lady hadn't threatened me not to change the stone I was fired. I would never dare to do such an immoral thing. Cheng Zong farted It's you who should shut up. Mr. Zheng, I know Mr. Zheng Mr. Zheng Someone give him another chance. Mr. Zheng Mr. Zheng I know I'm wrong Mr. Zheng Mr. Zheng I really know I'm wrong Zheng Zong Xiaoqiang I'm so disappointed in you. Dad, listen to my explanation. I am afraid of losing face for the company. Jia Jia's father knows you want to win But you can't use such dirty tricks to win. How will others view our Zheng family if you do this? How do you view Tiancheng International? Who will cooperate with Tiancheng International in the future? Mrs. Wang, I was wrong about this matter. To express our apologies I am willing to cooperate with your company on the basis of I'll give up two more points. First, compensation for you At the same time, I hope you don't have the same opinion as me. Mr. Zheng is generous In this case Then I won't make any comparisons But Zhao Jia This bet Whether you cheat or not I won after all. Should you fulfill your promise? Did a paternity test Hey paternity test Jiajia, what bet did you make? Dad is just jealous of me So I deliberately made trouble Hey, stop it. I won't take the blame for this. It was you who wanted to bet. What if I lose? I'll kowtow to you and apologize Get out of Jiangcheng But if I win You're going to get a paternity test. This request is not too much, right? And Mr. Zheng will do a paternity test You are completely relieved. What do you think? Dad, believe me. I really am your daughter My dear daughter, Daddy will definitely believe you But you forgot about daddy Have you told me anything? You are now the eldest daughter of the Zheng family. Your every word and action represents our Zheng family. You need to keep your word. The most basic product Isn't it just a paternity test? Just do it. It's the weekend today and there are a lot of people It's too late to go to the hospital now. It's okay. I've called the doctor. What can I go now? I brought Dr. Ayan and the equipment. Can you give them a paternity test? You brought the medical team. The identification results cannot be released immediately. What if you lose your bag? Who said I can't come out right away? The Medical Department of Shengshi Group The latest medical devices Results available in two hours You can rest assured But I fainted. It's okay, hair is fine too Zhao Family, if you are really their biological daughter What are you afraid of? Who is afraid of me? I am not afraid of you going through so much trouble. In the end, it was all in vain. In the end, you lost face for the president of your country. Miss Zheng, please don't worry about my face. Go ahead Miss Zheng, I'm sorry, don't tease me. Isn't this the jade pendant that Mo Qianqian wore before? What to see I haven't seen anything good. Miss Zheng's jade pendant is really rare. Real leather Oh, President Lin Be careful Go ahead What is the result of Mr. Wang's paternity test report? Mr. Zheng Dongrong and Ms. Zhao Jia Mr. Zheng Dongrong Confirmed to be related by blood to Ms. Zhao Jia Mr. Hou Thank you for helping me confirm my blood relationship with my daughter. I will ask someone to contact you about the cooperation later. Congratulations to Mr. Zheng for finding his love again The day after tomorrow is my grandfather's 70th birthday Invite you and your wife and daughter to come and participate Be on time Let me take you there. Identification Report What's going on? How did I really become Zheng Dongcheng's daughter? Don't say anything. I know you're a gentleman. Dawn, I will help you. Vice President Yu asked me out for something? Ms. Zheng Shouldn't I call you Zhao Jia? After all, you are not Mr. Zheng's biological daughter. What did you say I don't understand The paternity test results are out. If you still have this attitude I think we don't need to talk. I will tell you the real result later. etc. How did you know this? This jade pendant belongs to Mo Qianqian. The parents you recognized should also be his. So I used Mo Qianqian's hair I did a paternity test with Mr. Zheng. Why are you helping me? You are the vice president of Shengshi Group. Mo Qianjin is your CEO's wife. Hum, Mrs. President I waited for Yan for five years Five full years I haven't even taken the position of the president's wife. He's a bitch who suddenly appeared Why So you think the enemy of Zhao's enemy is his friend I think we can work together. I will kill that evil Mo Qianqian completely in my hands. Strange, there was no such smell yesterday. Wenye, you are back. Why are you here? This is my home Why can't we be here? yeah Wen Yan is an old man She was worried that I wouldn't be able to take care of myself outside during the early stages of my pregnancy. So I asked my family to bring me back to live with you. I feel so bad. Wei Wenyan Qianqian, what happened? It's ok. I'm going back to my room now. Don't bother us if you're fine. Don't worry about this An unfilial son is an ungrateful wolf who can never be tamed No matter how nice you are to him, it's useless You should take good care of your baby now. Give birth to our child safely. This is the real thing A good husband listens to you. The little girl dared to use her golden eyes to break my magic Then I will destroy your golden eyes have a good rest Mom, don't go. My eyes hurt You've been bitten again. It hurts, help me light em up light em up tell me where you are tell me where you are summer nights bright lights into the star You just put on It's not really pretending. You take me for a fool. I didn't mean to play tricks on you. You sit first? I was just in the living room There was indeed a moment when the golden tung tree lost control What is going on? Your stepmother is at ease How much do you know about him? I can't find out his details. Luo Jiashu was in my junior high school Brought him back Less than a year later My mother passed away. You think she has a problem? I suspect your jade pendant has something to do with grandpa's illness. It's all her fault. How did you find out? Yesterday, I also bought a villa with Feng Shui that would bring both good fortune and luck to my family. Today, it almost became a haunted house. Almost broke my golden poison tree It must be that the person who was wearing extra clothes was not him. Is it because of your dad? It can't be him Bo Jiashu is a sentimental waste So you are pretending to be calm Well, only to make him feel that I am no longer a danger. Will reveal more memories Hey, don't worry He's pretty awesome though. But compare with me? Sing and throw I will protect you Then I will have to rely on my wife from now on. Um To prevent him from getting hurt when I'm not around. Also available I'll make the nurse for you now. I know several bathroom owners. You don't have to do it yourself Then I'll ask Ling Xiao to send a set of tools over. Lin Xiu Ni Mr. Guo, do you have anything to tell me? Please ask the stylist to come over tomorrow. Prepare for the lady. The day after tomorrow, Zhuang Ze will have a birthday banquet for his descendants. Zhao family, didn't you say Do you have a way to get Mo Qianqian kicked out of the Bo family? What is the specific method? I can certainly do this. You just need to cooperate with me. Zhao Family, I don't want anything to go wrong with this matter. He is a lowly man from the countryside. Just struggling in the mud You know Vice President Lin, you don't have to worry about this. We all have a common goal You just need to remember hum Wait until I drive Mo Qianqian out You have to fulfill your promise Stop threatening me with my identity. That's natural And now the Zheng family and the Bo family have just signed a cooperation agreement We will be the best partners in the future. Like him, a country bumpkin. As the daughter-in-law of the Bo family, I attended this kind of door-to-door banquet. It will definitely be ugly By then, someone as outstanding and capable as Vice President Lin Naturally, you will be recognized by everyone Not all Mr. Bai's wife is a rude country girl. How come you are so elegant? That's right. Look at this. Than Vice President Lin who follows President Bai every day A lot more beautiful Mr. Bai is so lucky. Nonsense Peng Wenyan, today is your grandfather's birthday party. You bring this lowly person here. Do you want to embarrass our country? When my mother was alive You're not ashamed to bring him home I brought my married wife What's so shameful? Your husband is okay. Your father is doing this for your own good. After all, it's your grandfather's birthday party. Everyone wants to give gifts Just like me and your dad Dad prepared a 500-year-old Give the old man some nourishment Value: 50 million He is an orphan and can't produce anything good. Dad is also worried that he will make a fool of himself Oh my god You are so kind and still think about me. Why not give me 50 million first? Let me buy a birthday gift for grandpa Humph, he is indeed an ignorant country bumpkin. Just know that I want money The Eighth Master is really old and confused There are so many ladies, but I don't choose I'll choose you, a little girl, Master's knife Hello everyone, welcome to my 70th birthday party Mr. He You are still strong and healthy Long time no see You are still healthy That's all thanks to my caring granddaughter-in-law. He really likes to do some health-preserving stuff. I said, I don't need it at my age. He said he didn't obey me Hahahaha Mr. Wang I'm talking about the girl who doesn't get along with Jia Jia I didn't expect he would know these things. Hey, isn't this the children's kindness? Mr. Bo You are blessed Uncle, this is my birthday gift to you. This is an old item. It is said to be able to ward off evil spirits It's worth at least 80 million. Thank you. Hey, East City Is she the biological daughter you just found? Yes, thanks to the treasure appraisal conference held by your company. By mistake I accidentally saw the jade pendant my daughter carried with her. This is how I found Jia Jia. Oh, the jade pendant What a coincidence! My granddaughter also has a jade pendant I also want to pass this jade pendant Find his biological parents. Okay, what about us? I can help you take a look After all, we mainly do this business. Maybe through this jade pendant Determine the buyer's family background and identity Oh, that's great. Come come come kiss Come over here come over here Hey Dad Dad, that broken thing of his I've seen a broken plastic Not worth the money He, I think Born into a poor family His parents couldn't afford him. Abandoned him I'd like to say He is now the granddaughter-in-law of the Bo family If I really find that shabby parent How can I suck his blood? Right, Grandpa? It's Grandpa, what happened? Ah, Grandpa I also prepared a gift for you Uncle This is the Buddha statue I brought for you from the Jade Buddha Temple. The golden statue was blessed by 18 enlightened monks. May you be safe and healthy Good kid haha Convergence Convergence Uh Dad That peace of mind I also prepared a gift for you Dad, this is the 100-year-old ginseng that your daughter-in-law prepared for you. For body supplement Oh no, no need Since it is for nourishing the body You ate it anyway. Look at you now, you are so weak. Others still think that my country mistreats you. This old thing, Dad What did you say? Then An Xin just wants to leave a legacy for our country. Is that why you work so hard? You are not a descendant of our country. The eldest grandson is Wanting children My granddaughter-in-law is enough. Dad, you are really old and confused. You are just an orphan with unknown identity. You still treasure him. Your birthday party today See what he can give you. We are the richest family in Jiangcheng Are we all waiting to see He took out two pounds of eggs as a gift Let everyone laugh at us? I eat this egg. Because I was happy to eat the ginseng he gave me. You hum Grandpa, I hope you like eggs. Because my gift to you is an egg Hahahaha Dad Please take a good look This is the granddaughter-in-law you carefully selected. Your 70th birthday She gave you an egg. Too shabby. What happened to the eggs? What happened to the eggs? I like this egg. Aunt Cai said Qianqian is still young now. Just got down the mountain He has no money to buy gifts. Is this normal? No way, Grandpa Guo returned to the party that day You all saw it with your own eyes. When he opened the park, he produced the finest imperial green That thing sells for hundreds of millions. How could there be no money to buy birthday gifts? Maybe he is used to being poor. If you come across something good, just hide it away. The inferiors are the inferiors. Even if you wear a dress It can't change the poor genes of the lower class What are you in such a hurry for? Who said this is an ordinary egg? Qianqian, this is not an ordinary egg Is it still an egg that can hatch chicks? Hahahaha Awesome! I could tell right away. Yes, this egg can indeed hatch a chick. Ha ha ha ha oops It's so funny that there is an egg that hatched a chick You are so proud of it how You're going to give a performance to all of us here. How to hatch chicks? Hahaha Mo Qianqian You see clearly This is a birthday party held by Jiangcheng State. Not a country fair You're making a fool of yourself here Is to make the country's face Throw it into the upper class circles of Jiangcheng? Wait for the chick from my egg to hatch I treat the junk you gave me as treasures. You will be the ones who will be embarrassed then. Mo Qianqian, what nonsense are you talking about? The gifts we all gave are worth hundreds of millions. Carefully selected You are a deliveryman of eggs, how dare you say that to us Next Steps It is my friends that I abandon. Strange why it doesn't change? It shouldn't be Great! He really lost control of the golden pupil. For this stinky girl Disturb today is Che also witnessed a miracle You think You put a vibrating machine in the box. Can deceive me If you like magic so much, go to the circus Stop embarrassing yourself here. I understand Mo Qianqian You won't drop out of school. I followed an old swindler. What you learned are all some deceptive tricks. Hahaha Grandpa Guo I think you were deceived by him. He is an orphan without a father or a mother. I've loved lying since I was a kid. Also likes to fight She is not worthy of being your daughter-in-law. Um I say you people are always asking whether you are worthy or not. I know you're mocking people. Unknown I thought you were breeding wild boars in the countryside. Hey Mo Qianqian Why are you so vulgar? Ayan is a country bumpkin. You are the president of Shengshi. Are you sure you want to spend your whole life with someone like him? That's my business It's none of your business I like his magic tricks. You are so cute, Yan It's done Grandpa, this is my birthday gift to you. Phoenix Jade Pendant Made of Imperial Green Oh, good, good Oh, Qianqian gave me this thing I like it so much I personally picked it. Follow the daughter-in-law and be considerate He is sensible and has this ability Right, grandson? Grandpa's choice is of course correct. I wonder how he can still use the golden head. This shouldn't be If he's okay Should we continue with the plan? Oh, I don't know why recently My body suddenly became unwell. Grandpa, let me go over there and rest for a while. Take a good rest. I'll send your wife back. Hey, it's okay I can go there by myself. Eat and drink well Don't mind me Hey Mr. Zheng Uh, let's talk about the contract. Wow Wow, so naive You did that on purpose, didn't you? It was you who threw yourself at me. I thought you liked cake. I gave you the cake. Why is my jade pendant with you? This is my jade pendant. Give me back my jade pendant. I have worn this jade pendant for 20 years. I can't possibly mistake you. Okay, you want me to return the jade pendant to you. Okay, then you have to promise me one thing. Let's go talk somewhere else. Zhao Family Can you give me my jade pendant back now? Don't worry. You haven't agreed to my request yet. Are you out of your mind? I got my jade pendant back. Why should I agree to your terms? Mo Qianqian, don't think you are A Yan's wife Then you can be lawless The Zhao family is the only heir to the eldest daughter of the Zheng family. The consequences of offending the eldest daughter of the Zheng family It's not something you can afford. So what is your request? I want you to divorce Mr. Guo Then get out of Jiangcheng Never appear in front of me Zhao Jia, are you hiding something from me? What do you say based on your personality? Now she is the eldest daughter of the Zheng family. Just put it before I wish I could show off in front of you every day. Why would you want to kick me out? Return to world-weariness Now also And you still carry my jade pendant Shut up? What are you arguing about? What are you doing? What do you want to do? I should ask you about the lack of money. How could you be jealous of Miss Zheng? I just want to push him down the stairs. And I want to come over and stop you What else are you going to do to me? oops Ah, help! Help! Help! Someone come quickly! Guo Junjun wants to kill these girls What's up? Qianqian run mom save me Qianqian mother save me Are you okay? My sister said he was going to push me down the stairs To make me a cripple How can you be so vicious at such a young age? How did your parents educate you? He was abandoned by his parents since childhood. It is said that there is always something hateful about pitiful people. Who knows? His parents saw it since he was a kid. He's a future murderer. That's why I don't want him Bo Zong I have always believed that I can make Shengshi Group stronger and bigger. Must be a person with vision. But you choose your wife The vision is really too careless Now your wife is trying to murder my daughter I think you should give me an explanation. Ayan Now is the critical period for our cooperation with the Zheng family. Don't offend them. Then you What do you want me to tell you? I want him to kneel down and kowtow to me to apologize Then get out of Jiangcheng That's right, leave this scourge in Jiangcheng What if he goes crazy and hurts my daughter again? What you said makes sense. As Bo Wenyan's father I can decide Let my son divorce this crazy woman Then drive him out of Jiangcheng Just hope Mr. Zheng, please don't let this inexplicable madman You misunderstood my Luo family Luo Jiashu, it's not your turn to decide my marriage. I'm helping you, son. Look at what kind of wife you found. A small family atmosphere Just because of a little thing between little women I actually want to kill someone Such a cunning guy Do you want to be a housewife in the future? Yes, auntie You are the president of Shengshi Group. You should find a wife who is suitable for you. Not this country bitch. Have you said enough? Why are they all acting like opera singers? So exciting The bitch is going to be driven out of Jiangcheng How dare you be so arrogant? What are you driving out of Jiangcheng? Why Mo Qianqian Stop playing dumb here. Just now everyone saw you murder Miss Zheng Do you think you can get away with it now? ah You call the children's playing house just now murder? What do you mean? That's called damage OK If you have something to say, please talk it over Let my daughter go first. Mo Tianqian, why don't you let go? Ms. Zheng Take a look Look at what kind of wife you found. Have you done a background check? Could he have been a violent murderer? How dare you do this in public? I don't know what it is in private. Isn't this you? Hey, what did you say? I hate it most when people wrongly accuse me. Didn't you all say I wanted to murder him? I don't live up to this reputation. I feel sad. ah Zhao Jia, didn't you say I wanted to push you down the stairs? Make you a cripple? Do I want to satisfy you now? Don't hurt my daughter. Please, I was wrong. What's your mistake? I dare not wrong you Miss Zheng, I see you are in my hands. I deliberately used a trick to get you out. Jiang Cheng I was wrong You guys take a look I told you he directed and acted in it himself. Wait, my jade pendant hasn't been returned to me yet. This jade pendant is mine. It was when I got lost 20 years ago What is the only thing you carry with you? You said this jade pendant is yours, right? Is she our daughter? Mo Qianqian, your eating manner is too ugly I know this is the Zheng family's jade pendant. I want to own it But you made a wrong calculation Miss Zheng has done a paternity test with Mr. Zheng You come out now and pretend to be Miss Zheng It's too late for the game Yes, I am the eldest daughter of the Zheng family. What's the point of you holding the jade pendant? You are an orphan without a father or a mother The lunatic who pretended to be me Yes, the paternity test between Jia Jia and me Mr. Bo personally hired someone to do it. There will definitely be no fake This lady Please return the jade pendant to me. I said it all This jade pendant is mine. I don't know what your paternity test is about. I don't even know what token you're talking about. But this jade pendant It's the only thing I can find my parents. You can't say it's yours. You call him Can he promise or what? What can he promise? This jade pendant is mine. Of course he can translate it if I ask him to. Look at this, you rebellious son Look at what kind of wife you are looking for. Shouldn't he She just escaped from a mental hospital. Ah, you can still let me see a jade pendant? You really have watched too many short plays. Do you really think you are a god? I'm not a fairy But this jade pendant has been with me for 20 years I use spiritual warmth to nourish it every day So it already has intelligence. Call him sir XiaoyuXiaoyu It's time to wake up Mr. Zheng, your jade business Has it developed into the realm of immortal cultivation now? Could it be that he could recognize the master of a jade pendant? How is that possible? This is an ordinary piece of mutton-fat jade. Usually, I am here to nourish my daughter's body. There's no way there's anything here. I heard you stop bragging. What if someone eats this jade? I'm gonna jump off this building right now I will kneel down and kowtow to you three times I will treat you like a fairy princess and burn incense for you every day Kowtow Just burn incense. Ah, Master Master Xiaoyu wakes up Wow, the master can finally recognize his relatives. Very good Wow, the master can finally recognize his relatives. Very good What? He actually spoke. Honey, I'm not dreaming. Is this the jade pendant we gave to our daughter? Master Mom Don't you remember me? At first It was you who personally put the jade pendant on the owner. That's right. I put it on Guaiguai myself. You are really our daughter. Mom and Dad, don't believe him. This is all his plan. He wanted to impersonate me. There is also a rope hanging on the jade pendant Also shows the road Lord, you I'll expose your trick. Bad woman, don't touch me You picked up the owner's jade pendant and didn't return it. He also pretended to be the owner and wanted to harm him. Shut up fake It's all fake I am the eldest daughter of the Zheng family. It's just that this bitch played tricks Hum, Xiaoyu has a recording function. You have to show your true face as a bad woman Make it public No go, no go I used Mo Qianqian's hair I did a paternity test with Mr. Zheng. We can collaborate Mo Qianqian, that scourge Completely died in our hands Oh, oh Help! Help! Don't let go, don't let go Yeah, don't watch it. Don't watch it I'm the fake daughter of the Zheng family I'm not a fake Master Mom Did you see it? Those two are bad women. They all want to harm the master No no Mommy Mommy You have to believe me Don't call me mom Why are you pretending to be my daughter? Don't call me mom Why are you pretending to be my daughter's mother? Mrs. Zhou I didn't mean it. Not intentional You pretended to be my daughter And they want to harm him in the name of our town family. Sorry, who gave you the courage? Sorry it's late My husband and I will ban you from the entire industry Let you have a foothold in China And you are young Such a vicious mind How dare you plot against my daughter? I won't let either of you go. Visitors I can't Auntie, push them both down. Take good care Yes no no No aunt Auntie Good fight, wonderful fight The bad guys screamed when they were beaten Xiaoyue is back. My dear, you are my daughter. I'm sorry that we recognized the wrong person before. Hurt you You won't forgive your parents, right? I'm so awesome Who can hurt me? And you treated me like that before Because I mistook Zhao Jiacuo for me I have parents who protect me unconditionally I should be happy My daughter is a good child Mom finally found you Mr. Guo, thank you for taking care of Xiaoning. so I'll give you two more trips on the original contract. Qianqian is my wife It's her responsibility to take care of her. You are my father-in-law Let me handle the profit-sharing. What are you looking at me? I told you that long ago My son's business is so good. This eye for judging people can't be wrong. Look, he's capable of finding this wife. She is actually the daughter of the Zheng family. This makes me feel relieved Damn, how lucky is he? Married a woman of unknown origin Or the eldest daughter of the Zheng family That's all Since you are married I won't say anything anymore. But Xiaobo You must be good to our baby daughter in the future Otherwise, Lao Zheng and I will not let you go. Don't worry, these are what I should do. Bo Property Dong Jiabo, what's wrong with you? You go to Bo Property How about you kill my eldest grandson? Sorry, the patient had a heart attack. The rescue failed and he died What? How could this happen? My eldest grandson is not even 30 years old yet. Haha sorry We have tried our best Dad, come quickly, sit down Dad, don't be too sad. Look at this peaceful child. Isn't it going to be born soon? Dad, why did you hit me? I'm targeting people like you who don't understand anything. He's your own son. Wouldn't you be sad if he died? Dad, how can I not be sad? But Uncle Yan is dead. I'm just sad again Isn't he also unable to be resurrected? I think we should look forward. Don't worry, Dad. Wait until the baby is born We will definitely educate you well. I will not let She Group be without an heir Dad What are you doing The old man is dying. Rather than letting the old man die meaninglessly Why not make some contribution to his grandson? Why don't you install it? Still need to dress The little one died The old ones don't work either. And you are a waste without a golden head What can you do to fight me? Go to hell. Go to hell I wonder how you're okay? Because good prevails over evil Just your crooked ways Of course, it can't stop my authentic gold gambling skills So what? Wenwenye is dead The country's only offspring is in my belly I advise you to just be the eldest daughter of the Zheng family. We don't interfere with each other's business My husband is dead. There is no need for me to care about the country's affairs anymore. That's right Our fellow travelers Why fight to the death? Hey, I'm curious about one thing. Since you know this person He simply can't run a prosperous world well. Why are you doing it now? Aren't you afraid of waiting for your child to be born? He has already ruined the prosperous times. No, no What are you two talking about here? You see, he still doesn't know. His father and son What was killed by you? Wife, is this true? He just knew it. So what? My magic is destined to be useless For this child I've been sucking this asshole for 20 years Unfortunately, it's still not enough so I can only put the fate of Bo Wenyan and this old guy on the line. Provide for my children together Peace of mind, you actually You want my life, that's all. Why did you kill my dad? Why did you kill my son? Why not? You say every day that the old man is An antique I don't understand at all It would be nice if he died. And that Bo Wenyan Didn't you also say you wished he had never been born? I am fulfilling your wish. That's just complaining after drinking too much. I didn't ask you to kill them, don't worry. You devil What are you saying? You must marry me You said you had to have another child. Kill him, the culprit you're right you're right It's me, it's all me Blame you dad I'm sorry for you. I got into trouble. I let the wolf in. I killed you. It's all my fault It's all my fault It's all my fault It's all my fault. Of course it's your fault My Lord, My Lord You are not dead How could I die when I have such a great wife? It's you again But he didn't die How does my child get energy feedback? Well, it's a little bit of a barrier. My child child well As long as he's not dead Then I can only use Laozi's birthday as a gift. Die old thing. Me Wei Yingluo, you are crazy If there's still time Even if I don't have children, I will always be in pain. It's too late ah Ha ha ha Ma Qianqian, are you the one who must go against me? My husband is my life. You want to hurt him and his family. Of course I can't just sit back and ignore him. He said I was his life. Oh, he really loves me Your excessive use of sorcery has backfired. You probably have very little cultivation left now. The female man you have been keeping with your cultivation and life skills No longer exists What My child My child is gone Impossible Impossible He will definitely give up on you. He is the only heir of my family. He is my pride He can't leave Let him go My wife's grandfather hasn't woken up yet. It's going to be alright. Grandpa, the stage has ended You can wake up now Grandpa, the stage has ended You can wake up now Haha oops Isn't it more interesting if I lie down and listen to the opera? Dad is so nice. That's great, you think. Oh, you unfilial son. Nothing will happen to me. Although I know you are a restless person But I didn't expect you to stay like this If it weren't for the money in He's house The whole family will die in your hands. Hahaha long The grandson called Qingshan Mental Hospital Take this crazy woman away from me Otherwise it is no longer Dad, no, no Qingshan Mental Hospital is not a place for people to stay. Dad, look at him. He can no longer hurt anyone. He has become like this now. You just forgive him Spare him. I took him abroad I promise we won't come back. Okay, Dad, okay? Dad is going to die Look at your ability How could I give birth to such a bastard protector like you? dad Since you can't leave him Then you can go with him to Qingshan Mental Hospital to cook. Someone come take it away Dad can't Dad, you can't do this to me. Dad, you can't do this to me. My child Hahaha oops Qianqian girl The best thing I've ever done in my life. Just let this stinky boy marry you home Hahahaha Grandpa Even if you don't look for me I will find him too. Because he is my destined one. I can't live without him in my life Well, I knew you had bad intentions towards me. In this case Then I reluctantly accepted it. What are you saying? I don't understand A bit of consumption today Please charge my battery first. Why are you bald? You just said those sweet words No, you just want me to impress you. He obviously has a secret Still looking for an excuse to kiss me He really loves me take my heart falling in love to love me love shut your soul close