(air hissing) - This is a rocket powered golf club. Professional golfers have of 110 miles per hour but she swings at 150 miles Usually for builds on my channel, I just show you guys the final thing and don't really talk about the And rest assured today we Whoa. Golf balls shattering pulverized watermelons and even a handheld version. But this build I think is a great chance to pull back the curtain and demonstrate how the engineering design I want to highlight six that led us to this final design. And to do that, we need to go back in time four months to and as always we started with if the concept even had a But before we fire it up you'll notice we have counterweights on the opposite side here. That's so that the center of mass of the spinning part is on In other words, it balances perfectly at the point at which it spins around. If you don't do that for it creates a bunch of extra force for your It starts as a small vibration but then it gets worse and Since we need to hit this tiny ball with the head of this if we're not perfectly balanced, the club and the whole platform all over the place and we'd never hit it. Okay, back to the test. (air hissing) Those stands are shaking So we knew we would need to for the real test, but at of fast and nothing blows up. And so then it was time for CAD, which is always the next step. And then together with we started cutting metal and making stuff. (upbeat music) Things came together well. So we epoxy a 3D printed of the driver and prepped our of those easy ups and for safety just in case something went catastrophically wrong. (air hissing) This was our second learning experience. We didn't have enough contact to the driver, so it wasn't This was tricky because it meant we had to 3D scan the club head, And then 3D print a more contoured mount with more contact area for the epoxy. We also took this chance to because what could possibly go wrong? So we went to test our with two e-motors and (air hissing) Except for the part where the - [Kayla] That was not expected. - And when we reviewed the slowmo footage what we realized was the shaft of the driver is so flexible and then create really weird which then just bent the shaft even more. This is not what you wanna see. Eventually this exceeded the stress limit of the shaft and the hedges came off. So our third learning opportunity was to stiffen up the club shaft. So we got some aluminum C channel and just dumped a butt And this worked remarkably well. You could see the difference here. And so with that, we headed out to a very remote shooting location in beautiful northern California. (upbeat music) So we finally arrived But first I had something I So one of the things I I like to reach out to and sort of give them a on my channel, which is why He's Smarter Every Day. And if by some miracle you don't know, Destin is on the Mount We've been friends for And I know this because of the huge moment for to my channel when I only had 10,000 subs. He's made videos about the physics of cats landing on their or the first video I saw of him about how chickens have an which allows them to head track. If you've never seen his stuff I'm actually jealous because of high quality viewing So I like golf. - I like rockets. - Should we do this? - Yeah, it's just, that - That was it. - So we all continued to set up and something that was important to me was for this to look as natural as So we added some turf and then dissected a golf bag to cover this sturdy steel column. And then if you add some It's incredibly rigid, and Our fourth learning experience came from reviewing our final test footage. If you listen, the club goes faster and faster with each rotation. (air hissing) Naturally we want the when it's going the fastest, which in our case is 10 That means we somehow into the path of the driver in less than a 10th of a second or To accomplish this we have a pneumatic cylinder It knows when to fire because on the back of the shaft there's a light sensor and this disc has a slit to pass through once per rotation. So we send that info to an Arduino over here And then after 15 rotations, the precise moment to And then we super glue the ball to the tee because it of force to first secure Plus the super glue looks So now with everything in place we started with two is the same setup that 3, 2, 1 roll. (air hissing) Yeah! - Where did it go, what happened? - Go baby. - [Ken] That thing is past those trees. - No way. - [Ken] It took off. - That's a cool shot right there, dude. - Dude, this is respectable. This is legit. - [Mark] After reviewing more we noticed something interesting. - The sound effect there is - This was an interesting and that tee flexibility was causing us to hit some bad shots like this. An obvious fix is just to so that it doesn't over But there's a problem with this. There's a saying that And for us, a really stiff of force and destroy our nice Now imagine this crumpled which is obviously way less stiff. Our flexible rubber tee was great because it acted like this piece of paper. No matter how hard you hit it the force doesn't get translated down and damage our hardware. So Ken had the brilliant to the tee and staking it into the ground. This stopped the over rotation but everything was still just as flexible. - [Destin] When the string pulls tight, does it make the ball fly off 'cause it doesn't doink enough? - Only way to test is a doink test. (Destin laughs) - Ah, beautiful. - [Destin] There was some doinking. - I just thought this was a that solved both problems at once. And as you can see, it worked perfectly. Now we are ready to try a dual F motor. So these deliver about twice as the e-motors that And this provided our final and certainly most poignant One, go. (air hissing) - Where's the club? (laughs) (air hissing) Where's the club? (laughs) (air hissing) Where's the club? (laughs) - Is the tree on fire? - Wow, like I'm laughing, There we go. This thing was like suborbital, dude. So we have three U bolts So I think we'll just max out those and just crank 'em way down. Now that we know this is a failure point. - Now that we know this There's several failure points and I hear you say, oh, we - This is the engineering design process. - It's rather fun. - Like I mentioned, the club and therefore only which we thought would've been enough to support the 800 pound We did notice the rubber handle was worn due to so many test fires, which probably initiated the stress concentration So our fix was to cut the next club longer so we could use three U-bolts and really crank them down And so with all six of we tried the insane double One, go. (air hissing) Whoa, yeah, baby, go. (cow mooing) That's how you play golf. - That's our best one yet, dude. - Like the rush you get from actually working is like. Oh, oh, oh, look at the plate, oh. (air hissing) - So we never found these long balls to measure the exact distance, but I can drive a ball 280 yards. And these were well beyond that. I mean, just look at this trajectory, straight to outer space. Now that we got all the shots we needed, it was time to have some real fun. We started with a handheld by a single c-motor because anything more than that would just be way (air hissing) - Nice. It really did like make it I'm not even kidding, yeah, yeah, yeah. Like it really made a difference. Three, two, and then (air hissing) (glass breaking) Yeah. (glass breaking) And then keeping with the some watermelon. (air hissing) Thanks for cutting open a watermelon with a rocket powered golf club, Mark. - You're welcome. Yeah, that's all of this. The past three months of working engineering was just- - Boils down to this moment? - Just to enjoy this watermelon. - Yeah, Mark's like trying We're not wasting food though. - We waste no part of like the great Indians with the buffalo. So Destin made a video on his channel about why some balls bounce And my first thought It just has to do with how Yet this billiard ball is and this bouncy ball is pretty rubbery and yet they bounce to So it's something else. As you can imagine, this of information for golf ball makers. So he has lots of amazing slow-mo footage of golf balls being squished plus way more footage from today's shoot. So I will leave a link and while you're there, some of his other videos 'cause he's just a classy individual and a true professional in - Are you rolling? - Yeah. - Hey, it's me, Mark. (upbeat music)