after work, lets go home together on my car didn't nothing happen before I'm sure about everything, we have to be careful Qing Ling, that woman, she-- She even dared to come?! what what are you doing Don't butt in. Today, I'm going to send her to prison so as to prevent further troubles in the future. listen to me explain, today i'm here to apologize I really didn't do it on pupose to harm Duan Tian Lang. It's a misunderstanding. Misunderstanding? What misunderstanding? I need to order some tulips. It'll be for Tian Lang. But it's a secret present for Tian Lang. You must not tell him it's from me and keep it a secret. I can't say. Why are you not saying? Could it be that you really plan to harm General Manager? How's this possible? Of course she wouldn't dare say. If she says it, then it's deliberately committing a crime. Come over here. Go with me to the police station. - It's really a misunderstanding!- Come with me. Come with me to the police station. Come with me. Come with me! Hey, Xue Qing! Wu Hua, take Deputy General Manager away. What are you doing? Someone is taking pictures. Go back to the office first. Follow me. Go where? Vice General Manager, go back to your office first. I'll take care of things here. Hey, sorry. Please stop recording it already. You sure move fast. You even changed your clothes. Huh? Say it. What? You exerted so much effort to ask me to meet you not just to play tricks on me, right? I don't know what you're talking about. I came today to apologize to you. I actually came here several times already. General Manager Duan, that day during the party, really so sorry. Why did you give me those flowers? I really didn't mean it. You have to believe me. I can swear. Why did you ask to meet me at Ming Jing Park? Ming Jing Park? I asked to meet you? Stop pretending. I saw you. That can't be. I haven't went to any Ming Jing Park. You're still not admitting it, huh? Then let me ask you, where did you go today at 2 pm? -I was at the flower nursery. -Is there someone who can prove that? Grandma... Grandma went out. I was at home by myself. You don't even have an alibi. I was on my own house so why must I have a witness to prove my alibi? Then I can't help you. I can only let my sister send you to the police. I know that I was wrong first, but you're being too much. You've really disappointed me. Because of the hotel fragrance project last time, my perception of you changed a lot. Never thought, that you still can't change your crooked ways. Duan Tian Lang! I know that you all blame me. It's also fine if you all want to curse me or send me to the police station! But these are two different things. I never really went to some...Ming Jing Park. And also the person you saw wasn't me at all. What Ming Jing Park? Weird. From his expression, it didn't seem like he was lying. Then who is that person he saw at Ming Jing Park? Secretary Wu! Secretary Wu! Bad news! The video of Deputy General Manager slapping Qing Ling at the lobby got uploaded in the web! What?! Has the people from the PR Department gotten off work already? - They have already left. - Immediately call them back. Release a statement first saying that it was just a misunderstanding. Say that Qing Ling is just an employee from Li Li Flower Shop. Okay. - Forget it, forget it. I'll make the call myself.- Okay. Li Li Flower Shop? Welcome. I want a dozen of tulips. Please immediately prepare it for me. It'll be ready right away. Please wait a moment. Thank you. Hey, Qing Ling. You've just came back? Don't mention it anymore. Auntie Ren's food cart got broken. I got delayed. Two days ago, did you cause a ruckus in Zhen Tai Hotel? The views online is quite high. - You are going to be famous.- What? It's even online? Oh, no. Will this affect our flower shop's business? It's all Duan Tian Lang's fault. After meeting him, I never had a peaceful day. After working with him last time, I thought we've already patched things up. Patched things up? You think you two are lovers quarreling? Don't talk nonsense. Don't talk rubbish. Hey, customer. Your flowers are ready. Oh. Thank you. Please come again. Thank you. How come it's tulips again? If we have it removed now, the adverse effects will just increase. General Manager, why hasn't the video been taken down yet? I am currently discussing this matter with Secretary Wu. You should be discussing it with me. Good, you're both here. Secretary Wu. Please leave for now. What on earth are you two doing? Vice General Manager striking out. Deputy General Manager stand beside in appreciation. Did you two team up to ruin the hotel?! Vice Chairman. We are currently discussing this matter. -First, remove that video! -The click ratio is too high. Even if we remove it from the web, we cannot get rid of people who downloaded it. That is useless effort. It's better than letting more people see it. The hotel depends on their reputation. Rather than attracting more attention by concealing, it's better to admit the truth. And then apologize to the other side in front of reporters. Are you insane? Let him talk. There were too many people at the scene, we cannot fake it. Vice Chairman. I am the Deputy General Manager. Please let me handle this situation. I won't let the hotel sustain a loss. The situation has already come to this plight. To do this, is one way out. How confident are you to succeed? I will try my best. Okay. Right now, the board of directors and employees are all waiting for your performance. You must be discreet. I understand. You. If you marry earlier, and leave the hotel, there would not be so much affairs. -Dad. That day, in order to protect Tian Lang I... -Xue Qin. Go back and write me a self-criticism report. Vice Chairman, go home first. Let me send you off. Could you give these flowers to your General Manager? Okay, I will. Okay already. You two don't accompany me anymore. Go back to your work. Father. Vice Chairman. Don't worry. I will definitely take care of this issue. Why did you let Father misunderstand me? I only did this for you. Xue Qing, of course, I know that this matter started with me. Don't worry, I'll find a way to take care of this problem as fast as I can. Regarding father, please help me keep it a secret for now. I don't want him to worry. After all, this matter still hasn't been proven. Call the police and catch Qing Ling. We don't need to erase the video and everyone will understand me. She didn't do anything. Why does she need to be arrested? These are all your guesses. Okay, Xue Qing, leave this matter to me. I will investigate it. If it was really her, we can then let the police catch her by then. Tian Lang...you're not covering up for her, right? Don't forget. Before, it was because you keep defending Jiang Yan that's why such thing happened. That's enough! I just can't understand. How come you keep finding faults in other women but you keep enduring Qing Ling? Xue Qing, it's not what you think. I just feel that she isn't the type of person to do something like that. Jiang Yan also doesn't look like that kind of person. But didn't she also do it? That's all. I'm going back to the office. General Manager. Your flowers. Tian Lang! Tian Lang! Throw those flowers away! Be careful. Careful. Sit. Who delivered those flowers? -There's a card with the flowers. I'll go get it. -Go quickly. How is it? &quot;Li Li Flower Shop&quot; Qing Ling delivered them? It wasn't her or the owner. It was a woman I didn't recognize. It doesn't matter. No matter who delivers flowers to General Manager, you must notify me. Oh, alright. Mm. Li Li Flower Shop. The card very clearly has Qing Ling's name written on it. How many times is this? What does she mean with this? This is an evil plot. Don't I need evidence? This is evidence. Tian Lang, or else, why would she ask to meet you? Why must she ask you to come alone? If she really wants to harm me, why would she still dare to meet with me alone when she already knows that we are suspecting her? It doesn't make logical sense. What do you mean it doesn't have logic? Are you brain dead already? Tian Lang, no matter what, you should still call the police. Last time something happened to you, Mom left home. This time if something happens to you, our entire family will fall apart. I'll head up first. Are you feeling a little better? No problem. Eh? That's her. Zoom in for me. How is it her? Jiang Yan? Has she been released from prison? What is her connection to Li Li Flower Shop? Could it be she has joined forces with Qing Ling? Is their motive money or revenge? Vice President, are you ok? I'm fine. Oh, right. Don't let General Manager see this video. Yes. The plan for this month is more or less that. Wu Hua, Come here. Listen well. Starting now, you must follow General Manager all the time. Even if he goes into the restroom, you must follow him otherwise I'll fire you. -Huh? -Also, you must not let General Manager know about this. Or else, I'll fire you too. - Why?- Aren't you still going to him now? Be careful and I might fire you right now. I-I'll go right away. Hello? Shan Shan? I need your help with something. Find out where Qing Ling is right now. [ Li Li Flowers ] Qing Ling! You're looking for me? What is your relationship with Jiang Yan? Jiang Yan? Don't know her. I already checked on it. She has been released ahead of time. Released? She committed a crime? Why? You have already schemed to collaborate with her. Hasn't she harmed Tian Lang enough? What are you two really planning to do? -I...-Let me tell you, We already made the proper defense. Please help me relay this message to that evil woman. If she dares make a second appearance in front of Tian Lang, it'll be her second time in jail. And also...tell her to stop sending tulips. Tulips? Hello? After 30 minutes, let us meet at the public square in the city center. Hey, just because you said so, we have to meet? Hello?! What kind of people are all of them... I'm not late, right? I didn't allow you to sit down. With so many people looking, are you still planning to let me stand as a punishment? Then keep a distance away from me. Say it. Why are you looking for me? I don't have time on Sunday so I moved up our meeting. Meeting? I actually don't plan to bother with you anymore but I know that you won't stop. That's why, I especially came here. You are all so weird. You keep saying things that I can't understand. If you want money, you should earn them by your own. If you like me, sorry. I have very high standards. You will never have a chance this lifetime. That...I have a boyfriend. Then it means that it is really due to money. I have hands and feet. I can earn money myself. Can the money you earn be enough to fulfill your ambition and desires? Duan Tian Lang, you think that just because you are rich, you can look down on people? Maybe...in the future, I also will be rich. Be richer than you! When that time comes... When that time comes, what? Even if I tell you, a hedonistic rich kid like you won't understand. From now on, don't call me again. Let's not meet anymore. Could it be that it really wasn't her? Then who can it be? Making me travel all the way here just to tell me some weird words, what really does he want to do? Not only his health is bad, even his brain is bad. I heard all of that! What really is your purpose for making me come here? I came to tell you to please stop sending... sending tulips in the future. Tulips? Duan Tian Lang. Do you know Jiang Yan? How do you know her? - Say it.- I don't know her.- How did you know Jiang Yan? - I don't know her.- What is your relation with her? - I don't have any relationship with her.- Was she the one who told you to come here? You're mistaken. You're hurting me. You're hurting me! Are you alright? Hurry and come over here to help me up. Get up. Careful. Lean on me. You already can't stand properly and you still keep acting strong. Don't worry. I won't treat you like a patient. Careful. Come. Here. Careful. How are you? I don't want you to say that I'm taking advantage of you or assaulting you. What time is it already and you're still saying those kinds of words. Are you feeling better? Wu Hua. Oh, Vice General Manager. Why are you here? Didn't I ask you to be with General Manager? Actually, I... Where is he? He went to the plaza in the city center to meet with Qing Ling. You let him go alone?! He won't allow me to go with him. He told me, &quot;If you follow me, don't bother going to work tomorrow.&quot; You don't need to come to work anymore tomorrow. Ha? Hey...Vice General Manager! These two masters are too hard to serve! How are you? You scare me to death. Here. I've closed it. Thank you. Earlier, you...why did you feel...that I don't like others treating me like a patient? Orphans don't like being looked at with pitiful eyes. Actually, it's also not being self-ashamed. She just wants to be the same with other kids. I think...you must also be thinking that way. Look. Look. Even if you don't talk, I already know what you want to say. What am I going to say? &quot;You're so pitiful.&quot; It's this statement, right? Don't describe me as being the same as others. I don't pity you. That's good then. Can you drive back on your own? I can. Oh. Look at this. You're still not going to admit it? Sunday, meet at the city center plaza! Come alone! from Qing Ling. This wasn't written by me. Look. The penmanship isn't mine. Really. It really wasn't written by me. What do you really want to do to my little brother? - Xue Qing!- Haven't you hurt him enough?! - It's that woman who told you to do this, right?!- Xue Qing, let go. - Let go! Qing Ling, hurry and go!- Do you want to get imprisoned with her?! Do you want to go to prison?! What are you doing?! You! Why won't you listen to me?! Don't meet up with her. Xue Qing, what do you mean earlier? Who are you saying that's going to prison with Qing Ling? - It's Jiang Yan?- You already know? Then you know that they are accomplices. Don't say these useless things. It's impossible that they know each other. Jiang Yan is still-- She has already been released from prison. I actually planned to take care of things first before telling you. Tian Lang, stop being stubborn already. She is in the dark while you are in the light. Plus a Qing Ling, let's just call the police. No wonder that person looked familiar. I thought that she was still in prison. Never thought that it was really her. But Qing Ling also can't deny her involvement in this. Or else, why will Jiang Yan write her name? Tian Lang... Tian Lang, are you alright? I'm tired. I'll be going back now. - Your flower fell.- Thank you. Just a small thing. No need to thank. Hey! Are you being lazy? You just have to bring them all in with one go? I am not accepting flowers that are damaged. I know already. That customer earlier was way better. She's more helpful than you. That customer's surname is Jiang, Ms. Jiang. She currently is a frequent customer of our shop. Every time she comes, she buys one dozen of tulips. Tulips? Wait. What surname did you say the customer has? Jiang. Ms. Jiang. Jiang? Not that coincidental, right? What coincidence? She can't be...Jiang Yan, right? Hey, right, Qing Ling. Today is Sunday. Accompany me to eat out. Chang Qing went to do overtime again. It's too lonely to be alone. Today is Sunday? No. No. Can't we even have lunch together?! I am severing our friendship ties! It indeed is really her. She is Jiang Yan. Don't misunderstand. This flower isn't mine. Qing Ling, what grudges do I have with you? Why must you treat me like this? It's not like that. These flowers were brought by her. I just followed her to here. Who? You must believe me. Look she's over there! Where is she? I don't know. I really don't know her. Or else why would I tell you she is over there? It really is her. I won't let her go this time. Shan Shan let's go. Hurry up Qing Ling. Jiang Yan! Jiang Yan! Don't run! Jiang Yan, stop right there! Jiang Yan! Jiang Yan, stop! Move! What is wrong with her? She's crazy. Where did she go? Sister Xue Qing, that was Jiang Yan? Tian Lang's ex-girlfriend? Tian Lang? Oh no we forgot about Tian Lang. Come out. I know you are there. They left you can come out. I won't harm you. How did you know I was in there? I can smell the tulip scent that's on your body. Let's find a place to wash it off. Why did you help me before? Why did you have to use my name in asking Duan Tian Lang out? How did you know about me? I'm hungry. Let's look for a place to eat. Doctor Xue, is he really okay now? Let's just observe after he finished this IV drip. He will be fine once his fever is gone. Has he been provoked recently? I don't know. It must be because of you hitting someone in the hotel that caused him to be stressed too much. How come everything is my fault? Do you really treat me like an eyesore? Enough already. We are in the hospital. Lessen your lectures. It's not your turn to interfere. If you are going to argue, do it outside. Don't disturb the patient. You like this car? You can go for a spin to catch the wind during the day and you can even look at the stars at night. But...I might never be able to ride such a car in this lifetime. Yan! Tian Lang? Get in. - This is so nice!- Are you happy? I just knew you'll love this. Stinky brat! - Stop! Where are you running to?!- Let go of me! - Stop!- I'll beat you!- This kid is very valuable! Don't hurt him!- Stop it already. With this attitude of his, we have to teach him a lesson. What we wanted is money! Don't hurt him. Why? Just wait quietly. This is for your own good. What do you mean by for my own good?! You're saying that it was for my own good...did you love me? Or was it because of money that's why you went near me?! If it is, tell me! Why? Why?! Tian Lang? Tian Lang? Tian Lang? You're awake? Let me go find the doctor. Tian Lang? Dad. I'm sorry for worrying you. You really plan to not tell me what's going on? It's just that I didn't take my medication on time. I'll be more careful next time. Dad, ask Auntie Su Nan to get me something tasty to eat. I'm about to go crazy from hunger. Ok. I'll go. But I really don't believe that Qing Ling and Jiang Yan don't have any connection. It's OK. Don't say it. I understand. You sent flowers with the intention of meeting up, Not to get revenge on him. You want to apologize to him, right? As soon as he sees tulips, he gets angry and faints. Then why did you still send those to him? Da-da-da-dun. This is my favorite flower. It's the tulip. The person I like the most is you. Little Devil, do you know what &quot;like&quot; means? I didn't think that after that time, Tian Lang would be afraid of tulips. I used your name to deliver the flowers because that day at the police station, Tian Lang was calling your name. I just knew, he must have misunderstood. He must have thought you were the one trying to meet him. He is a picky person. Ming Jin Park is very remote Yet he was still willing to meet with you. I guessed that your relationship wasn't normal. You shouldn't have used my name to deliver the flowers. He probably hates me now. I'm sorry. I was afraid he wouldn't want to meet me. I just want to tell him I'm sorry on my own. Beg him to forgive me. I'll help you. Help me? I know you've already paid the price for that event. Only once Tian Lang forgives you can you forgive yourself, in order have the courage to face the rest of your life. Furthermore, helping Tian Lang solve his inner troubles would also benefit him. I'll help you two meet. But there's still his family. They all hate me. They definitely won't agree to it. Trust me. I definitely won't let them find out. Come in. Ms. Qing Ling, this is Zheng Tai. Hope you can think first before doing anything. I know you're a good girl. So please stop causing trouble. Please, please. Wu He, step outside. Manager... I went to the hospital again to look for you but they said you were discharged. You came just in time. Did you see this video? Tomorrow I will go as the hotel's General Manager and go to your flower nursery to apologize to you. Of course, I will bring some reporters and I hope you can cooperate. What you mean is... you want me to pretend alongside you? Duan Tian Lang, do you know that in apologizing, the most important thing is having sincerity. I think that you are sincerely trying to go against me. Since the first day we met, you have been tormenting me. The number of times you have tormented me wouldn't be less than ten. Didn't you say yourself that you didn't want to meet me again? How come you still keep appearing and pestering me? Meet Jiang Yan. Can't you see that I'm enduring you? Don't force me! Jiang Yan said she has your ghost in her heart, so she isn't brave enough to meet you. Rather than saying that it's guilt, I think it's more shame. Can you dare to say that you are different from her? What rubbish are you saying? If your heart doesn't have any lingering ghosts, why are you afraid to meet her? Why are you afraid of tulips? Grandma told me that when you are thinking of running away, only by facing it can you remove the shackles. That is real freedom and happiness. So, running away isn't an option. Get out. - Duan Tian Lang-- - I told you to get out! - You guys go first. - Okay, we're going. General Manager, you're really going to apologize to Qing Ling tomorrow? I don't think this is a good solution. - This will put Vice General Manager in a difficult position. - Do you have a better idea? Otherwise... eh? Why haven't you left yet? Duan Tian Lang, let's make a trade. I have no interest. About the video, I can come out and explain it. I can also act in concert with you. I won't meet her. I know. I won't force you. Then what kind of trade do you want to do? I want to bring you somewhere. Come with me. Don't follow. But-But where are you two going? Kun City Children's Orphanage - Tian Lang come over here. - No point. You guys enjoy yourselves. You're already here so why don't you play with everyone? I already came here with you. How will you plan to handle the video matter? I also grew up here until I graduated from high school. The Orphanage Director said that when I came here, I kept sleeping. She thought I was sick. Based on the doctor, I have selective amnesia. Selective amnesia? Because I lost my memories, I can't remember all my family members. That's why, I also don't have any clues on how to find them. If I was allowed to choose again, I'd rather courageously face it. That way those memories would have stayed in my brain. Maybe I would have reunited with my family already. Then is there no other way to look for them? Only to wait. Maybe they can find me some day. or I will recover my memory and go look for them. Duan Tian Lang, if I am not able to regain my memory forever, I will never be able to see them. This is the price I paid for avoiding to face it. I know what you are trying to say, but my situation is different from yours. You don't understand what really happened between us. Then are you sure that you really understand what really happened that day? You only know she harmed you but you don't know why. You only know that she has appeared again and is trying to find you. I don't want to know. Duan Tian Lang, if you choose to be a coward at this moment, then the nightmares of the past will keep haunting you. This has nothing to do with you. Qing Ling, I'm ending this business deal with you. Why can't you be brave once? Forever being a slave of my past ghosts. Forever being unable to run away from the nightmares. Qing Ling, even if you don't curse me, nightmares have already been burdening me. Why are you here? This is my last time coming to you for Jiang Yan's sake. I don't want to hear! She is going to leave. She won't ever come back. That's her problem, it has nothing to do with me. Does it really have nothing to do with you? Then what about your heart illness (psychological illness)? Are you going to endure that forever? You clearly know that only she can cure it. Duan Tian Lang, stop tormenting yourself! What do you know? Please leave! Yes, I don't understand. I just don't understand why you are letting the past destroy your present life! Is opening up someone's wounds enjoyable for you? The person who is refusing to let your wound heal is you. Jiang Yan is just downstairs. There is not much time left. Please think about it. Fighting. I'm here to say bye. Why can't you raise your head to talk to me. Because I am ashamed to see you. Say it then. I'm sorry. Back then, for money, I betrayed you. That time my mom was sick and needed money for surgery. That time I really had no choice, and then other people instigated me and I got corrupted by obsession. I know... no matter what reasons I have, I shouldn't have done it. Why didn't you just tell me back then that you needed money? I could have just given it to you. But those are your parents not mine! I could have thought of a way! Do you know after that matter... how many frightening things have I encountered? Heart disease, water phobia, surgeries, and those nightmares and delusional disorders? The tulips that you like are lies. They are like poisonous snakes that keep encircling my neck, causing me to be unable to breathe. Tell me, why? But you were just 18 then. I didn't know how to tell you this. Tian Lang, I already suffered my punishment. I didn't graduate college and was sent to jail. My whole life I will be a criminal. and my mom... my mom died. I already received punishment. Tian Lang, why can't you just let it go. Let it go? Eight years. Do you think I don't want to? Thank you. Before I left, for letting me see you one last time. Forget me forever. Just act like you have never met me before. I will go back to my hometown and will never appear in front of you. I've thought about it. I must personally see you before I leave and get your forgiveness. Only by that can I get my release, be able to start my life anew. Tian Lang, can you please forgive me? Say, say you didn't mean to harm me. That you didn't deliberately wanted to harm me, then I'll forgive you. I didn't... I didn't mean to harm you. Your forgiveness isn't a promise I didn't mean to harm you. That time... That time, I really got pushed to the edge. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. That time, you were so young. How could I have done that to you? I'm wrong. I really didn't mean to do it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Has loved, gotten hurt, missed the chance Yet you stayed strong, never cowering Using sincerity to move me Telling me that kindness is not anymore being weak Tightly holding your hand Don't let me walk to the wrong street corner To the left or to the right I only want to walk with you Thank you. This is really the good bye. Take care of yourself. Let's shake hands. You take care, too. Bye. Oh yeah, when you see Qing Ling, please thank her. If it wasn't for her, I never would have been able to come out. It was her who helped me remove my shackles. Tell her yourself. I don't want to have any connections with this place anymore. I am going to completely say goodbye to my past. Just treat it as helping me for the last time. Forgive me for committing so many mistakes Tears have already infiltrated the blurred corners I want to softly tell you; Forgive me Why are you here? I came to look for you. Wait, no, someone asked me to look for you. What are you muttering and mumbling about? It's Jiang Yan who told me to thank you on her behalf. Really? That's great! You finally can let go of your burden. I already brought her message. I'll get going now. Where is Jiang Yan? Has she left? She left. That's such a shame. I wasn't able to say goodbye to her. You're talking as if you are close to her. She has so many wounds in her heart. Giving her any bit of warmth can make her wounds heal faster. What are you laughing about? You also won't understand it even if I tell you. She said that it's all thanks to you that she was able to remove her shackles. It was you-It was you who helped her. Really? She really said that? Me, too. What? It's fine if you didn't hear it. I'm going. Hey! Tomorrow, when will you and the reporters come? Didn't I already say it? I said that as long as you agree to meet with Jiang Yan, I will help you resolve the video matter. No need. I am canceling the deal between us. I can resolve this matter by myself. Then how are you going to resolve it? Not escaping is resolving the problem. Everybody, good afternoon. I am Zheng Tai Hotel's General Manager Duan Tian Lang. Today, I'm doing an explanation regarding the video of a hitting incident in our hotel. First, I admit that this video is real and not made up. Our hotel's employee indeed hit someone. No matter what the reason is, a hotel employee hitting other people is forbidden. We made a wrong example. In here, I am representing the hotel to apologize to the different sectors of society. Actually, two days ago, I was not planning to do a public apology and to just use some usual PR methods to deal with this matter. Like making lies to decrease the effect of this matter. But a friend told me that escaping is cowardice and not a way to solve problems. I carefully pondered on these words. To preserve a lie, one must keep making more lies. And our Zheng Tai Hotel doesn't want to become a hotel that lies to its consumers. I admit that our hotel has a lot of shortcomings but we don't want to hide it. Only by exposing it can we continuously correct them. This is similar with human principles. I hope that the different sectors of society can give our hotel a chance. Help us grow. Thank you. But a friend told me that avoiding it is cowardice and not a way to solve the problem. I carefully pondered on these words. To preserve a lie, Not right. How come these words are so familiar? Where did I heard it? That's right. It was me who said those words. You? Didn't he say a while ago that there was a friend who told him that? That friend was me! - Oh, my, he treats me as a friend now. - Friend? Then it means that he has forgiven me. - LiLi, so great! I won't get arrested by the cops anymore! - Wait. Wait. Qing Ling, you privately met with Duan Tian Lang again. Is that it? - I... - Be careful that if Shan Shan finds out about this, she'll be mad at you. - Clean this up. - Okay. Give it to me. Okay. It's really him. Give me another one. Here. Thank you. Why are you here? I should be the one to ask you that. Why are you here? Come down first. How is it? Not bad, right? Why are you doing this? I'm happy. Explain it to me clearly. What's your reason for doing this? A moody person, so scary. - What are you afraid about me for ? - Afraid that you change your attitude faster than flipping a book. A dog biting Lu Dong Bing. Not knowing to appreciate someone's kindness. Hurry and say why. I heard from someone that she is worried that she won't be able to find her family forever. I was afraid that such negative emotions may affect these buds of our mother land. That's why I wanted to make this place be cozier. Just like managing a hotel. Making the guests feel that the hotel is their home. Only by making these children feel that this is a warm home, can they have a warm heart. Is this reason of mine acceptable? You... really think that way? I really am so touched. You are indeed my friend! - Thank you. - What are you doing? Who is your friend? You said it yourself. Last time, during the press conference, you told everyone that. Never thought that my words would have such a great impact on you. - I...- So happy. I'll go give it a try. I'm coming. Are you alright? Of course, I'm not. General Manager, you're bad... Go back to your work. Yes. I'm giving you a banana. The wishes of the children this year haven't changed. They said they wanted to see the Great Wall. It's already three successive years that they have this wish. I don't want to disappoint them anymore. Qing Ling, how I also wanted to take them there. But there are a lot of difficulties. Look. Money, manpower, transportation, and their safety, all of these are problems. I do know a reported. Do you want me to ask him to help us? Reporter? It's good if he can help us. But I also don't want the kids to be known as orphans. I'm worried it will affect their psychological well-being. They are all too small after all. You said it right. It's me who didn't think about it well. Qing Ling, I am already very thankful that you have such intentions. Don't make it too hard on yourself. Then let's think of another way. I'll get going now, director. Qing Ling. Why are you still here? I can see that it's still quite early. What I mean is I was afraid that you might have a hard time getting a taxi, so I'll just drive... - Hello.- Is this Hua Qing Ling? - It's me.- I am calling from Longgang Police Station. - Police station?- Yes. Your grandmother got lost again. She asked that you hurry and pick her up here and take her home. See if you can find time to come here quickly. She's waiting for you. Hello, sir... Qing Ling, did something bad happened? Police station? Do you need me to take you there? I must hurry back home. You also should hurry back. You are the one who changes attitude faster than flipping a book. - Tian Lang.- Dad. The way you handled Xue Qing's incident last time was quite not bad. The board members are all praising you. You must do better. I will. What were you thinking earlier? You're just in time, Dad. I happen to want to discuss something with you. For our Zheng Tai Hotel to progress to its state now, we can't deny the support of the different sectors of the society. Shouldn't we also give back to the society? We do. Zheng Tai usually donate some money to several organizations. I am not talking about that but some activities that are relevant and have valuable significance. - Like what?- Like the children at the orphanage wants to go to Beijing to see the Great Wall. This is their dream for three years. The descendants of the dragon want to see the emblem of the dragon. I believe that this has a very deep educational meaning for those children. Our Zheng Tai most likely can help, right? Why did you suddenly have such an idea? Things that are very usual for us are very far fetch for those children. If those children will have such a deficit in their heart, it might affect their future life. Our Zheng Tai's objective is to grow with the society and progress together. We should bear such society burden. I hope that this sense of responsibility to the society can become a part of our hotel's culture. Not a bad idea. I like that sense of responsibility. Just do as you think. Just let me sign it once you have the proposal and budget. Thank you, Dad. I'll go prepare it now. Go now. Sister Xue Qing, I was just on my way to work. What? Is there any emergency? What gift do you want for first day on your work? Tell me. I'll give it to you. You are giving me a gift? Can I ask for anything? Let me think about it. Tell it to me first. Of course, what I want is Tian Lang. I also want to give it to you but you have to catch it. How am I not catching it? Tian Lang wants to bring the children from the orphanage to Beijing to see the Great Wall. Children from the orphanage? I heard that Qing Ling previously brought Tian Lang to the orphanage. What you mean is...Tian Lang is taking the children to the Great Wall just to curry Qing Ling's favor? Tian Lang told Dad that it was the company giving back to the society that's why he's taking the children to see the Great Wall. But...who knows what the truth is? Dad has already agreed to it. Shan Shan, if you still don't work hard, Tian Lang will already be stolen by somebody else. I really can't endure this anymore. I'll call Qing Ling now and tell her to refuse Tian Lang's help. Tian Lang will surely ask her about it. I can't trust Qing Ling. If she tells Tian Lang the reason, the one who will suffer is me. If I can help Tian Lang like how I did it last time with the environmental protection forum, that will be great. Helping Tian Lang... Hello, Special Assistant Yang, immediately contact some reporters for me. I'll immediately be coming back there. Li Li, stop playing already. Hurry and help. Qing Ling, you said that you and Duan Tian Lang are friends. I even thought that you were just bragging. Never thought that you two go a long way. After donating a playground, he is now sponsoring the trip to Beijing of the kids. He can really spend. What are you saying? Look. It's already on the news. You don't know. Come over here. You still don't know? Look. Never thought that this Duan Tian Lang usually looks so cold but he actually have a good heart. What's wrong? Not happy? Li Li, you arrange the flowers by yourself. - Where are you now going again?- Going to him to make him pay! Duan Tian Lang! How come you didn't knock again? Last time, you gave the children presents. I thought you were a good person. Never thought that you are this kind of person. Which kind of person? How could you use the children form the orphanage? Use? What are you talking about? I know that you are the General Manager here. It's just right that you promote your hotel. But...they are orphans. You can use anyone else but why must you instead hurt them? Say, you woman can really make people angry. What is this nonsense things that you are talking about? Okay. Then how did you know that the children want to go to the Great Wall? You're talking about this? Who told you? You announced it to the media, isn't it so that everyone can know about it? News? It was because I am afraid of conscienceless businessman like you who will use the children to make news that's why the orphanage director doesn't want to borrow the power of the media. Director has always tried hard not to let the background of the children affect them psychologically. What right do you have...to destroy director's hard work? What right do you have to hurt the sense of self-respect of the children? Although I am an orphan, I have never felt that I'm different from others. We are very grateful for people who help and love us. But we don't want to use this identity to obtain charity from others. Who is taking pity on you? Why must you distort my good intentions? If the other party is willing to accept it, that's good intentions. But if he isn't, then that's forcing it! You totally are unreasonable! General Manager! I...I'll just return later. No need. General Manager, she... Why did you come in? The matter about the orphanage has come out in the news. Didn't I tell you that this matter must not be publicized? It seems that...it was Ms. Ju who leaked the news. Yes, yes... I just knew that you will come find me. Why did you do that? About the news? Do you need to ask? Of course, it's to help you. - What's wrong? You're not happy about it?- Who allowed you to do that? - Have I made a mistake?- Shan Shan, this is a Zheng Tai Hotel matter. You interfered and leaked the news. What's that all about? I did it to help you. You are not our Zheng Tai's employee nor is part of our Duan family. No matter if it's officially or privately, you don't have the right to interfere. Do you know that? - But we grew up together.- That's why, please abide on how a friend should act. Friend? I am not even your little sister now, is that it? I sincerely just wanted to help you. Never thought you will instead be this angry. Fine. I am apologizing to you. But I really don't know what I've done wrong. Shan Shan, it's not that I want to scold you. But Shan Shan, you were too hasty. Have you ever thought that these actions of yours is a form of injury to those kids?! I don't understand. You clearly are helping them to fulfill their wish. They should be happy because of it. And also, you did a good thing. I want everyone to know that you are a good person. - This way, it can make your position at Zheng Tai more stable.- Don't you still get it? I don't need to rely on those child to keep my position at Zheng Tai stable. And also, they have rights. They have the right to be respected. How come the manner you talk is so similar to Qing Ling? It was really her. Even without her, I will also come to lecture you. So it's true. I already told people to remove those news. Please don't interfere again. Really never saw someone like you who don't know how to appreciate other people's kindness. Duan Tian Lang was willing to help you and you still got angry at him. - Li Li, you don't understand.- I indeed don't understand. Before, you keep saying that you are grateful to the people who helped the orphanage. You said that they are your parents. But what is the difference between them and Duan Tian Lang? Of course, it's different. Others were not announcing it like him. If you ask me, it is your pride that's acting up. Li Li... Qing Ling, do you treat me as a good friend? Shan Shan, if there is anything, let's discuss it amicably. We are all good friends. What good friend? She never really treated me as a good friend. How can that be? You and Li Li have always been my best friends. I remember that you promised me that you won't see Duan Tian Lang ever again. But how about you? How many times did you go see Duan Tian Lang behind my back? Fine. I can endure all of those. But you...actually brought him to the orphanage? You want him to pity you and then you'll... Qing Ling, what really is your motive for doing these? Tell me! Hey, Qing Ling also did that to help Duan Tian Lang. If he needs help, I'll do the helping, because Duan Tian Lang is mine! Shan Shan, I'm sorry. I just wanted to help him. From now on, we are no longer friends. Li Li, you are my only friend. I have no right to prevent you from being friends with her, but remember, Any future situations, if it involves her, I won't be a part of it. If I'm there, she can't be there! - Shan Shan! Shan-- - Qing Ling! Wait for Shan Shan to cool off, then go apologize to her, ok? I've said it before...since Duan Tian Lang appeared, everything has changed. Enough already. General Manager. By your instructions, the children have quietly gone to Beijing. Send this project proposal to the HR department. Prioritizing the weak (poor/minority) in providing training and jobs. Giving back to the society can't all be just empty words. This is a way to lessen the burden of society. You...better watch news often too. In this world, there are a lot of people that needs help. If possible, let's help them as much as we can. Our Zheng Tai should be equated to positive energy. I understand. General Manager. I noticed that recently, you are becoming not like a general manager already. Get out. General Manager, about the misunderstanding with Ms. Qing Ling, do we need to explain things to her? Don't mind her. That crazy woman. I am too lazy to explain things to her. I'll go out then. General Manager. This was brought by Qing Ling earlier. Did she say anything? She only said to give this to you. She just left. Hey, Tian Lang. I have a good friend who got married. Let's have dinner together. What does your good friend getting married have to do with me? Good friend? Which good friend? It's Qing Ling. Don't you two had some friendly relationship prior? Why don't you come with me? I don't have any friendly relationship with her. And also, I won't have anything to do with her too from now on. Give this back to her. I'll go in first. Security! Miss. - Throw this away.- Throw it away?! Okay. Married? Then go get married! With that personality of yours, what good man can you get married with?! Whoever marries you gets to be unlucky for eight lifetimes! Why are you beating so fast?! What does that woman getting married have to do with you?! Slow down. I told you to slow down! What are you shouting about?! You can already be heard by the door. Who is shouting?! Because Qing Ling got married, you already are behaving this badly? Tian Lang, you wouldn't have really fallen for her already, right? Don't forget. She is a swindler. Enough! I didn't fall for her. Let me tell you again. I never liked her. Never before, never will in the future! You sure? Get out. Don't bother me again next time just for her matter. Duan Tian Lang, remember what you said today. You said that you will never like her. I didn't like her. I will not like her. This is only a remembrance. No other meaning. None... How is the child in your womb? Still no movements. Qing Ling, you must do the wedding ceremony before this kid starts kicking you. Grandma, I don't want to do any wedding ceremony anymore. How can that be allowed? Could it be that Ren Jiu Li is the one who wants this? No. It is me who wants it. Look. I would just randomly have pregnancy symptoms. It will look like a joke during the wedding. And also, the doctor has already said that the first three months of pregnancy is a critical stage. But...you can't just have no wedding ceremony. Grandma, I've made a middle tone for the perfume. Do you want to smell it? Who cooks in your house? Tonight...Shan Shan will be treating us to dinner. You kid, not answering the question. - Let's go now.- It surely is you. Let's go, Grandma. Look at how happy you look. Your boyfriend must be treating you well. You also know that? - Look. It is already written on your face.- Qing Ling. Ding Hai, you're here. Hurry and come over. Let me introduce to you. This is my best friend, Shan Shan. Hello. I'm called Ju Shan Shan. I'm Qing Ling's best friend and we tell each other everything. Nice to meet you. Don't stand anymore. Let's talk while sitting down. - You must be thirsty. Drink some water.- Qing Ling. You will spoil your man if you're like that. You are the only man tonight. Could you serve us ladies for tonight? - Jeez, just let me.- It's my honor. Qing Ling, congratulations. Your husband is indeed just like you described he is. What did Qing Ling say about me? She said...that you are very loyal to her and doesn't care about other women. Even if I do give other women attention, I will still end up coming back to Qing Ling's side. Because the women outside are all wild flowers. Talking about flowers, our Qing Ling is an expert. If you get to stick yourself some wildflower scent from outside, it surely won't escape Qing Ling's dog-like nose. You seem to know a lot about our relationship. No. I am just concerned about Qing Ling. Nothing else. What's wrong with you two? Ding Hai, it's your first time meeting. Please be more courteous. Actually, it isn't really the first time that we met. Not the first time? You really don't remember me? Maybe I did saw you. I can't remember anymore. Qing Ling, I really am sad for hearing him say that. Do you know that I'm his lecturer in his MBA course? I lectured in his class. But he actually don't remember me anymore? But I have quite a deep impression on him. That's so coincidental! Hai, how can you not recognize your own lecturer? He might have not listened to my lecture well. But Ding Hai, the tuition fee is quite expensive. You must listen to your lectures seriously. My fault. From now on, I will pay close attention to Teacher Ju more. Then today, I'm using water in place of wine to wish you two forever happiness. Thank you, Shan Shan. Shan Shan, I really am so happy today. I won't disturb your world of two now. I'll get going. Shan Shan, thank you. Thank you for your utmost kindness. What are you saying? We are good friends. Although you won't be holding a wedding banquet, as the family of the bride, I can't just treat you shabbily. If you have any requests in the future, just tell me. Ding Hai, let me tell you. Take good care of Qing Ling from now on. Understand? If I discover that you are being disloyal, I will not forgive you. Don't worry. - Congratulations!- Thank you. Bye-bye. - Be careful of safety.- Bye-bye. Let's go now. Or else, mother will get worried. How come I didn't know you have such a good person in your friend circle. Shan Shan, Li Li, and I have always been good friends since high school. I also told you about it before. I told you that I have a good friend who went to study in Italy and just returned recently. But you didn't tell me that Shan Shan is Ju Shi Ping's daughter. She is Shancheng Corporation's main heiress. So what? She is still Shan Shan. Are you naive or stupid? What do you mean by that? You really are so stupid. I am just worried that you will get played by a rich girl like that. We grew up together. How can she treat me like that? I know people like them better than you. They might be saying congratulations but deep inside, they are already comparing your husband with their boyfriend. Then you surely will win. Her boyfriend is called Duan Tian Lang. A moody guy. He can't compare to you at all. Enough already. Let's go home now. Let's go. Let's go. You...