For 70 years, people have been coming from all over the country to try the local specialty, "chanpon", at the long-established restaurant "Miyuki". Everything is delicious, but The best recommendation is the champon Along with the sizzling sound of the grill, we bring you a moment Ozu City, Ehime Prefecture 8 minutes on foot from Iyo-Ozu Station In this town, which is also known as "Little Kyoto in Iyo", 70 years in business Teppanyaki Miyuki Ozu branch The owner has arrived at work Mr. Hiroyuki Marui (50) The staff have also arrived for work First thing in the morning, Mr. Marui goes shopping for ingredients He washes the rice The rice is cooked in a rice cooker There are many autographs Preparing okonomiyaki Cracking the eggs We're preparing the lettuce. We're shredding the lettuce, The vendor has come to deliver locally-produced prawns. Director)What have you brought us? (Vendor) We use it for okonomiyaki and yakisoba. (Vendor) Thank you! We drain the washed lettuce. We put the drained lettuce in the refrigerator to chill it. We'll chill the cheese in the same way. We'll portion out the chicken skin for each serving. We're preparing the area around the okonomiyaki grill. The other staff member has arrived for work. We'll start cleaning the inside of the store. We'll clean every nook and cranny. I'll also mop the floor. Mr. Marui has returned from shopping. I'm going to cut up some vegetables for the salad. (Mr.Marui) Excuse me! Regular customer) I've got a slipped disk. A regular customer brought in some Shain Muscat grapes (Marui-san) He's a regular customer. He called us on his day off. We took a short break with the Shine Muscat grapes we were given. Preparing the prawns We will be preparing (Mr. Marui) This is used for fried rice, fried noodles For anything that contains shrimp as an ingredient, The "chanpon" specialty of Miyuki was born from a request to eat yakisoba and fried rice together This is a signature dish that has been loved since the Showa era Director)Why do you use this shrimp? (Mr. Marui) It gives off a good stock. (Mr. Marui) If you just use frozen shelled prawns We will peel the prawns together. (Staff) The prawns today are huge We break up the salt that has formed into lumps and make it into smaller pieces. Opening time is approaching. The seats are carefully wiped. The beef is prepared. We cut off the unnecessary sinewy parts. We cut the meat into the thickness required for steaks. We will weigh the meat The rice is cooked. 11:30 Opening The subdued lighting warmly envelops the interior of the restaurant Menu A photo from the time the restaurant first opened We'll be making Unlike the champon served at most noodle restaurants, We spread oil on the hot plate. We mix the locally sourced shrimp prepared earlier with the frozen shrimp. A customer has come to the restaurant The prawns are mixed with pork and stir-fried Add bean sprouts and cabbage Salt Add white rice and noodles Miyuki's special sauce It's a sauce that takes three days to make We'll add some more sauce. It looks similar to the famous Kobe dish sobameshi, The finished chanpon is packed into (Mr.Marui) Yes, welcome! Of course, we don't forget to take orders from customers Chanpon (for take-out) We've already received a lot of orders for champon. The appetizing aroma of the sauce They cook the champon one after another. (Mr.Marui) Welcome! (Male customer) The recommendation here is the most famous The one I hear about most is The champon here in Ozu is like That's our number one recommendation It's really delicious! I recommend it! Well, everything is delicious, but The best recommendation is the champon! (The owner is) good-looking, too I'm indebted to him all the time He talks to me in a friendly way (Director) Please continue to take care of Miyuki. (Male customer) I'll do it even if you don't tell me! "Cooking the kuwa-yaki" Put them on the preheated hoe-shaped griddle and it's done! Mr.Marui)Yes! Sorry! The grill is very hot, so There are a lot of orders for chanpon on the counter (Mr.Marui) Yes, welcome! At the counter seats, you can even smell the sauce, Staff) Welcome! (Mr.Marui) Here you are. Thank you for waiting! (Male customer) The champon is delicious, so I'd like to try some of the other dishes too, (Director) Will you continue to visit the restaurant (Male customer) Yes, I will! The restaurant is now completely full. We're going to fry the beef ribs for take-out. Seasoning the beef and stir-frying it (Director) What kind of meat is this? It's ready to eat when it's served in a container. (Mr. Marui) Regular customers eat this (beef rib) Beef short ribs grilled in homemade sauce More orders for chanpon continue to come in (Mr. Marui) Two people? (Mr. Marui) Thank you very much! Kuwayaki is also a popular menu item, just like champon. Mr.Marui)Here you go. The iron plate is hot, We'll cook four servings of champon all at once! Please watch the cooking of this hearty dish (Mr.Marui) Sweet-flavored champon for the guests in the tatami room Small sweet and spicy champon Even men will be satisfied with the amount The peak looks like it's going to continue for a while yet. (Director) Thank you for coming today. Tasting the food time! Tasting food1: Hamachidori's chicken tartar set Seasoning with salt Covering and steaming Tartar sauce (Staff) Thank you very much! (Staff) Thank you for waiting. Tasting 1 Hamachidori's chicken tartar set Tasting 2 Kuwayaki Heat the hoe-shaped iron plate. Fry the prawns, pork and leeks. Salt (Director) What kind of dish is kuwayaki? (Mr.Marui) Kuwayaki is a dish that was eaten by people used to cook wild vegetables and game such as pheasant meat on the top of a hoe I got the idea from the way they were grilling them on the hoe Speaking of Ozu, and then you mix in shrimp and pork and grill it with salt So, the origin of this dish is that it was grilled on a hoe Tasting 2 Kuwa-yaki Tasting 3: Omu-chanpon (Mr. Marui) This sauce is also homemade. (The sauce) takes about three days to make because it has to be cooked and left to mature eggs Mr.Marui)Thank you very much! We'll fry the eggs to put on the chanpon. We'll put the fluffy eggs on top. It's finished when you pour on the special sauce and mayonnaise. Omu-chanpon The famous Miyuki chanpon with a fluffy egg on top Mr .Marui)What I try to do is As time goes by things that used to be so how do you The most satisfying thing is when someone says, "The taste is always the same, no matter when you come." That's the one thing (Director) What is the (Mr. Marui) "It was delicious" or Being able to hear the customers' voices Nowadays, there are lots of foreign tourists Even people from overseas go, 'Chanpon! I think people will look it up somewhere and it's also nice to hear words like that and then when you go back to your hometown or your own country you can advertise and say "I've eaten this" I'm looking forward to I also have the desire to First of all, By then, if I can get even a few customers to know if only a few customers knew about Miyuki that's the only thing I'm worried about (Mr.Marui) If you're in Ehime, drop by! I'll be waiting!