It's a place that attracts visitors by hundreds of thousands A state where innovative real estate projects the most spectacular This Titanic project is located but in the Principality of Monaco, Nicknamed the Rock, Monaco is a veritable confetti The country is located just 20km east of nice and a stone's throw from the Italian border. Monaco's surface area is just two square This makes it the second smallest country with its 0.44km2. By way of comparison, Yet with over 39,000 residents, populated countries in the world To keep expanding, a horizon was quickly found the Mediterranean Sea, development projects are multiplying the most impressive. Called Mareterra, this new extension has been under construction It required a huge financial outlay and the involvement of the world's Although the project is intended it has been criticized by many for turning the area Today, looking for largest construction sites. Monaco's core identity is luxury, from the Casino of Monte Carlo to the Formula Prestigious events abound in this state Monarchy in 1911, The Rock has the largest concentration But behind the impressive villas, sports cars and yachts lie other realities. In particular that of an area that for over to expand onto the Mediterranean Sea. Since 1907, innovative operations have been stepped up to reclaim land from the sea, involving the creation of entire districts Between 1966 and 1973. In all, these operations have resulted an immense figure representing 25% of the total surface area of the city. This percentage places Monaco among those states Artificial ization on the sea In almost 50 years, the city state has gained more than 147km2 of new land artificially created on the sea. This represents almost 25% of its territory, but in a different register, but still with a view The European champion is the Netherlands, a country that has based part of its survival in the face of rising waters on a global strategy based on polders. Without this countrywide system, almost two thirds of the Netherlands that must be constantly rethought If you're interested in the subject, I've included But let's go back to Monaco, has been at a standstill for the past 20 years. Indeed, the last project This was a 3.7 hectare semi floating In 2005, Albert following the death of his father And it was only ten years later that It was Made of terror, a name intended to be complementary sea and land. This future new district of Monaco is located It is set between Port Hercule and Larvotto Beach as a backdrop. Future residents of the new district immense convention center, the Grimaldi Forum. The Grimaldi Forum will be extended by 6000m2, To understand the scale of this project, Begun in 2015. The project will save the Principality The cost of the operation EUR2 billion. According to the invoice announced The construction site is running at full speed, 2300 people and nearly 300 companies, a colossal undertaking with As channel subscribers In reality, of a construction site But in Monaco, the ecological aspect A case in point is the six hectare marine area with over 50m of fill, Prior to this undertaking, The seagrass is essential The Posidonia, which are found in abundance in and replanted in the surrounding area. The new space has also been designed This shape is no coincidence since it was designed to follow the direction of a sea current The materials used in the construction are also in the same vein of low The wave breaking concrete caissons were designed They are placed on a giant embankment. The embankment lies between 20 and 50m beneath the sea and is almost 500m long. This immense wall under the sea is made up of local rock, brought in in astronomical quantities, and then precisely deposited on the seabed It was only after construction concrete caissons were towed by boat to the site. Manufactured in Marseille. Each is 27m high and weighs 10,000 tonnes. The giants were then ballasted and weighted down with quarry materials They are positioned to centimeter accuracy, with ships and divers making the final adjustments. The complete belt of caissons enclosing the future district was completed in July 2019. This build also includes cells and paths specifically designed to provide refuge for fish. Once the case on belt had been laid, The method used in Monaco consists This material is then distributed to ensure that the new buildings planned Once built, 40% of the site and most of the infrastructure Last but not least, the project sponsors state that 50% of rainwater will be reused. This new seaward extension also takes into account the risk of flooding due to rising sea levels. The builders have therefore The lowest levels, the second basements, The first living areas are seven meters above sea level, well above the recommendations According to last year, this new islet is better protected than 99% of the surrounding coastline. Extreme protection for exceptional buildings. Luxury homes designed by the world's leading for a total of 130 apartments, ten villas at the end of a project overseen They are also responsible blocks and ten single family homes. Renzo Piano, of the Center Pompidou in Paris, He designed a residence This 18 storey building features apartments, a seawater swimming pool, and a series of special installations evoke the sensations of the Mediterranean. Another presence of the architect on the site white air vents also visible in the vicinity of the Center Pompidou, a sort of continuity for the man who had already signed his participation According to Le Figaro, three The first is Japanese the recent renovation of the Paris books, the Camus two house Francois Pinos Art Foundation. He designed two of the ten villas to be built. Another will be the work of superstar include the Millau Viaduct Finally, Stefano Boeri, creator of Milan's vertical forests buildings, will also be on hand to design a villa. A lineup of architectural heavyweights that makes these creations difficult to afford, especially as Monaco is not renowned for its cheap Quite the opposite, in fact, the principality holds per square meter in the world, With some prices soaring to over EUR120,000, this compares with an average of EUR11,000 No sales price has been revealed. However, and villas will exceed 2000m2. Privileged properties that must easily approach A financial cap as almost all the properties My ten not wishing to build a ghetto for the rich. The monetary team emphasizes accessible to all, with numerous green areas coordinated by landscape architect Michel Desvignes. The main focus is on the pine forest a vast park set into the hillside, intended as a green oasis in a very mineral city. The promenade du prince Jacques, named nine years old, will also become a landmark from the existing Larvotto Promenade, connected to the Mediterranean Sea. An architectural Kokiri the promenade will include a public access take their marks on the concrete caissons The promenade will lead to Le Petit Portier, a 15 slip Marina for boats up to 16m in length, located at the foot of the Le Renzo residence. The Marina will be bordered to the north four refreshing basins known as plus Gabriella. Gabriella is Prince Jacques twin sister. The square has been designed which will be largely pedestrianized in addition The site will offer The last piece of information to remember While delivery times often tend to get longer. The terror program is also playing the singularity In fact, 2024, eight months ahead of schedule. And it's with this astonishing fact I hope you enjoyed it, And if you liked this video, don't hesitate It helps me a lot. Thank you all and see you soon on looking 4.