When you start diving deeper into your iPhone, you'll find a lot of interesting security settings, like what does discoverable by others mean, or what can you do with these significant locations Apple tracks on your phone. And there's even more privacy implications for things like local network access and home data access for third-party apps. So I went through and found some of the most curious security settings on your iPhone, found all the Apple support articles that explain what each of those settings mean, and I'm gonna go through them now, including how Apple tracks data to advertise to you, its protection feature, and a ton more. So first up is actually a new setting that came along with Apple's journal app. I've been using the journal app a lot. I really enjoy it. I have an entire video on it. I'll link above and in the description. But if you go to the settings app and then scroll down to journal, here you can set whether journal has access to your location and photos, but if you go to journaling suggestions, you'll see there's also suggestion privacy settings. If we go there, you can scroll down and you'll see this discoverable by others toggle. And a commenter on the channel actually pointed this out. And wanted to know what this setting actually did. In the fine print, you'll see that when this is toggled on, it actually helps prioritize other people's suggestions if they're in proximity to you. But it's unclear with just that fine print. Is this everyone? Is it just contacts? But if you go to the &quot;Journaling suggestions and privacy&quot; page on Apple's website, and I'll put links to all of these privacy and support articles down in the video description, it actually talks about that nearby people option. Here you can see &quot;Journaling suggestions uses Bluetooth to detect the number of devices and contacts but here Apple talks specifically about that setting where it will only be contacts and so with this toggled on, if there's contacts near you, let's say you're all at a theme park, you will show up in their suggestions or might affect what they see in their suggestions. If you toggle this off, it will automatically toggle off these suggestions with others option as well. So it seems pretty clear. If you have &quot;discoverable by others&quot; toggled on, that means your contacts on your phone might see suggestions in their journaling and vice versa, depending on proximity. To be honest, I've left this on and I have found great suggestions, especially if I'm at a location or a concert, and it will suggest people that I was nearby or even photos I took with other people when I'm creating a journal entry. Another setting people really don't know about is the significant locations. Back in the Settings app, if I scroll down to Privacy and Security, you'll see Location Services shown up here. We're going to talk about the third-party location options in just a moment, but if you scroll all the way down to the bottom, there's a System Services Settings option. And And here again, if I scroll to the bottom, you'll notice that your phone will automatically recognize that as a significant location to you and even keep track of your schedule. If you go there Monday through Friday at 9 a.m., then it will automatically give you traffic or maps information every weekday morning around 8.30 a.m. Now one of the unfortunate parts of significant locations is you can't see what Apple has actually tracked. I can see there's 183 records, but tapping that does nothing. I can't actually see the locations Apple has logged. I can see recent locations here, but also that's not tappable. And while there is an option to clear history, maybe you moved recently or changed jobs and you just want to start from scratch, you can do that. But you can't granularly remove specific locations. You can find more information on Apple's location services and privacy page. And then going down to significant locations, iPhone and iCloud connected devices will keep track of places you have recently been as well as how often and when you visited them. And Apple is clear that this data is end-to-end encrypted and cannot be read by Apple. It is used to provide you with personalized services such as predictive traffic routing and to build better memories in photos. This is a toggle that I keep on and I find it beneficial especially with some of those recommendations that it puts on your lock screen, but I do wish I could see the over 180 records of locations that my iPhone has saved and it thinks is significant. Actually be a way to find this data, but I'm still testing it so subscribe to the channel because that video is going to be coming soon. I'm going to show you a super secret Apple website for pulling some of your iCloud data. Now you might not know it, but Apple actually does serve ads to you as a user. One place you'll see ads is in the App Store on your iPhone. Going to the search tab, immediately I can see that there's an ad right here for the Instacart app. Or if I search for a third-party app, let's say Overcast, you'll see there's actually an ad above it in the search results. That means Audible has paid Apple for this ad. And Apple also delivers ads and things like the Apple News app. This is not a web browser, so there's no content blockers or ad blockers you can use. And you can see this ad is being served directly in the Apple News app, and that's coming through Apple. Well, Apple actually gives you a setting to manage when it comes to advertisements coming directly from Apple. In that same privacy and security pane, you can go down to Apple Advertising and you basically have one toggle. You can toggle off personalized ads or you can keep it toggled on. It's on by default. kind of data Apple has built and might use to serve you ads, you can actually see that by tapping this right here. Apple creates what it's called &quot;segments,&quot; meaning it puts your information in an advertising segment, and then advertisers can purchase ads based on the segments and their data. Things like birth year, gender, and location. That's listed here. You can see here that I've also been put in segments based on the content I've downloaded. Things like apps, books, or movies. And you can see specifically what segments you're a part of. Action adventure, drama, kids and family, that does sound like me. If you don't want any segments created off your information, you can toggle the personalized ads off. And you can view more information on this legal website called &quot;Apple Advertising and Privacy.&quot; It talks about the contextual information, including device location, and your approximate location may be used to serve you geographically relevant ads. But it's clear that Apple's advertising platform does not construct profiles from your location, nor does it use or store your precise location, even if you allow an app to access that precise location. And there's more information about the sigma- -based on that data it collects. If we go back into that privacy and security settings pane, you'll see this menu just called &quot;tracking&quot;. This is actually referring to third-party app trackings. Often you might see this pop up after you installed a new app, and it's wanting you to know whether to allow the app to track you or ask app not to track. And as you can see, I, by default, don't want the app tracking me. This kind of tracking is not location tracking. This is tracking your activity, possibly on the internet or across different apps, so it can serve. It can serve better ads to you, probably in social media apps and things like that. You can see here in the iPhone User Guide website, apps are required to ask your permission before tracking you or your iPhone across websites or apps owned by other companies for advertising or to share your information with data brokers. Now you could also just toggle this top one off and not have any apps track you, which maybe I'll do soon, but as you can see, I pretty much default to asking apps not to track. Another pop-up you might see sometimes for third-party apps is it's wanting access to your local network. recent Instagram users saw this pop up which has been going on for a while and you see this with different social media apps and maybe other apps that really have no reason to access your network. Well again in the privacy and security settings you can see the local network option here and you can see here all the apps that have requested local network access. There are many apps that I do allow things like robot vacuums, smart home devices, things like the fire TV remote app. It needs access to your local network. This way you can see the Amazon fire TV you're trying to control. Typically when it comes to things like social media networks, I'll turn off local network access. And it's important to know that disabling local network access does not prevent you from airplane or airdropping certain things within the app. You can see from this Apple Support article, apps that access your local network can collect information about nearby devices in order to determine which networks you join and when. This information could be used to create a profile of you, and the profile is mainly for advertising purposes. And like I mentioned, it's important to note that even hitting don't allow on this pop-up, you're still able to do things like AirPrint, AirPlay, AirDrop, or HomeKit. Those are core iPhone functions and are not affected even if you restrict an app's local network capabilities. If we go back one setting, you'll also see HomeData or HomeKit as an option that third-party apps will want to access. Oftentimes, if you're downloading a smart home app like the Eve app, HomeWidget, or the great apps like HomeCam and HomePass, These apps need to request your home data so they can actually control the devices that you want to use inside those apps or for things like HomeCam to be able to see your HomeKit secure video feeds. This support article from Apple talks about HomeKit data security and the lens Apple goes through for keeping your devices secure and private, and you can see here in the home data and apps section it talks about access to home data by apps is controlled by the privacy settings that I just showed you. If you approve an app to get access to your home data, that app has access to the names of the rooms in your smart home, the names of accessories, which... you will need to download in the home kit developer documentation. Now you can go here and read all about the framework and other data, but typically I download smart home apps from trusted developers like HomePass, HomeCam, or HomeWidget. I do give it access to my home data and have not had an issue. Back in the privacy and security settings, you might see this nearby interaction setting. If you go here, there's actually no toggle at all. The fine print talks about nearby interactions using the ultra-wideband chip in your iPhone 4, newer, and the modern Apple Watch models. There is a page on Apple's developer website that talks about nearby interaction, and this could be used for things like opening a car key if your car supports that, NameDrop, one of the new iOS 17 features, uses ultra-wideband connectivity. I'm curious if third-party apps will eventually get access to that, and maybe we'll see this settings pane actually fill with apps requesting access that could be an iOS 18 feature, because right now the use cases for ultra-wideband are pretty limited, precision finding with AirTags or the AirPods Pro 2. other things like car key and that's pretty much it. The home key feature where you can hold your phone or watch up to a lock to unlock it that actually uses NFC near field communication not ultra wideband. So I'm optimistic we'll hear more about ultra wideband hopefully maybe later this year. Now I'm going to show you a setting you should probably never ever enable. This is a very specific use case. This is your warning. At the bottom of the privacy and security page you'll see a lockdown mode option. This is for very specific use cases. Things like if you're a journalists may be in a- hostile country and you have very sensitive information on your phone, you can turn on what's called lockdown mode. I'll put a link to this support article about lockdown mode, but it really restricts how you can use your phone, everything from certain message attachments that are blocked, web technologies that are blocked, and you can see here everything turned off or disabled once lockdown mode is on. Again, this is not a measure of extra security that you should use in day-to-day life. This is for very specific use cases and jobs and people, so you probably don't want to do this. Instead, what you want to turn on is stolen device protection. This has been updated in iowa 17.4 and if you go to face id and passcode on your phone, once you're in you can scroll down and then see stolen device protection. I would recommend turning this on. What this does is when you're away from home, some actions like accessing your stored passwords or changing your apple id password requires biometric authentication. That means if you want to change your apple id password from your iPhone, which is something you can do, it will require you to scan your face and there won't be a fallback to putting in your iPhone passcode. This is to help with some of those schemes where someone might get your passcode by shoulder surfing, someone else steals your phone, and now if they have your passcode and phone, they can change your Apple ID password and get into all of your data. Well, having stolen device protection turned on means it should become almost impossible to do that, especially if you're away from home, they can't change your Apple ID password without your actual Face ID or Touch ID to unlock your device. And this new setting was and add it in iOS 17.4. Which means you can do only away from familiar locations. That means when you're home, one of those significant locations, and it's unclear whether familiar locations are the significant locations I showed you earlier, or if this is some other database of places. The fine print just says if you're not in a place called home or work, I'm not sure if that's dependent on the contact information you put in your &quot;me&quot; contact card. Even on Apple's website, it says familiar locations typically include your homework and certain other locations where you regularly use your iPhone. If you like these significant locations feature, but not 100% sure, then you can do that passcode fallback when you're at home or at work to reset your Apple ID or make other changes. There's also a security delay that will require you to wait an hour before doing certain changes on your iPhone, even after you authenticate it. Like changing your Apple ID password, adding or removing Face ID, or resetting all your settings and turning off Find Month. This means if someone did get your passcode and did steal your phone, If you would have an hour to log into iCloud.com, device like an iPad and wipe that iPhone before the thieves can actually get your information, change your Apple ID password, and then you've lost access to your entire iCloud photo library, purchases, iCloud passwords, and more. So bottom line, I would turn on stolen device protection. Now we're gonna go back to the main settings screen and go to our iCloud settings. Here in the iCloud settings, I'm gonna tap iCloud once again. I kinda wish they would clarify some of these settings. I think it's hard for people unfamiliar with these settings to get around. But once I'm here, I can scroll down and you'll see advanced data. protection if you go to this setting enabling advanced data protection this will add even more security to your data things like your iMessage backups your iCloud Drive photos and notes here in the iPhone user guide it talks about what advanced data protection does and what it protects and the bottom line is not even Apple can access your information once you've turned on advanced data protection and if you're gonna enable something like this recovering your Apple ID if you've lost your device or forgotten your password can get pretty complicated. If you have multiple devices-- like an iPad, a Mac, and an iPhone-- that risk is a little lessened because you have multiple devices signed into your Apple ID that can access these settings. But if you only have an iPhone, maybe no other Apple devices, one of the things I would recommend is back in the iCloud settings, go to sign in and security, scroll down to where you see account recovery. Here you can add trusted contacts for account recovery. So if you lose all your Apple devices, you can't log into your Apple ID, these contacts will be able to help you get back into your account so you can sign back in with a new iPhone or other Apple device. If you don't have someone you can add as that recovery contact, then do the recovery key. Turning that on gives you that long 28 character code so you can print that out, put it in a safe, and that will help you access your account in the event you get locked out. Alright, in the final setting, we'll go one more time to privacy and security, go to location services, and if you scroll down this list, you'll see all the third-party apps that have requested access to your location and the setting that you have chosen. which is an ice cream shop, you'll see these different options. You can choose that this third-party app can never access your location. You can have it ask the next time you open the app. You can choose while using the app, meaning when you open it, it will be able to see your location and maybe show your loyalty card. Or you can choose always, and you also have the option for precise location. Oftentimes the only apps I choose always and precise location are things like weather apps. Even Apple's built-in weather app has these toggles. This is one of the few where I choose all ways and precise location. This way I get precipitation forecasts and really up to the minute weather forecasts in an accurate way. I do leave a lot of apps just as while using. Some I switched to never just because I don't need it to have my location. Also keep in mind if you have loyalty cards and things like the built-in wallet app on the iPhone you can choose while using the app and it will still show you those loyalty cards that are in your wallet if you approach a location. If you do find that you have some battery drain and you're wondering if an app is accessing your background one of the things you can look for are these little arrows next to the app name. These arrows means that app has access to your location in the last 24 hours. You see most of my apps haven't done that. Of course weather has shortcuts and Siri has reminders. Also the news app maps makes sense and you'll see here Instagram accessed it in the last 24 hours. If you see apps here that have accessed your location in the last 24 hours but you've not opened the app or interacted with it you might want to change it to never. You know and apps look I just say never. It doesn't need my location. So those are some detailed privacy and security settings on your iPhone and hopefully that information helps you make the decisions best for you. But make sure you subscribe to the channel before you go because I have a video coming very soon on that secret Apple website to access your iCloud data. I just need to do a little more research and then it's coming soon. If you have any questions about the settings I talked about or any others leave a comment below this video. Hit the like button and if you want to learn more by making the most of your iPhone I have my personal iPhone setup the complete walkthrough with widgets home screens focus modes you can check out that video right up here and apparently YouTube thinks you would really like this video so just check that out too thanks for watching I'll catch you next time