OK, so this is Matthew for Beginners. This is the introductory lesson to the &quot;for beginners&quot; here. The &quot;for beginners&quot; these lessons will be oversimplified. It Matthew's Gospel with the notion that Matthew at all or in a while. Matthew, about the parables in Matthew and kingdom, idea of the kingdom in study of the Gospel of Matthew itself as than being oversimplified, think complete. study we're going to take time to historical settings that existed when obviously a man of his time, influenced God uses the individual as that write. We're also going to take a look at to be included in the official New opportunity to study how did books make Why were some chosen and others that and I'll also show you how the reasons why it was written and how book was used in a particular way in the time to read everything in class, but I'm each week. I mean they're not going to be ahead as Cary mentioned to read won't have to read all of the chapters the historical background of Matthew's writing. There are four main political, historical people when Jesus arrived on the scene Matthew will record in his gospel so more time here. There we go, there we go) Persian period 536 to 336 BC. By then the exiled to Babylon in 586 BC. God finally disobedience. The northern kingdom had before, now it was the turn of the they're in Babylon in exile, Babylon Persians in 539 BC. So very interesting, powers here; first the Babylonians and the Babylonians who kept them in took place while they were in captivity Judea, but actually began while they were temple to offer sacrifice, to pray, and so were in exile in Babylon of the in ruins, they couldn't temple and they themselves were &quot;house churches.&quot; They began places for prayer; and the synagogue idea they were in Babylonian captivity and it were returned back from exile. So historically, eventually, a small remnant temple in and around 520 BC and others next century. So it wasn't they were in came back. It was they were in exile and came back and then another group came the next century and not all of them because they were there for generations they had farms, they had you know, back to Jerusalem. So when we read Malachi, those writers write about that captivity. The final book of the Old was written at about this particular what's called the inter-testamentary where there is no inspired books that diverse religious styles are produced. So that there were no prophets, there were period of Malachi to John the Baptist, was a lot of material that was produced these, because they influenced the century or in the time when Jesus diverse, non-inspired writings, there are record the social and political time. For example, there's Josephus who Pharisee and a historian records the history of the Jewish people Jesus, this Nazarene who was executed as rejecting the idea that that, he's just writing objectively during that time and his writings are Josephus or of Josephus' writings. example, that's how we know that James, the Epistle, was killed, he was Jerusalem, he was thrown down into the record, James didn't die right away so to make sure that he had died, a very not recorded in the Bible. You only know Also the writing of the Maccabees, the of the Jewish uprising during that a little later. So there were the during that inter-testamentary, some people OK. Other material are commentaries. which was a collection of rabbinic get it straight, the Torah is the Jewish are the first five books of the Bible Deuteronomy; those are the first five books as the Pentateuch, a Greek Pentateuch. Well, the Torah, the word Torah books. So when they're talking about they're talking, the Jews are talking, Alright. The Talmud, that's where it's commentary written by OK? Commentary written by Jewish rabbis first five books of the Bible and then that's within the Talmud. Alright, so we these things, I'm just trying to explain to be commentaries, not inspired writings, students of the word, about what they applied in various situations, again we go on. Then there were diverse non-inspired writings called the Apocrypha, the word stories and accounts of events and recorded in the inspired books. For character of that time, not mentioned in in any New Testament record, but written time. Or the wisdom of Solomon, we don't canon entitled &quot;The Wisdom of referring back to Solomon. A first and book of Esther, for example. Catholic Bible, is that Bible any good?&quot; the reason they say &quot;a Catholic Bible&quot; is Catholic [church], many versions of the Bible include these books. So you've got the way to Malachi and then before you get bunch of other books and you wonder, &quot;What Apocrypha, they include many of these in their version of the Bible, in their understand. So people good?&quot; Well, of course, it is, it's the same Testament that we use, the New International Version or whatever, it's these other additions in between the Old is that these books are non-inspired. Alright. And then we have another type of book entitled a pseudipigrapha. False. These were works that Testament writers long after their entitled &quot;The Revelation of Moses.&quot; Well, by Moses, but people would take the name their book to give it more circulation wish and usually these books here in the apocalyptic style; if you were in other that the apocalyptic style, OK, is a that uses a lot of metaphor, a the moon was filled with blood, the stars see in Daniel, for example, and the book of literature. Well, these books here in the pseudipigrapha, many of them are written writings between 400 BC and the arrival across here, is that they influence the Jesus's teaching was done to counteract from this type of literature here, that's The Talmud, for example, that the commentary on the first five books Jewish scribes, the Talmud with the that were not found in the actual Bible a lot of the things that the people &quot;the law&quot; wasn't according to the law at on the law. Alright? People also were religious thought on commentaries and rather than the prophets, in other words when the end time was coming, when the science fiction. And so a lot of their their thoughts about the coming Messiah instead of carefully studying what the they had such a mistaken idea of, or a supposed to be, because they had so many consuming through this type of literature. OK, so that gives you that of the things going on there. Persian era 536 to 336 BC and then the Greek period 333 to 167 BC, the time of Alexander's death we know that his generals and as far as we're concerned understand that Palestine was under the Greek world domination. In other that little strip of land we called powers at the time, OK? get another slide up here) from 320 Israel, OK? They were in control. Egypt Palestine was under regional control, here, Egypt was south, OK? And then from north of Palestine, gained control over the north and the south, were always control that piece of land as a buffer wanted to be... It's always easier right? You destroy their homes, you burn they always wanted that middle that to stage their wars and so on forth. So from 198 to 167 BC, Syria was in control of that, of Palestine, and one Antiochus Epiphanes, he was really trying people and what he did is he closed the went in and he sacrificed a pig on the religious custom and so on and so forth, temple and the area and so on and so You weren't allowed to circumcise completely destroy, not just the destroy them psychologically by time of great, great depression and great that time. Another thing that was Greeks controlled... it was their military domination, but it was I mean Greek ideas and and Greek art and Greek religion and diffused throughout their an effect on the Jews. What happened for speak Hebrew, because they were to understand. I'm looking around, but but for people, well like us. like ones still speak French, because we speak French and they speak French, but I speak French and I really doubt that our French. Why? Well they're is an English-speaking country. They'll speak French, right? So the same thing was being assimilated by the speak the old language what but was a their religion and their whole religion they couldn't read the scriptures, And so what they did is they created a Greek version of the Old Testament that the Septuagint because 70 scholars were of translating the Hebrew Old Testament see the Roman numerals L X X, which text or something usually what Septuagint, which is the Greek version Another period after this is the 167 to 63 BC. Notice we're working our these things that happened in the world and what Matthew is going to be writing Maccabean period is known for the Against Syrian control, in other words, and trying to destroy the religion, the family, led that insurrection, led that the Greek language and Greek influence. independence from 167 to 135 BC. The Syrian King and the Syrian influence during this period here, very interesting, If you ever wondered who are those guys? Where do they were scribes. I mean that's what called the Pharisees and the Pharisees, called out people, that party begins during the Maccabean revolt and were considered saviours of against pagan Greek influences. So they &quot;Let's go back to the Bible.&quot; They're Greek influence in our life and in our on and so forth, enough the Syrians scriptures and go just with the the beginning, they were seen as heroes. of life that the Jews had that was that's where they come from. Now if started it gives you great insight into how they became 100 years later how they became, because they were Jesus' greatest were the hero of the people. Sadducees were the aristocratic wield political power. They didn't always there was theking, there was a king and then there were the priests, but then in kings, they were dominated happened is that the priests took over. There was a vacuum, no leadership. So leadership, because they were wealthy, were well positioned and respected, so it something very interesting happened when were the ones charged by God to teach abandoned that role, they abandoned that leadership and the ones who stepped into the teachers of the people and influence over over the people. recognize if you read very quickly, but took place at that time during the called the Essenians or the Essenes. were desert dwellers and they saw priests were corrupt, the Pharisees were they wanted to just escape in a commune, they lived in a was they recorded copies of the Old Testament Hebrew and Aramaic writings earthen jars and they hid those jars in they did that is that they were afraid cataclysmic military thing that would south of the Greeks or somebody would destroy the temple and destroy the the scriptures. So they were very careful scribes and so they copied the hoping to guarantee that the scriptures would know what happens right? In 1947 a you have to understand if you go to that the mountains, there are thousands of cave we're talking about enough where four sheep or something, there are dotting the countryside. So a boy in 1947 and stumbles across a jar that's broken, He gets it, he brings it to it was Egypt, Cairo, Egypt, Jerusalem. merchant and lo and behold the Dead Sea begin to examine all these caves and hermetically sealed protected against moisture and wind and cave and if you see them, I've seen them they have the Dead Sea scrolls, behind climate control glass scroll (yeah, I can't read it) in Hebrew the original thing. What's amazing is one of the scrolls, Isaiah, right? You take out your New and you flip over to Isaiah and if you language, it's exactly the same thing. One continuity of Scripture and so that contribution to that time. The reason I political stuff going on, a lot of stuff happening, thinking that the end was going to come, to protect them, all the political course you had the zealots they were wanted to continue the revolution. The Maccabean Revolution, we have to stay in a perpetual the one that they released instead of Simon, one of the Apostles, was part of Herodians. The Herodians were a political some thought that he was the Messiah. the savior and you know what in those like that, because Herod was responsible bringing back its splendor. He bringing back the temple, so on and so &quot;Yeah, this is the guy who... he's Israel was a hotbed of political during the inter-testamentary period arrival of the Messiah, it was There was great expectancy, they were to blow up and into this, Jesus enters. OK, when Jesus comes. The Roman period 63 to they simply destroyed Syria completely established governors over Palestine, individuals in the country, this is anything new in Palestine, that's what the men who collected the taxes, who purchased the called publicans, right? And guess who was was a publican. Herod, of course, was Roman appointed governor actually. He was had Pontius Pilate, he was the military guarantee, or excuse me a guarantee of taxes and to put down rebellion. So there if you do not rebel; if you don't pay we wipe you out. This was the deal, OK? There was no negotiating this soldiers there just to make sure that Alright, now we need to talk about the before Christ, the year of our Lord. at that time was calculated the time was calculated according to celebrated according to the Jewish the Roman calendar, okay? by referring to the founding of the city Jesus arrived, if you wish, it was year of Rome, that was when Jesus was born lived then and Jesus is the in forth and you turn to your buddy and He'd say, &quot;Well, it's 753 according to Christianity became the religion of the requested that a new dating system be year number one thinking well wait a are a Christian Empire, why should the of Rome, pagan Rome? Our calendar should of our Lord, so let's make the year of count forward okay. And so using Christ as year number one. OK, now, this adjustment was made, the Roman year, they were in year twelve seventy-nine according to the Roman calendar, OK? is Roman time, they reestablished the other words 526 years this is when the new calendar, calendar when it's inaugurated, if you good? But then the problem was there was further it was discovered that their birth was an error. He was actually born Roman calendar, see what I'm saying? made to the new calendar, they just left according to the new calendar Jesus was for you? Alright, so that's why they say, &quot;Jesus Christ of Jesus be born four years before Christ?&quot; This is the reason why this was done. So the Romans, of course course, were cruel, they were ruthless provided important elements which gospel. For example, the Pax Romana between years fourteen BC and 93 AD there was a to yourself, Yeah, no big deal.&quot; Well how hundred years? World War One, World War II, Korea, Vietnam, Iraq, Afghanistan, Korea, I even left out Korea, that's just wars that the United not to mention wars There's wars everywhere, all the 93 AD there were no wars, it was a period might of the Roman army and One of the things it meant was that that the Apostles given the had freedom of movement throughout the had had there been wars and civil strife the things. Another thing that the Romans designed to move troop from designed, to move troops from one problems in the southern kingdom, in the troops very, very quickly to put down after World War II started this tremendous road building States, if you read the history, started motels, hotels, economy, but that was only the secondary United States. The primary reason that purposes. This was a big country, the wanted to make sure that they could move country easily in order to defend it. And course it provided excellent traveling. during the Roman Empire, they maintained on a universal plane, in other words, the language of good literature and Literature and culture still use the Romans. The Romans, however, used Latin as So we know that the New Testament was spread on a well-maintained road system missionary called Saul and Paul. So a Alright, a little bit more here, we're probably got this map in your Bible. Key example, Jerusalem is here Galilee where Jesus lived, Capernaum up route back and forth along the Jordan where the caves were. And so they strip of land, maybe a hundred and ten not a lot. Forty miles, maybe forty, fifty did it on foot. They walked everywhere place at that time, people were poor. The religion was the the anticipation of freedom mixed agricultural society at that time. which was extremely large for a city at around Jerusalem. There was a high Jewish children were taught to read, where did they learn to read? In the Capernaum where Jesus was born, every city had one synagogue, synagogue is in Capernaum, the dig there and I've been there, said the walls are gone but the base wall is still there and the floor's walk through, this is the door that they went through, because He as was His really amazing experience. society; the aristocracy as I say were believed in the Pentateuch, in other books of the Bible as inspired, they accept the prophets, nothing like that. they were liberal socially. They and so forth. Then there were the Pharisees, they were the teachers, they were rabbis; they on and believed in a The common people came next, the to Rome, sinners and then slaves at the so humiliating, it was a punishment only the law to crucify someone who was a somebody part of a Pharisee or a that, only slaves could be of social problems at the time. Slavery estimates, thirty to forty percent of the slavery. There was no middle class, except perhaps the military, military had Prostitution, cult prostitution among is that the sexual activity was required you went to the temple, the temple males who went to worship. In small towns, the women of the villages prostitutes. So we're not thinking of Street now, they were prostitutes, but in at the time. Infanticide was a big were prized, girls less so, and so many out in the fields, as a matter of fact set Christians apart at that time was children that no one wanted. were raised to be thieves or concerned, Jews, temple worship was feasts on a yearly basis. Regular the community and most of the world that time. So into this turbulent world a poor couple, raised as a young Jewish worship, learning how to read, entering the Pharisees and the priests; believe me you now will speak largely when Jesus has with these people. He gives I mean they're all expecting the Messiah and &quot;What? This guy from Galilee? He's the Messiah? disappointment.&quot; He's hailed as king, He's demonstrate His deity and Lordship. So Him and next week we're going to start here's the assignment, this okay? So read chapters 1-3, that's not notebook and I want you to write down other words, in Matthew chapter 1 if you all the way down to verse 17 is in your notebook just put Matthew 1 and verses 2 to 17 that's all, and then I verses 1, 2, and 3 or chapters 1, 2, and 3, you find. You know what I mean by nuggets? wait a minute, I never noticed that down, so hopefully by the time we're a notebook with a lot of good material you have an opportunity to teach or to else, you'll have something that you put it into context with the classes not simplistic Matthew for Beginners, but Matthew when we finished this and I hope valuable to kind of take away from it. much for your kind and