None of you dare to challenge me. You are so arrogant. What are you doing? Are you not a fighter? Let's do it together. Let's fight together. It's up to you who you are. If you beat me or not, if you don't beat me, get out and seek death. Okay, okay, okay. Well done, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, Liang Yongsheng, come up, this is me My disciple is called the Tiger Sword Liang Yongsheng, so he will compete for me. Yesterday, you injured Hirakojiro. I don't know his name. Anyway, if you defeat one, it's you. Then let's start. Xinyou Sword Pu's moves. It all starts with dealing with Japanese swords. As long as you make good use of changes, you can deal with all sword techniques. A big split in the face. The wind knife swings horizontally, blocking the waist and following the wind. It sweeps the autumn leaves and sweeps the enemy weighing thousands of pounds. It is impossible to escape. Step forward and provoke like a thunderous beam. The wide handle lifts up the beveled left and right protection, and you can change the shape with quick movement and the bayonet. Chinese swordsmanship is broad and profound, and the changes are endless. There is no need to stick to a fixed form. You must understand it well and you will continue to improve. Well, Master, good, good, good, good, good, good, good. Okay, good fight, good, eternal life, good good, good fight, good fight, okay? I'm willing to admit defeat, please Mr. Liang to keep the sword manual for me for the time being, but the sword manual of the New Mingzhi style only belongs to the New Mingzhi style. I will do it in a month. I'm looking for you to get back what belongs to us. You should practice your sword skills before you come here. I know how to do it. But please don't be too proud. You are obviously holding a Miao sword but you used a Pu sword. You don't care what sword technique I use. I'll just beat you. This is not in line with the rules of martial arts. Chinese martial arts never stick to fixed moves. Only by mastering them can we continuously improve ourselves. King Suozhu of Wuqiao, Hebei, came here to ask for advice from Master Liang. Please be merciful to your brother and step aside if you offend him. Okay, okay, Well, it's good that he didn't use all his strength. Anyone who dares to use a dagger must be faster than ordinary people. You can only take advantage of it if you are faster than him. Okay, brother, okay. Now I announce that the second game will be between the fierce tiger sword Liang Yongsheng and the silver spear. Little bully, be careful, brother, come on, brother is first loosening and then tightening the gun. When the knife seems to be slow, the last inch suddenly exerts force. Good, good , good, good, good. This Miao knife is really fast, this Miao knife is good, Good, good, good, good. Well played, good, good, good. Now I announce that the third game will start immediately. The fierce tiger sword Liang Yongsheng will fight against the chasing wind sword Guan Chong. Good, good, good. Liang Yongsheng, come and see how I do today. I've done it for you. I'll see how you kill me and use your moves. It's too bad. The energy of the eternal life is depleted faster than I expected. Is this also the case? Show it to me. The only difficulty is your physical strength. If he is the first to attack you, you should be able to defeat him within thirty moves. If he is the last to attack, it will be a bit troublesome. Any kindness may end up costing your own life. You can only survive by being more ruthless than your opponent. Good, good, good. , good, good, good, good, good, good, good Liang Yongsheng, it's not easy, it's not easy, my fellow countrymen, young and old, all my fellow countrymen, after three rounds of intense and fierce competition, our Ningjin national hero used his superb Sword skills have defended the title of the best swordsman in the world. Now I announce that the champion of this martial arts competition is our Ningjin Liang Yongsheng, the best swordsman in the world. Liang Yongsheng. I have been waiting for you for a long time. It's okay. He just wants to compete with me. Nakata, I still can't do it today. Compared with you, something happened to me just after I came out of the city. I don't have a brother. I'm sorry. If you don't compete with me, I can't let you and your people pass here. Please forgive Nakata, you are taking advantage of the situation. I just want to If I lose in a knife competition with you, I can let them go. If I win, give me my knife manual and your Xinyou knife manual. Your kid even negotiated a deal with me about eternal life. If you shoot him, do you have to compete today? Nakata, this Ishiguro is coming soon. We don't have time. Okay, hurry up. Come and thank Ito-kun. Liang Yongsheng. I guessed that you can't bring a long sword today. To be fair, I will My knife is for you. Our Japanese knife is very similar to the Chinese Miao knife. It shouldn't be difficult to use it. There is still a difference between your Japanese knife and my knife. I'm still not used to it. If you don't use a knife, how can you compare with me? You don't use a knife. Don't you know how to fight? Why don't you just make gestures? What's different? Come on, we don't have that much time. Okay, you don't need a knife, and I don't need a knife. Let's compete with fists and kicks. Eight-way sound, east attack, west beam, Yongsheng went to the west gate, pursue with all our strength, run forward, yes , Yes, it works, my kung fu has improved, thank you. There is a Chinese saying, failure is the mother of success. I have practiced so hard just to defeat you in the samurai way. You Japanese learned all your kung fu from China. You can't succeed. We, the Yamato nation, are good at it. We are a nation of learning. Everything we have is learned. Our ability to understand is unparalleled in the world. Come on, Brother Qin, Brother Yongsheng is having a hard time fighting. I can see it. What should we do now? If we continue to fight like this, Brother Yongsheng is here. You will definitely lose within ten moves. Don't use the gun. Brother Yongsheng will be angry with the grenade. Stop and don't shoot. He is just trying to compete with me. He has no other ideas. He almost killed you just now. How many times have you two competed back and forth? It's better to kill him with one shot. To save him from future trouble, haven't I already told you? We can handle our own affairs. Just leave him alone. Let him go. Hurry, hurry, hurry up. Nakata, you did have the upper hand in today's competition, but we two The competition is not over yet. I will compete with you another day. I don't have that knife manual with me. I will find a way to send it to you another day. See you later. Isn't it Yu Ru? What do you mean by that word? Defeat the Tiger Sword. Even if you step on Liang Yongsheng, you won't be afraid of the wind. Even if you have your tongue, you don't even look at what this Ning'an Village is like. I've done it for you. Go up to the big tiger. Go and see how you look like a bear and you're wearing a skirt. You're a female bastard. Ask Liang Yongsheng to come out and deal with you. Why don't you use my brother, who are you? I'm Yang Dahu, a master of bone chopping. You look down on me. Dahu, Dahu, come back. Dahu, come back. What are you doing? Are you embarrassed? Forget it. Ring the bell quickly. Look at these people. If you want to make trouble, knock on someone, you don't steal or rob, and you don't hurt anyone. This is called setting up a competition to come on stage voluntarily. You are responsible for your own death and injury. If you can't defeat them, you deserve to call out your master. I am a master. What kind of master are you , Yu Ru? What kind of master am I? I don't know anything. Are you the master of causing trouble in Ning'an Village? The master of causing trouble in Ning'an Village, Huang Erling, or one of your masters. Call me out. Look at how I'm going to [ __ ] you! Cut your ears, chop them left, chop them right. I'll cut my ears, cut my ears. Cut my ears, cut my ears, cut my ears, block my left, block my right, I'll cut my ears, Mr. Men, right in front, cut my ears, two stunned, two stunned, it's really embarrassing, who, who, you finally showed up, Liang Yongsheng, I'm going to ask you a sentence about sword skills. Is it in your hands or not? It's all right here. Well, then our bet is still the same. If I win your new knowledge-style sword manual, return it to me. Your sword manual should also be given to me. You must have the ability. I dare to come. Just dare to win. Let's start. Wait, I have something to ask you first. Please tell me, you are coming from Qingdao this time. It 's my uncle Wang Shenghe and my senior brother Jia Furen. What happened to them later? Nakata | What can you Japanese do? You should know best what happened to the others. I don't know Mr. Wang. He was already broken. So you killed this man. As far as I know, it was Major Ishiguro who did it under the orders of the military headquarters. It has nothing to do with me. I, Nakata Shinba, am just I'm a swordsman and I don't care about their military affairs. Let's start now. Brother Yongsheng, be careful. Dad, your brother is having a hard time catching this sword. Either Nakata Shinba's skill has greatly improved or your brother is tired from the journey. , I'm not strong enough, brother, be careful, brother, it's okay, be careful what comes next