The Dyatlov Pass Incident, the Black the Zodiac Killer. The world is filled with turning possibilities over in our heads. But there are the stories of ordinary Maybe they went for a hike, or a bike perhaps they were simply spending a quiet they disappeared and were never seen again. but then again... didn't the missing people It's the stuff of nightmares, these unsolved look away. We theorize, we investigate, and we're delving deep into some of the most If you've ever been up late at night, perusing captured on film, chances are you've seen bound and gagged with black tape over their This haunting image has been connected to Tara Calico. It was the morning of September home in Valencia County, New Mexico, to go for along New Mexico State Road 47. Tara's mother, incident with a car driving aggressively close ride by herself. She suggested that Tara bring didn't think she needed it. After all, she'd been As she left, Tara joked to her mother that she wasn't back by noon. After all, she had a tennis to miss it. It was only a joke, but when noon had disappeared in broad daylight on the route the route that afternoon, searching for any sign She called the police, and a search party was put were found. A few witnesses remembered seeing pickup truck driving down the road at the same The only signs that Tara had ever been there along with a cassette tape, police suspected that the girl was a runaway. as well as Patty, Tara was a happy girl The couple were heartbroken, waiting for On June 15, 1989, nearly nine months after Tara surfaced. A Polaroid picture was found in a Florida, 1500 miles from where Tara a teenage girl and young boy were lying on sheets mouths. The woman who found the picture called the been parked in the spot before she arrived. Its Police attempted to catch the vehicle it or its driver. The photograph and caught the attention of friends of There was some debate as to whether or but certain details led Patty to believe that her thigh, just like a scar Tara had gotten in a next to her, one of Tara's favorite writers. on the subject. The Los Alamos National while the FBI could not reach a definitive United Kingdom agreed that the girl in the photo was, the picture had certainly been taken Soon after, the young boy in the Polaroid was whose family came forward. Michael disappeared New Mexico in April 1988. Now, his family was in 1990, Michael's body was found he disappeared. He had died from exposure To this day, Tara Calico's disappearance County Sheriff claimed to know what had teenagers at the time, were following Tara a panic, they disposed of her body and no arrest could be made. There has been Over the years, some additional Polaroid depicted Tara Calico. One, a blurry photo found near a construction site in Montecito, compelled Patty. She believed this could be an a picture of a woman sitting next to a man on an was taken around February of 1990. Patty More than thirty years after her disappearance, go on other than a smattering of uncertain In June of 2023, however, there was a ray clouds. The Valencia County Sheriff's Office with Sheriff Denise Vigil saying, "At this time, evidence to submit this investigation review of potential charges. Currently, the interest are sealed by the court and will We're still waiting for updates on that one. When we think of disappearances, we tend to assume forests of a national park or a ship in the middle from within the walls of a place that millions of Emanuela Orlandi, the fifteen-year-old daughter flute lesson on June 22, 1983. She reached class but she never made it back home. She and the search began for the girl On June 25, a tip was called in describing matching Orlandi's at the time of her she was in Rome, calling herself Barbarella, was a dream that she had previously mentioned in which a man told authorities he had met a girl at a bar near the music school where Orlandi's be tracked down, and the theories surrounding Other tips poured in, claiming that a Turkish kidnapped Orlandi as part of a conspiracy to hold there were also theories involving the as well as the Vatican itself. The leader of the Rome-based crime syndicate once confided in her about kidnapping Orlandi there has never been concrete evidence Another extremely upsetting theory comes from exorcist. He claims that Orlandi was taken and local lawmakers to sexually traffic &quot;This was a crime with a sexual motive. gendarme acting as the 'recruiter' of the girls. a foreign embassy to the Holy See. I believe None of these theories have been linked to family has been primarily focused on locating her In 2019, the Orlandi family's lawyer, Laura Sgro, of a tomb beneath the Vatican and the ominous This referred to the marble angel but no human remains were found there. according to Vatican spokesman Alessandro Gisotti. investigation came as a surprise to Orlandi's Pope Francis for help in 2013, the only response The Orlandi family is determined to until they can find answers about what From holy places to cursed places, some locations us have heard of the Bermuda Triangle, but coined in 1992 during a radio appearance refers to an area in southwestern Vermont in which The name refers to Bennington, Vermont, and parallel between the disappearances the Bermuda Triangle. One of the most in the Bennington Triangle is that Paula Welden, 18 years old, was a sophomore at quiet student life until one brisk winter day shift at her job in the university's Elizabeth Johnson, that she wanted to go a five-mile portion of a 272-mile trail, this It was about 2:45 PM, cold out and likely and Paula was dressed in blue jeans, a red parka sneakers. As she prepared to leave, Paula called I'm taking a long walk.&quot; Those would be the last Shortly after Paula left her room, she was spotted across the street from the college. Fifteen saw a girl in a red parka hitchhiking along Route Bennington student in need of a ride, he stopped girl's clumsiness- she tripped on her way into told him she was on her way to hike the Long near the trail's entrance, before A few minutes after Knapp dropped Paula off, sign of the hitchhiker. This struck her as odd half-mile in either direction. But Knapp and his Just before 4 PM, Paula encountered Ernest Bickford Hollow. She reportedly asked him how &quot;It's four miles to the fork,&quot; before warning her weather. Whether she didn't hear him or simply continued along the trail. That was quite possibly As the afternoon turned to evening, and Elizabeth began to wonder what was taking her convincing herself that perhaps Paula was having But when morning came, and Paula still wasn't Lewis Webster Jones. He phoned Paula's chilled them both to the bone: Had She most certainly had not, and Paula's news that her daughter was missing. Paula's Connecticut and traveled to Bennington, where he from Bennington and Williams College, as College President Jones canceled classes to aid Trail, where they dropped handfuls of confetti already been checked. After a day of searching York and Connecticut State Police. At the time, a State Investigator who offered a 5,000 dollar As the investigation continued, several brought more questions than answers. A waitress in an upset young woman matching Paula's description. who appeared drunk and angry. Mr. Welden have been responsible for her disappearance, A year after the disappearance, a at a campground in South Carolina, but Mrs. Welden confirmed that she was not her a lumberjack approached authorities, claiming vanished and that he knew where her body Then, in 1968, a body was finally Paula disappeared. However, an examination far too old to belong to Paula. To this never been solved. But Paula was not the In December 1949, 68-year-old James Tedford He briefly left the bus in Burlington, then returned to his journey. Tedford's belongings and bus schedule were In October 1950, 8-year-old Paul Jepson town dump when he walked away from their she called the police. Bloodhounds followed suddenly went cold in the middle of the road Only a few weeks later, Freda Langer, age 53, went swimming in a stream when Langer left to she never reached the campsite. Unlike the Langer's body was found seven months later, her And in November 1950, 16-year-old Martha had been missing for a month, but her family and her school assumed she was at home with her vanished near Bennington or Glastenbury. Only one a mystery. People have blamed everything from the confusing nature of the Long Trail itself. Cave diving is regarded as one of the most to reason that it would come with its fair share into the depths without a trace. And yet, that is diving in Vortex Spring Cave on Wednesday, largest diving facility in the state of Florida, areas of the water. However, more experienced Below the spring, there is a which extends to a depth of 115 feet. There, blocked by a steel rebar gate. you must show your cave certification to the Ben did not have a cave diving certification; been forcing the gate open for some time he had been doing so safely, and they were day of his disappearance, one of the dive shop opened it for him. He watched Ben proceed into The dive shop employees left for Ben's truck was still in the parking lot. No one they noticed that the truck was still Wednesday. They sensed that something The police searched Ben's truck and which included a map of the areas of the police went by Ben's family beach house, his days. This was more than enough evidence to As word of Ben's disappearance cave divers volunteered to join in the the inevitable recovery of Ben's body. But the The divers searched the large tunnels then began to inspect smaller crevices and wedged himself into a crevice and Well, not nothing. They did find some incredibly discovered in the outer cavern area and inside contained regular air. This was highly should have contained a different gas mixture Ben had already investigated so much of better than to dive with tanks full of ordinary his previous dives without the particular gas After this discovery, with still no sign of legendary diver Edd Sorenson, a highly skilled Edd made three drives, covering 1,700 feet had mapped. But in spite of his efforts was nobody there. No more equipment. He even which could indicate the presence of decaying the cave. But there was nothing. The lack of There were no markings on the which would be expected in the event that more dangerous tunnels. Not only that, both height and weight. Edd suggested that been able to make it further into the caves Unwilling to accept this lack of closure, Ben's vehicle, which was used to search the cave. But than the human divers had. It was beginning to he wasn't in the cave, then where did he go? the night of his disappearance and questioned out of suspicions that he had drowned the to avoid attracting attention. However, they Some investigators suggested that Ben had but police searched the swamps that the They also searched other nearby bodies of and the Choctawhatchee River, but again, nothing which would spike in the event of a decomposing Another suggested theory was that Ben had search of a fresh start. He had experienced of significant debts. However, both his claiming that he had seemed As years passed and no new evidence surfaced, hired a private investigator, who looked investigator found that the owner of the assault and kidnapping of a temporary by the time this was uncovered, the owner stairs. If something did happen between him There is still no sign of Ben there ever will be. Perhaps he is dark crevice that no one has been able to Perhaps he was murdered in a debt collection Diving deep beneath the surface but even aboard the deck of a cruise it did for Amy Lynn Bradley in 1998. On March and their parents Ron and Iva, boarded the The ship would travel to Aruba, then on Amy and her brother went dancing to a live in for the night at around 1 AM. That was the last Ron Bradley looked out at the balcony of the nothing of it, but when he looked back, she was that she wasn't there. The family looked all The cruise ship crew refused to page Amy afraid of upsetting other passengers. The crew search staff or passenger cabins. Meanwhile, that Amy Lynn had fallen overboard and was unlikely. She was a trained lifeguard and no one could find any signs of a body in the a witness reported seeing Amy near the dance club who she had been seen dancing with at the Though the case was far from closed, the five months after Amy Lynn's disappearance, woman matching her description on the beach. The a Navy officer met a woman in a brothel in Curacao was Amy Lynn Bradley. He didn't report it Six years later, a woman claimed to have met Amy where she introduced herself as the Bradleys received an upsetting email trafficking victims on pornographic of a woman in her underwear, lying on To this day, Amy's disappearance remains an award of up to 25,000 dollars for any information The disappearances we've covered so far have their own. However, solitude isn't always In 2009, all three members of a with no suggestions of where they could have his wife Sherilynn, and their six-year-old Eufaula, Oklahoma. A few days later, the police about an hour's drive from their house. In the Sherilynn's purse, their still-alive This was especially strange, given that Bobby the time of their disappearance, and no one knew much money or what they were intending to do with There were no clear signs of them being forced mean there was no foul play. A search party the truck was found, but no signs of the family way until November 16, 2013. Four years after was found, some hunters discovered the partial They were examined, and it was determined Jamison family. However, due to the the cause of death was not identifiable. the police now had bodies to fill in some of They discovered security footage from the couple was going back and forth between the also discovered that, before their disappearance, that the house was haunted. He described &quot;two to also rumors of a Satanic bible purchased by Connie, that the Jamisons had become involved never had any evidence to back it up, but other Police discovered an eleven-page in which she was incredibly angry with him them to float the theory that Bobby Dale killed his wife and daughter, then himself. and it would not explain the presence of the Another theory involved Bobby Dale's an order of protection against his father, from him toward the family. However, Bob family disappeared due to a long history of insisted that Bob Dean had spent the time in hospitals or rest homes and would not have abundance of theories, there are still no Another disappearance involving multiple trio. 17-year-old Rachel Trlica, 14-year-old were out doing some last-minute Christmas South Mall. At about noon, Rachel parked her planned to be home by 4 for a Christmas party, But when both of those times their parents became concerned. The with newly purchased items in the backseat. but their families could think of no The following day, a letter arrived Tommy. The letter claimed to be from Rachel but rather than Tommy. Rachel never called had been canceled, and the ZIP code of the "I know I'm going to catch it, but to Houston. See you in about a week. The The FBI analysis of the handwriting was Rachel did not write the letter. One in spite of the letter's promise. Julie's mother received a phone call from She believed this was her missing daughter. In the form of human remains later determined not to The truth can be horrifying, but as we see time And to wrap up the proceedings, we have that would forever change how we respond to case of eight-year-old Cherrie Mahan, off the school bus, just fifty feet When Mahan disembarked from the bus she waved goodbye to her friends who were and was last seen by a bystander heading back in had to a lead on her possible kidnapper was an mountain painted on the side. Despite an extensive was never found. She was declared legally dead in What does the disappearance of Cherrie Her photo was the first one to be featured "Have You Seen Me?" a new iconic and infamous In 2011, Pennsylvania State "I believe Cherrie was abducted and I believe this person had the ability to without her giving it a second thought prior that was my child. I can't imagine the pain And we know this is true. In 2019, was quoted saying, "I just wish me what happened. That's all I pray This very lack of closure is why the pain and even decades after the victims Now check out "Employee Missing for 10 Years