this is going to be fun! (audience cheering) Yeah, I get to perform at a lot of fun and interesting places. Actually not that long ago, I got booked to perform at a prison. (audience laughing) They had one requirement though. For me to get in, I had to first pass a criminal background check. (audience laughing) I'm like, &quot;So how did &quot;all the convicts get in?&quot; (audience laughing) Growing up, my mom, she always tried to discourage us from going to jail. She would always be like, &quot;Look, if you go to jail, &quot;all you're going to get &quot;is bread and water.&quot; And she was a terrible cook. I'm like, Tell me more. (audience laughing) I was in Florida and somebody told me, it's actually a felony to pick an orange off of a tree you don't own, even if it's on public property and I was thinking about that. Wouldn't that be like the worst thing to go to jail for? (audience laughing) &quot;What you in for?&quot; I had a vitamin C deficiency? (audience laughing) You'd have to come up with that lame excuse on why you're not supposed to be in there, like, I thought it was a tangerine? (audience laughing) Every day you'd be reminded of your crime. You know, because in prison they make you wear orange. (audience laughing) My dad's a scientist and he would talk about global warming back in the eighties, and I'm a comedian so I had some questions. (audience laughing) I'm like, Doesn't the fact that it was like -20 degrees in like a ton of states last winter, doesn't that kind of disprove global warming? And he was like, &quot;No, actually really cold days &quot;are a side effect of global warming.&quot; I'm like, Huh, that kind of sounds like a diet trick that has a side effect of weight gain. (audience laughing) (audience clapping) He's like, &quot;No, no &quot;the reason why you know &quot;global warming is real, &quot;is you're going to have &quot;really hot days &quot;and really cold days.&quot; I'm like, Wow, global warming does exist. It's called summer and winter. (audience laughing) (audience clapping) I was watching TV and I saw that commercial where for 50 cents a day you can feed, clothe, and educate a child, so as on all major financial decisions, I talked it over with my wife and she's like, &quot;Yeah, we can afford that.&quot; So we decided to have a baby. (audience laughing) That estimate was way off. (audience laughing) I don't know about y'all, I can't even buy baby wipes for 50 cents a day, (audience laughing) so I sent them a letter I'm like, To whom it may concern, you're obviously some kind of financial wizard, (audience laughing) so me and my wife would like to give you a dollar a day so you can financially support two kids, (audience laughing) my own children, (audience laughing) enclosed are their pictures. (audience laughing) Occasionally I'll have them write you a letter to let you know how they're doing. (audience laughing) Which you can then forward onto their sponsor, me. (audience laughing) P.S. To get you started enclosed are my son's hospital bills. (audience laughing) Good luck. (audience laughing) I have a daughter and everyone says that my daughter looks just like me. When she gets older, that's going to be really depressing. (audience laughing) The thing I learned about having kids is anywhere you go they always want you to buy them a toy and other thing I learned about my daughter, she hates going to the doctor because a while back she had to get some shots, so even the thought of going to the doctor like she completely pitches a fit and that's why I think they should give shots at the toy store. (audience laughing) (audience cheering) &quot;Dad I don't want to go &quot;to the toy store anymore.&quot; (audience laughing) That's okay, you don't have to. Yes. (audience laughing) Better yet, maybe they could give their shots at McDonald's (audience laughing) administered by Elmo (audience laughing) and maybe they could have the Elsa from the movie Frozen, hold them down. (audience laughing) &quot;No daddy, I don't want &quot;to watch more Frozen anymore.&quot; That's okay, you don't have to. Yes. She also likes to sing, but since she's so young she doesn't always get the words, right? Like, for a while she thought that Mary had a little man. (audience laughing) I'm like, if his fleece is as white as snow, it's probably Papa Smurf. (audience laughing) She also has those shoes that light up, which is great until you're driving and she's in the back seat and you think you're getting pulled over by a cop. (audience laughing) A while back we were in the car, she was in the back seat and she was like, &quot;Mm! Daddy, &quot;this is a really good burger.&quot; I'm like, Ella! Where did you get a burger? (audience laughing) &quot;From my nose!&quot; (audience laughing) Sorry, that really happened and I'm a comedian, so . . . (audience laughing) thing about my daughter, she loves to watch Disney channel and what's crazy is, like she'll learn these words she has no idea what they mean, but it's crazy 'cause she'll use them in the right context. Like, I'll give you an example I was running a joke by comedian friend of mine and he did not laugh at all and without missing a beat, my daughter was like, &quot;Awkward!&quot; (audience laughing) I think I just got heckled by my own daughter. Wasn't the first time. I was on my on my way out the door to an event, and my daughter's like, &quot;Daddy be funny.&quot; I'm like Ella, I always am. She's like, you never know. (audience laughing) The thing about my daughter though is she is really lazy. She doesn't like to do chores, pick up her toys, so if I had to do it all over again, I would name her Faith. That way, when she decided not to do her chores or pick up her toys. I just open up the Bible to James 2:17 and be like, &quot;Look! Right there it says, &quot;faith without works is dead.&quot; (audience laughing) (audience cheering) And it is God's work so hop to it. (audience laughing) I have a son too and apparently I was given some advice. When you have a boy who's potty trained, apparently what you're supposed to do is, you're supposed to stick a fruit loop in the toilet. That way they have something to aim for. I'm a little hesitant to do that though 'cause my son really likes fruit loops. (audience laughing) Every time I'd see him I'd be like, Buddy, where did you get that fruit loop? (audience laughing) Another thing about my son, he's a really bad liar. A while back I was like, Buddy, did you pee in your pull-up? And he's like, &quot;No, Ella did.&quot; (audience laughing) It's not a good lie at all. (audience laughing) We were driving and we passed the hotel where he was born and my wife's like, &quot;Hey Chase &quot;that's where you were born.&quot; He was like, &quot;What do you mean?&quot; Mommy's like, &quot;Oh, &quot;that's where we went to &quot;have you taken &quot;out of mommy's belly?&quot; He got this really scared look on his face. He's like, &quot;Mommy, &quot;why did you eat me?&quot; (audience laughing) He wrestles-- He's just old enough now to wrestle and wrestling is why I still believe that socialism is wrong, because you actually have to win in wrestling to get a trophy and not everybody gets one and he was in this tournament and he had lost to the person before and was up against them again. I'm like, buddy, if you win this match, you get a trophy and he got so excited. He went out there with incredible intensity. He got a win and a pin and I was so proud of him because that girl was tough. (audience laughing) In the Bible, it says, &quot;Fathers do not provoke your children, the wrath.&quot; So I leave that up to my wife. (audience laughing) I am married and one thing that's nice, I love my wife and it's nice 'cause we get to travel together a lot and whenever we stay in a hotel room together, she'll re-clean the entire hotel room and then never let the cleaning lady back in afterwards and the reason that she says she does that is she's afraid the cleaning lady is going to use the same rag she used on the toilet, on the sink to which I responded with what's wrong with that? (audience laughing) And that guys is how I get out of cleaning the house, (audience laughing) (audience clapping ) pretty much permanently, (audience laughing) so my parents were both teachers, so they were really proud of me because when I was in school, I was in the top 10% of my class of the bottom 10%. (audience laughing) I was always the teacher's pet peeve. (audience laughing) I was in English class and we were doing vocabulary and the teacher's like, &quot;Hey Seth, &quot;use intuition in a sentence.&quot; I'm like, Okay, all the college kids were broke, 'cause all their money was in tuition (audience laughing) and on another day my teacher's like, &quot;Hey Seth spell cheater.&quot; I'm like okay, I got this T O M B R A D Y. (audience laughing) (audience cheering) (audience whistles) Which I believe is the correct answer. (audience laughing) When you're not doing well in school at least when I was younger, they always, the teachers always gave you the same advice. Start your day off with a good breakfast. I guess they figured, look, you're still going to be stupid but at least you'll be full. (audience laughing) I took the advice, anything could help, so I started my day off with a good breakfast. That day I was in a spelling bee and the first word was fruit. I'm like, okay, I got this F R O O T. (audience laughing) No, thanks a lot, Fruit loops! (audience laughing) That's not how you spell that at all. (audience laughing) Since my parents were both teachers, if I brought home a report card with an F on it, I got grounded. Luckily I found a loophole, passed-due library books. My librarian's like, &quot;Look, if you don't bring your books &quot;back or pay your fine, &quot;you're not getting your report card.&quot; (audience laughing) You promise? (audience laughing) So I still got Huckleberry Finn. (audience laughing) I was horrible at math, horrible at science, and I took physics, didn't work out well at all. (audience laughing) They have dumb questions in physics class. This was literally one of my test questions. If Johnny jumps off the empire state building, with initial velocity of 2.3 meters per second, what will his final velocity be, just before impact? As my answer I wrote, who cares? He's dead. (audience laughing) Which I believe is the correct answer. (audience laughing) Actually up to fourth grade, I was number one in my class, but that's because I was homeschooled. (audience laughing) Lot of misconceptions about homeschooling I remember when I went to public school all the kids were like, man that'd be awesome to be homeschooled. You could just sit around all day and watch TV and I'm like no, actually it's a lot of work like vacuuming. (audience laughing) We used to have the homeschool word problems. Like, if a room is 20 foot by 14 foot what's the square footage? And how long will it take to clean it? (audience laughing) Show your work, start in the kitchen. (audience laughing) (audience clapping) I had this lady come up to me after a show and she was not happy. She's like, &quot;You seem like &quot;you're really anti homeschooling?&quot; And I'm like, No, don't get me wrong. I'm not, I'm actually a huge proponent of homeschooling. Like, I think if your child is low performing they should be homeschooled, 'cause they're gonna need the six hours a day at janitorial arts. (audience laughing) My dad growing up, he used to have like a million cliches that he used to use. Like, one of the thing he used to always say was like, &quot;Close the door &quot;We don't live in a barn.&quot; I always wondered if when Jesus was born if Joseph was like, &quot;Open the door, we live in a barn!&quot; (audience laughing) The other thing he said was, &quot;Wait until you have to pay the bills.&quot; He said that to my brother last week and he's over 40, so . . . (audience laughing) The other thing he said was, &quot;Leave your sister alone.&quot; He used to say that a lot and then one day he was like, &quot;Hey Seth, &quot;did you pick your sister &quot;up from school?&quot; And I'm like, Nope. I was leaving her alone. (audience laughing) My mom growing up, she was really cheap. Like, she was so cheap. Her idea of a tupperware party, was selling cool whip containers. (audience laughing) I wish I was making that one up. (audience laughing) It was embarrassing. (audience laughing) Thinking about my mom too is she's like really behind on technology. Like she finally figured out how to check her voicemail on her cell phone. First message was from my sister, asking her to pick her up from school (audience laughing) 10 years ago. (audience laughing) When I was growing up I always asked to stay up later and my parents never went for it and then I heard somebody say, if you really want something, you should pray about it, so I did and that didn't work and then somebody was like, well, God answers prayers in his own time, so I kept praying and then one day, all my prayers were answered when I had a baby. (audience laughing) Turned out, I prayed way too much. (audience laughing) Couple of weeks ago, I was talking to my mom and she was all proud of herself 'cause she went on eBay and got tickets to Florida for only $50. I'm like ma that's Flo-Rida. (audience laughing) Like, maybe I should get her to durag to go with those tickets. (audience laughing) I was in church and right before church I saw our song leader coming out of the bathroom. He gets up on stage, first song He sings is &quot;Give Us Clean Hands.&quot; (audience laughing) I don't think that's how that works. (audience laughing) I perform at a lot of churches and one church I performed at, they had a painting on the wall and in the painting it was Jesus and then Jesus was black, and I'm like, yeah, I could definitely see that. I mean, he grew up in the middle East, so there's a better chance that he looked like Kanye than Fabio. (audience laughing) I mean, just look at the evidence. He basically invented the posse. (audience laughing) In that posse was a guy named Thomas. His nickname was Didymus. (audience laughing) Dude, tell me that guy was not a rapper. (audience laughing) You could just see some of those conversations like, Hey, what's up Thomas? He was like, &quot;No, man, &quot;it's not Thomas anymore, &quot;it's Didymus.&quot; (audience laughing) Two weeks later He's like, &quot;Hey, what's up? Didymus?&quot; He was like, No, man, it's not Didymus anymore. It's T Diddy. (audience laughing) After like 20 name changes finally, Jesus's like, &quot;Hey Diddy, don't get all puffed up.&quot; (audience laughing) Of course, as a rapper you always have to have a lyrical enemy, so if I had to guess I would say Thomas' lyrical enemy would be a band from the nineties. No Doubt. (audience laughing) Some of you took a little bit, to get that one. (audience laughing) Were you guys laughing at the first joke or that one? (audience laughing) I have to apologize 'cause for my next bit I'm going to sing and I am a terrible singer, but that's okay. When has that ever stopped somebody from singing? (audience laughing) I remember growing up, my pastor used to always say like if you don't know how to sing, it's okay. You can just make a joyful noise, but there were a lot of people in denial. (audience laughing) One day I was singing and I recorded myself singing and I'm like, wow, I am a terrible singer. I should probably never sing again, so the next week in church, I made the joyful noise and then like two weeks later we got new hymn books. All the hymns were the same just anywhere where the word chorus had appeared it was replaced with the word refrain, (audience laughing) so the singing part, I love how they turn that test to see if you're insane into the Veggie Tales theme song. (audience laughing) If you like to talk to tomatoes (audience laughing) if a squash can make you smile, if you like to waltz with potatoes, up and down the produce aisle, boy have we got a hospital for you! (audience laughing) So I have a lot of material that doesn't really fit anywhere in my set if you like one-liners, great. If you don't, sorry here we go. (audience laughing) I was talking to a psychologist that specialized in obsessive compulsive disorder and she told me that anything that takes up more than 20% of my day is a problem, so I quit my job. (audience laughing) I always wondered if a roofer does really well on a job interview does he yell, &quot;Nailed it!&quot; (audience laughing) I always wondered if when people in Mexico are playing UNO and they have UNO card left, do they yell ONE! (audience laughing) Our house is a little bit drafty, so my wife, she got a draft dodger for the front door, which ironically was made in Canada. (audience laughing) (audience clapping) Is it rude to eat sushi in front of a fish tank? (audience laughing) I was at the store and I saw they now sell gluten-free soup. Who's eating it? (audience laughing) I was at McDonald's and they had a sign that said no bills over 50. I could not believe the blatant name and age discrimination. (audience laughing) I'm always hesitant to use toilet paper that's made from recycled paper. (audience laughing) It's just a little odd that it's browner than regular toilet paper. (audience laughing) I was driving down a back road and I came to a Do Not Pass sign, so I stopped. What now? (audience laughing) Whoever coined that phrase, dirt poor obviously never had to buy sod. (audience laughing) It's expensive. Luckily, when you go to Home Depot they let you put it on a charge account. I was thinking about it how much would that stink. If you're down on your luck, you couldn't make your payments and then your front yard got repossessed. (audience laughing) I was buying some flowers too and the employee's like, &quot;Hey, do you &quot;want annuals or perennials?&quot; And I'm like, No, I'm lazy, and I don't have that kind of time, I'm like, What do you got in bi-centennials? (audience laughing) So to leave you, I wrote a redneck love poem. Here you go. When I look at you, I fall in love. To me you're a perfect fit, like a glove. You stick closer than a brother, You're more reliable than my mother. I love how you have so many different faces and how you're always hanging out at NASCAR races. If I cut my finger, you stop the bleeding. You're always the solution, when I'm needing. You make my smile gape, you are my everything. You're my duct tape. (audience laughing) (audience cheering) Thank you Provo! I am Seth Knorr. Have a good night.