Cruisin' down the block in an FSO sensation, Polonez style, no need for persuasion, Engine roarin' loud, we causin' a commotion. Cassette deck bumpin', we own these nights, Air freshener swingin', keepin' the vibes right. Puttin' on a show when we head into the unknown, Car's got soul, it's our chrome throne. [music] As that may I say quite handsome rapper eluded to, the FSO Polonez is a car still beloved in its a modern looking car that was going to put the but also North America. So, where did this design This is the FSO Polonez Story. [music] As I've talked about in my video about the Fiat wanted to turbocharge the economy, and one step van ownership. But developing modern cars took so in 1965 the state car company, FSO, struck a the Polski Fiat brand. The first car was the 125p, By 1972 FSO started looking at a replacement. Poland, but something that could be exported. state of the art machinery to advance the Polish the 125p. There had been thoughts of turning in 1971 and also 1974, but this wasn't a next a restyle of the 125p, but it was decided to do The Polish car company once again turned to Fiat for Fiat would do the development with FSO's help, and the the underlying platform and mechanicals would be version of its 1300cc and 1500cc engines. The body would be all-new, and a design from Ralph Nader had shed a light on car safety in pushed some in the car industry to improve crash Experimental Safety Car in 1972 that influenced They'd created the Experimental Safety Vehicle in 1974. That car was based on the Fiat 125, a car which fitted in with FSO's plans. That car seen on a car - it looks like Fiat's idea of But it was the 1973 second generation ESV concept It was a hatchback which was the latest trend and It needed to be reworked into something built on the Fiat 128 platform, it needed to The work would be headed by FSO's Zbigniew including a young Walter de Silva who second generation Audi TT and the beautiful R8. "Polski" that was sent off to FSO for evaluation. on the bodywork and crucially its safety future standards not only for Western Europe their new car, it was going to be sold globally. After all, they'd designed a 125p coupe concept a coupe, a pickup, a van or even a minibus. And be a second factory to manufacture larger Fiat hopes 150,000 cars could be made every year, and the world, so if they had a car that could compete FSO could be on to a winner. But the company wasn't made of money, and thoughts realities. Despite the safety updates, the old 125p. In fact, there was a desire not be applied back to the old 125p that would term thinking held the team back in making more car better compete with Western competition. when it came to the styling. FSO felt because Fiat were worried FSO would turn from the 125p was already competing against Fiat's wasn't given a high priority and at one point the trim suddenly stopped working and disappeared! weren't impressed with Fiat had produced. It was Initially two bodies were designed - a 5 door design of the Polski coupe was brought from Italy Now it was time for the unsung work in car the production line ready to churn out thousands because unlike the 125p, the Polski had never of a learning experience. And to avoid expensive with reworked certain parts that Fiat had used. In a 30mph (50km/h) test the passenger people to get it unjammed. But these problems was ready to produce an initial run of cars. FSO asked the public, and the winning name was the Polonaise, itself a French word for a Polish woman car that would introduce Poland to the rest of the early cars were released before the name had with the "Polski" codename on the back. [music - see description for title] The FSO Polonez launched in 1978 as a 5 door cars a year. It was immediately clear that this than the 125p with larger seats and a modern the new body gave it better wind resistance. And better than not just the 125p, but many Western wasn't as big a consideration in the late 1970s. seem modern, but FSO hadn't thought through the had a high loading lip that made it hard to get down, or as my Polish auto translated article said 125p chassis the Polonez had a large turning the UK they hoped to increase sales 5 fold, but what they'd been given to sell - they knew they'd What's more, there wouldn't be a larger FSO and indeed the Polish economy had run out The new factory to build it was little more Polonez was 145kg (320lb), or two people heavier and crash structure. It meant that although it Speed wasn't everything though, and Poles thought sought after. The steering column could be fog lamps, rear wash/wipe, a manual gearstick dashboard and a lever by the driver's seat to at least in its home market. Abroad it was one that fell short of what the competition offered. popular cars in Europe that launched just a as the Vauxhall Astra. The Polonez had the edge was a massive 300kg (661lb) lighter, meaning the and if you wanted more power there would plus a 1.6L diesel. The Polonez's 1.5L engine 90mph (145 km/h). Western motoring critics weren't calling it "an FSO 125p with new bodywork". like other Russian and Eastern European cars, Production delays meant only 3,500 cars were built in the first year, far less than the 40,000 to be learnt and problems to be ironed out. The short doors as the 5 door it was rarer than hen's Despite the lack of a factory to make it, These were purchased from Fiat in Italy - the and would get an outing in the Morgan Plus 4 in meaning only Government officials and But there were a few 2.0L engines left over to enter By 1980 production had risen to 30,000 cars per year. FSO launched a stripped-down after there were problems sourcing parts and the "Popular" name it wasn't popular and was was still in production. That was both cheaper and Egypt using knock-down kits, but there wasn't any The Polish economy desperately needed money from disappointed, and that suggested an expansion Maybe that would change if FSO could fix some of the car's making the Polonez much more practical. A year A year after that, in 1983 the 100,000th car left the factory a rear spoiler, electronic ignition and improved lights have been integrated into the front bumper from the inside and there were new front seats. this time a turbodiesel again sourced from Italy, More changes came for 1986. There was extra glass behind the rear car "the aquarium". The rear spoiler also changed. 4 years and a completely new design after 8 years. with only small changes. This reflected the lack into meltdown - and this meant the grand ultra-safe Polonez was failing badly. But exports The first new body shape arrived It replaced the 125p Pick-up with a vehicle that could heft 550kg (1212lb) of cargo and a couple of people. By producing 87hp (65 kW) and it was used on both the going rallying, and got a turbocharged 1500cc the turbocharged engine across to the passenger 0-60 time of 11 seconds. Another small facelift appeared in 1989. Export the car when it launched in 1978 and now This came with new taillights, the side by the repositioned side indicators. the car back, and new emission rules would surely options - an Italian FNM 1.4L turbodiesel, Polonez development had always been shackled by trying to keep as much compatibility with the but it kept the 125p being produced as a budget than FSO expected. But as the 1990s dawned and numbered. Production of the 125p ended in 1991, this car before any changes were considered. a much bigger Polonez update. This broke cover difference was the modern front that ditched the off at this stage, for modern headlights not much changed on the outside, but just more modern car. In fact, it's quite surprising Inside there were more updates, including the windows, central locking, and metallic paint, but I'm sure uncharitable Westerners would but those engines weren't exactly making it a but who in their right mind would steal life into the FSO Polonez, and production its dictatorial shackles and Poles were finding so why not the cheap &amp; cheerful Polonez - The Caro got another new engine as well - Two years later it would get the that got the car over 100mph (160 km/h). it still had running gear that dated back track was widened to improve stability. There of instruments, illuminated switches, interior outlets instead of 2, and improved windscreen air conditioning, a leather steering wheel and The Polonez truck also got the Caro version as well as the DC, presumably The work in the 1970s on safety was still paying the Polonez was still in compliance. Production hit 87,000. It was the best selling car in Poland. 87,000 sales were all well and good, but FSO stay relevant. Poland's new democratic Government company to a partner that provided new cars that of this work was an agreement with General Motors the company was sold to Korean carmaker Daewoo, FSO was renamed Daewoo-FSO. Polonez production continued, at least for now. In Since the early 1980s FSO had planned a were problems - the boot was smaller and the rear It ended production in 1991 due to low sales - it was more need for a Polonez saloon, and the sales The Polonez Atu went on sale in 1996. FSO went supermarkets and managing to sell 15,000 of a problem as it conflicted with the name of the French twist, renaming the car the Polonez Atou. One year later, with Daewoo's help, the Caro the Atu Plus. There were new more rounded and with stricter low-speed safety rules. Under the The engines got some other small changes to and there was the option of an LPG version. The and the rear suspension changed in line with the an updated dashboard with a quieter ventilation Polish winters. Naturally the truck got many There had never been a hatchback version of A year after that ended production of the Polonez, launching it in 1999. It looked generation Subaru Forester. The changes involved Naturally the back sofa decomposed to allow a van with the rear axle from the Polonez Truck. the Tico in 1996, followed by the Lanos and an up and coming carmaker with big plans. What's failing businesses. But the Korean company was crisis weakened the company beyond repair. Daewoo and FSO became an independent entity once again. and secured the rights to keep making and of course FSO was still making the Polonez! But Polonez sales faltered as Production never officially ended. but soon after the stamping dies were binned, Poland was a very different country to that They had democracy, they were a NATO with the rest of Europe that would see FSO spin-off FSM was now Fiat Auto Poland, the Fiat Siecento. It was inevitable the should make way for modern cars that produced in new modern Polish factories. They'd barely survived being shut down Lanos and Matiz until 2007, which had some but those cars weren't getting updates and were With few choices, FSO sold out to Ukrainian car Chevrolet Aveo starting in 2007. Production ended But the Polonez helped thousands of Poles get to produce cars that were used to good funding Polish car production. Poland is now since 2007. The Polonez is one car in this If you're interested, I have a history of video on the East German Trabant. Thanks for