-As far as the eye can see, the great Midwest flood -In the summer of 1993, there were torrential rains for prolonged periods of time, the likes of which in almost a century. -In the face we know we cannot contain -The levees were breaking with that last crest of water coming down -We arrived on the scene in Nutwood, Illinois. -This was the biggest -Heading downstream now -It wasn't &quot;if this levee -If you lived in Quincy, you knew exactly where you were when the levee broke. -This is the Ayerco station, It has just ignited. -Not one but two disasters -The flood was a catastrophe. People lost their farms. By the grace of God, The real casualty is that rotting in prison for the rest of his life -I live that day every day, every day I wake up in prison. -The motive was this -- James Scott to strand his wife in Missouri just 'cause he wanted to party. Something's not adding up. -I've spent 27 1/2 years I've had my whole life Is it right? Is it fair? -My name is Dr. Adam Pitluk. I'm an investigative journalist, and I wrote a book and the great Midwestern -The mighty Mississippi its banks straining the effort to hold it back -The river got up, stayed up, and it got up way up. You know, 17 feet but we're used to dealing -- '93, it went over 32 feet. -The Mississippi River were threatening and 14,000 acres was threatened to be washed out -Agriculture is one of the prime My role during that time of the Board of Commissioners. So we hired bulldozers, and we pushed the sand to create a higher levee. -West Quincy, Missouri, When the river levels a call for help went out. That call was for everybody -- citizens, National Guard, basically all hands on deck -- to come down to the river and raise the river up. -We had Dad shoveling it in and Junior holding a bag -There was no other choice. It could not have been done There wasn't enough manpower. -It was a way to be connected to keep and it was remarkable. It was remarkable to see. -It worked. The levee held for the 14th, They thought they were out But the reality was, on July 16, 1993, -On the night of the 16th, as if they would hold tragedy strikes West Quincy. -As the barge came through and knocked over the inferno that went up and started moving south it was really devastating And it just broke my heart. We'd had a great effort, and it was so efficient And then we lost the levee. -How it gave becomes the point and the real thrust One of the people that had been sandbagging He was coming down when he was stopped to do -Were you on a break? Were you with a whole bunch You weren't there at the levee when the break occurred? -No, I -- Everybody else left. You know, I decided I'd stick the next crew come. -Within minutes of this tragedy, to see that the first person being interviewed on television was someone that all were quite familiar with -- they thought, to be at the scene So, immediately, the focus -I knew Jim and his family because when they were they burnt down and destroyed a large historic school I thought there was that he may have caused He was more into partying That's the first thing And the second was what -- Who authorized him And the answer is, And the next thing I know, they've charged Jimmy, extradited him from Illinois and then prepared -I came to know when I was a junior at the University of Missouri My editor at that newspaper, said, &quot;I want you to go and get his side of the story because something's My goal was not to go I didn't necessarily believe I had a job to do. I had an investigation to do So we are here at the former Jefferson City In 1998, the first time was this room right here. I'd never been I'm a kid. He was just a kid. He was in his 20s The way he presented his story, and the fact to all of his I picked up on sincerity sounded like Something interesting The judge, Robert Clayton, said, &quot;I can't take your property but I can take your liberty.&quot; which I hope, as you have time that you will come to find You are a career criminal. There is a perversion about this because you obviously get or sexual arousal when you commit these acts. -James Scott was a local but he was never He was never a sex offender. This sort of vitriol, the way that the judge and the way that the jury there was no other outcome -When James Scott was convicted, of the citizens they felt that justice -When he was sentenced, the community reacted They were very happy And years later, when I one elderly lady said, &quot;Hang him from the nearest tree His mother is basically the lone that has been rock steady She never wavered. She never lost faith even though the life sentence that if he ever gets out, and she likely Hello. How are you? -Hi, Adam. Oh, I'm doing okay. -Good to see you. -It's been a long 25 years, -Yes, ma'am. doing something and came in -Well, the first time wasn't I still in college -I think so. when -- when he got picked up. -His name is Jimmy? -That's what he call-- We called him &quot;Jimmy&quot; and then we just shortened it as he got older. Everything I have for Jim is -- This is a picture a typical child, He was just James sitting on the couch, Another picture. Show everyone. I love you. I enjoy getting pictures so I can see how he's matured into the nice young man He calls me every night, and we we have about [ Telephone rings ] -It's probably Uncle Jim. Yeah, it is. -No, not yet. He called me this morning, I said, &quot;Jim,&quot; I said, I keep telling him --, I said, Love you, too. Bye. I've always had the hope that, you know, I ju-- I feel it right here And nobody's going -Right now I'm sitting outside that used to be a spot. Looks pretty empty but I'm going to go in and see if anyone might know For all the years I always had this niggling that James Scott by two impartial juries so what am I missing? In 1997, after the second trial, there was this new motive that wasn't introduced The motive was this -- a 16-year-old kid who, at the time, he testified that James Scott right before the flood that he was going to go to strand his wife in Missouri so he can go party And that made headlines. Here was a story of a man just 'cause he wanted to party. Joe Flax is still the anomaly Other than nobody's interviewed him All right. So let's go see What's up, guys? Hey. You guys were here in '93? -Were you guys here in '93? You know a guy named Joe Flax? -Joe Flax? around here. -Where's he -- Is he here? -I haven't seen him. -You haven't seen him around? -So they know who he is. They haven't seen him And they said this is So I figure we'll try one Question -- that might have used This rabbit hole seems to be Let me ask you, if you're what bar would you hang out at? -[ Laughs ] -The last-ditch attempt I have a phone number that dates back to 2004 or 2005, when I was doing research and I haven't called it since, so I figure [ Ringing ] -Your call has been forwarded to an automatic -I'm not going to leave If it is his phone, I'm going to hope curiosity and he calls back to see I'll probably try him just to get on his phone twice, and if that doesn't work, and leave a message But he wouldn't talk to me I don't anticipate him At one point, He said he would talk to me I told him to pay for a story and I haven't talked James Scott was convicted on purely circumstantial no physical evidence at all. I think that there's that you could point to that show James Scott Two independent soil scientists were shown Both of them were independently &quot;If there were to be where would it be?&quot; And they both picked That's the science that makes it -This is where the levee broke, opposite of Quincy, The conditions that increase are all clearly visible even to the point that is right here And then, on top of that, desperately, in the last hours before bulldozing the backside, cutting channels There is no way in the world that this levee That is my professional opinion, and it hasn't wavered one bit since I started and these situations James Scott is innocent. -Where we're standing right now, That's where the levee broke. -Let's go take a look at it. -When these levees particularly levees like this that are pretty much homogeneous this levee is pure sand. -Yeah. You're sinking in it Let me ask you. I mean, this is how soft -[ Chuckles ] and I'm sinking in it. -I mean, imagine -This was the only location in which insurance and they did it because not a natural disaster. And guess who on the Missouri side It was the civilian chair of the Levee District Norman Haerr, which he built that he should never have So one of the key witnesses in the James Scott trial had a financial stake in the -You need to have for the houses in the bottoms or you won't get reimbursed -In my research, the conspiracy-theory but for the farmers they needed a scapegoat in order because they did not have through FEMA They did have that covered vandalism. So were it not for somebody they would not be able Acts of God, force majeure, Acts of vandalism were. -The insurance covered but, you know, If you have a car wreck, and they're not going to -And what were your feelings -I would rather not say. James Scott has served his time in the Jefferson City prison, and I think that Whether he earned I'm not going to say, so that's up -Dr. Hammer, have you -No, I have not. I'm at the age now where it's and I'm going to attempt and see if we can drum up and get him to grant because, frankly, this makes Missouri It makes us look like -Yeah, Midwest river justice. Absolutely exact. -So, how many years has it been -14 years? 13 years? -It's been that long? -You're looking good, man. -You're holding up well. -Yeah, couple of kids later. -That's what angers me most is that they stole the chance -When I first interviewed you, I remember asking you You were saying that like, why you were in there, Has that ever changed -No. The new guard now, They hear about my case, &quot;You're locked up for a flood?&quot; -You've been in here How do you replay those days, those June and July days Do you ever think, Could it have possibly -There were some people saying that &quot;Jimmy wanted so he can party, mess around You know, I had stake There was an entire community, -And that's an important point, is that everybody was there. Your original parole date, should have been in 2021. -They've changed my parole so I'm not eligible That's what they tell me. -What's going to happen I know you've been maintaining Would it not be easier and say, &quot;I'm sorry, -Why? -Why? That goes against I've -- I've -- I've done I'm not proud of -- the burglaries, I have a past But when it comes I'm sorry for what people lost. I'm sorry for what we went 'cause, like I said, I have a stake in that -- But for me to go in there for something I haven't done -- -Well, I mean, you know -Oh, yeah, -So you're willing to do the -For something I haven't done? -I haven't seen you in 14 years. The last time I was here, in front of that mural that's still there. -You've been looking I haven't had the same posters artwork on my wall, You're in the same spot If I get angry, -I stopped being... angry and bitter -How do you do that? -That's not the kind of person I hate this case. I-I-I-I don't hate the people I hate what they did. I hate the -- the -- that was put on my back. I've spent 27 1/2 years for something I haven't done. I've had my whole life I spent my whole Is it right? Is it fair? They say, Well, yeah, I was. I was convicted I never caused And I'll take that to my grave. -I think society would tell you that a person's past kind of tells you If you have enough circumstances it's like a puzzle. You just keep getting piece Pretty soon I feel like the right person I've gotten people that have killed people You know, Jimmy is serving and that is strange. -What does it say as a whole? when this guy and many like him that committed what ultimately Remember, nobody died. Nobody was even injured They're just eking time away a reformed or productive life. I mean, he's gone through that they put you through to learn how to re-enter And we're still -This is what the Lord says. &quot;You will be in Babylon but then I will come all the good things and I will bring you home And this -- this is a praise. It's an answer to prayer. I don't know when, And he's going to call me I've got my stuff packed. I'm heading to the house.&quot; -I'm continuing to speak out because, essentially, other than his mother, and she doesn't have So while I still have I'm going to use it, it's a very sad reality that James Scott I think he'll maintain and they'll say and they'll put him back in. Legally, I don't see other than a gubernatorial I don't see that happening. -There are people here who have done But because I'm not serving as a result of a rape, sodomy, people just will not assist me. -In 1993, in terms of natural disasters -- the 500-year flood. All the disasters that we've because they've been happening hadn't happened yet. Are there more people out there or hurricanes or tornadoes? That's the problem is that you have one person for causing part of the great The whole country the whole midsection. But there's one guy Think about that the next time there's a flood and it's all over and then it goes away.