In life, there are lots of skills we We go to school to learn how to read, write, to getting into college, getting our first But there are some skills you don't get and that end up paying off not just in the These skills can be difficult to master, but their we might experience trying to learn them. once you've learned them, will pay off forever: The hardest part about working out isn't or folding into those yoga poses. The hardest Learning how to make time in your life, at all pavement, or roll out your yoga mat is one of the Even though it's all in your head, learning short and long term benefits. Working out releases cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, metabolic strength has mental and physical benefits that If you can master exercising 2. Personal Finance Skills if you learn personal finance skills, you Do research on personal finance and read books "The 80/20 Principle" by Richard Koch, Learning how to create a budget, save money, When you learn personal finance skills and you've set your future self up for success. Sitting in silence for any amount of time can their entire lives to improve their meditation for just a few minutes a day can have Meditation can help you build stress-management skills, and reduce negative emotions. In a study done by UCLA, "Forever Young(er): meditation on gray matter atrophy" -- they found meditators" than in non-meditators. Essentially, 4. Verbal &amp; Written Communication Skills determines how the world interacts with you. thoughts, and goals with others in an effective very far in business, relationships, and life. also goes a long way -- from being able to to writing out a business proposal, has enormous benefits for your life longterm. communicate, we must realize that we are all and use this understanding as a guide 5. Waking Up Early waking up early is as natural as breathing. However, waking up early is one of those get more hours, and work on the Many high-earning CEOs have early morning routines Howard Schultz, Jeff Weiner, Martha The most important aspect of waking up early is instead of just letting other people dictate schedule, you can make room for the things 6. Public Speaking Knowing how to command a crowd can have huge If you can communicate to a large audience, and thoughts, you'll get a long way towards Public speaking also helps improve your logical thinking skills, and more. Sometimes, looking at ourselves honestly is we don't understand the truth of ourselves and Learning how to look at yourself will help you break through barriers so much In the words of Gift Gugu Mona "You can never be 8. Leadership "If one is lucky, a solitary fantasy can Learning how to lead helps improve your career and helps bring your vision to life. Without change in the world. Doing it alone is almost If you can master leadership skills, 9. Decision Making CEO of Youtube once said "Rarely are In a nice little box with a yellow bow on top. Opportunities - the good ones - recognize. They're risky. They challenge you." deciding what path to take in any given situation. which occurs when there are so many options, we But if you can master the skill of making and making a choice from confidence, you can Part of decision making is accepting that you You can only know what you know now, so you have If you discover later down the road that learn how to pivot quickly and without guilt. In The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People: R. Covey, he writes that "most people do they listen with the intent to reply." When you can learn how to listen, you'll Being able to listen can help you close a sales you repair relationships with friends and family. Realize that you don't know everything they might just have something valuable to share. and see how they affect your life both in the Would you like the full illustration from this If you are already subscribed to my free Art of of it already waiting in your inbox. Thank