Today is the coolest, evil and powerful project on the channel. Hello, friends. Hello! Straight to the point. I found part of an old spring from some car. Most likely 65G steel. It is characterized by excellent cutting, high hardness, wear resistance, and the ability to maintain the sharpness of the cutting edge for a long time . Before production, I drew a small drawing, a technical drawing. The sharpening angle will be 30 degrees. With a thickness of 10 millimeters, the projection of the hypotenuse, also known as the leg, is slightly more than 17 millimeters. Such steel is cut accordingly - long, difficult and slow. It's time to turn on my homemade mother-in-law pump belt sander. For those who haven't seen how I made it, there is a detailed video and drawings on the channel in the channel group. Using an adjustable table and a regular corner, I can sharpen the workpiece according to the drawing. It's not fast, of course, but it turns out great; you can't do that with an angle grinder. I didn't use finer grains, as this is quite sufficient for the project. It turned out great, it's just a pleasure to work with such a machine, and the quality of the processing is clearly visible. This blank was made in advance and given to the turner. Unfortunately, I don't have my own lathe yet. The part is quite heavy, out of curiosity I weighed it, and it weighs 4.5 kilograms. The need for massiveness is due to inertia, like a flywheel. Due to processing on a lathe, symmetry around the central axis has been achieved and I hope there will be no runout. This is the main part of the design, and some changes need to be made to the workpiece. I try to do everything as symmetrically as possible relative to the central axis. After marking, I drill several holes. I will use a screwdriver to drill with this metal crown by hand. The homemade drilling machine is not yet in working condition, the gear drill burned out, I can't find something similar to replace it. Of course, holding everything in your hands is not very convenient, but it's an option and everything works out. Two holes with a diameter of 35 millimeters each are ready. Now I mark and make cuts from the edges of the holes to the edge of the workpiece. The metal is thick and does not cut quickly. I try to do everything very carefully and exactly according to the markings. To fix the workpiece on the shaft, there is a key. One part of it goes into the shaft, and the second part into the workpiece. You need to make a cut inside the hole. I remember the labor lessons at school on sawing a hammer out of a piece of iron. 30 minutes of highly intelligent work and the groove for the key is ready. Of course, machines and power tools are good, but the ability to work with a file will always come in handy. It turned out quite neat. The key is inserted very accurately, without the slightest play. ADVERTISING. I began to slowly work on my workshop. And it turned out that if it rains, you are in a drum there. In the future, I am considering the option of replacing the roof with something else, and I am considering Ondulin as an option. Of course, there are minor disadvantages, but there are also very important advantages: Ondulin does NOT make noise. The sound of raindrops, especially in heavy rain, hail, tree branches hitting the roof - all this does not create any annoying noise in the room under the ondulin roof. And it also does not heat up in the heat and does not rust, simply because it is not metal. "Ondulin" is the simplest logistics, it is included in a passenger car, plus the simplest installation. You can carry out the installation yourself without involving a team of specialists. For installation, only three tools are actually needed: a knife, a hammer and a hacksaw dipped in water or oil. For comparison: corrugated sheets, metal tiles or OSB require, in addition to everything else, a minimum of a Gazelle, a pickup truck, or even special vehicles for transportation. And an angle grinder - which, as a consequence, means the ability to work with this angle grinder. It is important to carry out installation according to the instructions, then you will receive a 15-year guarantee of protection against leaks. On the manufacturer's website you can choose what is most suitable from the range; there is a detailed installation guide and instructions. They also have a detailed YouTube channel, where you can watch reviews from real users and learn useful life hacks for installation. I recommend stopping by, checking out and subscribing! All links will be in the description under the video. So far this is what happened. I decided to weld the knives, of course, later I will make them removable for sharpening or replacement, but now I just want to test the entire structure to see if they are even suitable in shape and location. On the other hand, just as symmetrically to the axis with a rotation of 90 degrees, I weld two blades, like a centrifugal pump or a snow blower. There's just a little bit left to do, just a couple of simple details. Again I sketched out a small drawing for myself. I find the center of the blanks by the intersection of two diagonals. The front and back parts will be made of sheets 5 millimeters thick. To attach it to the engine, I make several holes and a central hole for the shaft with the same crown. I found drawings on the Internet with the dimensions of my engine. At first I wanted to make the front cover in the shape of an octagon, but a round one will work better, nothing will get stuck anywhere. I quickly cut it out according to the markings and cut off a couple of strips of 3 mm metal. And the fun began. You need to carefully make the enveloping part of the case. At first everything went like clockwork, while the lever was long, it became increasingly difficult to bend it and weld it at the same time. I started heating it with a burner, and at first it helped. I welded the second part of the envelope towards it. And in order to tighten what could not be tightened, he came out of the situation by welding a lanyard on both sides, and pulling it together, it served as a small winch. This is what happened. The case is ready, everything is high quality and reliable. I cut out a window in the front for serving. Its size is approximately similar to the width of the spring blades. The outlet hole is also approximately the same size. Behind the scenes I will weld the pre-prepared parts of the socket. I won't make it big, I want everything to be as compact as possible. I also prepared behind the scenes parts for the engine rack from a 30 by 30 mm pipe. It is approximately 200 millimeters high, and I also took the dimensions of the fastener location from the drawing. All that remains is to paint, assemble and test. I am already painting in my workshop. I was disappointed in the paint, at first it didn't spray, and then it spat several times. Then I had to cover it with another one on top. The support legs were painted matte black. The engine will be powered by a 6.5 horsepower 4-stroke gasoline engine. It is practically new, but it partially served as a donor for my other equipment. Somehow, water got into the tank of the snow blower, probably along with gasoline , and the gas tanks had to be rotated. Everything inside the tank is rusty. I think that acetic acid will cope well with this, I poured it into the tank and brought the volume up to the neck with water. After a day, all the rust was completely dissolved, the tank was clean as new. All that remains is to quickly assemble and test. First of all, I screw the engine to the support base and pull it through with a wrench. Semi-synthetic oil, 10W-40. Although there is an opinion that such engines need to be filled with mineral oil and run in it. It is very easy to assemble; the main part is secured with four bolts. The cutting disk, which is also a kind of flywheel, is locked with a key to the shaft, but the bolt will be held and pressed to jump off the shaft; I took it with a hexagon. The last part is the main casing, I did not remove the fastening as I did, it is on the reverse side with four bolts along the edges. Everything turned out very compact, it will be convenient to store and use. Although the weight is considerable - about 30 kilograms. My wild beast Monya is also looking forward to challenges. All that remains is to start the engine. Friends! If you liked the project, don't forget to like it! Share links to videos on your social networks - your friends will definitely like it. I'll post drawings with the main dimensions a little later in the channel group. All useful links from the video are in the description as always. The chain cutter turned out to be a simple, reliable design and hugely powerful. The cost price is several times cheaper than purchased. Eats any wood, the resulting chips are a good middle fraction. And the wood chips from the fruit trees will go into my smokehouse. There are many more unusual projects on the channel. Good luck to you and your loved ones. Thank you for watching this video. See you!