Dr. Charles Stanley: And the Son &quot;I am the way, No one comes to the Therefore, go into all the the gospel to every at the remotest parts male announcer: In Touch, of Dr. Charles Stanley. Next on &quot;In Touch,&quot; Dr. Charles Stanley: This is iPhones, and all the things that And if you'll think about it with someone and what happens? They pull out this crazy iPhone while you're sitting there a conversation. Or it's a sneaky deal, they put they're talking to somebody else straight in your face. And so, what happens I think it's discourteous. Just my personal opinion. Anybody else agree? Now, whether you agree or not, I because we're trying to carry on And sometimes people are conversation when it may not be they ought to be having they ought to be having. And so, this is the kind But here's the thing that We have our ears tuned to where and that's to the world. And so, I have to ask the you hear in the morning? What's the first voice you hear? What's the first sound you hear? Do you wake up and turn on the your favorite music? Or are you interested in to say to you in that given day? You say, &quot;Well God's never Well, wait till this message if that's true in speaking to every single one He's interested in speaking to followers of Jesus Christ so is and the kind of life He's So, I want us to turn first of and I want us to look at two And I want to talk about this &quot;Who are you listening to?&quot; And in Hebrews first couple of verses the fact that God's been speaking. And he says in the first verse, the fathers in the prophets in in these last days He has spoken that is through Jesus &quot;whom He appointed heir of He made the world.&quot; Now I want you to go John chapter fourteen and I want twenty-sixth verse because prophets in the Old Testament says in this twenty-sixth verse ready for His departure to He says in verse twenty-six, whom the Father will send in My things, and bring to all that I have said to you.&quot; So, what He's promised to His disciples After He was gone the Holy indwell every single believer the inside of you. He would give you guidance and speak to your heart. So that when the Holy Spirit that's God speaking to us. So, I'd ask you this. How much time do you give in a to God speak to you? And I want to tell you this children morning, noon, It's a matter are we listening? Did we set aside any time And think about this. The Sovereign God of this whose Son died on the cross for it possible to speak to you and From the moment we trust Him as He's there as our friend, our unconditionally so that you at its very best. But in order for me to know what to listen to Him. And so, as you think in your own in any given day or week Or do you spend any time at all listening to God and asking God Now think about this. The fact that I think that I can really need God's assistance and and His wisdom is a very You say, &quot;Well, I don't think I But what? If I live it out in a given day attention whatsoever, don't the attitude that I can do No, we can't. So, let's think about this for a What are the primary reasons Well number one they don't have Many people don't listen to Him they've never been saved. Therefore, they don't have a And therefore, because they they can't hear God speak. But once you trusted Him as your So, He's speaking because he so you can walk in the truth life because He loves you A second thing is this. Many people don't expect God to And oftentimes I will say to &quot;Well, is that what God said?&quot; &quot;Well, I don't know, Yes, He does, whether I listen Whether He speaks or not, He wouldn't be the God that He &quot;Okay you do the best you can.&quot; That's not who God is. A third thing is this. The messages of the world As we said in the very beginning They turn on the music, &quot;I want to know what's going What's going on in Heaven? What's going on in your heart? What's going on in your mind? What's going on in the mind of Do not let the world drown out who loves you perfectly Then of course to ignore If you ignore the Word of God, to listen to Him. Here's what happens. When you ignore the reading and here's what happens. Watch this carefully. What happens when you ignore the world gets larger and larger and in your feelings. And after a while you don't pay in His Word because you've and your spirit with whatever-- whatever you read or activities may be. You cannot live a godly life, over again, you cannot live a You cannot. God gave us this book as And if I am going to listen to to what He's saying. And sometimes He speaks in the Sometimes He speaks God speaks to us primarily, primarily through His Word. He'll lead us to some passage of it just to His Word. Then some people have a They're just living in sin. They don't want anything. Just don't tell me how I've got And so, as a result they don't They're not interested in Him. They're only interested in something within them that only And this is why you see people They wreck and ruin their lives, else may be going on as a result to the ways the will and This Book was not given to us It's given to us to bring us to how to live a godly life. Also, people are deceived by the The world has an awesome appeal. If you'll notice the commercials they're light, they're joyful. Lots of music and lots of sound, You know what? They get your attention but What does some commercial who is the sovereign of the Can He not get our attention? If He cannot it's because we hearts and our ears to what the What we're implying is in what God has to say. And the last thing I would say When people harbor sin in their When you point out to them that this is wrong, this is wrong, sin in their life they can't Sin, listen carefully, deafens Sin deafens the ears of a child So, here's a Heavenly Father who you, lead you, all the things we've allowed the world to grab and grab our way of life. Tragic. Tragic when a person does not Somebody says, &quot;Well, I don't Well, we want you and I'm going to help you learn But we have to ask the question why don't people listen to Him? Now the question comes now. How can you identify the voice That's what people will often They'll say, &quot;Well, how do I or whether I'm just thinking Well, I can understand that. And if a person's not been a how can I discern the difference what my will is, what I desire, and the voice of God? How can how can I know the So let me give you a few think about that. And one of them is simply this. Always without question consistent with the Word of God. God will never tell you to do with the teaching of scripture God doesn't speak in He doesn't say one thing and something So, one of the ways I can know not is does the voice of God on the printed page? Does the voice of God in your match the Word of God God gave us this Book A second thing is this. And that is oftentimes will conflict with human nature. God may tell you to do &quot;Oh, I couldn't do that. I don't have the ability. I don't have the education. God may require of you something with the way you see yourself or or cannot handle something. Because He knows Every single one of us has God knows them perfectly so something that you think, Then what you're saying is God When God gives us a command, I may not understand it and He to do things in my life &quot;God You have the wrong person.&quot; And sometimes I've had to say to &quot;I don't think I can do it. Secondly to be honest God I'm just scared. So, I just don't think I can do But wonderful God that He is He there until finally we say, &quot;All And we open our eyes that He will equip us He calls us to do. He will never call you to do without equipping you to do it. And so, we can know that A third thing is He'll challenge In other words, God is, listen, He--watch this carefully. He is not going to allow you to He's not going to do it. Because what that means is He's If you insist on refusing to do you think you can't and because then what you're saying is God about your faith. And so, when God is speaking one speaking is He's going to He won't challenge you to do He'll challenge us often times we can do. And then after we do them, we And what happens? This is the will of God that our and grows and grows. And He expands our understanding areas that we never would have That's the way God works. So, when God tells you to do of direction and you think, because He would never I can think of a few times when &quot;God, to be honest, I'm scared.&quot; And that didn't upset God. What it did it helped me to face It wasn't God who had the And once I was willing to admit my faith began to soar. Because I said, &quot;God, I'm I went straight to the Word and looked at other And when they obeyed God what That's why you have to keep this your ears attuned to Then you'll progress in Sometimes God speaks quietly. I can think of times in my life that was a big deal to me, a big And you think sometimes that um fireworks and all the rest to No, oftentimes it's in the else is just going along normal. And without even thinking about God just gives you an answer and And I think about how many times Well He was sure. I had to get sure. God loves you enough what He's saying to you. He'll never come in with some that you have to figure out. So, if I'm going to listen to I have to learn to identify the So why do I need to learn to Because of decisions I have to Every single one of us have of our life. I need to know what in order to make You say, &quot;Well what decisions?&quot; Every decision. You can't think of a single I can't think of a single I want to leave God out of. Then sometime we just need Now all strength isn't this kind The most powerful strength in the heart. Yes, I can, Thank You. Thank You for giving me the will strength, the determination, and the assurance that I can do. We all need strength at times. And what did Paul say, &quot;I can do &quot;Christ who strengthens me.&quot; We all need it. And no one can get--no one like the Lord Jesus Christ. How do I how do I know the will By talking to Him and listening People say, &quot;Well I've prayed and prayed and haven't heard You know why? Because you haven't been You're doing all the talking. And when I think about people time and I read the Bible and Well did you read the Bible and see if God wanted Listen. This is so simple you just you He needs us to be quiet if He's going to talk to us and Then I need Him to direct in All of us need to hear the voice to protect us. Protect us from wrong decisions, relationships, protect us for like the purchase of a home In choice of a mate, you need What is He saying to us? And so, we need to hear Him No one can protect you like But if I'm not listening and I'm my own, going to get in trouble. Now which leads me to the last the consequences to failing to First of all, there is the to Him, I allow the world to And I think about a few people praying for lately who are not they're not. And the world or somebody or drawing them away from God. I can see it happening. I know it's happening. And when I talk to them I know And I want to say, &quot;Is that what is that what God has told you?&quot; &quot;Well, I think so.&quot; And when I say to them, &quot;God would never Their answer is, Well so then I know argument and so I just have to have to show them. And I hope it's not too late what's going on in their life.&quot; There are consequences the voice of God. So, we get drawn away. Secondly, we get easily Listen when your friends tell you how things ought to be and just sounds fantastic and but listening to them oftentimes What's the--what is God saying? And you need to ask yourself the of life that I don't let my mind will affect the way I see and Very, very, very important. Besides the fact that it affects In other words, they're going to children do more than we do. We make costly decisions when And I can think of a few were not the right decisions. I was going on what was You can't go by reason when And so, there are consequences and doing it on our own. If we took a survey, any survey, you're going to find people I made a decision on my own Or people who say, &quot;Well, you know I was and we were all just drinking and I made a decision that has Listening to God is an awesome Then of course we're going to And I think one of the most person to miss the will of God very early that affect them for And sometimes I just want to get shake them and just say, &quot;Look going to affect you today. I'm talking about ten years from thirty years from now. You're going to be affected by think! You don't obey Him you And I think about how many fine their course with no thoughts And there are some consequences And of course, there are eternal Now watch this. When you reject Jesus Christ as you choose to refuse personally, Christ as your Savior. Well, that's one consequence of that is this. And that is you spend eternity You're lost. And all the reasoning and the has to offer cannot But suppose you are saved, live the will of God. All these thing other things Are there other consequences Almighty God, to give an account for your not your salvation You lose your eternal rewards. You see the devil wants you to How do I feel today? What am I going to win or lose God wants you to think about the So, when you and I leave this be rewarded or we'll lose our to how we've lived. That's why it's so very to God very carefully and walk It's the best way, the only way, greatest harvest in your life You may be listening and saying, You mean I'm going to miss You're going to miss it. &quot;But I've been good. I go to church. I try to do the right thing. You're going to miss it. The only way you won't miss it Christ as your personal Savior done, nothing that you will do, eternal truth, that God sent Him your sins, your guilt, your dishonor with His blood. When He died on the cross and sin debt in full but it only is accept Him as your Savior as payment for your sin. If you have any wisdom at all decision in your life. You need to stop listening to You need to stop looking around what looks good and ask yourself &quot;What's the mind of God? What is God saying?&quot; And I can tell you if you've your Savior, He's saying to you &quot;What this man is telling It is a truth by which you will It is a truth that for you to go to heaven. It is a truth that also could lost forever if you do not Now if you question that you just get you a I just told you the truth. He says if you confess with your believe in your heart in God's placing your trust in Him That's a choice. If you're wise you will listen and make a wise choice. And Father, how grateful we are and very simple in Your Word can be settled in one decision. And I pray that you will impress very important it is that we And we pray this in