Some time ago we ranked every home console from day and night to give similar treatment to every knocking on the loo door when I'm trying to have But first, what is a handheld? It sounds pretty list have stands. Some of them are strapped to not supposed to sit on them, but it happens. Point It really refers to portable game consoles that displays or controllers. Don't blame me if you I would have called them Electric Funboxes. same way we handled the previous list. We'll be its lifetime sales, its price at launch, the and the number of games that hold an There are a few notable exclusions we no "dedicated" handhelds; to qualify for this its built-in games. Additionally, we won't count so no PocketStation,VMU, or eReader. that are designed for emulation. This isn't different subject altogether and don't have their Barcode Battler, Skannerz, or Tiger Barcodzz. This I refuse to go to Hell over this list. various versions of what is basically a Game Boy Color is a Game Boy, a DSi Nintendo? Stop trying to take up more Let's rank 'em. from TripleJump. And this is every video #67: Grandstand Game Wizard (1988) this is. The guy who wrote this script - I can't this is. We can find exactly one picture of the of a human being occupying the same space as Depending on how you count, the Game each of the three cartridges had a different released a number of simple LCD units - some do not - and nobody really kept records of them. hindsight certainly hasn't changed that opinion. couldn't dig up any information that you I'd conclude that the thing never existed, granted, the only game anyone can remember #66: Electronika IM-26 (1988) had names like "IM-26"? That's okay; neither do when there's so little information about a console actually a company; it was a name applied to Electronics Industry. If that sounds scary and made by the Soviet military-industrial And what pleasure! The IM-26 released all of which made Game &amp; Watch look like God the Electronics Industry blessed the public The IM-26 and its games were never produced in of the USSR, presumably because Disney would being used in games produced by the Russian but according to The Video Game Kraken - to gaming history -it sold poorly and was #65: Grandstand Light Games (1988) name. If you do, I apologize for bringing back upon the region, the Grandstand Light Games was Color LCD Projector, the Fantastiko Projector ridiculous names for what was basically a torch. but not by much. Around 13 games were made for that you could project onto a flat surface. Well, there was no screen on the device itself, meaning distance in the room for the projector to work While the ability to play games on the technology of this device was well behind the console to be released was the Game Boy, and I #64: Tiger R-Zone (1995) more of a "head-held," but we'll cover it here LCD games - that is to say no fun whatsoever - and It's like wearing a monocle except that people Were the games good at least? Could Not a chance; this thing couldn't handle kind of basic fare Tiger had been making for their only now they were displayed in searing red Later versions were more like traditional were awful and even their licenses - from Batman save the R-Zone. Nobody wanted it even after your eyeballs, which is probably saying something. but I'd be willing to blind you and #63: Goldstar GPi-1200 (1997) was...wait a minute...I...I recognize this. This is...oh, I thought we were done with this abomination. manufacturers produced their own versions who probably treated it better than they treated catchall for the various portable CD-is, but it to the consumer market. This GoldStar version get their Hotel Mario fix on the go. And then On the bright side, the CD-i library had nearly games. The device weighed more than four pounds, weapon at some point, if anyone had purchased adjusted for inflation. When we do adjust for that's exactly the amount of money you'll have #62: Palmtex Portable Videogame System (1984) the only console on this list to have but that was not the original intention. or Portable Videogame System names at all. by importing Nintendo's Game &amp; Watch units It was a fruitful relationship, but before long a system of their own. The eventual result System. Palmtex had demonstration units Electronics Show in January 1984, an event They failed, however, to find a distributor, company named Home Computer Software bought and sold it through the mail to recoup its for what could have been an interesting system. three games were made. It's an oddity, but #61: VTech Variety (1983) handheld console impossible to research in a few and name it after a common word that people Here's a list of potential console names to VTech naming their handheld the Variety makes and if it weren't for a few scant photos of impossible-to-research console: The Thing honestly, it may as well not have, The Variety was basically a plastic shell LCD games. They were exactly the kinds of games but now they didn't come with buttons. Progress! it sold, or when it was discontinued, Look at it! Bright yellow. Guaranteed #60: Tiger Gizmondo (2005) of circumstances so bizarre we literally picture the absolute craziest thing you can is nowhere near as crazy as the actual Tiger Telematics - not to be confused with list - expected the system to be huge. In they opened a flagship store on London's Regent it to any of those "cursed image" groups. It stars such as Sting, who I assure you has In the US it sold mainly at mall kiosks. A risky aversion to making eye contact with anyone working you could buy a Gizmondo that periodically served without ads for the equivalent of around $530. meaning anyone who bought the ad-free version The system sold fewer than 25,000 units, and #59: Entex Adventure Vision (1982) is a color, the Entex Adventure Vision launched Entex pulled the plug after about a year, The unit ran at a neither-silky-nor-smooth 15 but realistically cumbersome series of red This is similar to what would eventually and the Adventure Vision should feel pretty more successful Virtual Boy." Its pack-in game was games of the era, but not enough people wanted Sales figures are hazy; some sources claim that that they only manufactured 50,000 units. Still 10,000. In any of these scenarios, the is a rare find on the collector's market. Which #58: Entex Select-A-Game (1981) from the very start. One of Entex's first games similar that title looks to "Space Invaders" sued for copyright infringement, but lost on the were works in different media, and therefore it This was, clearly, idiotic, but it was symptomatic established precedent. Emboldened by their even trying to hide behind similar names anymore, This time justice was served; Entex would of the year and had to pay all profits to With a lifespan of just over a year and the Select-A-Game left more of an imprint on But it's at least why Microsoft can't make a game #57: VTech 3D Gamate (1983) be a portmanteau of "game" and "mate," I have to Anyway, VTech's first attempt at a handheld it took familiar LCD technology and The device presented two slightly different 3D effect. Of course, none of its games was of the advantage this offered over existing handhelds Sales figures are not available, I likely wouldn't brag about them, either. discontinued quickly, however, as only half of is at least significant for being the first 3D also the one most likely to permanently #56: VTechProScreen (1984) Yes. Also no, but...yes. The VTechProScreen but it is an entirely separate device released games. We can't hold that against them, of course; any console, and surely they didn't want to leave rustling]...three games. we should rank this higher or lower than the 3D is available for either of them. We decided to not benefit from the 3D functionality of the other something interesting: the ability to project In the days before televisions had screens video games with a large display was genuinely just utter rubbish. Irredeemable crap, even. so finding one in working condition #55: LG Kids Pad (2012) we haven't found much information about. native South Korea, so details are written Sales figures are not available, but the Kids find any evidence that more were ever made. Korean children's educational handheld market. South Korea, probably, so not me. when adjusted for inflation, which was pretty I can find almost no information on the games that playing one, but it did seem to have some a camera, and mp3 playback capabilities. LG meaning it could strike the floor over so I suppose it also functions as a stress don't know anything about the Kids Pad. And even #54: Koei PasoGo (1996) handheld on this list if the only thing it actually does qualify as a console, as it had were different versions of Go, but you had to about a handheld that only plays Go. Hooray. to a smaller audience of Go aficionados entirely to their hobby. There was just when adjusted for inflation; significantly more I don't know much about Go. I know that Maybe the PasoGo is the single greatest before which the game was only called anybody who did not own one was mocked or whatever those things are called. gotten this for Christmas as a kid, #53: LeapFrogiQuest (2001) educational consoles, on the grounds that we however, is one we feel comfortable keeping not terrible, but it also doesn't do much made in 2001, this feels remarkably primitive. with game consoles. It's a portable study aid and At the same time, though, it's entirely text-based of study questions. Different subjects were step backward in an era during which study aids Sales figures are not available, but I have manage to outsell the Nintendo DS. Also, an obtuse needlessly confusing, if this YouTube comment HovhannesDermovsesian[comment on the above-linked being woken up several times per #52: MGA Game Wizard (1994) would be keeping decent records. And you would be nobody seemed to think it was worth documenting Maybe it's because its technology would have it's because you couldn't buy additional games Maybe it's because every game played so getting three in a pack didn't The Game Wizard was little more than a cheap of the properties MGA licensed, such as VR Does that mean we forgot about these or our Every Star Wars Game list to see who was But look at these things; you can't blame us. in the UK, but Grandstand already had a handheld the Game Player. With exciting names like that, #51: GiochiPreziosi My Life (2007) Are you a little girl? Unless you've answered yes for you. GiochiPreziosi marketed it as the first as long as you don't count the three consoles Operating under the assumption that girls don't My Life is a strange handheld, revolving almost Additional game cartridges were released; three were expected to purchase "magic keys," which and features that were built into the console. The system saw some degree of success in its but it didn't fare as well in other regions, It was followed up by an improved adding a camera and mp3 playback, but it #50: M&amp;D Monon Color (2014) their Monon Color in 2014. It was though they did flirt with the concept a few trading cards and badges instead of cartridges. to be honest, quite a bit more boring. It was but it did have one thing going for it: the equivalent of about $17. Yes, $17. maybe M&amp;D figured more people would take a so it's possible they were correct, but the every month and it looks like only 20 games Some of the games came from large franchises, such but the Monon Color seems to have had little to as Wish and AliExpress will try to get you to #49: Mattel Children's Discovery System (1981) list - and on our list of Every Console Ranked would be vague about what they actually promised System, which promised "a smarter child in 60 available - nor are refund figures - but after thousands of remaining units and games, so at least didn't meet the company's expectations. truth be told, it wasn't all It had only 21 games and sold for more than $350 an appealing product for children or parents. though: It had its own programming language. own programs for the Children's create their own games. I mean, the games #48: TimeTop GameKing (2003) existed only to trick people into buying it. Boy Advance - right down to the thing including it up, you'll see that the games are far below the say "if" you boot it up, as it doesn't seem many but surely anyone who actually played this Nobody seems to know precisely how many games to have been around 50, all of which were the called Duck Man with a man who is clearly not art stolen from National Geographic. There's a At least, I think it's about surfing. I can Then there's the Super Mario Bros. Adventure Legend Carlo. If your party #47: Ohio Art Etch A Sketch Animator 2000 (1988) You're almost certainly familiar with the Etch better at playing with than you were. Ohio Art including theEtch A Sketch Animator, which allowed pixel by pixel. One year later we got the Etch A capabilities with those of a game console. only because of its striking similarity to what two screens, oriented vertically, with the lower Of course, the Etch A Sketch Animator 2000 of the DS. Sales figures are not available, within a year of its introduction, after Its price surely didn't help things; it sold expensive than the previous version of the but not one the public was #46: VTechV.Smile Pocket (2005) from VTech with dubious educational value. It was which is perfect, because a 9-year-old is its name is inaccurate, now that I think about that's supposed to teach your kids. I suppose it Around 35 games were released for the V.Smile simplistic. They didn't come on cartridges, nature of the handheld, these games came on so that nobody else could call their cartridges wanted to call their cartridges Smartridges. but a pink and purple model eventually came The unit was designed to be inexpensive, struggled to sell even at that low price, and was #45: LeapFrogDidj (2008) LeapFrog is known for their educational consoles, hate saying - is indeed one of those. This as well, though: It ran on Linux and sold making it an early and inexpensive way And while we are not by any means suggesting that from another system, we are saying that we because its actual games were bad. Only criticized the unit for running all of them being a common issue. The unit suffered from poor full charge. It also suffered from overheating, couldn't play it for very long. and is even home to Sonic's absolute worst It says a lot when a game's official commercial #44: Bandai Design Master Denshi Mangajuku (1995) Bandai Design Master Denshi Mangajuku was have guessed that on your own, but it is a It's one of the earliest consoles centered around intended appeal came from art programs. In fact, design cartridges and import sprites you've If that seems far too advanced for import functionality was limited and the games menu based. The Design Master Denshi Mangajuku did in total were released for the system. the handheld than there were games. This included girls, and a limited-edition Mega Man X3 version, Denshi Mangajuku's fortunes around. Perhaps Mega Man X3 as a visual novel, the gambit failed #43: Nikko digiBlast (2005) the Netherlands, a region so named because they Ah, I kill me. Anyway, seemingly designed to look the digiBlast was launched to no acclaim multimedia capabilities, allowing parents cartridges, but only 20 games were released The unit could be connected to a television, if TV screen, but at that point the digiBlast is You could also play its games on your TV, but the digiBlast's library, and I assure you they The failure of the digiBlast is sometimes too costly to produce. Considering nobody I find that difficult to believe. The device was #42: Nintendo Pokemon Mini (2001) are huge. Put them together and you get...this, but I think we can all agree that it was more of $60 when adjusted for inflation, the Pokemon Mini right now. Then again, you will almost more than you will this thing. all having to do with Pokemon. By that I mean were comparable in terms of gameplay, quality, puzzle games, but one game - Pokemon Tetris - Sales figures are not available, which is a rarity figures for the Virtual Boy. If they're keeping we imagine it did not do well. For whatever life on the homebrew scene, which I guess is #41: Fisher-Price Kasey the Kinderbot(2002) Listen, I wouldn't talk about this but Kasey the Kinderbot technically qualifies for this list. On a related note, I have fired the Kasey the Kinderbot is a robot but does so in the name of education so it's appreciate that he's looking at me like he's no.Because life is suffering, Kasey the Kinderbot the Totbot and Fetch the Phonicsbot. Kasey presumably because the competition vanished Kasey the Kinderbot accepted cartridges, centered around various subjects, such as science, superior to weak, foolish humans. That one didn't which Kasey the Kinderbot was most passionate. after thousands of units mistook children #40: RomtecColorvision (1984) Depending on where you were located, you might a different company, such as Altic, you were born - say any time after 1984 - you Sales figures are not available but suggests that it didn't sell all that well. That's on par with the quality of other handhelds of True to its name, the Colorvision presented its some genuinely lovely artwork in every cartridge. in the cartridge; light shines through a plastic and objects onto a mirror in the system. but the games being in color helps them identity than most black-and-white LCD games. but it was a charming one. That's more #39: Hartung Game Master (1990) Hartung had an exceptional idea: Sell it with Game Boys. As such, the Hartung Game Master in France, Italy, and the UK. Once again, you may is likely repeated in your nightmares to this day. could be because it sold so poorly that Hartung masterful games were released for the Game Master, clones of other games, such as Tetris and Space Nintendo game, Urban Champion is not a clone at Hartung is exactly as creative as Nintendo. with titlesoften being different in the game suspect Hartung were only in it for the money and #38: Tapwave Zodiac (2003) released only so people could eventually include made next to no impression in the marketplace, sigh of relief when it was discontinued about a longer in any danger of accidentally buying it. announcing ahead of release that the Zodiac had Only 46 games were released, so we think In a puzzlingly fawning review, Pen the inevitability of it changing the face of which was a lack of feet meaning we were unable to beyond those wimpy, plastic GameBoys." The Game more of those were sold in the space it took one #37: VTechPreComputer 1000 (1988) educational console, which means it had I got confused for a moment. It was an educational spelling lessons and Bible trivia. but the PreComputer, which you should never decently. It cost around $133 when adjusted for Even if it only taught kids to type - which could be considered a fair investment. with seven more available on cartridge. It also but considering the screen could only display 20 every time you changed the batteries, much more than getting it to display HELLO WORLD. PreComputer 2000 in 1992, three years after the two lines of text instead of only #36: Bandai Digi Casse(1984) Bandai entered the handheld market with the Digi Each of the games used the same controls, Digi Casse had different styles of input, with directional buttons. It's a strange system which is a polite way of saying we were A total of 10 games were released for the system, Digi Casse was smart. Instead of simply selling consumers do the legwork, the system was sold in each of them coming with the handheld and two could buy one that came with football and tennis. that came with two colorful mascot games. If you came with a game called Mt. Fuji Explosion. #35: Watara Supervision (1991) pick up a Watara Supervision and enjoy its pack-in terrible screen so let's not play Christ-Ball. the Game Boy - no prizes for having guessed It was sturdy and...well, it was sturdy. That's more It also sold for significantly less, around $95 of a nice 69 games, literally none of which are In fairness to Watara, it really was the weakness Selling a comparable unit for a fraction of to get a piece of the action. It seems to for whatever reason, but nowhere else. last thing you want when you're trying to do #34: Tiger Game.com (1997) the R-Zone. They'd have to have worked pretty hard due. The Game.com never stood a serious chance did feature primitive internet functionality, and we've seen in far more successful contexts since. tried to reach. No handheld in 1997, for instance, Game.com had a port. Ditto Duke Nukem 3D, Sonic for being the worst things imaginable. There were Symphony of the Night to be ported to this the Night on a Game.com? It would be A later version, the Game.com Pocket Pro, but so is whatever has curled up and died behind fewer than 300,000 units. Those people formed a #33: VTechInnoTab (2011) of its child-friendly InnoTab, all of which were I played this Sponge Bob dancing game for 60 The InnoTab started at around $150 when adjusted investment for your kids than a shatter-prone iPad at both retail and through digital download, but There were only around 15 games released small fraction of what was actually available. and there were also digital storybooks that were I played this Sponge Bob dancing game Critics were not impressed by the lack the system's sluggish performance, and the poor handhelds those critics had as children through. #32: Fisher-Price Pixter (2000) the Pixter soon moved over to the parent brand, Mattel. As such, depending upon the model, you change was almost certainly made though that may not have been the best idea. children in mind. Children who were able to hold yes, but still young. Its games would have speed of your dead grandmother. As might be the majority of the Pixter's 60 titles tapping on things, dragging things, and wishing Children likely got more enjoyment out which allowed them to draw, color, and even allowed kids to toy around with clips from but only six cartridges were released. On the #31: Tiger VideoNow XP (2005) best handheld console is the one that was not to say it's good, but the VideoNow XP at In the early 2000s, media players were a novel There was also little in the meaning manufacturers were trying to push their was Tiger's attempt at both - under its parent portable device that could play the unusually of established shows, including Teenage Mutant and even Mr. Bean. Not the good Mr. Bean...the So why on Earth are we talking about Only three of them, and they were all FMV games but they existed. Batman, Teen Titans, and that asked you to press a button at the correct #30: Nokia N-Gage (2003) lure gamers away from other handhelds by being Being as you've got a really crap handheld that really wasn't such a bad idea, in its two years on the market. look at it. Playing games that required any sort were uncomfortable at best and next to impossible unit to function as a handheld, its primary meaning consumers ended up with wasn't especially desirable for either purpose. (blaze it) when adjusted for inflation. It and a surprising amount of support from Sega. N-Gage than it was evidence that Sega had #29: Welback Mega Duck (1993) and quacks like a duck, it's probably not anywhere wore its aspirations on its sleeve, designing either company's legal team would allow. but we can't imagine anyone other than confused that's disappointing; the games were better than There were only 24 of them, and the best anything Nintendo or Sega were releasing on Unfortunately,Welback seemed to believe that the under any circumstances. As a result, nobody tradition that has been upheld to this day. Welback executives cited the but having looked through the system's library, I was how to be more careful with their money. #28: Game Park GP32 (2001) created mainly to compete with Nintendo. In the was no competition; due to restrictive trade laws, There was certainly demand for handhelds, but the GP32, which was funded by the South Korean It sold for the equivalent of $320 today and only GP32 - possibly due to a lack of large developers courting bedroom coders and indie developers who Popular homebrew games were even available for Where there's homebrew there's emulation, as well, available. Ultimately, however, the embargo on couldn't compete. The system was released in but a government-produced did not topple the world's most #27: Epoch Game Pocket Computer (1984) well ahead of its time. That was almost this simply was not like any other handheld on figures are not available, but no reliable source Only five games were released for the system are particularly unique or interesting, but and technologically advanced than any handheld it was well constructed, and a full charge would The system is a fascinating failure, and I think its name, the Game Pocket Computer doesn't fit in it was likely to stay in the home. 1984 also saw swing, a generation that included the NES, Game Pocket Computer was going to stay in the #26: VTechMobiGo (2010) it a genuine rarity in the educational console you to stop watching this video so you can rush to we worked very hard on this video and I will It featured both a touchscreen and a concept for an educational handheld that The MobiGo helps children to develop both their we assume that's the case; it would all come down they were at conveying their material. however. There seems to have been around 10 and rhythm games, which probably offered some better on their exams. Still, the unit sold meaning if your kid got any educational benefit #25: Bit Corporation Gamate (1990) the Game Boy, they did it by manufacturing Bit Corporation tried to unseat the Game worse. Interesting strategy, I'll give them that. any way to the Gamate 3D we discussed must be one of humanity's greatest It suffered all of the limitations of a Game the kidney-disease color palette - and had none data on how large the library was, but there nearly all of which were simple clones of The one advantage the Gamate had was its price. quite a bit less than its competition. But you could have had a steak for $7 doesn't #24: Nintendo Virtual Boy Even their failures are adorable. And the this - was indeed a failure. It's not quite as because its reputation suggests that it damned all It's still quite bad, and we ranked every one Touted as Nintendo's foray into virtual presented traditional gaming experiences in 3D. and platformers that weren't presented any from the fact that they were all the same color We're classifying it as a handheld because but reallyyou're supposed to put it and pelt it with rocks. Nintendo did manage and we hope all 800,000 of the people who #23: Milton Bradley Microvision (1979) console, at least as far as we're defining them. but for the Microvision, Milton Bradley took traction at the time. Instead of building and could sell one console and as many games as they obvious idea today, but in 1979, it was a big and a library of games? Didn't that defeat the No, as it turns out. The Microvision was a profits from the device at around $8 million...the Because the company had experience designing the Microvision doesn't actually have a CPU; for each game built into its cartridge. And $20...or $71.57 when adjusted for you complaining about paying #22: Tommo Neo Geo X (2012) That's sure to be good! The Neo Geo X is what we'd most other minis do not: a cartridge slot. Though five additional cartridges featuring more very clear - was an excellent idea. The is that none of its other ideas were excellent. adjusted for inflation. Even worse is that there all; it runs an imperfect emulator that is particularly good; reviewers complained of problems that became even more obvious Are the critics just being big fat babies?! either. A year after its debut, releasing a product that was not up to the and insisted they discontinue it and Still, mini-console with an expandable #21: Nvidia Shield Portable (2013) handheld console market seems to than a serious direction for the company. other products - such as graphics cards and Nvidia never officially announced the product's It's still a quite interesting device, however, a company that hadn't made any other handhelds to be honest - and the fact that it essentially meant it felt good to hold and play. Of course, about $340 when adjusted for inflation. have been happy to pay, but the general Those who did own it enjoyed it, especially was therefore quite versatile. It also had was able to stream games from your #20: Fisher-Price iXL (2010) player for young children, the Fisher-Price iXL electronic device that could download a large That's a straightforward but that "official website" bit is actually what An education company called Quia Corp. had since 1998. In 2007, they launched an educational company changed its name to IXL...in 2010, shortly The company took Fisher-Price to court for searching for IXL learning materials would be and though the company had only recently had been associated with their product for years. favor on the grounds that "trademark laws and not against general confusion due to our channel's name a matter of days after #19: Atari Lynx (1989) to release immediately after the Game it wouldn't stand a chance. That About four years earlier, Nintendo unseated its superior hardware. Atari could have gotten its king with its superior hardware. After all, to the Game Boy what the NES was to whatever And yet the Lynx was a failure, selling only for this. It was more than twice the price of and you'd be imprisoned for murder if though, we think it came down to the games. Nintendo's pack-in - the legendary and that never changed during its six-year were downgraded console and arcade ports that were #18: LeapFrog Turbo Twist (2000) fun of learning with the catharsis of smacking a cue from Hasbro's Bop It!, the Turbo Twist that's about it, really, but it's certainly more There were several Turbo Twist units erm...Brains. Though it's not immediately apparent as the units came with enough preloaded content accepted cartridges. Additionally, you could load wasn't bad for an educational handheld shaped LeapFrog doesn't seem to make sales data available equivalent of around $60 today, which isn't too by those who had it growing up. Of course, been "growing up" in the year 2000 is making me #17: LeapFrogLeapster Explorer (2010) at TripleJump. At least, that's what you'd think one of them. So, what is this thing? Leapster I almost returned my PS5 when I discovered it. yet another handheld from LeapFrog, and it It's a sturdy device that features which is good because kids are probably the only were available as downloadable apps, which the pun on "leaflet?" What does a leaflet have to do consoles and their made-up words? Teach kids It had around 50 games and sold for the much worse in terms of both variety and value. If #16: NEC TurboExpress (1990) to play actual home console games was the Sega played PC Engine games - or TurboGrafx-16 games if Not every PC Engine game worked, as they came on a on a HuCardwould run on the TurboExpress, giving were home-console quality. Because...y'know...they The device was too far ahead of due in large part to its astronomical price: Weirdly, while a console's launch price is of the TurboExpress the year after it released. It also suffered from technology that with sound and visual failure being all too with an accessory that turned the Impressive for 1990. Unless you asked people #15: LeapFrogLeapster (2003) educational console, you can't do much better buy yourself a good educational console, you are but don't watch any videos until you're older. have managed to carve out a sustainable with the Leapster and its revisions being the fact that it's inexpensive - around $180 when of child-friendly games. Granted, there are number available for any educational handheld. for a lifetime. It's meant to be played until For instance, did you know ducks if you had a Leapster you'd know I was don't watch any videos here. We use a lot of #14: SNK Neo Geo Pocket (1998) outstepped the Game Boy in terms of power and in today's money. So of course, in the same month Color, and the monochrome Neo Geo Pocket looked with only 10 games in its library. sink more money into a dying system, they This was again more powerful than Nintendo's that SNK gave a global release. They also swelled series such as Sonic the Hedgehog, Fatal It was poised to be a solid rival...until the very shut down global distribution. Nintendo's Game Boy would be outdated and overshadowed. It had a rocky units worldwide, and had the sad distinction #13: Sega Nomad (1994) home console in 1994 with the Sega Nomad. It was we can say Genesis instead of Mega Drive because The company had high sales expectations, and they which was a version of the Mega Drive that could In all, though, the Nomad sold only one failure. Why? Well, the Sega Saturn released the console Americans were saving their money Saturn, either, but you get the point. the mistakes it had made with the Game Gear. and weighed more than the Earth itself. It play nearly the entire Genesis library. It but I honestly consider that a bonus. For some home console. At least, not until Nintendo #12: Cybiko(2000) an impressive piece of technology. It allowed mp3 playback, and complete PDA functionality. and use email, but only with a physical The unit was aimed at the teenage market, texting each other. Unlike most other Cybiko actually appears to have done quite but we do know that at least half a million Overall, reception was positive. The main functionality, the extremely small keyboard, least 430 of those games available, though, so So what ultimately caused the death of It was mobile phones, though; the came down in price and did everything the it was an interesting device and #11: NEC PC Engine LT (1991) something with this "handheld home console" idea. they tried another approach with the PC design to keep the screen safe and it accepted the entire 700-game home console library. found its built-in controls uncomfortable. selling for the equivalent of around $1,100 today. which was already causing anyone who saw In complete fairness to NEC, the cost was impressive and it had by far the highest-quality Of course, when it comes down to choosing between children one day, the console is going to but it performed poorly enough that any It's since become a sought-after item on the #10: Evercade (2020) the Evercade - made by...uh...Evercade - was designed It's especially nice for those who as the ports on the Evercade are The unfortunate thing is that the handheld does games are represented by their usually inferior breaker, though, especially when you consider the available represents a collection of games, often and Namco. In fact, there are around 200 games and they're spread across only 17 releases, not bad for its first year on the market. lackluster emulation and an inability to remap those concerns through firmware updates. The receptive and responsive, and a potential generations - and, hopefully, the arcade - has #9: Bandai WonderSwan (1999) as they say. Demonstrably false, but they if anyone had a shot at taking down the Game Boy, Yokoi left Nintendo in 1996 and soon started to Tragically, he didn't live to see how the by a motorist in 1997. Two years later, the where it did shockingly well. By some estimates which may not sound impressive, but that was a significant chunk. that ran on a single AA battery, could be and had a library of around 200 games. It with games from the Final Fantasy, Mega Man, There was also a puzzle game called Gunpey, It sold around 3.5 million units #8: Sega Game Gear (1990) after the Lynx hit shelves, the Game Gear was had been doing for the past year with its Game and Sega's own Mega Drive had established the Enter the Game Gear, which sold at a had a much larger library, and featured such as Sonic the Hedgehog, Sonic Spinball, Sonic and probably some other games, who knows? screen. At least until anything began to move, sneezed them onto the unit. It had fans, though, Still, the system was a distant second to were sold, but that's a far cry from the Gear is often considered a failure as but when you're that far behind the winner, even #7: Sony PlayStation Vita (2011) open old wounds just by being mentioned. Sony and powerful handhelds ever, and then spent It was puzzling to say the least, especially handheld at precisely the moment every a significant stumble for Nintendo. That company's by...expending less effort than you're expending plenty of time get the 3DS back on track and selling around 76 million units Sony steadfastly refused to support it, and may requiring the purchase of expensive, proprietary cards. It was a stroke of greed that made As a piece of hardware, it had serious potential. squandered every last bit of it. We're sorry for #6: Nintendo 3DS (2011) After years of dominating the handheld market, that, or they hit their heads really, massive price tag (around $290 when adjusted for but when you release with Pilotwings Resort, Steel Diver is, you might as well have no games. potential of augmented reality, but when you with it, they found the system difficult to They, y'know...fixed it. They dropped the price, added a Virtual Console...basically everything The 3DS did not reach the heights of the DS was backwards compatible with that system's over the years and some high-profile failures, one into the other. It was a remarkable #5: Sony PlayStation Portable (2004) you wanna get time sensitive about this - was and compared to some other first attempts on this It was priced significantly higher than its when adjusted for inflation, with the DS being with its entire stock in the UK Critics found fault with it - the buffoons - be damaged; that was one area in which the DS was plastic sandwich that was the UMD, when cartridges But no amount of griping undid the fact that the with installments in series such as God of War, The PSP had a total of about 1,700 decade. With somewhere around 80 million units best-selling console ever, and the best-selling #4: Nintendo Game Boy (1989) anyone even talks about handheld gaming today. The finest accomplishments. As we've seen, handheld but never before had they been able or as impressive as what the Game Boy did. anyone could have rightfully expected, that outlived the little guy, such It also gave us handheld adventures in established Metroid, Mega Man, Castlevania, and just about at the time. Also, we hear Tetris was pretty good. motion blur, and could only display the (issues remedied by the Game Boy Color didn't matter. It established Nintendo's a dominance that continues to this very day. making it the second-best #3: Nintendo Switch (2017) friend the Nintendo Switch! I haven't seen you I see. #3 on this list? Well, you Yes, complain if you must - and I get it; you and a handheld, so it gets spots on both we're focusing on the Switch Lite, which is don't know, maybe talk to a doctor? the company needed after the long, painful demise innovate and bring unique ways of enjoying games Nintendo has a near-perfect understanding of their business with the home console side was a games suffered for it, but with releases like it's clear Nintendo's games are as you can play The Witcher 3in a public toilet. #2: Nintendo Game Boy Advance (2001) to leave its Game Boy behind. It was a literal that they simply had to move on. Enter the Game in sales, but did so in every other regard. when adjusted for inflation), it had a game it was more powerful, it was more The Game Boy found its success in installments of beloved franchises, even a bit lacking when compared to their console saw installments that were so good, they're still The Minish Cap, Metroid Fusion, Mega Man Zero, 4, Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow...the list goes on. the Game Boy Advance simply allowed developers to With around 1,500 games in its library, it any other handheld in gaming history. Pick sure you get an Advance SP with a backlight; #1: Nintendo DS (2004) Everything about the DS positioned it for in today's money), backwards compatibility meaning and it launched with installments in franchises dual-screen design opened new possibilities to together some touchscreen minigames, there were It offered unique experiences that It's difficult to remember at this point how much struggling, Nintendo needed a hit. In fact, prior of its board of directors told the newspaper to heaven, but if it fails we will sink to hell." far from the truth. Fortunately for him and The DS was a success, selling almost 155 million one other console in history; the PS2 It's the best handheld of all time, and it looks Heaven? We can't promise that, but they did ranked from worst to best. I think we can And that's every handheld ranked from accidentally misplaced? What did your grandmother Do you think the Switch has killed handheld you answer those questions out loud, so be Also, if you have suggestions for other let us know. As this video proves, badger You can follow TripleJump on Twitter why not support the things you enjoy by don't forget to like the video, share it with I'm Peter, and I'm Ben from