Sam Giancana was of them all when organized crime was - I say he was far more and he was a giant. He had a He was pals with Frank Sinatra. - Sam Giancana didn't like He liked the big life. He liked to be seen with the stars. He was worth millions and had the power of life... Or death. - He killed a lot of people. He had a lot of people killed. - One cold stare from you and it could cause you - If you crossed him, But in helping and assisting in the his career sees the mafia and politics mix into a deadly cocktail. The pursuit of Sam Giancana of the State versus the Mob. And the final chapter is one of the most notorious mafia hits of all. Sam Giancana had learned from Al Capone's top enforcers. He excelled as a driver delivering killers to murder their victims He learned how to lend money - &quot;Hey, Sam, loan me a five, He said, &quot;What'd it take for security?&quot; And Sam said, &quot;How about a lie?&quot; His furious the people around him wondered about his mental stability. - He was violent. but the people in the Chicago Outfit almost are all violent. They kill people with the drop of a hat. He was a killer. Age, just 18. Giancana was charged with murder. But escaped conviction. - When I first saw Sam &quot;There is the arrogance, the hatred, the violence, the viciousness that I've dedicated my For the mob, Giancana's greatest strength but his gift for making money. It was Giancana who struck fear so that every slot machine It was Giancana who muscled the Black gambling kings outta Chicago with threats and murder. Under his watchful eye, millions of dollars poured in from casinos in Las Vegas and Cuba. And by 1957, aged 49, Sam Mooney Giancana was boss of the Chicago Outfit. - Sam Giancana was the most in the history of the United States. He had his tentacles into to the business world around Chicago. But justice as the government turned on organized crime. An eager young lawyer and his kind fall. Robert Kennedy. The nation's underworld gets the unwelcome spotlight of publicity as the Senate's Investigation new hearings on crime, Arkansas Senator- - The Senate was investigating mafia - While leaving the hearing- - Robert Kennedy made a name for himself after witness about their mob connections. - Did you say, &quot;That SOB, Who did you make it about? - I don't know, I may have in a figure of speech. Well, who did whose back were you- - Well, whose back were - Figure of speech. who I was talking about and I dunno what you're talking about. - I mean, it was real-life drama and it was exciting to watch. On the 9th of June 1959, the witness was Sam Giancana. - Could you tell us, Sir, whether if you have that you dispose of them by Is that what you do, Mr. Giancana refused by taking what is known in - When you take the Fifth, &quot;I respectfully decline that my answer might and nobody can touch you for it. - Sam Giancana asserted over 30 times. - The client answered, &quot;Because might then incriminate me.&quot; Chief Counsel and goaded the gangster. Will you tell of your operations or every time I ask you a question? - The client answer, might tend to incriminate me.&quot; I thought only little Bobby Kennedy's to light Giancana's famously short fuse. - I think he was hoping but you know, I never thought Round one in this long, bitter feud went to Sam Giancana, Kennedy could get nothing on him. And there was a reason why the Chicago boss felt untouchable. He was well connected to the Kennedys. Robert Kennedy's big brother, Senator John F Kennedy had set his sights on the White House. But just to become the was a battle. A Boston Irish Catholic to anything in staunchly Protestant States of '60s America like The wealthy Kennedy clan would have to buy support in these So they reached out to an for help. Frank Sinatra. - Sinatra was a friend the family, and Jack Frank, in and business partner who his way in politics. Sam Giancana. - I have every reason to in the West Virginia Election. The person who handled the Before Giancana sent one of his men to spread $50,000 around West Virginia. He sweetened local politicians and paid bar owners to keep &quot;High Hopes,&quot; playing on Giancana's efforts seemed to help get the Kennedys John F Kennedy became to run for president. But an even bigger challenge lay ahead. In November 1960, John Kennedy faced the sitting in the race for the White House. The election was too close to call. Pundits were saying that of Illinois would win the presidency and the key to Illinois was Chicago. Giancana's Chicago to swing votes in their city. They've been doing it for generations - In this city, no criminal enterprise is going to work until they've got the He had the politicians, One ruse was from precinct to precinct, Another well-worn trick was ghost voting. Impersonating deceased Mob-controlled unions were prevailed upon to vote Kennedy to a man. There were even claims that Giancana's hoods intimidated voters at the polling stations. - Listening to the radio, listening to the returns coming in, it was obvious that there was a theft underway. Not since 1916 had the presidential election Kennedy beat Nixon by just one-10th of 1%. Somewhat after the election, Senator the Vice President, with visitors- Sam Giancana was who had elected Kennedy While most dispute this, Giancana certainly expected payback. - Giancana can legitimately and that he had tipped it and that he could expect some result. Giancana expected the new Kennedy Administration to get Bobby off his back. He told an associate... Bobby will just be another God-damn lawyer soon. They promised me they'll take care of him. - I am, in my mind, convinced that there was a deal cut that if Giancana would get Illinois for the Democrats that he Giancana prophesied of government harassment He couldn't have been more mistaken. New President, John F Kennedy to the government post - I have felt that we should secure the best talent we could get of a party, regardless This test has been applied, Far from as Attorney General, the fanatical mob-chasing the country's top Law Enforcement Officer. It was a shock for Giancana - The last thing they thought was, they would get Robert Kennedy Anybody but Robert Kennedy, Bobby Kennedy, of Justice and the FBI - I think that in the I think it's in a very serious situation that's facing the country I think a lot of steps can be taken in order to deal with the problem. I think it's gotten much more serious over the period of the last 10 years. Giancana cursed at the site of the Attorney General and fumed at the very To him, Bobby Kennedy's war on organized crime was a betrayal. But as the Justice Department went to war, Sam Giancana fell in love. Phyllis McGuire was the lead the McGuire Sisters. She was 29. Giancana was 52. It seems a violent Mo - And he wasn't flashy. It was just direct and it was strength and his eyes were, it's like She was a big star. Stunningly beautiful, and he loved to be seen Giancana began to flood cars, and jewelry. Cash had always bought him but this was different. He began to neglect business in Chicago to follow Phyllis to He even accompanied her on The tough mob boss had a weak spot the government would later use to help bring him down. While Giancana was romancing Phyllis, Attorney General Bobby radically reforming the - He was extremely driven. He absolutely hated what The mafia, organized crime. To the 10 FBI agents assigned to Chicago, Kennedy added 60 more. Giancana called them G-men or just The G. At first, he was unconcerned, Up to now, their track record against organized crime had not been good. But Kennedy was changing the game. The FBI agents that descended They were all clean-cut, Many were lawyers. Above all, the biggest that these government men to their incorruptibility. Unlike other Chicago law enforcement, Giancana couldn't buy them. Robert Kennedy was also of lawyers in the Justice and Racketeering Section. From 17 to 63. He rebuilt the whole operation. - You can think of the as a aircraft carrier, and you can't turn an they don't have brakes. You can slow it down and steer it. He turned it on a dime and took The Attorney of investigators well. His goal was to get all government as never before to break - He talked directly to you. It gave us a whole feeling of electricity and what we were doing and - We did feel that we were kind of like the new Untouchables. Giancana by the new FBI agents in Chicago. - The view is fine and the Over and out. His HQ was in the and Restaurant in Chicago's Despite FBI surveillance, his private business remains - Eyeball one to dugout. - I read you loud and clear. Also, he thought... - Ten-three Eyeball One, stay with it. The G-men had a new weapon that would turn Giancana's Electronic surveillance. - Now, Bobby Kennedy decided an issue of national security. It was a threat to the United States, and fell in that category that Install a wiretap without a warrant. The number of FBI bugs and wiretaps in America exploded from just a handful to hundreds. The FBI agents, Roemer and Hill assigned to monitor Giancana were quick to hide a microphone in The Armory Lounge. the G-men overheard Potsie Poe, an old associate, complaining I never thought it you told me when they we're gonna see some fireworks. But I never knew it would be like this! This is murder! They concentrate You mean the Outfit? Yeah! The agents heard exactly how Giancana ran the Outfit. Although officially the boss, he received advice from senior mob figures and retired boss Tony Accardo. Listen, Moe, oh, we aren't here to try to twist your mind. We're just giving you what is practical practical advice, that's all. We're not here to try to distort you. The tapes also revealed how Giancana advised his driver and bodyguard Butch Blasi of Silence Omerta. He warned about the penalties for blabbing mob business to outsiders. - There was a stuffed fish over the bar and he points up to the You know how He opened his mouth. - And, of course, he's saying but he's telling Butch Blasi to don't talk about FBI Agents, Roemer, and Hill, in the surveillance of to exploit his weak spot. The relationship with Phyllis McGuire. they watched Sam and Phyllis closely. Very closely. They took photos and shot moving footage of them together when they went out. with the wiretaps and bugs, they also listened when they stayed in, even recording their whether in Las Vegas or Maryland. Pittsburgh or Atlantic City. The pressure of tight His acid anger was fired at That Roemer, he spots us He says, &quot;Hello, Moe,&quot; and he walks away. So we move out of there and who the fuck walks Giancana He antagonized the agents and his obscenities. Retired boss Accardo was concerned that Giancana would do something stupid. Don't call them Don't pay attention. Just walk away from them. Let them talk. You guys hollering, &quot;Go fuck yourselves.&quot; and this and that, Them poor bastards they're just like us They got a job to do. We know what to do and we do it. I know. Bobby Kennedy but one government agency by secretly seeking Giancana's help... The CIA. The consequences for the agency and for Giancana would eventually be dire. Giancana and many other vast lucrative business just a short hop from Miami. In exotic and poverty-stricken Cuba, White tourists with green and lose money in the comfort of the mob-owned casino hotels. - Cuba was a gold mine for the mob. It's a lot of money made and the joints and Castro On New Year's Day, 1959, Fidel Castro's rebel and with popular support, supplanted the old mob-friendly Castro swiftly nationalized It cost the mob and the US of dollars. - The mob, they were running this Cuba. They were running amuck And when Castro came in, So they were not happy with him. If they could get rid of It wasn't just The CIA saw Castro as a dangerous communist and they wanted him swept away. - So who would you go to? You go to mob guys who had It operated there for years and are pretty good at killing people. On the basis Is My Friend,&quot; The CIA met Giancana and associates to try to arrange a gangland hit on - They're certainly naive They're not a hit squad. You can't buy them. They kill people. They thought they could. At a clandestine meeting at the Fontainebleau Hotel in Miami, the CIA wanted a Capone-style attack. with Castro going down in The real-life gangsters demurred wanting to keep things nice and clean. Giancana suggested using pills to poison The CIA took his advice. But when a US Government agency from gangsters, they should - And once you've dealt with them and they've given you something, to ask for something back. And you don't want a reciprocal You're compromised. Master manipulator Giancana soon turned the situation to his advantage. First, he's working for the CIA, and then somehow, they find Giancana suspected Phyllis McGuire of having an affair in Las Vegas with top showbiz comedian Dan Rowan. He talked his CIA contact into arranging to plant a microphone But the operation went terribly wrong. The installation engineers and arrested by police. The CIA feared the mob connection and Castro's assassination - The agency did not want that And they were afraid to death of any public examination of Giancana To avoid a public trial, a deeply embarrassed CIA Sheffield Edwards had to confess in a memo to the FBI the whole sordid affair when he found out the Attorney General - And he called Sheffield And what he said was, &quot;The like that, you talk to me first.&quot; One day, to haunt both the CIA and Sam Giancana. FBI agents Roemer and Rutland watching and being verbally abused now put even more pressure on Determined to drive him over the edge, the agents implemented what they called Lockstep Surveillance. Every day, round the following in cars. When he got out, they got out. When he walked, they They followed him on his jeering from the edge of the greens. - They were like this. He played golf, they were behind him. Just everywhere he went and it sent him off like a Roman candle. They even If he went to the restroom, and stand at the next urinal, for him to do what he - It was pure simple harassment. They weren't getting anything out of that. Roemer and Rutland It drove Giancana mad. An electronic surveillance reveals that his mob associates dangerously irrational. That fucking Giancana wait until you hear what he's done now. He's not making good decisions. What happened? Charlie McCarthy told Roemer that Mo told him to tell Kennedy to talk to him through Sinatra. For Christ's You don't give up on a legit guy! He told Roemer that More or less! I'm so fucking mad I could We gotta do something about driving this! The G is driving this man goofy! A maddened in a way the mob would never understand. He sued the FBI, saying their lockstep operation Giancana's lawyer hired a film crew to shoot the FBI lockstep in action. in a darkened courtroom, the judge was also shown playing a round of golf, going to church, and visiting his father's grave. An injunction against Lockstep The FBI agents would have Sam Giancana had, for the but Giancana's victory soon evaporated. And to escape the continual scrutiny, he and Phyllis holidayed at and then in Las Vegas. Meanwhile, the FBI was recording some disturbing mobster conversations. With Kennedy, and stab and kill that fucker. I mean it, this is true, honest to God, right in the White House. Somebody's got to get rid of that fucker - The Kennedy's war against a dark mood among gangsters They should th mother and father too. Just a few months later, on November the 22nd, 1963, President John F Kennedy was assassinated. During a Dallas motorcade. The killing spawned a rash who might be responsible. - There was always a strong to do with the assassination The rumors of when it was revealed that the man who gunned down Kennedy's was mob fixer Jack Ruby. It didn't go unnoticed that Sam Giancana had sought But despite the rumors, to substantiate claims that President Kennedy's death did, however, give the mob what it wanted. The immobilization of - I think he was simply An FBI informant What he said was, chilling. Attorney General the power that he did. - Within a year, the a different Attorney General Giancana thought the pressure was off. But Bobby Kennedy had rebuilt to smash organized crime. Even without him, the machinery worked on. Crucially, Kennedy had of investigative lawyers who would not give up the fight. One of Bobby's boys was a of Justice Strike Force David Schippers. - Always there was this Sam that nobody seemed to be able to touch. All he had to do was surface once and we'd be able to put him Couldn't find anything. Schipper's problem The FBI agents' years of electronic surveillance of extortion, illegal But as the bugs were installed under presidential prerogative and not by a judicial of hours of incriminating as evidence in court. But determined to put Schippers meticulously First, to question Giancana Schippers awoke the dormant power of an investigative Grand Jury. - Without the Grand Jury, We couldn't do a thing because we had no personal subpoena power. It was a Grand Jury that - If you are subpoenaed to the Grand Jury, you got no choice, you gotta show up. You may take the Fifth Amendment, but you're gonna get dragged in there. Second, Schippers behind the Fifth Amendment that he could incriminate himself. - If what you're saying can then the Fifth Amendment doesn't apply. That's where the use of immunity came in. Granting to a top mafia boss was a bold step and a hard sell to Schippers' - The US Attorney, looked at Are you crazy?&quot; They said, &quot;Well, you don't We wouldn't immunize him if If he doesn't talk, we'll put him in jail. If he does talk, we're gonna We'll break the whole stupid mafia.&quot; At last, the trap was set, but would Giancana take the bait? In December 1964, the Federal Grand Jury To soften Giancana up, Schippers to question them in secret. Giancana feared they might but he couldn't be sure. Then, to play even more on Giancana's increasing paranoia, Schippers exploited his weak spot. He subpoenaed Phyllis McGuire. - So here comes Phyllis McGuire. We're gonna put her in the Grand Jury. I just assumed she's gonna come and the questions were essentially, would've essentially have Nothing embarrassing, she was Phyllis seemed Whether she actually testified or asserted her Fifth Amendment rights and declined to answer is still secret. But the thought that Phyllis sent the paranoid Giancana crazy. You know, that he was pretty angry with you. Have you talked to him about it? - No comment. - Well, the word came back to us as Sam Giancana was ready Is this an indication? Do you think that your - No comment. - Because he thought if she David Schippers after Phyllis and made sure when they met just before questioning, - I had a transcript of in some case. It was about a half-inch thick. And we had the court reporter put a page on top that said And I know Sam saw it. Schippers had Giancana right where he wanted him on the witness stand. The Chicago boss thought he He'd plead the Fifth and go home as usual. But he didn't realize David - I remember the judge saying to him, &quot;Mr. Giancana, if you on the way in here today, You are immune from any as of this moment. Immunity of Fifth Amendment protection. - And then it really hit him when the judge told him he was immune and he had to talk. He was ordered to The single-minded purpose of David Schippers of an old adversary. - He turned to me and he said, &quot;You're one of Bobby's boys, aren't you?&quot; I said, &quot;Yes, Sir, I am.&quot; - Giancana had no choice. If he talked and lied, he was If he talked and told the Giancana gave his name and and the trap was sprung. Sam Giancana, boss of the to answer questions, was and taken straight to jail. - Sam Giancana was totally odd. He was rattled. He couldn't understand The judge commented to his own cell. He would be released when he decided to answer the Grand Jury's questions. But in the Outfit you don't talk. Giancana kept his mouth shut. This was a government victory of sorts as it was the first for over 20 years. - That rocked the whole organized crime around the country. But was it Giancana could only be held in jail until the Grand Jury folded a year later. On the night Giancana there was a party at his home in Oak Park, but senior mobsters found The Outfit Old Guard decided and volatile temper was bad for business. They gave the FBI a belated victory by stripping Sam Giancana of his rank as boss and throwing Giancana left the US to Over the years, he built No G-men dogged his steps or And Giancana returned to what In the mid-'60s as NASA prepared to put a man on the moon, Giancana was launching a gambling in the Caribbean. While the US tore itself apart over the Vietnam war, Giancana's with success in Guatemala In 1968, his old adversary, Robert Kennedy ran for president. But on the campaign trail, he And although the '70s saw an aging Giancana undergo he enjoyed a quiet, wealthy life. Then, suddenly, a dark a chilled shadow over Sam Giancana. His connection to the CIA. In January 1975, a Senate Select Committee illegal CIA operations, specifically CIA involvement in plans to assassinate Castro. Its findings would shock - It is simply intolerable that any agency of the Government of the United States may engage in murder. The Committee from any mobsters consulted by the CIA in their Castro Although lying low in Mexico, Giancana had been snatched and suddenly found himself deported back into the United States. The press were waiting. Giancana, why did you have to leave Mexico, Sir? - Why? I don't know. So, Giancana, The future plans to reestablish his cut of - Once he arrived in Chicago, he announced to the enter organization that he was back and he was the man. But a new generation They had no room for the ageing Giancana. - By that time, a lot of his or dead because of what Knocked out Giancana received a subpoena before the Senate Committee DC on June the 24th, 1975. But Sam Giancana never made it. On June the 19th, 1975. 4 days after celebrating Sam Giancana was at home He was cooking in his basement kitchen. Routine police patrols Health problems meant he So it seems the sausage and peppers was a late-night A friend Giancana liked and trusted. A close friend. But the mafia hadn't quite The way he was killed, showed that the mob no longer - He was shot in the mouth so that you might draw the conclusion that somebody was leaving a message. Don't talk. - It was somewhat that powerful was killed. So there had to be a major decision among the powers that be in the mob. Sam Giancana's over 50 years, spanning the heyday of organized crime in America. In the years after Giancana, to shun any mob connection. The glamorous image of People realized they were just killers. Never again would a mafia with the bright stars of show business or the dark underbelly of politics. The FBI and the Justice the first serious blows