- Let's talk about four between leadership and management. A video like this needs a few Having a title of manager you are demonstrating On the flip side, you don't need a leadership in any given situation. But really the majority who have an official some managerial activities and Because these are not They are complementary. Virtually every team and every organization In fact, as John O'Leary says in his article in the &quot;The differences between and leadership activities to the personality of the specific manager or leader that you're talking about.&quot; So these often blur and overlap right down to the level of the individual, depending upon their role, personality, and scope of their responsibilities. Given that background, My approach today was to take from the Harvard Business Review and pull out the overlapping features in those articles about I'll put links to all four articles in the description below so that you can look at them yourself. Let's first look at these from and then we'll dig into From a big picture view, leadership is all about And unlike management, whether it's accurate or not, there's a mystique or a bit of mystery around what great leaders do and the power of their influence in his Harvard Business Review articles, one of the articles we're looking at. When we think about the ability to attract and inspire followers, there's what you might call an X factor, or a hard-to-describe essence that some people call charisma, or at least communication confidence that makes people want That may be why some people as more interesting. We don't tend to think as having mystique. Let's talk about the At the heart of it, management activities or rational mindset and the coordination Abraham Zelnick says, again in his Harvard &quot;The manager asks this question, 'What problems have to be solved, and what are the best so that people will continue to contribute to the organization?'&quot; Management is about solving and maintaining the system. Now, let's break that of leadership and management that were repeated to some in the Harvard Business First, they have different A leader's power comes and their ability to influence others in their expanding The manager's authority comes in the chain of command. This variable shows why without ever having an official job title and without any authority behind it. That's because leadership Leaders can motivate. They can get people on board. They can gather people around them because they have that kind and relationship with their followers. They have an expanding sphere of influence that is often driven by the Managers, in contrast, get their power from their job description. For example, if you're a supervisor and you're officially in then that's your job to do. The task is tied to the role. Managers have what you might call decision-making power and authority. So let's say you're an ordinary employee. You don't have the authority just to start making That's not part of your job description. A regular employee can't because that's literally not your job. The authority and responsibility into the manager's job They have the legal rational to do those tasks. But the moment that no longer in that role, they don't have that authority, those are specific tasks tied to the role. Your last supervisor, for no longer has the power to That power is tied to the In contrast, leadership It's not dependent upon the job title. Leaders can continue to have even if they no longer work A true leader will on the mentality that says, &quot;You have to do it because I A leader has the ability to A true leader will have so much influence. Let's say they leave an organization. It may be the case that a whole that leader to help them because it's about the and their influence. So at the foundation, leaders and managers' power Number two is about vision Leaders cast a vision and align Leaders inspire and empower people to make the vision happen. Managers administrate toward that vision. They organize and structure people and tasks around specific Management focuses on like budgeting, staffing, procedures, and measuring progress toward those goals. But these are not really opposites. I tend to see these two activities A leader gets everybody and the manager translates and objectives needed to For example, President John that it was his goal or vision and bring him back safely That's what casting a vision looks like. And then he had to align But he didn't manage NASA himself. He didn't create departmental structures around propulsion, That managers at NASA and other government agencies articulated specific objectives along the way to achieve that vision and And spoiler alert, they With just six months left in the decade, we put human beings on the moon and brought them back safely. A great example of this in pop culture of this combination is in Chris Traeger is the leader. With the inspiration and the vision, he gets everybody excited. And Ben Wyatt is the numbers guy who's gotta figure out if they can get these They make the perfect team on the show and they play it up for comedy purposes, because that's the point of the show. But the characters do represent between leadership and management at work. Three is about risks and maintenance. Leaders seek to create big and that means taking risks. Managers maintain the system and move more incrementally Again, this is a because leadership is all stretching the organization, oftentimes advocating for radical change, but it's the manager's and keep the foundation of They are counterweights. Another example is how those in Hollywood movies. Someone, a leader, comes up risky idea like riding a and then parachuting to the This is what they did in the most recent Either Tom Cruise or the director said, &quot;We're gonna do what's That's innovation and And then there has to be somebody else playing the role of manager. And it's their job to manage those risks to maintain everybody's safety, to make sure that all the making sure all the steps are making sure they thought of and then finding ways to Both of those roles are crucial. One cannot exist without the other. Number four is about communication. Leaders communicate while managers' communication tends to be directive and procedural. And this pulls together many that we've been talking about here. Leaders are always looking for ways to get their followers excited, to fire them up, to bring They lead from the front They say, &quot;Let's go. Let's do this.&quot; They have what you might that spreads and gives their followers a similar confidence to commit. Many leaders even have a that their followers resonate with. This isn't always the case, but some leaders have a track record of past success and achievement, and that credibility helps persuade others that they're capable In contrast, managerial directive, and procedural. Managers communicate deadlines, requirements, expectations, targets. There's an element of accountability built into managerial who report to these managers Those are the top four differences. Sometimes one person will do all of these, especially in a smaller Usually in larger organizations, they'll hire specific individuals with strong managerial to balance out that because ultimately organizations need both management and Question for you. Which side do you Both sides are important. Be sure to take a look on the top five essential for professionals. There's a link to that Until next time, thanks. God bless, and I will see you soon.