2007 was a bittersweet year for the Mario Party this year; first, Mario Party 8, a game that formula to the Wii, a console that made perfect be a hit. Then later that year, we received Mario Unfortunately though, Mario Party DS was the last game in the Mario Party series to be developed by Hudson Soft, the original developer of this series who has handled the is definitely a pivotal entry for the series in the Hudson Soft era of the series with a bang, or where today we'll be covering Mario Party DS Mario Party DS is the second handheld game in strange on its face. I don't think i'm breaking more ideal on consoles since players can easily on one screen with only one console needed. On a to replicate. Hudson Soft attempted this before and certainly tried its heart out but ultimately, it didn't of the Game Boy Advance's limited multiplayer need to rely very heavily on single-player content undermined the whole idea of being a Mario Party we're on the DS - which had a much better and the coolest part about this game is that all of its multiplayer content, whether you're experience is so unique, and since I'm a freak as authentic as possible for some reason, all the footage you real Nintendo DS, unless if I credit a source Party DS is interesting because of its direct and I wanted to make sure that I captured let's take a look back at Mario Party DS, Mario Party DS is really interesting to look it truly tries its hardest to match the console there are some aspects that needed to be tweaked screen, but for the most part, this game is super a DS cartridge. It also has some of its own ideas however the payouts were tweaked slightly. between first and second place, Mario Party 30 percent to second place, and 5 percent is helpful for the player in third place to get also slightly tweaked from the previous two initiate a duel and then immediately play the of the minigame would spin a wheel to see what wagering in duels. I preferred when Mario Party gave the plaintiff the in a minigame against another player to make things players blindly play the minigame and then spin a and also less impactful. Mario Party DS sadly but it does make two key changes that I think is decided before the minigame starts rather than duel to mean nothing. Spinning the wheel before duel is going to be way more tense when players even if they themselves didn't choose what to when you know going into it how many of your coins Party 7 and 8, the winner could roll that the few minutes picking an opponent and playing a waste of the players' time and Mario Party DS in Mario Party DS isn't the best the series has on the same space as another player and instead definitely been improved from the past couple now dubbed the Final 5 Frenzy which I like a games. The Last 5 Turns Event has gone through a special rule would be added to the board to doubled or all spaces getting a capsule event bit by also adding some events that just benefit spaces, and Mario Party 8 really changes this Candy or 30 coins depending on the board, then goes headlong in the 6 &amp; 7 route by making the of the time. The only one that affects all players but otherwise last place can receive 20 free coins a free Star, which is absolutely insane. This is third, it might honestly be a good idea to try to something good for yourself. I personally think that this might be a little bit too good to just give away at the that generally affect all players equally are ideal for irredeemably bad or anything, I personally think more interesting and can sway the game more, but Mario Party DS also marks the return of the hidden Party 5, and they're back with a vengeance. Hidden since they can spawn one of FIVE different free Star like in previous games, but you can also good and calls back to Mario Party 3. However, the DS. You can also have the opportunity to get not block, up to THREE. This is honestly insane, it's game, almost a little too much. On the opposite which will take away a star, which is brutal Mario Party DS taketh away, I suppose. The but it really returned in a big way. I of like how much they stand out compared to the The space types in Mario Party DS weren't changed total of 5 space types available on the board, and the Bowser space functions similarly to how sad seeing the DK space go away, since it worked but given what happens to DK in Mario Party DS's not having a space seems to be the least of his The Bowser space has a few different events that can occur: Gimme Charity forces the Equality is essentially a Bowser Revolution, players, Gimme Coins forces the player to, forces the player to - take a wild guess. If you probably already know that I don't love it of the economy just because you landed on his as bad for reasons I'll get into later. I'll that Mario Party 8 handled its Bowser spaces, version of the Bowser space back. It's impactful, affect all players which is really good. Gimme Equality especially is a good event that adds some teeth-chattering tension to Bowser Spaces, be forced to give up a lot of that money to their Mario Party 8 was the lucky space. LET'S GO!!!!! THAT'S WHAT I'M TALKIN' ABOUT BABY!!!!! WOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!! *clearing throat* I think that this change was for the best. I'll spare you the long explanation of why video on Mario Party 8 if you're curious about is better without it. Instead, Mario Party DS has then by the last five turns the Friendship Spaces you and an opponent of your choice that's uh... that's really it. I'll be honest, I've Space. It almost always just means that you and since the player who lands on the Friendship Space threatening them the least in that moment. It's... much for the board gameplay, neither right nor the friendship spaces into duel spaces towards friendships and alliances are turning against moments. Mario Party DS has a kind to Mario Party 8 before it, and I definitely and Chance Time because I really do interesting ways. However, Mario Party DS is a bit that makes this simplicity a little bit easier to The boards in Mario Party DS are noticeably you know, on a handheld. For reference, the smallest average of spaces at 61 and 1/3 spaces with just 46.2 spaces per board on average. it makes sense that the boards would be so a small handheld. As I'm sure you can expect, DS also have a lower Plain Space Density than having the lowest density of blue and red with just under 48% of its spaces made up by it makes sense that there are fewer space types since Mario Parties 2 through 4 especially have boards in Mario Party DS, so naturally, there larger boards. However, I think that this leads interesting events because even though there are the amount of non-plain spaces that they Mario Party DS's boards are significantly Mario Party DS's boards have more Happening the board with the lowest amount of Happening Spaces as Bowser's Warped Orbit, the board with think that this gives DS's boards a more hectic concerns - which I'll really get into when we may smaller compared to its console counterparts this does beg the question - how does this affect Mario Party DS has a bit of an interesting to look back on. Does it return to its roots line with Mario Parties 2 through 4, especially does it use something like the Orb system that estate to customize due to the smaller boards? so there are technically two different item are purchaseable in the shop and through board consumable items of Mario Parties 2 through which let you roll multiple dice, the Halfway which kinda sucks because you can only use it on other players like the Poison Mushroom in Mario warp you to a random space on the board, and the There's also the Grab bag, which will always give Item Bag from the previous games, which gives you random items. The only really new item that Mario Party DS has under its belt is the Block Sensor, which will essentially bring matter what the space type is, you'll always get playing with a mechanic that has historically but it's kind of just a gamble whether you'll get or if you receive a Ztar for it, which but it's not one of my all time favorite items that I've neglected to mention - that's caused has lasted to this day - and that phenomenon *One-Winged Angel from Final Fantasy VII plays* The Star Pipe isn't anything particularly new to Mario Party; functionally, it's the same thing as the Genie Lamp that came before it, so what's the deal? Party now? Well, the Star Pipe from this game and is way too inexpensive. Let me explain - a hierarchy of the power of items in each Mario more than others and why, depending on which game shops depending on both your placement and the hierarchy of these items even more is by having from when you're shopping. This is a huge reason one of the strongest in the series - This game point that it isn't always a no-brainer to buy one Boo Repellent and keep yourself insured from your pick up a Boo Bell to steal a Star from a player favor since you gain AND your opponent loses. And you want to watch the world burn. Having these strategic decision, but in Mario Party DS... not only are the items absolutely dirt cheap in also are not limited to buying one item per visit that you can carry, and you even have the ability so choose. This means that for the price of 45 possession, which basically means 3 guaranteed which again, in most instances you likely will overpowered. There's no other purchaseable item item like the Boo Bell into this economy and have made this item way less broken. The items but the balance is not the greatest and they don't in the series thus far. However, that's only So Mario Party DS also features Hexes, the second the Orbs from Mario Parties 5-7, which can be notable difference between Hexes and Orbs, and once a Hex has been set off by a player landing on player who set the Hex. This change makes sense space having a Hex on it by the end of the game, Hexes down more frequently to try to own more Hexes that swap coins, Hexes that swap spaces, self-explanatory, but there are also two Blocks as block will allow players to mash for free coins, two or three free Stars, which is insanely they basically function as hidden blocks that the what they are since the player who sets a Hex can but to the other players, it just looks like to pay attention to where the Blocks are the Star Block in particular is just way too good. think it was a cool rare reward, but up to THREE? one space. All in all though, I think that the that gives a bit of interactivity to the boards, only attainable through passing the Hex space on determined. I honestly think that Hexes should would give players more things to spend their items that you can buy in the shops and make the made the Star Pipe less of a dominant strategy I think that the item system in Mario Party DS is the series. What I like about it is that it feels games in the series in its own little way, with the traditional items Hexes reminiscent of the Orbs from 5 through 7. systems that I think is interesting - I just Before we move on to the boards, Mario Party to Mario Parties 7 and 8's, with a pool of at random. The Mini-Game Star and Green Star counting who wins the most minigames rather than a good change since Battles and coin minigames that number too much. Good on ya Mario Party DS. but now we also have the Item and Hex Stars for the player who uses the most of that item, who landed on the most Friendship spaces. While I group that players can predict and work towards, these Bonus Stars some of the other games which had Bonus Stars whose prices were placement-dependent. I think Stars since they generally sway the standings end up getting more Stars in this game. As a quick DS's Stars? In pretty much every other Mario Party once somebody got one, it usually marked a huge DS gives Stars away like it's Oprah and steals are constantly flying all over the place, from events like the Star Zone, and honestly it makes the economy since it isn't nearly as impactful as just be one of, if not the most unstable economies doesn't even have Chance Time! I think the reason because this game's pacing is balanced around a Mario Party game, which is usually balanced around intended to be played in shorter sessions, it has to make sure that interesting, game-changing events occur within a interesting to the console versions. If you think depending on what game you're playing, there will point in the game. So, to compensate, Mario Party While this does Mario Parties, it is one of the more hectic ones where it feels like anything could happen, this talked about board mechanics enough. Let's talk Mario Party DS has 5 boards: Wiggler's Garden, Kamek's Library, and Bowser's Pinball Machine. So has ever dipped beneath the 6-board standard, and smaller, but it is what it is. What these boards game's theme. Mario Party DS's theme is that all are regular spaces seen from the perspective affinity for media that takes place from the regular setting from a perspective where climbing I will never get tired of it. So, let's talk Kamek's Library is the weakest board of the bunch, to anybody who's played it. This board borrows it way worse. There are three magic jars that can will send you back to the start of the board. Once This mechanic, while luck-heavy, is an interesting hunting. It's not my favorite mechanic, but broken up into two main looping islands and the of these Happening Spaces and draw an arrow in the problem with Kamek's Library is probably pretty its central mechanic. For starters, this layout is is a single looping path with no junctions, claustrophobic cluster of spaces that boils down on the outside. Most of the junctions here send that spit you right back at that junction again, arrive back at this junction in like, 2 turns. If here, you have to pay 3 coins to cross this bridge feels like it was added to this board without any to do. What's the point of adding a toll here? board, so you would probably only go over there But if this is the case, why is the bridge toll so you use this to block other players from traveling something in a board with a decent layout, but in this mechanic mean anything without completely the core. The dual island layout also just doesn't mechanic worked well because the board is very and try to race your opponents to get to certain the wrong island for a jar, it means that you will because you have to land on one of the happening which could take a few turns and by that time, the worst part about this mechanic is that the that Neon Heights had its own board-specific that are on the board, which could contain one of Star with this Orb if you wait for the Star chest is waiting for the other chests to be opened Star first. This makes sense - either way, you're the dice on whether other players will get to chest that may not have a Star. Kamek's Library so players can just buy a typical Star Pipe no matter how many jars are available. This Star Pipe is already too good in this game, but gimmick by always taking you to the correct jar Pipe costs less than the Lakitu Orb does in first I digress. There are tons of Happening spaces on transport you across the board. There are also where you'll dust them off with the touch in time. On the top half of the board, there that allow you to draw a constellation and and three spaces in front of this other crystal Dice Blocks and either swap your place with Happening Spaces are fine, mostly. The giveaway spaces or Star Pipe from [the constellation spaces], and there's three of them directly in a row in a loop a board with really bad foundational issues board's layout or the game's entire item system, This one hurts me, because I remember liking but now I see it as just okay. Bowser's Pinball but the layout is both a blessing and a curse the same sort of path that a pinball takes on a around at the top and traveling back down through doesn't really translate to a good board in its few opportunities for decisions here. The bottom around this very boring section or going to the that much better. You can either choose to loop around right hand path just to do it all over again. It's paths are so circular that it's very common for next spawn on the same roll - which is really spawns should be spread out enough to where every the next Star. The saving grace for Bowser's but secondly its Happening spaces are pretty good! roll a roulette and hopefully get some money, in Mario Party DS is already inflated - why not There are some spaces towards the flippers which you some coins, and this cannon at the top of the side of the bottom of the board, depending on what placement in an interesting way. There's a wheel coins and try to win big, which I obviously love, these three near the ball launcher. If you land the Bowser Zone, where if you land on one of the Zero Flame and lose ALL of your coins and Stars. but I mean it's not that hard to avoid if you have punishing event that I almost kinda like it. Now don't feel like the punishment fits the crime avoid this even if you do land on one of the first that bad. However - if you get lucky, Bowser will instead send you to the Star Zone , where you'll Happening Spaces a real risky wager, which really cool board visually, but structurally Wiggler's Garden is a competent standard but it's competent. This board is probably the layout - there are at least some good branching but overall this board is generally structured as which limits its abilities to provide a lot happening spaces are pretty diverse though. On the that contain either one, ten, or thirty coins, bulbs that players can shake with the Touch in the center will take 5 coins from anybody who of the board will take 10 coins from you if you these bouncy yellow flowers will launch you its Happening spaces, feels like Mario Party 101 and helps players to ease into the mechanics of aesthetically memorable board, but DK's Stone Statue is alright! This is a linear but instead of a changing price like Pagoda Peak Stone Statue borrows from Faire Square and allows although the price will always remain a static 5 coins in the last 5 turns. This is particularly dozens of Stars in a single trip, which is previous turns of the game. This doesn't make this somewhat rare and only really affects games where but it does really sway the flow of the board in a while DK's Stone Statue allows players to buy as wants to make sure that they earn and lose as many on the two tree branches on the top two thirds who is on that branch, which will take a lot of can stimulate the economy on the right hand side player who lands here a lot of free money. Just will send you either back to the Start or to the send you either up or down, depending on which more dynamic in terms of placement. Finally, this a free item via one of three vines. This board is board with a clear start and end point, this opportunities for risks and decisions. It doesn't options than other linear boards in the series. Spaces make for a pretty interesting board. take on a pretty cool mechanic. If this board a bit more in a console version of Mario Party, To me, Toadette's Music Room is the best board mechanics and some aspects that I would change. a traditional Mario Party board, but with a changing mechanic from Pagoda Peak and implements increasing the price with each Star that is these metronomes, increasing from 5 coins incrementally to 30 because it encourages players to play chicken with when it's really cheap. A lot of the Happening play with the music theme. The piano spaces at coins if they can repeat the melody. The rest of which works well with the board's mechanics. The you to a random space, the violin at space, which will really mess with your opponents in their plans. Finally, the French horns on before or after the Star, which is an interesting I feel that this works really well on Toadette's and yeah it is good! The ideas here are really I love the theming. However, the Achilles Toadette's Music Room has a very deceptively in a circle with three junctions that separate same place. This means that the traditional Star because there aren't really any decisions that to go on a macro level. Either the Star spawns you and you have to hope that you either land on one or get there faster. At least on the best Mario is either faster or pay to go through a toll to doesn't really have that same level of player than the sum of its parts. There's some really I just wish that they were included on a Mario Party DS's boards are sadly kind of that they're just too small to really get their find myself almost bummed about the boards here, Toadette's Music Room or DK's Stone Statue would with some more spaces, better junctions, and like the day or night cycle. There's a lot of lot of these boards are playable on a DS clever ideas that rival the console games, but hill to climb from the get-go, being compared as a handheld version of Mario Party on I think that it's impressive what Hudson Soft was Soft was able to accomplish given the hardware, So, for the minigames, I'll be rating ten and figure out the mean, median and mode for it stacks up compared to the other Mario Party in the bottom right corner of the screen as we minigames that are featured in the standard minigames and Puzzle minigames that don't appear challenge that Mario Party DS presents. Duplicate where there were a handful of minigames that in that video that I would omit the duplicate it's unfair for these games to reuse minigames overall scores. Mario Party DS also has reused Party 8... In fact, every single Duel minigame in this so this means that we'll be omitting all of unfortunately. So this brings us ironically just one higher than Mario Party 8. minigames for given its hardware, but let's Goomba Wrangler is an interesting be a little finicky when determining Rail Riders - swipe up really fast and try to kind of, but it really feels like you could Dress for Success is way too easy. Most human only consolation prize is that if you get Camera Shy is such a great minigame. The usage looking at their own screens, trying to sneak phenomenal. This is the sort of minigame that Hedge Honcho is a fast-paced reaction minigame but think before you swipe or else you Study Fall is like Night Light Fright from because everybody falls at the same rate and you Domino Effect - how fast can you Cherry-go-Round - spin the cherry Trace Cadets is really finicky and very boring. the inside of the lines, but if you trace even Soccer Survival is a classic avoid the hazard Hot Shots is a fun little shooting scheme and an interesting combo system that Call of the Goomba is a kind of it is that the first few seconds matter they won't leave, which just means that in the early game. It'd be better if you of time and acquired Goombas could leave for Pedal Pushers is a fine little racing game, mashing is the dominant strategy here? but I feel like the first player has a better every other lane! There's no other turn in Roller Coasters is a racing controls. I just wish that the maps were longer. Get The Lead Out is mashing on a DS. May be one of the worst mashing setups Shortcut Circuit is a really neat will have you trying to read your friends' minds. Big Blowout sucks, just blow in the mic Trash Landing is like Pitifall but with it's not really like Pitifall. It's a neat idea, but I personally find it to be a bit too Cheep Cheep Chance is a luck minigame that you get a fish, you win money, no matter Whomp-a-thon is a fun, cramped survival minigame, but if you know what you're doing you can Twist and Route is a really you have to wind up your car on the touch screen. Crater Crawl is a really boring minigame where I don't know how you make that premise Boogie Beam is way too easy. You'll Parachutin' Gallery is a fun out of the way to pass through the Boo Tag is a really unique but if you get picked by the Boo at the Dust Buddies is a really fun runner vacuum is consistently threatening and Cyber Scamper is a pretty only truly hampered by the Soap Surfers is like if you took Bumper Sweet Sleuth is a candy minigame but encourages quick decision-making and reaction. Tidal Fools is arguably one of the most and that's saying something. Raft Riot is a pretty fun raft racing both you and them flying, which All Geared Up is a platforming shallow. The platforming feels finicky and Power Washer is a really clever minigame that Peek-A-Boo is really unbalanced in favor see so much more that they can get to the Boos Fast Food Frenzy is another very clever towards the 1, although it's not Track Star is like End of the Line, but pretty cool but mashing on a DS is awful Shuffleboard Showdown is a really clever idea but not too unfair and the charm just carries it. Flash and Dash is nearly impossible for the 1. Rubber Ducky Rodeo is also Plush Crush is another really cute minigame, but it is also easy for the 1, unless if Rotisserie Rampage is a slower, more Nothing to Luge is not only incredibly weighted Penny Pinchers is an appropriately named Reaganomics minigame where Gusty Blizzard is way too easy for Soil Toil is frustrating but if you can somehow manage to it can be chaotic and incredibly dependent on Double Vision - trace your section of a Memory Mash is a fun little ideas from Cardinal Rule and ID UFO. I Cube Crushers is a really cute little puzzle Mole Thrill is exceptionally boring. The but the execution is about as fun as Sprinkler Scalers is really boring and easy. Cucumberjacks - swipe back and forth to see who can destroy their Touch Screen Hanger Management is such a great minigame. your teammate and sway to avoid obstacles the music, the theming, Book It! Is like a team version of Snow Whirled. Airbrushers is a kind of boring coin Toppling Terror is a "blow into the microphone Crazy Crosshairs is a really fun minigame Shorty Scorers is fun, but it's common for just punch each other back and forth. It Cheep Chump is an alright minigame, but you can Star Catchers is really unfair for never played a round of this minigame where the Short Fuse is the only competent mic with the other players to try and Globe Gunners is a fun paintball minigame with a cute theme! Chips and Dips is an okay luck And that's all of the minigames in Mario Party with a median of 5 and a mode of 7. This #8 spot in our rankings thus far, behind Mario say it - this is the most shocking result covered thus far in this series. I've always and there are some that really stick out in my DS's features well, like Soil Toil and Hedge take advantage of the fact that each player has own screen. Minigames like Camera Shy immediately minigame that could only be possible in a portable I realized just how many filler minigames there my brain. The 1v3 minigames are particularly bad There are just way too many of them that are so the other will grant you free money, basically. since they're just flat-out terrible. Thankfully, choose, and if we calculate the mean using the up to 5.22 which would place Mario Party DS Not a huge jump in terms of where it stands in to show that the Mic minigames really hurt DS's little disappointing. However - the side content Mario Party DS offers a plethora of side modes to in their quality. Firstly, the minigame modes. modes and a few new ideas as well. Step it Up is we've seen in every Mario Party game since 2, modes found in Mario Parties 5 through 8, where on your performance. These are both great entries, Battle Cup is similar to Step it Up, but instead instead you'll always play 5 minigames and whoever the cup. The cool thing here is that you can a couple and randomly select the rest. It's a has never had a mode like this thus far that lets the last mode is really clever and fun. Rocket to build a bridge from your character to the and the winner of the minigame gets to sometimes you may not get a piece that you need to still want to try to win every minigame to control or you could even be super BM and block an Crosspiece Clash occurs, where the winner can even replacing another tile on the board. Bowser a few different ways like choosing where a piece the tables. Rocket Rascals is a fun, strategic other and puts strong focus on not just winning do win to set yourself on a strong path. It's or two minigames, it can be very difficult but other than that I really like this mode. Mario minigame modes in the series. I still think that mode in the series thus far, but honestly? Mario Party DS also offers a few different have realized how difficult it can be to gather Mario Party, so it offers a variety of modes that obviously Duel board gameplay, although unlike rulesets for these boards and you just play unique Duel modes and a two-player Puzzle mode let's chat about the Puzzle mode really quickly the Mario Party series, including Mario's Puzzle and Stick and Spin. from beating the main story - Triangle Twisters. and it kinda rewards mindlessly swapping around is honestly such a neat addition to the game proper send-off, paying homage to some of the here as a little nod to the series' past. Now, Pals and Desert Duel. Pen Pals is a cooperative to try to trap the computer players by circling turn limit, you win. Every few turns, you'll play sets instead of one, which is a major advantage. to be locked to two players? Imagine how fun this play with four human players split into two teams lock Pen Pals to two players only, and that more interesting. This is a competitive duel mode of the real estate on the board as they can. When that space, which can be either a Dice Block that points. If both players land on the same space, a if the other player has one, and steal ownership game, the player with the most points wins. I like best as a duel mode. I could see this idea working a little more chaotic and would be difficult to that back and forth as well as it is implemented If you somehow are deciding to play Mario Party The side content in Mario Party DS really playing a full game of Mario Party isn't super it makes sense that the side content is really 1 copy of the game to experience everything that do I miss the days of DS Download play where everybody to be able to play a multiplayer my friends to buy games or gift them to them So, let's talk about Mario Party DS's on paper, is kind of a hard sell. I'm sorry does bear repeating that gathering friends who it's especially not easy today. And even if you the loading screens are absolutely atrocious some minigames. However, when looking at the very accessible. The boards are very simple, and easy to understand, and the item system while sometimes a bit too stripped down, provide and the economy may be out of hand, but that might back up to the top. Overall, I think I'm going my beginner friendliness meter. It's not very Mario Party before, and it's a very different it is definitely not unapproachable and you will somehow get to play this game with some friends, or Wiggler's Garden. Their layouts are simple but remain interesting, and their mechanics are as long as you don't play Kamek's Library, Mario Party DS is a bittersweet game. It's a but also new challenges. It's got a lot of good squandered by being in a game that had to scale on. However, I think that Mario Party DS was a From its unique spins on past board mechanics, and its inclusion of past puzzle minigames, Mario Mario Party fans, and that's not even mentioning clever boss fight minigames - which I didn't get the content of these videos to the multiplayer a ton of Mario Party DS - whenever you play this on your performance and what modes you play, and can see, I've played a LOT of this game throughout that this is one of the best games in the series. bring authentic Mario Party to a handheld, but in that just don't quite meet the standards that the item system is very broken, the economy is as a cohesive set. I think that Mario Party bite-sized chunks where you get to play some of a rocket, but when fully emulating the Mario of the best. Mario Party DS rests between Mario Mario Party 4 has way stronger minigames and an feel that Mario Party DS's boards are generally side content carries it above 8. This ranking is a on the Hudson Soft era of Mario Party. Mario Party of this series would create. In 2012, Hudson Soft its parent company, leaving the series because even though I've got my critiques on really did create something new and special with developers struggle to replicate, so hopefully forward. I hope. Thanks for sticking with me Party games. If you made it this far into the I greatly appreciate the support on these forward to making even more videos this year.