This is the secret place of Liufenbantang The time of one stick of incense Someone will come You, just figure it out on your own. Once the manhole cover is sealed Half an incense stick of time The water will rise Who are you Never mind who I am Seven inches above your left hand There is a movable stone brick It's an agency Turn it You can open this door. There is a candlestick on the wall behind you. If you carry a fire starter Just light it up I didn't expect to be locked in the well for so long. I can see a living person. Kid Who are you My name is Wang Xiaoshi Who is the senior? I I'm the one locked up here. Locked here Have you been locked up here for a long time? The Well Does Not Know the Sun and the Moon Locked up for a long time It's been a long time Who is so vicious? In such a cruel way Trapped you here The person who framed me is called Lei Sun You recognize him Lei Sun is the head of the Liufenbantang Everyone in the world knows What about Guan Qi? Do you know the Mitian League? The current arena What has it become? Senior, is there any way for you to get out? Young man Please help me take the hook off my back I'll tell you how to get out. Come quick That's it quick Senior, you have to tell me first Why did Lei Sun lock you up here? Do you see the body of that child over there? He also has a string of bells on his feet This is my child I saw him die here. Turned into a pile of bones And all the corpses here All of them were damaged by lightning. But he hates me the most He didn't want me to die so easily. Just hang me here Make me live a life worse than death This agency Just to prevent me from escaping. Hesitate for a while We're both gonna drown here. What are you still hesitating about? Too late Come on, help me take the hook off I'm free again I haven't seen the real moon for a long time. Senior, it's not safe here. Let's get out of here first. Let me slow down It's too late to slow down Offended The guards were killed. When the shift arrives The man in the well has disappeared. What should we do with these shift workers? I don't have time to care about these. According to the rules of the hall yes How about it Released The head of the hall in Beijing has summoned all The manpower is ready Rest assured No matter who it is If alive, you can see the person; if dead, you can see the body Listen to me Go out to find someone Each team is divided into two groups Which group discovered it first? Those who can run, run back quickly Escape to the headquarters to report how Do you really think you can live in person? Can you see the body after death? You really don't know who he is? If he really ran away You won't die. Do you understand? clear Go yes Get out of the way! Get out of the way! Boss, another bowl please Okay The noodles are good, but the oil is not good Almost You are slow to use Senior, do you have any family in Beijing? No more They all died in that well. What is this place? Xiaocaomen Street We have already escaped four blocks. We have left the territory of Liufenbantang Senior, is there anywhere else you want to go? I have two friends But I don't know now Are they still in Beijing? But I remember where their home is. Can you show me the way? I want to meet them no problem There it is, hurry up Boss, this is the money for breaking the tables and chairs later. Lobby Master I saw that person. I see Wang Xiaoshi in Jinfengxiyulou Be with him The brothers were beaten by him. Wang Xiaoshi I didn't expect you to be so strong. Man, to live You have to use all your strength senior You just ate seven bowls of noodles It's a bit heavy now. Eat more The hatred in my heart cannot be eliminated senior I've always had a question for you. Why are you being held captive by Lei Sun? Lightning damage This man is sinister and vicious When I was in glory He's not even worthy of carrying my shoes. And that Fu Zongshu Fu Zongshu Senior, you also know Fu Zongshu? Fu Zongshu, that bastard That year was a thunder damage Join forces with Fu Zongshu to harm me They were the ones who locked me in the well. The old man is out now I can't forget this breath I'm going to settle accounts with them. Senior, you are okay. Did I say I'm okay? senior Does your friend live here? It is here Here it comes Who are you looking for? Children, are there adults in your family? Who are you? Who let you into my house? I'm sorry. We're looking for that Senior, what's your friend's name? Kaier, who is it? It's so late close Guan Qi, Kai Er What's wrong? He Yan Hefa Haven't seen you for so many years. You are old, Kaier come over come over Yan Kai Ya They've grown so big. Uncle held you in his arms when you were a child You forgot Your dad always says You are a small boy but you have a big temper. And he must be a tough guy when he grows up. Kaier Not hard either. Why did you kill him, Kaier? He's just a child. Kaier His parents betrayed me before It's reasonable for me to come out and kill them for revenge. I'm fighting with you Guan Qi Why are you cutting me? I just killed an ant He is a human Not an ant I can kill people, and people will be killed by me. I can't kill people I was killed by someone The strong live, the weak die This is natural Screw the right thing to do. Two people died in your family. I'm a little less angry now. Now we can sit down. Let's settle old scores Senior, how are you? Didn't expect that? Now it's your turn to be locked up. Why did you cut me yesterday? I shouldn't have let you out. I should have locked you up myself. Just you Lei Sun wanted to catch me. More than a hundred people were stationed at the well. I almost got out. That's right The bones in the well They are all my masterpieces And the one with the bell Not my child either. I lied to you You crazy it's useless Against Guan Qi No one has a way out The pigeon group's intelligence Someone may have entered this yard. Let's go in and take a look Be careful everyone etc. Someone came out Go quickly Yan Hefa If you can't find my knife I'll make you suffer worse than death. Do you know why I killed his wife and children? I treated him as a brother. Let him become the Great Saint of the Misty Heaven Alliance The scenery is endless I'm right, right? say right Later I took him to do business Made a lot of money But what about him? ungrateful Tell Fu Zongshu and Lei Sun about my whereabouts Yes or no yes So I killed your wife and children in revenge. Am I doing it right? Don't go too far. Right? right Walk I don't want to kill you, boy. But you really talk a lot I'm afraid I can't help it Just be quiet for a while. Yan Hefa Should you say something? I betrayed the Lord I should kill my wife Dead Son Die a bad death Holy Lord, wait for me A great favor I eat inside and out I'm not as good as a dog I'm not as good as a dog I'm not as good as a dog But Who wants to live like a dog? What are you in a hurry for? God is impartial and has no relatives. All things are straw dogs Disposable after use, people too He is useless. Then I can kill Go fast Is this your person? Go fast Go fast Come to save you It just so happens that my knife hasn't drunk blood for a long time. I use them to moisten the knife What are you going to say? Guan Qi Stop killing innocent people. Don't you want to kill Fu Zongshu? I help you As long as you let them go Help me kill Fu Zongshu It's not without reason Go fast Go fast Let's go I can promise you but My knife won't agree. Guan Qi I told you before I can kill people People were killed by me I can't kill people I was killed by someone Such a simple truth Why don't you understand? Guan Qi I will kill you with my own hands You kid It's a tough nut to crack. You made me a little scared. Then I won't keep you. stop What do you do? To you, Lord Shangshu Give a great gift What's in here? What's in here? What's in here? How can there be sound? Someone's voice How can there be a human voice? Go and have a look What is this? Thunder Don't come over here, don't come over here, don't come over here Don't come over here, don't come over here Don't come over Is there water? Is there water? Is there water? Is there water? Please help me Is there any water? Please stop running, please help me It's about to explode. There, there is a water tank There is water there Thank you, brother. You're welcome Take down the assassin I'm not an assassin Whether you are an assassin or not Take it first The lady is quite skilled Are you happy? Of course I am happy Watched such a wonderful competition Happy Then tell me where Wang Xiaoshi is It seems you really care about him. OK, I keep my word. According to this hour You go to the Ministry of Justice now. Maybe I can see him alive. Shangshu Mansion Why is Wang Xiaoshi there? Are you lying to me again? Did I cheat you? You'll know if you go and take a look. You are so pitiful Live like a doll wrong Retreat, retreat, retreat, quickly Close the door, close the door quickly Eight years I didn't expect I was still alive. This life owes me so long It's time to give it back to me. He is not Fu Zongshu You got the wrong person. explain Who are you? I Asking you a question You dare to hit me Who are you? I am a servant Someone told me to put on adult clothes here I, I don't know either. Servant So brave You dare to wear adult clothes? stand up Hurry up! Get out of here Guan Qi Stop killing innocent people. You stop me again I'll kill you too. Adult, adult Protecting adults Shouting shit! Run withdraw You lied to me You really don't want to live, right? Then I'll give you a ride You can't catch up with Fu Zongshu Let's die together. Such a reckless personality How can I survive in this capital city? You're lucky It's dry, be careful with fire It's dry, be careful with fire Small Stone Small Stone How come you are here? I've been looking for you for a whole day and night Where have you been? sorry I am so embarrassed to be seen by you. You'll definitely laugh at me later I won't laugh at you. I won't, I'll take you home Daughter of Luoyang Wang Wenwan The closed disciple of the Red Sleeves Nun Junior Sister Su Mengzhen from Jinfengxiyu Tower Xiaohan Mountain Yanwen Heroine I don't have these. I just want you to be gentler. Or maybe I'm stronger. Small Stone Small Stone Did you hear it? You didn't say Draw my sword And then you'll be entangled with me for the rest of your life? You have to keep your word Small Stone Someone come quickly Visitors Carry him in quickly. OK, call the doctor. doctor doctor Come, adults You're a piece of trash Pour tea in a hurry roll Let you guys go catch Guan Qi The result People are killing me. besides Who told you to release him on your own initiative? The adults want to arrest Wang Xiaoshi One document can do it But the most important thing right now is to kill Guan Qi Killing Guan Qi requires the Red Sleeve Knife I let Wang Xiaoshi go back Just let him bring a message for adults This matter Su Mengzhen has to give an explanation to the adults adult no Lao Lei Guan Qi has come to kill us The Shangshu Mansion can no longer be lived in I have to move somewhere else That day when I first met Master on the roof I know that the Master is no ordinary person. I'm sorry. This gun is called Fenhe The encirclement and suppression of Guanqi I just took it there. It's what allowed me to come back alive. The Master also knows Guan Qi More than just knowing Many years ago There is no saying that there is a mixture of wind and thunder in the capital. The biggest gang in the underworld The Mitian League is headed by Guan Qi. The Mitian League colluded with the government Bullying fellow jianghu No morals at all Especially Guan Qi He is a highly skilled martial artist but also a bloodthirsty and brutal person. Lei Sun summoned various martial arts masters to encircle and suppress Want to kill this unkillable person Too many people died in that battle. But in the end Lei Sun is the proud one He stepped on Guan Qi's step Make Liufenbantang bigger What I didn't expect was In the end, Guan Qi didn't die. He stretched his neck in front of Lei Sun. Lei Sun did not cut the last blow Guan Qi was indeed a disaster in the past Now the capital is in turmoil again It's a big trouble indeed. Sir, take out your gun. Do you want to make a comeback? Guan Qi's matter It should have been It's up to our generation to solve it But I'm old now Retired from society for many years Now I just like reading. Just an old man hiding his gun on the beam I promised Camellia for many years Find a beautiful place to live peacefully I don't want to disappoint her Master You have already done what you should do. The incident at Guan Qi started because of me Let us finish him off. The Master is no longer in the arena I should live a peaceful life with my mother-in-law. We are involved in this worldly matter. yes I am old Jianghu affairs It should be handed over to the young people. Moon Moon Yue'er, what's wrong? Are you an adult? Moon Get out of the way Get out of the way Get out of the way Get out of the way What's going on? So many soldiers I heard there was a madman Arrested Fu Zongshu's concubine He also killed many officers and soldiers. It's not peaceful recently. It's better to go out less Yes, don't wander around if you have nothing to do. Go back quickly Let's go, let's go Let's go If I don't let you go The days ahead You won't be well You're not having a good time This day There is no meaning in living I promise you Come back alive Fu Zongshu You dog Son of a bitch Fu Zongshu You son of a bitch You shouted wrong I'll shout it out to you You listen Fu Zongshu You son of a bitch Your little wife is going to die. You haven't come out yet Do you understand? I shout, I shout call Fu Zongshu, you son of a bitch Your little wife is dying and you still don't come out Fu Zongshu You son of a bitch My little wife is dying, why don't you come out quickly? Fu Zongshu Your little wife is dying, why don't you come out quickly? Fu Zongshu You son of a bitch Why don't you come out soon? Help me, help me Help me! Save me Guan Qi Old Man Looks a little familiar Look carefully again Burning River Spear good Remember my face well Next Life Come to me for revenge Just you Mother-in-law Wenrou must follow me back Help you pack up Mother-in-law You're leaving, I can't bear to see you go Mother-in-law What's wrong with you Mother-in-law Where is the Master? Don't kill Guan Qi He can't let go I let him go. Small Stone Take good care of your mother-in-law Mother-in-law It's fine Master Master Master Master Master Master Don't cry Master Someone brought a sword to kill people Someone went to ask Taking Care of Camellias Master Master Master Small Stone Mother-in-law sorry I didn't take good care of my husband. Back It's good to be back It's good to be back Put him in the main living room Head to the door Legs lighted Small Stone On the roof Peel off a tile See the sky Off the ground A sickly child An old immortal I'll see how long you can take. Lei Zongtang's martial arts skills are comparable to mine. Just a sip of tea He should live long. I have food and drink I'll fight you till the end adult adult What's the panic? The second lady was imprisoned for seven days. Killed Scared crazy But many people died Die What does it have to do with me? An old man died. Carried away by Wang Xiaoshi adult Guan Qi went on a killing spree in the city Caused a storm in the city You hide here He really couldn't find it But if the trouble continues Alarmed the court I'm afraid no one can bear it adult Guan Qi is a very arrogant person. No scruples If he continues to kill like this Even if it's only six and a half minutes And the golden wind and drizzle tower is stronger There's no way to save the whole city. This is a big problem Can't delay any longer Then you two have to ensure my safety. The guardian is comprehensive You punched me last time I can let bygones be bygones But you can't tell this to anyone. Why are you looking at me like that? I'm not Guan Qi My Lord, please be more cautious. Don't make mistakes at every step You guys are making such a big scene Anyone with eyes can see that this is a trap. Guan Qi is not a fool Are you sure he can come? He even dared to break into your Shangshu Mansion Here today As long as I can kill you He will definitely come even though he knows it is a trap Now It's time for you to open a window. Noodles are coming I heard that the Shangshu has several concubines. Some die, some go crazy But look at him Whenever I have free time, I go to the Sanhe Building. He still has the courage to come out Didn't someone want to kill him? He is an official appointed by the imperial court Who dares to kill him? I dare I want to kill the Shangshu Is he coming or not? Waiting for the Killer It would be better if he didn't come. Over to you Fast, fast, fast adult My Lord, here it is Here, hurry up, sir. careful Be careful adults Adults, adults, come Fast, fast, fast quick Come on up! Close the door and go Red Sleeve Knife You are Su Mengzhen Not Su Mengzhen How can I stop you with one sword? That knife just now Then you should cut it down. I never plot against my opponents. It's really rare There is no one in this world who can cut you in the face with a knife. Already a gentleman Most people like to stab someone in the back You don't even have to do it yourself Brother-in-law I'm right, right? I can control you without any action. better You've killed me once. But I let you go once. If you are willing to go back into the well now I can let you go again He won't He will definitely kill you It seems that I have been in the well for eight years. There are so many talented people in the world. Brother-in-law You are old I'm afraid I can't make the decision. It doesn't matter whether I do it or not. Your fate today is already determined Wang Xiaoshi, did you hear that? I can kill people People were killed by me People who follow this approach But I'm not the only one I fight Never talk nonsense Zhu Xiaoyao is one of yours, right? What does your Golden Wind and Rain Tower mean? What does it mean? Rescued Guan Qi repeatedly I want to wait for him to turn over. Kill us one by one? I tell you There are no heroes who die tragically in this world The Fateless Hero Send everyone out The whole city is searching for Guan Qi and Zhu Xiaoyao This Zhu Xiaoyao took Guan Qi away Is this Big Brother's arrangement?