Microsoft Windows debuted in decades, it has been the worldwide. In 2020, Windows had shipments. While Google Chrome had 7%. Bill Gates, his vision was to home. We've struck a chord with it's their product. It's their to its iconic Start button and apps, gaming and corporate way we use computers. The the company to dominate the Microsoft has introduced many inception, with some more there are more than 1.3 billion worldwide on a monthly basis and day. Many of its deployments, if not Where it gets becomes part of a corporations manage it and their own. Windows only makes up 14% of remains a critical part of it. Windows has been a key piece of the beginning. It wasn't just Windows was critical because it interface programs Word, Excel, it's been critical to their today. The company just announced the take a look back over three came to dominate. Today, lots of computers, phones, TVs, even allows users and applications to need to enter lines of code. computer It was very complex. The motivation for Windows from improve it to remove those effortless as possible to get that you had available to you. Windows was not the first OS first getting started. It Microsoft disk operating system, Microsoft specified that IBM to the software, leaving open to supply other hardware and Microsoft started to understand critical not just to Windows but Windows was not thought of as an days, but a graphical user on top of MS-DOS. One of the used a GUI was the Xerox star, according to Bill Gates, on both designs, Bill really believed that this So there was heavy pressure to Microsoft released Windows 1.0 it was a little bit clunky or challenge that Jobs and Apple make it run on their hardware. those different MS-DOS machines time. Apple's Lisa was the first in 1984, the company unveiled Microsoft created software including the first version of companies made a confidential Microsoft to use any of Apple's software. After Windows 2.0 was for copyright infringement. copyrights were covered by the appealed several times, but the the time, Microsoft was building IBM, which was called OS/2. At that point from Steve's the future in that Windows was but that Windows would not that joint project with IBM. way. But eventually the whole Then we really moved to the one was Windows 3.0. That's when it Windows 3.0 was where users were was designed to help users learn mouse. It also could run one another. Three months after had shipped worldwide. And by licensed users of Windows with Windows pre installed. The that Windows 3 took off and people's excitement caused a Microsoft of what our system strategy should be. Then came Windows 95. The 95 is legendary. Microsoft paid rights to use 'Start Me Up' to Start button. People lined up to get their hands on it. When had 75 million users of the Microsoft generated $30 million day it sold Windows 95. At the all PCs with more than 100 It was really Windows 95 that the move towards Windows being a the early 90s, PCs are really spreadsheets or databases that everyday person would ever think computer for. We wanted to Microsoft was becoming a industry. Its main competitors And despite not abandoning OS/2, Windows 95 pre installed. You had two things occurring at Microsoft's revenue. Not only the operating system, but significantly enough that upgraded their hardware and that every time a new PC is money goes to Microsoft for that Windows 95 offered lots of new and networking that previously run. We also were committed to it ship Windows 95 simultaneously thought we were crazy. But we worldwide impact. That was very enterprise focused view of the focused on the creative people Never underestimate the role the other products. It's sold Office, it's sold Office. It it. And if you weren't making make in the operating system, other products and in fact, you development. During the late 90s, technology computing and the Internet were Gates sent a memo titled The said &quot;I want to make clear that crucial to every part of our When the Internet came about, have that, in a sense be birthed where the Internet started. Now mobile phone, but it started with our you know, Internet In the 1990s, Microsoft was its dominant position to scare that decade, its share of systems was above 90%. When Explorer, Netscape Navigator browser market. But in 1998, the company of using its dominance competitors out of business. The Microsoft forced computer makers their PCs. A judge ruled the Explorer to Windows and ruled up. It was around this time that and Steve Ballmer took over, but out the ruling, the company decree and barred the company agreements that excluded 98, 2000, Me and XP in quick remote desktop, stronger updates. Today, it really is actually the the we would say the end of the the most powerful, fastest, most have ever done. Together with new standard for business. He for the enterprise use, which for the Windows product itself, took till XP, before the Microsoft made sure to pay were asking for big companies Windows PCs. And once those they start building internal employees get used to using makes a formidable base that leave. That is one piece of the Windows went through good and differently with programs and Users experienced applications problems with graphics and other whole management team got kicked And they put the people that had charge of Windows. But then 8 was sort of Microsoft's new change the operating system, the user too much. A lot of the degree of change that A lot of the frustrations that no Start menu that was companies would say I need to know, the Windows 8 team, I give boundaries, but they became too Windows 8 had a touch friendly Microsoft did develop a mobile win a leadership position. In hindsight, I give Apple and appropriately to capture the time. By the time you know, we same thing could be said of we were all in on search, it was really like two years to technology. We constantly try and stay the PC and use Windows but then and with the advent of these browsing and phone calls. They the phone wave. I mean, it's no Windows Phone, I think we had a at that time, I would say hey, of the mobile phone becoming a In 2014 Satya Nadella replaced Windows 10 ushers in an era of mobile first, cloud first world. is they've kind of blended the the start menu that folks were they also brought Cortana to the Microsoft's answer to Siri. And challenge was to maintain the to touch but make it more which again, when you think challenge. Microsoft kept some and features that worked well it turned out that iOS and Windows on PCs. While Windows and less popular. Microsoft began to de emphasize saying in 2019, &quot;the operating important layer for us.&quot; That Windows team into pieces the engineering teams now focused on cloud and AI platforms. Two company moving forward. Microsoft has seen its Azure look beyond their corporate computing resources to meet the during the pandemic. So beyond Also, you have this thing called licenses to device makers that gone up considerably. Even though the company's vision still a huge source of revenue market. After six years, the of Windows. Windows 11. This is the first version of a building for the next decade and platform for creation. If you're bring your own commerce store store within Windows and you can't do that on other platforms return, you get better control Other key features include the middle of the screen, but has Microsoft Teams is now built Android apps in its store. The clear winner during the the Chromebook. And Microsoft the big features is Android apps Effectively, Microsoft is Chromebook with its whole personal computer. It does feel sure that Chromebook has one big variety, thanks to the They made some hard decisions on great for the world. I'm sure say, let's raise the bar on the secure. Despite the size of the market will have to keep evolving, as uses mobile devices, including for. We want it to be the technology, meaning for place for you to come and try that's coming and things we reality, augmented reality. quantum computing, I think ability to do sophisticated never been able to do before. Microsoft's continual technology and its cognitive acquisition of now Nuance, where all these great resources to in a direction that it really just tweaking around with where The version of Windows that I Windows annoyances and just fix the querks. Get it stable, get change to the color of the start squared windows. What I need is once a week because it can't This brand has meaning globally. PCs run Windows. It is an developers, hardware makers gonna be challenging, and Google