This is a fist. This is a hammer. And this is an iron fist hammer. But for real though. Iron fist is a form of ancient kung fu that trains Mastering this skill allows you to break bricks I want to have iron fists. So for the next seven days, I'll be doing Okay. To track my progress, I got three levels of materials in increasing hardness. Let's see if I can break any of them on Day 1. Obviously I have feather knuckles right Day 1 of training iron fist. This is what my hands look like. I know. Pretty. Beautiful. Manicured. We're going to start off with an exercise that I learned from Master Yandi during my Shaolin series. The thing about the iron fist is that you need to So the sand allows you to do that. 100 reps in each hand. Here we go. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. I'm already seeing a little damage right here. It's basically like rubbing your hand on sandpaper. 15 more each. I wanted to train iron fist this week because when I trained with Master Yandi, I didn't have enough time to practice the skill. So I'm curious to see how hard my fist can My hands are getting a little red. Especially It's not too bad right now but the exercises are I'm working my way up to this. All right. It's Day 2. I put some moisturizer on last night. My hands are looking pretty neat but today We're doing sandbag slaps and this is going to be training the Where you can chop. 100 reps. Oh. It's raining, dude. Going to look intense. One. Two. I think he did- Moon Prism Power!!! Give me strength!! That hurt. one The sandbag is surprisingly hard. One. Two. Three. One. Two. Three. Fifty more. I'm getting faster. My hands are shaking a little bit. Master Yandi always said: Kung Fu means time. I'm definitely putting in the work. Good morning! It's currently Day 3. We set up a This is actually the first day we're doing knuckle training. The rope on a wooden stake is almost like a punching bag but it's much denser and harder. So that means we'll be able to get stronger, faster. Better. [Music] You see that? I can feel my knuckles stiffening. It hurts when I clench my fists. But during my research I've read that if I'm not careful, I My knuckles are already showing some signs of Alright. It's day 4 and I'm right now I'm in my garage because Honestly, I think yesterday's exercise bruised When I push on my knuckles and fingers it hurts. And that's the only thing I'm doing today. 100 push-ups This hurts. There are tiny rocks all over. I'm actually bruising. It's purple. Okay. I got to clear the floor because this is dangerous, bro. Super Saiyan! Do you know what pain means? It means progress! Knuckle push-ups are not only a great way to condition your knuckles, but they also train your wrist strength so when you punch you don't do this. Instead, you can have a straight and powerful punch. Most people train knuckle push-ups progressively. Moving from soft surfaces to hard surfaces. But because I only have seven days, I'm starting with concrete which feels like 100. My finger is cramping. You see that? Oh god. I can't move. Because all my body weight is basically pinning in that one sharp spot. That's why it hurts so much. It's legitimately purple! Today we're actually in a forest because we need to utilize these trees for our training. So today we're going to be flicking the tree to strengthen the bones in our fingers. I'm making sure that the tree touches all those knuckles. Here. Here and here. My knuckles are still hurting So in Kung Fu the flick is actually used as a form of counter punch. And we've trained The bark is extremely rough. Not only are we training the bones, we're actually training I cannot feel my fingers. This is more of a stinging pain. The fingers don't have much muscle so it's literally just going right to my bone. Over the past few days, I've been slowly losing mobility in my joints. I don't know if this is supposed to happen like this. Definitely don't try this at home. Today is Day 6. The last day before my final test. My knuckles are completely bruised. The divots in between my knuckles have raised significantly. There's almost like no divot right now. I am in a lot of pain. This is the hardest day yet because we're practicing against a rock. Kind of similar to what we did with We're going to be doing slaps, backhand slaps, karate chops and finger punches. All right. 100 on each side. Let's go. I'm putting it all in today because tomorrow is my final test. I don't want to have trained in pain for a whole week for no reason. I want to break something. I'm actually learning to enjoy the pain a little bit. But I wonder how much I've actually improved. I can't wait to find out. After a week of training, some of my knuckles are internally bruised and my skin is starting to develop calluses. It's now Day 7. The day of the final test. We're going to attempt three different materials. Wood, porcelain, and brick. When I started on Day 1 I wasn't able to break the wood. It broke me instead. But today that's about to change. My knuckles still hurt but I'm going to put it all in. Oh my god that [ __ ] hurt. Look at that. Holy [ __ ]. I actually broke it. I can't believe I actually broke that. Okay we got to try the porcelain. Next, we're going to attempt the porcelain. All right. Let's go. Right now my knuckle hurts a lot but I'm feeling the adrenaline. Maybe I can have more power to push through it. I'm a little scared. Because I'm scared it's going to be so hard it might break my bones. But, I just have to trust. Oh god. Time for the brick. This break is almost 10 times thicker than the porcelain so we'll see how it goes. People practice 20 years to master this iron fist technique. I've only trained for 7 days. Right now this part of my hand is completely numb. My bones and joints hurt a lot. I'm losing mobility. I can't close my fist completely. So I think it's time to stop. But if you want to see me train Kung Fu with a real Shaolin Kung Fu master, click right here to watch that video. I'll see you there.