In New Super Mario Bros, almost every song who actually sang those notes? It's an interesting the morse code hidden in Wii Sports Resort? Or the DS games? Today I want to solve some Nintendo of the most hidden easter eggs from within all Number 1 Let's start by talking about Donkey Kong Dixie Kong's Double Trouble. Now, this game who's the wife of Cranky Kong. And in Donkey time you want to save your game - she as they're known. And each time you enter a activity. Sometimes she's exercising. Sometimes playing video games. And take a close look at That's right, by the time of Donkey Kong Country Nintendo's next console, the Nintendo about 5 months. And so, that is the that's not all. Because listen to the That's right - it's the castle It appears that Super Mario 64 is the game her Save Cave. It feels super weird to hear but that's exactly what's happening here! Number 2 I want to talk about Super Mario 3D Land. So, 8 are regular worlds, and the second 8 challenging levels. The final world in the game Now, that music might sound familiar, Studio. Back on the DS, to promote Nintendo created their very own FlipNote drawing song". There's versions of this Italian, German and Dutch. And just Does it sound familiar? Super Mario 3D the Special 8 map screen music! It's a pretty Number 3 one of the most legendary musical easter eggs from WarioWare Touched. So, one item you can unlock in and slow down songs from the game's soundtrack by Sounds simple enough, except this feature time of WarioWario Touched's release. one of the three selectable songs, and speed it "I have granted kids to Hell" That sounds pretty out of place in it turns out that the cause is simple the game starts skipping over Here is the verse in question, and if we we get "I have granted kids to Hell." I have that caused a minor controversy back when this magazine had to issue an explanation for why this Number 4 let's talk about Mario Kart 8, and specifically most of the course, you'll eventually get to this drive into the middle of the teacups, and take Now, it's a little hard to hear over the of Super Mario 64, then this music may sound there's an underground merry-go-round And so, returning to Mario Kart 8's Water That's right - the game's composers re-used Big Boo's Merry Go Round theme Number 5 talking about Mario Kart, I've got another one for in some of the older Mario Kart games, multiple play the courses Dino Dino Jungle and DK Mountain the exact same. But it's my theory that this and I have a reason for that claim. You see, And then, let me play you a different song Donkey Kong Jr - the NES game. It's the same theme, the same melody heard You see, when Double Dash's composers were they seemingly included this classic DK is why I say that this was always a Donkey Number 6 and talk a little bit about Wii Sports Resort. a few times before on this channel, and within Wii Sports Resort. In the Flyover mode, known as The Candle, you'll start to hear That beeping is morse code, and But that's not the only set And lastly, there's this... Now, the number of people playing Wii Sports morse code to decode these messages as they yet Nintendo included these messages Number 7 let's talk about New Super Mario Bros. feature a very distinctive sound within their Every time this sound plays, jump. It's a fun way of making the game this iconic sound? Where does this Well, to uncover that mystery, we first need appearance within a Nintendo game. Because the New Super Mario Bros games, some viewers debut years earlier in Super Mario 64. Listen to And for comparison, here's the "pah" It's the exact same! So, where did Super the game's soundtrack was written entirely Kondo began experimenting with sample packs, in instruments and noises from around the world. Spectral Vol 1, which is full of unique And take a listen to Track 53 of that CD. Sounds pretty familiar, right? and liked it enough to use it within Then a few years later, he was the one who Bros on the DS. And when he wrote that piece of And the rest was history! Number 8 talking about Super Mario Maker 2. Now, the game's as "Course World". And Course World has its Now, if you've played a lot of Super Mario World, then there's a chance this theme might Course World melody is identical to the It's even in the same key! What a neat little in a game which is full of But there's more - the Course World based on what menu you're looking you get this funky, upbeat version But here's the thing - if you select any of the Course World theme, this time without So, that means that you could spend know about the reference to Super But that goes for pretty much every secret video - they're super subtle, so easy to miss. hidden in the music - some reference to an you get a rush of satisfaction. It's so their music - no-one does video And there we have it, those are 8 of my secrets! If you have any that I didn't talk that then let me know in the comments another one of these videos in the future I really hope you enjoyed this video, and I want to quickly talk about Patreon. but I've actually recently with a new $5 tier which gets you access to a my personal opinions about games I like, and normal Thomas Game Docs video. I hope that You also get access if you join my Patreon page and also how the channel's going in general - if and hopefully keep you informed. Plus you where other Thomas Game Docs fans and other stuff in general. It's been So if you want to help financially Thomas Game Docs going into the future, to do that. Thank you very much for watching