Thank you friends for showing your and cyber security career roadmap. And obviously there were a lot of requests So here we are, we'll understand started and what you need to learn It could be a DevOps So to understand this whole divided it into three phases. Like in history, we used to have. BC and a D in a similar way. I have three different phases, bd, which DevOps and pd, which is post DevOps. So we'll understand what you need before you would need to learn during your to do once you get into a DevOps career. So even before starting DevOps, there need to learn as an IT professional. The number one is SDLC, which is software is developed the whole journey of you know, building you know, the software, should be able to do it without DevOps plain, simple hello world application. Can you do that without If you know that or, you know, you are the whole software development life cycle. So that is very important. And with that comes the tricky of any one coding language. I think you need to know that It could be, you could start with language, but you need to have You know, how programming The second one is understanding the you would be spinning up a lot of you need to understand Linux and you need to understand the CLI. So what is CLI? CLI is Command Line Interface. So you need to understand the CLIs you could automate stuff without going For example, you could So all those kinds of Networking. Now this channel has grown based on So if you are completely beginner, networking and intra playlist. It starts with the very basic and something out of it, but you need to model works, what kind of different DNS, all kinds of things, but don't. Don't get stuck on these things. Okay. Even if you have a little Don't, don't get stuck into that an expert, I can't go into DevOps. You just need basics. Scripting as I said is very important You need to automate a lot of need to have scripting knowledge. Infrastructure basics, how a virtualization, what is containers, All those kind of things and obviously because everything which you are seeing of cloud computing everything has moved fundamentals of cloud if you want me basics let me know and I'll try to So if you are done with this, if you're if on a scale of 10, even if you are a Just move to the DD stage, which is. So friends, now let's understand learn during our DevOps journey. Now don't get overwhelmed by so many quite vast and that's why I always of 10 expert in all of these things. Okay, you could have your own niche. In in either of these things and then you to become a devops architect or a devops least six out of ten or seven out of is the concept What is a DevOps concept? How CICD works? What is CI? What is continuation? Continuous integration? What is continuous deployment? All these kind of concepts and why All that will be covered as your step one. If you're joining any course, In the second step, you will start of how DevOps actually works. So the number one thing Whenever developers are developing the of their code into some repository. And that's where you need Or bitbucket for example, so in these merge your code take a branch out of multiple developers could collaborate module and that's why your version So you need to learn Understand So the third step in this journey integration and build automation works. Basically in DevOps, you're automating developer, as a tester, as a support but no one does things manually. To the max possible. So build automation and continuous to set up your pipeline, DevOps pipeline code into your you know, Git repository, Then the test cases, the unit test automated and Should run automatically. So that is the whole process And once you have integrated the which is continuous delivery. Or continuous deployment. There's a difference between the two, I have created a small video on that so that build automation and continuous whole devops pipeline Jenkins is a there are tools which could be used at for continuous integration And as well when I say delivery or deployment have built and tested and now is ready That's your continuous delivery So whatever code you have built you need you know, spin up your infrastructure and that your code could run So configuration Puppet, and basically it manages and Whatever requirements are Will be managed by your It is very closely linked but it's not very similar. We'll cover that very soon. So after configuration management, is containerization and orchestration. Because obviously you are container, You would be building your Docker files. You would be pushing You know, container registries platforms will orchestrate all And that's why I say that in DevOps, be created in itself as a carrier. Kubernetes, it's such a big and on being a Kubernetes developer And there are certifications So, yes. And, and all these things are it's, it's just that it is How you need to learn coming to Configuration management in infrastructure So configuration management, basically. focuses on maintaining the For example, if you have A cluster should always have all the time, something like that. Okay. So for that, you will set up configuration will continuously be Infrastructure as a code is closely on deploying your infrastructure. Whatever you want to deploy, Terraform is a very famous product Create a code in a very simple language, a put in what you need, you create those will automatically spin up the machines it closely works with your Chef and Sibyl Monitoring and logging from Prometheus products which are used there. So basically. Monitoring and logging You need to monitor your whole you know, any issues which crops up. Collaboration. So everything which you are doing running under a project for example. And that project would most So where you would manage your Agile running, you know, platforms like Jira. To run your you know, your scrum use products like Confluence for whatever you are doing right now. So these are some products And lastly, security and compliance. So you need to understand what and access management works, You need to know the compliance as well. Container security. What level of security has to be those kind of things come in, in this. So as I said, guys, you know, there too much, but as I said, you don't whichever course you will enroll into understanding of it so that you can start. Participating on life projects and intentionally kept very minimal products, focus on the tooling part of DevOps, It is, it is massive. The whole umbrella, every one is, a new product in one of these areas. So it's practically impossible for me but then you could do your own maybe if I have you know, I might put At this point of time, I completed our DevOps journey. We have completed everything. What next? Once we have learned everything, the most important part of that. So let's see that. So guys coming to the most important So I'm assuming that now Say that okay. We now know devops to an extent it could But we feel we are ready at that point it has to start with A relevant market And don't rush for certification right this try to get into a live project Do program and then only go because there's can't justify it In in an interview, understand that you are just you have out names So don't do that aws certified certifications and then there are multiple could complement very well with if you it Or maybe you could do it along with It is a very good Compliment to communities developer. Again, a very good certification. You need to understand that in this are coming, what is your background? Are you, are you coming from a from a support or an infrastructure whole approach will vary and the. Areas you focus on will vary. Okay. So if you are a support guy, you might might find kubernetes administration more you might go into the developer kind of a Now. This is the first time i'm saying far the most important thing because after having all the skills, you might So that's why you need You need to continuously look for new in the market, and continuously learn And a very important point. If you see I have put a I have put a flag here, but I Is to indicate that post So you need to continuous learn, Now the third step complements the your toes and how you will do it. You will do it using actively communities for DevOps. You will understand what's happening, the market, what kind of challenges So you have to participate Fourth is very important again, whatever capacity possible. So don't look for a perfect DevOps Even if you are starting out, even if you into a DevOps team, maybe as a tester. Or maybe as a scrum master, for example, to understand how a DevOps team works. The moment you become the, become whole culture, you will automatically There's no rocket science. You just need to do things hands on. And fifth one, I will end with this one. It is very important guys. You need to find a good mentor or a coach Because in, in, in this journey, months to 12 months journey guys. It's, it's not a one month which you would do very quickly. It's a long journey. There would be times where you would dip. Where you would feel like It's so much. I am, I'm leaving it out. And at that point of time, you need a tell you that it's okay to be not okay. Okay. So for that you need a mentor and a coach. So do find one. And if you're lucky So friends, I hope you got If it added any value, Subscribe to ITK Funday channel because Hit the bell icon so you exactly know And let me know in the comments So until next time guys, as we always your knowledge and yes, keep hustling. Bye for now.