EV sales are slowing. In August 2023, it took an EV in the U.S. as it did the previous Consumers generally still anxiety, both about range when it comes to EVs. The mainstream appeal of there. They're still too too many limitations in I've been in the auto never seen this kind of $6.5 billion strictly Wedbush says spending on $1.2 trillion between now We are building the future In 2022, consumers spent electric cars worldwide. The U.S. is expected to add roads in 2023. And from 2023 to 2027, committed $616 billion in Meanwhile, these efforts bump. EV sales are slowing. I was a little nervous about husband has an EV as well. Uh, and to have two EVs in challenging. I think the distance travel. Yeah, we've been kind of in You do have to plan. Yes. In August 2023, it took an EV in the U.S. as it did the previous Gas burning vehicles were While slightly more than are the future and will combustion engines, less so. You have a product that hinged their future on. The government is really with electrification. But when the rubber meets to make that decision and a we're starting to see that bit of a hit. Tesla has slashed prices Sales at some EV startups companies like Ford have as demand for their EVs has So what is really going on And what does it mean for For those who are in suggest taking the step as a PHEV, a plug-in hybrid? Or do you think perhaps electric vehicle? There is a oversupply of industry today that is This is Jeff Aiosa. His shop is one of 383 around the U.S. It pulls in about $40 about 50 people and at any cars on the lot. About a third are EVs and It's not that the customer entertaining the purchase. It's the reticence to that to the range that the And coupled with or public charging perhaps moving a little bit Cox Automotive said in July 52 day supply of ICE If they stopped making cars enough to last 52 days. Pickup trucks went from 52 to just 57 by August. Meanwhile, the EV supply days. No segment has seen a There's definitely a rise in to sell in a lot. It's just even longer. And the fact that we're used car market as well, just like an isolated This is something that is Numbers elsewhere suggest dampened from a pandemic In 2021, 86% of U.S. buyers were considering an That number has since In May 2021, Ford opened Lightning, the fully popular vehicle in America. It closed them by the end company said it had enough worth of production. But by September 2023, Ford production of its hybrid Lightning had slowed. We literally had people who the store, hoping that when the carrier that they only to learn that it was People are rushing to the They're going bananas, They're bidding, wars are People are like, I hope If it falls off the truck, attitude. I mean, just now. It's just been one is upside down. The softening of sales isn't brands. The buzzed about seen two consecutive expected demand. Most recently, it delivered performance, 500-mile range Street had expected in the There are larger economic Interest rates are up and more expensive. Inflation has reduced chains are disrupted. The inflexible nature of pressuring OEMs to make EVs Then there are the government mandates. Think of the lens of the typically takes a cycle years, from inception to rolling. Right. So that's a big ship to And then back to the pressures, when you have to you can just throw a switch to electric. There is a specific pricing They tend to be more gasoline counterparts. That may explain why the slowed down as much as EVs A luxury mid-size electric have a higher transaction sticker price than a in the same class. The average transaction U.S. was about $48,000 in The average transaction somewhere between $53,000 depending on whose data you Meanwhile, the EV buyer is Drury says about 40% of EV vehicle they already own That is about twice what it That suggests that a lot of ago were supplemental An extra car. Like if you had a two car And part of that was qualified for lots of tax You got HOV access lane. I know in Southern huge thing that vehicles would sell at a premium. As a Mercedes dealer, Jeff lot of well-heeled evidence of this. The early adopters were very want to say, more in the Last year we had 30 marketplace to almost 90 mainstream buyer. So these are the chargers and home charging. I also sells an EQB, a more retails somewhere in the It's not cheap, but it's average vehicle transaction expensive than the EQE, and the EQS, which can run These vehicles won't be say, an ICE equivalent, involved. There's not going technology and improvements there will be with EVs. Batteries on average, are give at least 80% That's not the case with ICE cars, everybody puts they last well over 20 I think there's an evolving You see this in televisions 9 months, you feel like the at Best Buy or pick your functionality. And lowering prices. At the end of the second automakers announced that charging standard, also Charging Standard, or NACS. That means there are floors with an obsolescent Charging is a sore spot for current, past, or This EV will allow you to and predetermine when you stations. Then there is the There's a fair amount of customers that say, 'We government telling us what 67.5% battery electric is I think by 2035 all I don't think that that's EVs sitting on lots does not demand. EVs made up a vehicle sales through early If we looked at EVs as as everything and put it six segment in the So it's not as if nobody demand. However, there is a regional variation. While there have always auto: pickup trucks in northeast. EV adoption two economic metrics pump rates. If gas prices get up to most parts of California, consumers there shifting Meanwhile, in Texas, $2 a gallon cheaper in California. But there is another reason building. Tesla, which been hacking away at its In August 2023, Cox average price paid for an $53,376, down from $53,633 more than $65,000 a year Again, that decline is Tesla. In August, Model 3 21% year over year, while Y dropped 16%, and Model X At the beginning of 2023, $104,990, and the Model X By September 15th, the and $74,990 for the S. It's about two thirds of all their prices are so we have fewer consumers actually saw that those It's very hard to get prices and certainly with network to go buy an It's an unleveled playing manufacturer that sells in integration, direct to the franchise system, it gives direct seller to be able to And in the case of Tesla, threshold so that you can incentive money from the Meanwhile, automakers are selling for above $50,000. Ford hiked the starting in March of 2023 to the original $40,000 Ford has since cut that to still $10,000 higher than planned. It's very expensive to bring cases vehicles that were point a couple of years been able to hold those And so those earlier tended to creep higher. The picture that starts to the lots don't match what dealers are selling. Don't get rid of your I would like to see the regulatory pressures and incentives through the IRA. EV inventory is going to the auto industry continues at that $50,000 to $60,000 already well saturated, It's just that they're lower price than what we If perhaps we could hit the differently than we have, I maybe we would have slowed in the space of hybrid as a battery technology. We have been in the space century, so we have a lot Battery electric is at We don't know, we don't of cutting our teeth with Clearly, I believe that much and too fast. But there are reasons to be The S&amp;P study showed that accept charging times of up an EV than on an ICE That's another shining light understanding that they're what they get with their they are actually willing than what they're getting And while the number of fall from 2021 to 2023, it in 2019. The analogy that I like to smartphones today, and most And if I said to you, give going to give you back a saying, give me your EV, combustion. And I would say people, including myself, keeping my smartphone, I'm You don't want to go Used EV prices are falling. Buyers can get some great yet another sign that Low resale value could also purchases and EV adoption Others say it is just a slowdown are overblown. Studies show that used EV 30% in September and period in 2022. Used vehicle prices overall mid-single digits for that The mainstream appeal of there. They're still too too many limitations in People are broke. Interest rates are high. The demand for EVs is not affordability. Some research indicates what EVs are cheaper to own than You don't have to shell out costs are lower, but a value is a big factor in of owning it. The market shows how much isn't including how to predict few years, a single change technology, even a single upset the whole market. These price drops come at a points suggest EV demand is New EVs are collecting dust Tesla, which controls market, has been and its third quarter investor expectations. Let me give you this general everybody in this business, This is still new. CNBC looked at data and determine whether used EV larger slowdown in the EV altogether. One study showed that all years old lost 4.8% in September 2023, but EVs Another show that from 23rd, the average price for dropped 33.7%. Meanwhile, used car prices period. A third showed they September 22nd to September That study said the average was $27,863, roughly the 2021. Some research depreciation rates of any narrow margin. Big value Hybrids are doing extremely and EVs are doing extremely Why is that? Because when you buy a You get much higher fuel price world we live in and powerful, desirable The trouble is not limited In January 2023, new car worth of EVs and internal internal combustion between 52 days and 58 days EV inventory soared to 111 settled at 97 days by These numbers have fueled is waning, but not everyone There has been a fierce happening. There's been this wave of misleading headlines over would think that EVs were attention just to what the Scott Case is CEO of vehicle history reports measure EV battery life. It also publishes the tracks used EV sales. That index is among those dramatically. If you wanted to say, what's used EV price drops? It's Elon Musk. Tesla controls about 60% of in 2023, the company drove a lot of customers toward new ones, especially It also forced a lot of their prices as well, and pretty tightly with the Many of the 2022 models depreciated 20% to 40% over Nobody's going to pay the would for the new immediate drop in used followed by a like a time prices for Tesla In other words, plummeting kind of inherent problem consumers who might opting for new Teslas In addition, 2023 is the the Tesla Model Y, which in year was the best selling Three year old cars are a used market. Leased a period of three years, cars on the used market are Recurrent has found that on on to their cars for about That means a lot of 2020 used market. Driving up 2018 to 2019 was just an production in the U.S. Tesla, but other And so that's what we're Kind of come on to the used Used EV sales now outpace models except the Model Y, of them. They do, however, total used sales, about 1%. Finally, new federal tax These replaced the EV place since 2009. The original plan offered each of the first 200,000 The new credits offered the introduced a few new price of the vehicle, the capacity, and where the car things. January 1st of 2023. The $7,500 tax credit new cars, so the immediate dollar for dollar $7,500 like right at January 1st getting eligibility for In April 2021, there were on U.S. dealer lots and on websites. That doesn't By October 2023, there were Two concepts to keep in Residual value is what a at the end of some term, a subscription rental or It is often based on the expected to fetch on a deal or auction. Resale value is what a car you sell it on the retail Used EV prices matter resale value are factors in of owning a vehicle. Tesla has long argued that of ownership than combustion vehicles. When you include gas don't have to worry about, tend to be lower as EVs Calculating cost to own is tremendously depending on prices, and electricity In its 2023 five year cost Book said the Tesla Model 3 ownership in the luxury car The also electric Polestar What matters is that this be driving electric short time frame, three, This latest six months, and cars, really puts that into The reality is that EV sales the used side, is vastly engine sales growth. Case cites several From September 2022 to vehicle sales on the new U.S. EV sales rose Sales of used EVs were up Used combustion cars fell But skeptics say that story. Remember, there are three lies, and statistics. On the one hand, sales are market it is taking longer gasoline car. And in the used market, dramatically. Elon wanted to hit a certain this past year, and he was that, and he still didn't What do falling prices and mean? They mean people are rate that you thought they EV sales are not growing country. Some evidence the highest share of EVs Washington are also the Brauer says there might be for EV demand somewhere market, but other data growing steadily in many of EVs tend to cost more than with Tesla's price cuts and some models, new EVs often Public charging is something If I don't have a Tesla, it? La la la. Well, you Somewhere between 70% and home. Most of the time. I think people and the the reality that electric and they can serve a role They cannot be the solution personal transportation solved. In 2024, what is now a tax a tax return will become a on a new EV and $4,000 on a I wouldn't be at all surge in both categories someone can basically get at point of sale rather You know what essentially their taxes and have a liability. But for people who have there might be another three years down the road, credit on new EVs in 2023 If you're buying an EV, you eligibility requirements. For example, the car has to price and assembled in the However, there was a A manufacturer could still buyer leased the vehicle. The lease rates on those skyrocketed this year, sort of knock on effect in Is that means that, um, of them start showing up in Skeptics like Karl Brauer need to change before the like its internal If they need to cost as much need to travel as far as need to refuel as quickly When EVs can do those three buy an EV? In addition, larger economic rates would need to change. The factors that are in oversupply of new EVs, valuable and pushing their concerns and high interest I don't see any of those months, so there's no near tum, at least that you in used EV pricing. A spike in gas prices could certain conditions, tends to rise when gas off when prices settle, Understanding the used EV presents serious set is small. As mentioned, used cars are EVs. Second, because the market technology changes rapidly, Battery technology is one It's something people worry you know, my iPhone is down what's going to happen to So it's one of these things consumer perception thing I mean, what we're seeing do tend to go 7 or 8 years the end of that. The short story on battery batteries are holding up expectations. It is not the with wheels on it. It but there is variability the same make, model and And that's especially true So if you start out with a miles, after five years, it 220, depending on how it's weather conditions it's A simple change in federal a flood of used vehicles And just one manufacturer, market just by changing It's still a new market. We are still figuring out We are still figuring out It's all these little this stuff for the first Teslas are a new thing. To some extent, used Teslas we're all still learning It's all still emerging. Tesla on the company's new giant -- Hertz. A few months out of to order 100,000 -- Tesla Model 3s. Those purchases total value In October 2021, Hertz intended to buy 100,000 Shares of both companies Check out shares of Tesla today, launching the dollar club for the first First mover advantage aside, distinguish itself, in an commoditization, where the seems to be the only If you or I went to the green counter, the red we're still going to get But only a couple of years is posting strong finances, some serious challenges: skyrocketing repair costs, There's no technology run a straight line without And that's this. The line from A to B is not Meanwhile, big rental rivals Hertz's investors are next. Either kill or at initiative, or try to find Hertz, a more than century for bankruptcy in May 2020 up during the coronavirus Even before the pandemic, challenges. Sales grew from to a peak of about $11 about $9.8 billion in 2019. Pre-bankruptcy the stock climbed as high as $109.48 $3.07 the day before Hertz In addition to the Hertz airports or parking number of other businesses, van and equipment rentals, It also acquired the Dollar The company operates in 160 around the world. 13 months after filing for emerged from bankruptcy, When you're coming out of a a story to tell investors. People want to know what going to be different this Some moves were expected accounts, like a big Express, cleaning up its which had suffered from pledge to focus more on But the big move was its mostly model three sedans, and European operations. It also planned to set up for 65 markets. Both Tesla and Hertz share Hertz jumped 10% over the course of the next week Tesla shares rose 12.7% on close, and then another the day Tesla CEO Elon Musk some news. They didn't They didn't have a special And Elon Musk led all the before he one week later have a fleet contract with He added that he was since he thought the Hertz Tesla's economics, Hertz has large-scale Tesla, Polestar and General neither denied nor CNBC. At the time of the convert one quarter of Hertz doesn't break out the EVs, but we can make some In 2022, the company ended vehicles in the Americas 9% of its fleet, or about Teslas. This isn't perfect, about $50,000 on average analysts who follow the about $2.5 billion in Tesla That doesn't include any expenses Hertz had to Overall, globally, it spent vehicles that year. This EV strategy really was off and Hertz became, I with that. That became kind in the market and something kind of latched on to and really interesting story. I'm going to follow this. These three car rental firms market. Hertz was the only This big Hertz intention The industry has received fleets, and the idea was corporate customers, too. Large organizations around interested in choosing EVs It really helps them to And we see a lot of in North America as well as Hertz also saw an to ordinary consumers who reluctant to commit to a In the leisure space, there demand, certainly for curious about whether or their lifestyle. And so like a test drive is we see situations where know, an EV both for long for shorter drives. In 2016, Hertz struck a start renting out fuel rideshare drivers. Hertz considered the a fast approaching option. New York City's 100% of rideshare trips to wheelchair accessible by Despite an investment of at expected demand from customers has not Consumers generally still anxiety, both about range when it comes to EVs. And to that end, that has around building resource challenge. Demand that did arise customers who were already What has worked sort of is the business. As of the EVs in Hertz's fleet drivers. They didn't want those very expensive cars, and so world to Hertz, right, to extend, essentially extend rental program, and we're it and other EVs.' I mean, I think from my has been a great Uber really needs Hertz, Harry Campbell is the Rideshare Guy, a website Uber and Lyft drivers and There's really no better use Uber driver who's going to their car to not only rent electric vehicle. Renting to rideshare There's a one week minimum, vehicle are substantially The challenge, though, is per day rather than the $75 consumer or corporate There's also been a accidents. While hurts says EVs are lower, the cost of accidents is twice what it combustion vehicle. This is partly a Tesla A lot of their critics will the number of vehicles on enough service centers and service fleet to fix those And so you'll see these parts put into the cars. You'll see long wait times That's only one tiny piece repair. In order to buffer some of rental giant has taken on also negotiating for Hertz expects costs will However, repair costs have company had expected. In another move to try to costs, the company shifted rideshare into its leisure But this left a glut of and lowered revenue. The collapse of used EV They've fallen about 30% September 2023. The main reason Tesla, of the new EV market, its cars, driving down the This is important because rental companies turn cars The mSRP on the cars Hertz about a third. The opportunity to dump the really one that's available And frankly speaking, not There's positive margin to of cars, and we will, buy these cars have fallen in And by the way, we'll buy These companies have to their assets in their before they sell the car. So falling used EV prices even for cars that are Hertz claims that taking collision damage and EV fleet as costing the margin points compared to Investors are split over Some want Hertz to pause altogether. Others say Hertz CEO Stephen Scherr, when he took office in company's 2023 third it would be reducing the fleet in favor of those automakers with stronger In its rideshare business, to more experienced drivers likelihood of damage. I've driven a Tesla for the These cars have a lot of I almost got into two or got my Tesla Model 3 And so I think one cool now that we've seen is they have a minimum number of brand new driver and get which I think is smart. Cars Hertz had previously they languished are now Hertz overall rideshare 50% year over year. The higher rideshare demand revenue per unit, better lot. And by reducing the Hertz can resume premium We do see really nice large travel companies, as large associations here And that's a natural that we see coming through. In 2023, it staged drive including the Los Angeles Denver International. It does the same on The company is also putting videos and other online about driving EVs. Yes, Hertz has also taken a out charging partnered with large energy exactly that. And the large scale fast charging for our own customers. And we're going to see like Houston and LAX Scherr has also said that the company going forward, them. Overall, Hertz isn't In the third quarter of billion in revenue, a rentals, which make up more are profitable. Overall in the previous quarter. Operating costs are in line inflation starts to coming down. Billion dollars of EBITDA in And they're still solidly And they still generate They could potentially buy So it's not a case of, totally wiped out or just, it just it's Hertz is not the only The whole industry is difference is competitors such a large and struggling The hope is that its a leg up over competitors, car rental. There are It takes at least a year or fleet. Hertz thinks it the cars for 3 to 4 years, not going to be able to overnight, nor will they Hertz's investments in