Ambush! This happened to me in Iraq, You would not be standing shooting back. Hi, I'm John Spencer. I'm the chair of urban warfare studies at the Modern War Institute. I spent over 25 years in the US Army, but I've been studying urban Today we're going to be in movies and TV and Grenade! It's very accurate to be behind a wall and you pop out for a second Where he's throwing the Grenades have a timer in them, basically, so they don't Once it hits the target. 100% air support is that and why usually you don't bring it in. It's low-flying, it's slow, it doesn't have much protection, and usually you drop soldiers In this situation, they didn't expect that level of resistance. Go. Crossing the street can vulnerable things of urban warfare because there's so many angles, so many windows, so many doorways which you can get shot. So we teach things like so that people can't see and mixing up the speed If I didn't know this battle, I would say that this is not realistic where you have hundreds of but that's really what happened. And they got the soldiers pretty accurate, but there's been a lot of and the depiction of the of what's going on in Hey, Grimes, stay away from the wall. You OK? Yeah! That's actually an iconic &quot;Stay off the wall.&quot; That was real advice are hitting the walls, then kind of like a bowling alley, and it can hit if you're standing on that. I wouldn't say it happens in all, because every city is different. You have mud, cement, glass, but that's real. Let's go, Maddox. You see the bullet holes in the glass because back then we weren't as prepared for urban warfare as we are today, so those aren't bulletproof vehicles. A lot of the weapons for that environment but they also were surprised So I'd give it, like, a nine not realism in the and things that are going on. Chris Hemsworth is more with his hand-to-hand. Close-quarters fighting is We actually tie the weapons to ourselves, so if we get caught in that situation and turn a corner or they can't take it away from us, but not the tactics that He's surrounded by so he's trying to disarm one Personally, I would have with one of those rifles and then get your back against something so you're not expecting and then incapacitate them in some way. I can't say I've found or we teach that, but it could work. Absolutely slow the person I'd say you'd want to turn and especially in a building like that, just to confuse them Out of everything out of that scene, that's probably the most realistic. The fact that he's hiding behind a column, that column is a supporting column, so it has steel-reinforced concrete. Where some walls, it can be If you don't have that, then you do get behind things like anything you can to try to get you cover. Yeah, it was a lot of fun to watch, but I'd give it about a I actually love this clip, and I wish I could show to think about buildings differently. Especially if you're defending a house, you want to take the stairways away, you want to take the doors away, and absolutely throw furniture down. But the scene is really great that's not necessarily to protect you from bullets, because bullets pass through wood, through cloth and everything. That's a great lesson that we teach our soldiers, You crouch down to go underneath them, kind of slowly walk your way around them. Bullets incoming probably but like that, absolutely we tell you to stay away from windows. Yeah, that clip is really important to what people don't even think about even in the military, called mouse holing, putting holes in walls, in floors to move throughout without being seen. It's very common in major urban battles. Actually, I would love for or something like that, but Sometimes we use axes like that to make that hole. Real tactics, real everything, so I'm going with a I mean, this scene seems because I had my own deployments where we were doing raids like these where there's only a few terrorists in a population of millions. For the advantage of your but also to reduce the and the risk to civilians. The fact that their night-vision goggles were always on top of their You'd want to cut the power or so you want to use those Execute. It's very common and very smart to have a sniper with overwatch who has angles that the people moving It's a really good call for the sniper to be the one to execute the first shot, because you want to save your and a sniper usually This sniper in particular, he'd probably be wearing more equipment, and usually it's a sniper and a spotter, so there'd be other people with him. The way they enter this almost too common, thing It's called enter and clear a room. Throwing a grenade can if it's known to be an enemy location and you know there's somebody Of course you're going to enter it with something other than your face. So, the way they're stacked on the door is about getting in there quickly. It actually evolved from SWAT tactics. These tactics were actually developed to limit that amount of violence because there may be The tactics you see Bradley is what I would teach. You want to get behind the bullets that people but also be able to return The windows are great to get down behind, kneel behind, still shoot from. Unlike the enemy in that scene running out into the open areas, that's actually the opposite They're going to stay inside the rooms, make you come in there. You're going to get off Butcher's on the move. Repeat. Butcher's on the When he goes off by himself and chases, that's not realistic. We don't move by ourselves anywhere. It's almost like a cardinal rule. So it would be another team and communicating to each other using some type of radio or something. If he says, &quot;Moving,&quot; then somebody else would follow him out there. I'd give it a rating of around an eight. Ambush! This happened to me in Iraq, Ambushes are very, very It's meant to surprise the people, entrap them in a funnel like that. Although the bad guys don't usually just stand on top of the roof. You would not be standing shooting back. You wouldn't last long. We'd seek cover, use those Ideally, though, in the whole situation, it's called a &quot;kill zone&quot; of the ambush. You want to get out of it. That concept of having a, we call it a quick reaction Because you've been surprised, somebody needs to come to help you, and we usually keep forces in an urban setting like this to be that quick reaction Let's go. Let's go! They ram the vehicle, Trying to lock them in that kill zone so everybody can shoot at you. So, I'm actually going to than I want to because outside of the tactics, so I'll give it a, let's give it a four. The drones are probably to urban warfare that's As I go into Ukraine to on the major battles, there's thousands and It reduces some of the if I can put a drone to see around that corner, The aspect of X-ray vision, because we still can't Especially not much can see through steel. It gave me a lot of feelings Especially the use of the dump truck reminds me of the Beirut bombings where a dump truck was brought like in that scenario, but then exploded. This is why urban warfare is so hard. Dump truck could be a threat. Although that's probably unlikely that you're going to use to throw it up in the air, is what we call a three-block war, where, when you're you are actually very concerned about the civilian population at the same time as you're fighting, and there's restrictions on So, no, that's a very plausible scenario that any soldier who has values is trying to protect while still trying to do it, the mission. So if the rating has to be for realism, I'll give it around a six. Eight to 10 Tangos, front gate. Left! By the trees. A couple little things in there. There are nice touches of like the red dot that on the modern weapons that to the green hue that coming off the night-vision goggles. So, when you see some version kind of martian type of look. When you look around, Get to the top of this building. Let's go. Blocked by buildings. This roost is a bust. In this scene, they enter like that. It's a great idea. The strategy was called strongpoints, or a building that is really strong, it has lines of sight or directions you can fire and in war it's happened has been held for months just because it was the right strongpoint. He says it's a bust because the direction, the building, they got up there, thought but they couldn't see Take on your right. What we usually see in is everybody trying to get to the roof because it kind of is common I can see people farther out, but depending on the context, you don't want to be because you can also be seen from the air, from drones, from mortars, you can be hit. It's based on a real situation at Benghazi where they're That's a good idea to get up there so you can see where they're coming from and to take better from the rooftop for sure. I'd give that a pretty about a seven, eight, just based on the type the chaos, the building I think this is an important scene because one of the biggest about urban warfare is or soldiers shooting their weapons. Major urban battles are tanks, artillery, engineers, infantry. They're full-scale battles in concrete. Now, the damage that the that is unlikely that just the whole face of the It's going to do a lot of damage, and that's why you have a tank, because a tank is mobile It has that giant gun that can which is concrete and cover. But in this scene, they're all tracers. It's almost like a &quot;Star Wars&quot; ray gun. They won't all be like that. There's actually a myth that tanks are not helpful in urban But actually, the if you go into a major urban fight and you don't have a tank, you're wrong. But the problem is that and the infantry can't go by itself. And as we see in this scene, the infantry worked to protect the tank, and then the tank protect the infantry. But tanks are vulnerable, as you see here. The Germans shoot from below in the basement. The size needed to take a all depends on what the and I think they really didn't know. For that street, I think that looked where you combine a tank with an infantry platoon or something to clear a street like that before you discover where the enemy is. Outside of the lasers of the rounds, this is a very realistic and the combined arms that you need, so I give it a nine. Ugh. Will you pause? The one thing that I can't is that everyone walks up to the wall and just sticks their rifle That's absolutely what you don't do. You're just putting a flag I don't have any problem with This is a hasty attack. Two different buildings, that's great; it gives you converging fire. So firing down from two They can cover more of the courtyard. The scene in this movie battle of Mosul that happened in 2017, one of the biggest battles 100,000 security forces against a entrenched ISIS enemy force that had to be cleared out. That's actually pretty realistic. You open an attack like that We call it the most Duds do happen. The way is you have more than a more than one big weapon, which is actually accurate, Your surprise is gone. Attack. It's actually pretty complex, because they have moving forces with other elements shooting down that they have to know on when to turn their That's, in some ways, the that's as they're maneuvering in while another person's holding them down. Booby traps are very Pictures on the wall. Any and everything could be potentially booby traps. We see it right now in the Ukraine war when Ukraine takes back their But you have to be hyperaware of all those booby traps, for sure. One is just awareness of every soldier not to move and displace things, and then we have bomb-sniffing I'm going to actually give Just some of it's a little off. He'll be on the footwalk over the gutter. We'll take him out from behind. The underground is a huge component of that three-dimensional Many cities have cities under the cities, and in battles like this, the battle of Stalingrad, because there was such Yes, those are possible The characters on both to real snipers that were prevalent in the battle of Stalingrad who were known to put themselves in the barrels The cat and the mouse that didn't happen. We do train soldiers and there is some aspect of That's a real thing, right? but you don't know where the sniper is, and unlikely that you're to blind that, so, no, don't do that. I want to give it a pointing out the but the realism of the around a three, I guess. That's pretty about as real as it gets. The IED, or the improvised is the weapon of the last 20-plus years. The invisible enemy that you The M2 .50-cal is still used today. It's a very effective large machine gun that has the size of bullet that you'd want, where The accuracy of what to the building looked pretty accurate. Some of them you can He didn't shoot that to create that level of sprawling and honeycombing of that wall. The tactics there are pretty sound, where you have the machine while the infantry are maneuvering lower so there's control there to enter that building where I can't say that kicking It's called a mule kick. I wish the movies would stop showing it because it's not effective, but I have found many soldiers trying it. But it's not the most force you can put by kicking in that door. Soldier: On the ground! That's an unfortunate of that scenario and that chaos of when the soldier enters the room, but controlled and not But then you have scared, frantic civilians even approaching you, making the soldier feel very unsafe. That's a very realistic and that is urban warfare. So if we were to take out the mule kick, I would give that scene a 10. My favorite urban warfare show or scene is actually &quot;Saving Private Ryan.&quot; The aspect of the sniper and to draw more people out of urban warfare. Thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this video, why