Congratulations You are killing Pokemon. In we...our player character at least...are the reason extinct. That's not even really a theory. It it's buried WAAAY down in there and but I have 100% confidence that Game Freak dedicated players. And perhaps strangest us bumping innocent animals permanently off from god. The Pokemon God Arceus. He gives us If you thought Pokemon lore was weird Hello Internet! Welcome to Game Theory, the isn't just a Pokemon, it's also the Drop that knowledge bomb the next time you're Ladies and gentlemen, there are three things and new Pokemon games. We just had a Pokemon the release of Pokemon Scarlet and Violet, even In short, Pokemania is in the air so I figured and what better game to talk about than the smash remakes have literally just been recycling the 90s, Legends Arceus threw that formula out into series to give players an open world to explore. a new world. In this game, you're actually running from Gen 4's Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum. How far the game doesn't explicitly tell us, but based on like binded books, brimmed hats, and steam inspiration for the Galaxy Hall, the games seems which took place from around 1868 to 1912. And seem to resemble that of the Edo Era, the era to that 140 years ago mark. So really, this history lesson for that fictional region. all the similarities from two games set in the like map locations, logo artwork, and ancestral Theorist senses were the DIFFERENCES between the year gap. There are some obvious ones, like the and isolated camps evolving to urbanised cities. of geography or urban planning. I'm here to the Pokemon. There are a good number of that are completely new. Ones that don't make or any other core installment in the series. Doing shows us there's a whopping 25 Pokemon that are completely absent from other titles. Pokemon like new evolution of Basculin, Basculegion. But why? We've seen everything there is to see here. And and Gen. 4, 25 Pokemon apparently got WIPED OUT! what happened to all these Pokemon, based on they're shielding us from the truth: We killed 25 Pokemon variants are gone now. We MADE them as we go Big Lore Hunting to figure out what But before we set off on adventure, we have to stopped to think about how much stuff a trainer candies, antidotes, whatever the heck a TM is. And in! THAT'S RIGHT, it's merch drop time! Starting the TechWear Backpack! This thing literally IS with plenty of room for your laptop, your favorite your heart out, Ash Ketchum cuz this isn't just loop strings and bungee cords that allow you to tools. This thing is loaded with function, but I wanted to lean more into the subtle coloring and theorist pride, but it's doing it in a way that professional setting; it's not going to stand out Or, if you're looking for something smaller grab-and-go style, check out the TechWear which makes it perfect if you live in a place I've been in London for the past two months, was able to hold the few items that I wanted from like a burden to bring along. And considering it's the city. One of the things that I was always I always kept the new Game Theory water bottle Nalgene-style bottle is built in with achievements when you've hit different hydration milestones get the platinum trophy in hydration? Time to find bag? Our new pack of perfectly pixelated playing because I couldn't leave you without at least one Y'all know that I love an asymmetrical design sleeve and a tie-dye inspired pattern that washes description to catch 'em all! all the latest and go extinct. Kinda like Wyrdeer. Speaking of... Pokemon we get to see in this game, Wyrdeer, Stantler. Now, in Legends Arceus, Stantlers are but in Sinnoh, not so much. They can only the PokeRadar. And as for Wyrdeer? They don't a Wyrdeer, it needs to use the move Psyshield isn't a move that Stantlers can learn in games number of Stantler shrunk, but it's also lost its evolution into Wyrdeer. That's weird, right? Clearly, the game designers consciously made tell us? What reasons would Stantler have to entry actually gives us a hint: "The black orbs voice since this game doesn't have an electronic "The black orbs shine with an uncanny light when fur shed from its beard retains heat well and is Useful in cold weather, huh? Sure sounds like region would find pretty valuable. Once people going to be tempted to try and get their hands on as they continue expanding into areas like the icy to extinction for their fur while the remaining choosing to flee rather than fight, much like evolving just wasn't worth the added stat survive. After generations and generations and ESPECIALLY avoiding the use of they would eventually "forget" how to their chance of survival. No Psyshield And they aren't the only species that was Take the Hisuian Qwilfish, a regional variant by the time Gen 4 rolls around. Looking at start to see why this guy might have been "Fishers detest this troublesome Pokemon getting it everywhere. A different form If you look at the Cobalt Coastline, one we see that, in the intervening 140 years, a prime fishing location thanks to the Sunyshore to Victory Road. What this tells us is that hunted them to extinction so the coastline could purposes. They eliminated what they saw as a we see in Sinnoh years later. And it's not like it the Diamond and Pearl Pokedex entries call the reason that Fishermen might have wanted to get as directly called out. Food! We've talked over on likely to be a delicacy in this universe. There's It contains a super deadly neurotoxin, just and it too is a delicacy in many parts of Japan, know how to prepare the meat without killing their in the same way. Regardless though, whether it humans were the ones that wiped these Speaking of being hunted, let's look at two more Electrodes. Looking at them it's immediately clear changes in their design. The Kanto versions metal-like compound while the Hisuian Electrode's "material curiously similar..to Apricorn because historically Apricorns were used to are everywhere, but in Sinnoh there's no more of by the end of Legends: Arceus, because of the work to catch Pokemon for themselves. As a result, alarming rate to craft their own Pokeballs. But in and suddenly there were no more Apricorn wood to build Pokeballs, what do you do then body made of a very similar wood: Hisuian Voltorbs Hisuian Voltorb and Electrode may have evolved from getting poached by the would-be Kurts of the that we see in real life. Many elephants are right? Well, this has historically been happening are now starting to evolve to have smaller are hunting them for those tusks, elephants thereby passing that trait along, just like a survival advantage over their wood variants. in that 140 year period. It was also an over-use are two new evolutions of Ursaring and Schyther of a specific item to evolve. Ursaring needs the And while Ursaring and Scyhter are certainly easy aren't present because neither of these items at the differences between Hisui and Sinnoh. The known as...well...peat. Basically, it's like a form and it can be burned for fuel. Based on the an increase in industrialization in the Sinnoh machines need fuel. And hey look! Here's a readily no other discernible purpose. Might as well use it a similar fate. The name originally led me to mineral Augite, however, looking at the in-game line up. Its black glassy texture actually makes material that's made from the rapid cooling of material for tools. The only active volcano that cobalt coastlands, which, based on its shape, is Volcanos don't tend to make Obsidian. The only which the box art does seem to imply is a Volcano, Therefore, it's safe to say that Black along with Peat, are non-renewable resources, so and wound up using up all these items, Ursaring You know who else disappeared from the region Avalugg, and Decidueye who all have Pokedex adapted to the colder climate and snow of the are small. When habitats are smaller, that means more specialized. For example, take the famous Islands. What he saw was that each finch evolved island it lived on. This comes with the benefit of but the downside is that if ANYTHING changes, then that's exactly what happened with these Hisui area, as they industrialized, the climate of Hisui the deforestation that came with it, all of it meaning some of these Pokemon were Now, these are only a few examples of what can see the pattern, right? All these pokemon are plundering resources, humans over hunting, humans Arceus and Gen 4, humans have completely morphed designers have clearly thought through that evolutions into this world arbitrarily. The whole us through hints in the Pokedex. In the end, we environmental message, if we just bother to piece Except, there's still one piece that I haven't people of Hisui are afraid of Pokemon, some you start off in isn't able to expand more that lurk out in the wilderness. But someone death warrant. That person... is you! At the start time by the God pokemon, Arceus. When you land, something that other people are afraid to do. But you persist. You teach people that Pokemon can be chores, you can even collect them and use them for the human race is now able to expand throughout to hunt Wyrdeer for their fur, to exterminate resources. If you had decided to not be a hero, to too inhospitable for civilization to truly grow, Kind of makes you wonder if that God Pokemon who But hey, Here's your last reminder to head on down line of Theorist Merch. Whether you're looking wanted to get yourself ready for school this backpack is especially great for anyone in need It's got our signature Game Theory style, so you'll be able to fit in with everyone else head on over to the merch store or click the link a bag, or some playing cards before they And as always, remember, it's all just a And hey, if you liked this dark pokemon theory, not just Hisuian Pokemon that are doomed, Shiny out that theory by clicking right here. Or you can the video on your right. Yep, I really did the at the subscribe button so whenever we do more