Don't you just hate that feeling as a programmer But don't. in today's video, I'm going to go through you an explanation on what they are I have an awesome idea for a startup A to do list application. it can help with productivity. And I found a ton of Python So where do we get started? Less mapped out. First the exciting part. What are the users going to see? HTML is a markup. Language used to structure content It uses tags to help you structure on your screen. for example, you can have a table tag to create a table You can even hold a div tag Ishmael is very basic, and put it open on your web the document object model, also known as the DOM is created when the HTML page web browser, like Chrome, Firefox and etc. passes through this table and creates and memory used for each element, You'll understand why the browser so since your HTML sites are really ugly. Sorry again, You can control the fonts, layouts, colors and basically any visual and since its name is cascading, it hierarchy And you can either put this inline CSV file. JavaScript is a high level interpretive programing language that's used on the web JavaScript helps See, I told you I'd come back to it. So if you wanted a button to change color, with JavaScript. JavaScript heavily relies on events. So a lot of the code you would write in scenarios are functions great. So we have a to do list application. I'm almost a millionaire. Well, people pay something that they can we would need something to execute code who our users are. This brings us to back end technologies. So the difference between a server A client's computer could be more powerful up 24 seven well usually and is able on the client's computer, like processing are just computers optimized 24 seven Usually you access this speaking of An operating system on these computers, just like how you use You use Linux servers need operating systems that is required But good news Most of the world is run you'll often find servers running ubuntu, debian, I probably said some of those wrong. There are a ton of back end It's a bit of a nightmare PHP, Ruby Python, etc. you know what programing languages do role of these programing languages and more to come soon is okay, is to provide the logic around you have to process a credit card, run or save something to a database, Wait, databases missed that there All basically do the same thing If your users want to store their to do you would need a database so that when they log in, or delete something There's a lot of ways Do things pros and cons of each, great. I create a front end for the application Wait, how do they interact now that you have your user interface Hopefully, how do we get them to connect with each other something? Hypertext Protocol to transfer text and other data a client will call you URL which can be get post patch, put delete. the server receives this request back to the client, which can include So think of it as the client The server can only reply to it. the worst that could well, lots web server softwares are use as a proxy or load balancer rather than it being your users connecting to an IP address with the port engine acts as a proxy to navigate so that there is privacy, Don't just be raw, log in and FTP Pi that I want to run There's got to be a better way some of the most popular software expressed for no jazz Django or fast are all softwares that do a lot of things, but are used primarily as a way to handle user sends a get request further list of notes on the server, and create HTML document that you can So my website is getting really popular It just feels slow. And I hate how my web page reloads frontend frameworks are some of the most as Twitter about JavaScript frameworks single page applications that are powered Once you access the page, JavaScript These applications allow users to A much sleeker user experience Each framework essentially does the same the ecosystem for these are just massive So just get started on Okay, but this is a social media I found another tutorial for that. How can I get proper SEO traffic? social meet. A lot of these frameworks of these frameworks. necessary. Asphalt Astro or Linux framework while getting the advantages of getting hate mail Android and iOS when it comes to developing which you need to use Xcode for These languages are very similar some skills might be needed most of the SDK are similar in nature, similar code However you have small little intricacies And do you really want to learn hum? Well, if you want to go one step higher, uses a dart programing language that will then compile into both iOS This means that you only need to learn one programing language But you can go even higher level. you can use something like JavaScript with React Native or some other tool I want to ship our application, and there's a ton of small steps For JavaScript, we use build tools that can remove our news import HDMI files, tree shake and compile as minified for faster loading and adding deploy is often considered a build step, I I just raised my series funding. I just hired three software engineers. But my code is a mess I need to speed up. version Control. version Control. Options like Git allow developers to version their software in ways a visual standpoint, it works like a tree can be branched off. creates a clone of your software that can you want to change branches, This then allows for merging of branches now that you're You need an environment boilerplate Programing somewhere that helps you focus on creating new features rather than setting up environments a lot of programmers get caught up on But just don't use word since I start coding and I'm very excited As you can tell, there are a ton of things that you have to keep up to date with I mean, we're barely through the list I'm always working on different projects Really quick. So with all these tools from JetBrains and validate my ideas fast with all of And this goes It tailors towards So if you're like me available, like my version Control you can ball out if you want to, minimal and distraction free, I've been using their to help me with my projects, which is We're already aware of things and context aware chat, a refactor or auto generating a commit Now you've seen my other videos to build these types of projects. So if you want to build make sure you click to check out some of JetBrains Ides Thank you I downloaded get. note you downloaded GitHub repositories hosted on places like GitHub is like a Google drive, between get and GitHub is simple get is the software GitHub is like Google Drive, And these repositories are often the most ton of access to the app, but we keep having to copy and paste code Rest APIs Are simple interfaces used for your application is structured so rather than returning HTML or text, output to return a standard data type Structuring things to talk to all of your different clients rather than having to make something application is getting a ton of users to get really slow. Maybe switching programing languages I mean, there's a ton of options goes. Concurrency model lets you multitask Russ Large type system makes things go really fast Community is often great but adding a new language adds So just remember that need Who told you that? Really? It's working on my machine. Why isn't it working on the production containers lets you build on top of the Docker engine that will consistently create If you have go go dependencies creating a docker image container makes it so that no matter what So I have a confession to make. My database was just an Excel spreadsheet What are my options? relational database plus everything These tables often have ways to relate so it can have one entry in the user's called Lewis and all of my tasks can be in where only the relevant information a relationship between them sequel, doesn't rely on structure benefits here is that you often can accept setting sync and social media posts. rather than choosing between you might use a combination of both, if your app is handling whatever it is, and even a little bit of Ready stores key value pairs in memory So you can get access to values So for scenarios this is necessary as even though But it's not like your To-Do Of course it does. I can use HTP right. case as an alternative protocol. It used to talk to a server. This starts between a handshake This handshake is a constant connection between the server and client. Non stop. So instead of HTTP, once that handshake as they want to each So how do I connect Like we know about VirtualBox But how do I connect to the command line? SSA, also known as secure Shell, lets command line. This is done through safe keys in order to make sure that the connection Advanced Messaging. Queuing protocol is a application focused on queuing, publishing As you can tell, on different machines and different used for these technologies so that when a specific task is triggered, So how many users should I have Well, how many users do you have? Like a million and a half. why are you hosted? there. But cloud seems like a mystery. Something you need to understand But a lot of the services are just hosted versions of these items Let's take a look object storage users are uploading images, files You need an actual place And with a regular hard drive, your storage access to that storage, just a complete mess How do I get these files to my users delivery networks are proxy servers what, you can serve a file stream and So you said I can scale my out Yeah, that's Well, machine is taking in all the traffic. boy. When you're using many different machines, to do list out can take while you need load balancers are machines and software dedicated to finding out common way determines where a cs of the server's up then it redirects it to another place. And this is one of the most key aspects Making sure is up. a create 1 Now all of our servers are hung up, meaning why would anyone need queues and task workers are used to handle big task, but sometimes a user but will know that it's not urgent will put these tasks into a first Worker performs a task in order. For example, a notification It could wait a bit, you know. mistake. This software is a disaster to deploy. now deploying integration is the practice of building during development. I got that one from Wikipedia folks. This is often for when you want to find efficient ways and test your code before it even hits there's a lot of frameworks that exist But I hate to say it, continuous delivery is another way Often used with continuous integration. This makes sure that the code you are released anywhere in an environment How many times have you left While this system is often used as a way to ensure that the entire process all the way to launching on a cloud, we don't want to We're programmers Infrastructure is code less. Developers write either code or markup languages to help them structure So, for example, you would want to deploy in your branch. You would put that in the code base so that you can all the environments And we're just scratching the surface. We have a ton. What happened to your to do app? I gave up. Why? have AI on our tech stack. Seriously?