Rachid: Welcome back podcast, where we bring talking to the people that build many I'm your host, Rachid Finge, and we If I would ask you about your favorite or watch, what would you say? You'd probably mention YouTube maybe a social media app, as well. I'm sure some of you out there will say But have you thought about you wake up on time every morning? Or what about the Calculator app? It's there on every Pixel These and some other apps come who formed a Pixel essential apps team. Maybe they are some of the and I'm really excited So with us today is a product manager Let's welcome Kristi Bradford. Kristi, thanks for coming on. Please tell us a little and how you ended up at Google. Kristi: Yeah, thank you. I studied psychology, so And after that, I thought the So I moved to Los Angeles from and then I started working for not the path that I wanted to go down. And from there, I moved into And why that's important is I was introducing their first first software that all of the would have to go through and make sure for an FDA audit, so kind of a big deal. It had a lot of bugs and And I was trying to figure out, who do they go to? Like, they just go into like purgatory. And so I started researching, and there somebody who defines which features or bugs to fix when. And I was like, OK, I And so I moved up to Seattle. And I was like, I'm going to And I did. I joined a startup. And just like you do when you join I think I was only home in Seattle launching all of these And it was a really cool me my first kind of product management specifically. And after that, I joined And then from there, I joined Google. And so most of my experience but kind of like across Rachid: Amazing. So your background in psychology, is have today at Google? Kristi: I think so, I'm not manipulating anyone, people do the things that they do. So I would argue that in anthropology or would have the same sort of skill set. Rachid: Today's guest helps many every day Kristi Bradford on the Pixel essential apps team. She studied psychology, worked and loves learning new languages. Kristi joined Google in 2022 after Today, Kristi will tell us more about the alarm clock for the world, while the than you might think, and where &quot;One Click bradford.&quot; I hope you'll enjoy our conversation. So now you're in the Pixel sort of the essential apps under you. So what exactly does the team thinking about when we talk Kristi: Well, it's a good question, is kind of like a team name internally. But what everybody so your alarm clock, your stopwatch, and So having a system installed calculator Recorder, so this is audio only, and models in there. And then for your Wear, stopwatch that I guess it launched Rachid: Yeah, time flies, indeed. So I'd love to go into but just wondering, are there or commonalities between all the Kristi: Yeah, I think the focus And then we do, per Google, per our things as beautiful So quality, to me, really in the sense of want to be and go to sleep knowing You won't miss it. There won't be any issues with it. And you want that experience of setting delightful and beautiful Rachid: So maybe let's start where that alarm is in, that in a way also nerve racking in the sense of off at the time that was agreed on. Kristi: Yeah. There is a lot of pressure. And then you start to think about Because the Clock app itself And so if your system time can't it's going to attempt to fire the alarm So if for some reason I don't have the and feed it back into system tonight over to Dublin Going To Fire At 7:00 AM Pacific time. So there are a bunch of edge cases that that for the majority of people, this is Rachid: I'm sure you personally maybe It makes your job a Kristi: Luckily, the team But it is fascinating because since the app itself is global, have And then daylight savings itself in the the end of this year. So it is still a thing that's super Rachid: You mentioned it would be great So what kind of things do make it delightful for our users? Kristi: We have a close integration And I'll backtrack a bit. Have you watched the movie Interstellar? Rachid: I have seen it, yes. Kristi: OK. So there's this really cool feature ahead of your wake up have a full experience to go to sleep. So you can choose to looks like you're flying I think it's called deep you to sleep in a very calming manner. And then on the other end you can wake up to any song So if I prank my could essentially record my own You have a math exam that or I could wake up to what I do And that's through a So you could wake up to pretty Rachid: Waking up to Vivaldi, that That's a great idea We have so many more apps to go through. And by the way, when you also mentioned the clock Is that much different, to create for a watch compared to a phone? Kristi: I think so. And this, again, comes or why people are doing But if you imagine the Watch compared to my phone, maybe like a tenth So you have to be ruthless about and they really have to the user wants to do on their watch. So the clock, for example, has And that spans across So if I'm making a big say pasta and pizza and some I can have timers for all of that. On a watch, you're for something fitness related like a push up timer or a sit up timer. And so we expect you to only So while the core functionality of you you can definitely use the UX there from the user intention is very different. Rachid: And then I guess my favorite that will only vibrate so that won't wake up when I need Kristi: Do you use that? Rachid: Yeah, absolutely, every day. Kristi: Oh, that's awesome. Nice. Rachid: That's one I really love. Then the next app I wanted to touch fascinates me in the the app that's taken for granted most. People think yeah, of course Yeah, of course, it should work. It's probably much harder to create than people would think at first. Kristi: Yeah. And some of the interesting is that there is a former at Google who volunteered his time, Rachid: Yeah, of course. Kristi: In a 20% project I think in 2016, he dedicated his time And the difference between and computational math is into a calculator with it's trying to convert and that's for speed But if you're doing calculator you're not doing these like multiple that you would see in the movies And so we have a full which means that you have the and it's on your phone. And I'm not going to do it justice. Hans would be able to talk to you that means. But to me hearing that, I was just blown come in that say, hey, this is wrong compared with my calculator, it's the inverse. And it just-- it's amazing that can function so highly accurate. Rachid: Amazing. That's what I was thinking, that on the back side that it as we've all had a calculator And then the final app you mentioned, to Pixel, I guess, is the Recorder app. How did that app come to be? I don't really remember which Pixel but it is something that wowed a lot Kristi: Yeah. So this app was attempting unique to the concept of voice memos started to become a good as much of a minute as we can, or hours in our days. And Recorder came out, And probably the coolest part of So-- Rachid: Exactly. Kristi: As you're speaking a model that's all on your device. So based on the language it's giving you that transcript of right then and there. And then the factor versus function, it's just beautiful. Like, people love to use designed and pretty straightforward. And then in December, we launched So this is an entirely new machine to target different speakers based on and then label them and the rest of the recording. Rachid: Right. So if I'm recording a lecture, maybe I can easily figure instead of it being one long transcript, Kristi: Yeah. And we've done some interesting UXR Because some of the fascinating is that the majority of these Recorder And so-- Kristi: Yeah. We were starting to is this kind of a glorified But it turns out it's not. It's just that people are to brainstorm things like rap interesting interview to go through. And then they're doing voiceovers. So there's a lot of voiceovers for maybe content for actual production samples. And one of those actors is also a And I can't validate this. I have no way to. But she said that the Recorder up these supernatural sounds when she And I was like, that's Rachid: Amazing. Absolutely. You did not know that That's cool. So if I circle back to the you worked in pharmaceuticals. Wondering know what does that So now you kind of have an So if we take Recorder and I was looking this up just We're at Pixel 7 now, so So how do you sort of decide and how do you keep that app-- you And there's this thing-- you know about where you just add an and that whole thing becomes unusable. How do you balance the but also keeping it simple to use? Kristi: It's a great question. I mean, obviously we get a lot not only from Google Research and for audio, but from our users directly. So that UXR and then the most we go over that every when we're planning the roadmap. So for us it's kind of a mix of requesting, because we want to make that they need out of it, with the next phase of audio technology people who are already using might not see the value that piece of technology coming in. But you're right. With all of the features it can get a bit difficult. And these different form factors now. Rachid: That makes a lot of sense. And I guess it's mostly the You mentioned it should be really And at the same time, you wanted like special ways of waking up Kristi: Yeah. I think one of the most about how do we keep it beautiful So if you look at Reddit prior to there was a lot of like, which launched in 2022, it would finish the end to end flow. So Assistant does this it's like it can understand that there's holiday coming up, and it'll suggest, like yesterday was there's a holiday tomorrow. Do you want to disable your alarm? We were like, well, if it's set to go off like when you could just pause it? And so now you have this feature you can select a pause it And building that UI in, if you and the complexity of what does it mean to pause your well, it's actually a little bit And I think-- honestly, So that's another example of with the actual benefit of the feature. Rachid: Kristi, before we go, we like Maybe you have a top tip for one of Kristi: Yeah, actually. So we do see that the have up to 10 active alarms, so alarms And we have this cool feature kind but on the beginning end of that. So if you go in and you select and then you go back into that alarm we can actually let you and you have this like date So I could schedule for I guess when my nephew is going And I could set an alarm I could also set a pause but I will forever have that alarm so in the year 2034, will And I think it's just a delight And another one is like for your doctor's you can schedule it out that far. Instead of only having to schedule Rachid: Amazing. Kristi: Yeah, it was really fun. Thank you. Rachid: That was a lot of fun. Who knew that Calculator had such a underneath it? And the edge cases you get to deal for all over the world are incredible. And thanks a lot to Kristi. Can't wait to see what's next from the Now, here's a question for you. Are you a subscriber of Because if you're not, maybe just and you'll be the first to know Thanks for listening to Take care, and talk soon. [MUSIC PLAYING]