John, it seems to me What is this? We are, Del. This side used to connect to that side lot of rock that's been This is the Weber sandstone, but down the Coconino sandstone, so the same You spent a lot of time I did. It extends from California through all the way up through the Dakotas. Well we've talked a lot about the bending, and so forth, but this is This is something cut out these layers. You know one of the things that we want earth got its shape, and as a Flood actually took place after There was certainly, you know, some waters ran off, but as the mountains was a tremendous amount of shaping, and It means the shape of the earth, and so ranges or a shape of a mountain, the valley, or things that glaciers do, and shapes, and one of the things that we'd a slot canyon right here, so we can see and we're down in this little valley. We're in the Uinta Mountains in a place we have this river running through back whether rivers can really We've, you know, you've been the canyons around Mount St. Helens We've talked a little bit about how alternative hypotheses to that, but you even with small canyons like this we Certainly not processes that we see magnitude of those. That's right. after the Flood as these mountains tectonic activity and so forth, that landscapes to be shaped and for, you this to be cut. But this cutting of this canyon, not the flood waters, That's right. After the Flood, certainly there is there's other opportunities for erosion As mountains of wet sediment get lifted You can have landslides. As rainwater comes and mixes with In fact, there is a mud flow in this actually buried some people on a And so even today we can see, you know, following the Flood especially, I think, that could have easily So it's possible maybe an enormous mud Mud flow, sometimes with just a lot of a lot of debris and so on and those I don't know for sure, but it may be oftentimes faults or just joints in the work its magic. You've mentioned that post-Flood era in that there was a tremendous Yeah. And so an area like this that doesn't That's right. It was a drastically different climate It was. Just to the north of here in Fossil looked at the lush landscape that was had to grow there, and the water that there, and the birds and so on. And it's much different from the So it's very clear even looking at the has changed. That you know in the past there able to act much more vigorously than Well I remember when we were at Mount about how that basalt was hours simply by the force of the water. Right. So one day They came back the next day and saw a a canyon that had been cut by mud flow And I mean you go there today and you canyon and there's a temptation to canyon it must have taken a long time But the truth of the matter is that Well in fact in here this river, this that's in the middle of the canyon. Sheep Creek just starts right up here. It starts right up here. And there's a temptation to think that somehow isn't there? But when we think of the massive amount shouldn't be hard then for us to and the structure that we see. That's right. We see this in Grand Canyon, we saw it and we see it here too. You see these relatively small streams Even the biggest river we have in the though it's a mile wide in places, it sits And we call those underfit streams, And it means that the river flowing immense size of the valley of a canyon. And my guess is 90% of the canyons and And one of the explanations is that by the streams that currently flow in them, And so we think that as mountains were work on those mountains in the form of in the form of glaciation, and so on, a canyons like this and enlarge them And then the stream is there or the the canyon coming first. So when you say underfit it means that That's right. The river is small compared to the valley that it's in. And you were mentioning earlier that through the Grand Canyon is really not In fact, weren't you saying it was the Yeah, it's amazing. I've heard people do this They're looking out over and they say, Just think about how long it would have something like this. Look how small the river is down there. But the truth of the matter is the It's not cutting any depth in the In fact, the Grand Canyon is getting So there's mud flows and flash floods streams of the Grand Canyon. They dump their load in the Colorado and those boulders sit there for, you centuries and not have moved one inch. And so there's all kinds of boulders on The river is not cutting the canyon. And it brings our mind back again to magnitude of those forces that were - That's right. Yeah, so you know Psalm 104 talks about sinking down and we think that that's The context of Psalm 104 is that those Flood was over. And so these mountains that we're rising up after the Flood And the landscapes that we're seeing, the valleys that we're seeing, all Flood was over. Yeah, and that cutting force of water, of implements we use to cut rock. - Right. And so water either in its liquid form huge part, hasn't it? I think it has. In getting us to the world I think it has. And it's even more amazing when you things to that water, it can even have add an abrasive That's right. John, it seems at least to me to say canyon out don't seem What's your take? Yeah, you know as a geologist I've a lot of different places. And one of the things that I see on see surfaces that aren't fresh. And a lot of times you see like the black surface on these rocks. Does that mean it's it's been that way Yeah, it's called desert varnish and face of the rock and so what that has been very stable for a long time. That no erosion is happening on that Then I see other surfaces that are a those are surfaces where you probably every year and so on. So those surfaces would be a less don't see any plants growing on. But the canyon that's been cut here and pretty quickly but then after the pretty much just sits here. And that's kind of a principle in through major changes catastrophically and then the landscape just sits And you know I think about the I think about the And it's probably that way in this catastrophically and then sits dormant catastrophe comes through. So this brings our mind back again to is that that exponential drop right over and yet the earth still trembling earthquakes and all of those things sculpting the earth around us and then shaping we see today. It's not that we don't have any There was a mud flow in this canyon people here in a campground. We saw the mud flow that cut the We've seen rock falls outside of earthquakes and you know we've seen were you know fairly large events that And so it's not that we don't have any number of catastrophes that we have is catastrophic events that we would have And the magnitude as well. That's right and I think some of those Well it certainly has left us - It's just stunning in here isn't it?