NARRATOR: Previously -Well, it was kind of Gonna need a minute to shake -I don't think Saskia's going -I asked Saskia to be tough on you've been more focused on -I kissed my best friend's ex like the right time I am moving to Paris to be a -Wow, that's-- -Amazing? I guess. [theme music] THEME SONG: Take a breath. Close your eyes. Take a leap of faith and This is my chance! This is my chance! My chance to feel alive. NARRATOR: Sometimes, even such a country girl. The idea of living overseas in a English is mind bending. -Bonjour! Would madame care to draw -Oh, I can't believe be my everyday breakfast. -Stop it. It's hard enough not having I'm incapable of an -Aw. Fear not, little one. You still have two weeks NARRATOR: It's possible, A few years here in the company, guest artist somewhere But even knowing that's at class, get distracted by my I think that's called [music playing] -Wow, sweetie. If your prelude solo was that do the Red Shoes. Remember, we don't want slipping into a coma. Abigail. Wake me up. -Fun times. [music playing] -Oh, I love that into. It totally suits you. Gorgeous. -I cannot stress enough how Normally when a student fails -Yeah, they're kicked out. I know. And thank you for arranging You are a benevolent -Oliver. -One second. [music playing] -That's looking really- -It's rubbish. You my protege? -Uh, Sammy Lieberman. I was blown away when you did Props, man. -Oliver topped second Do you think there's anything -Well, I've been studying Walk back and forth, Can't wait to get started. -I don't want to be let down. By either of you. -You have no idea how much So, I've, um, I've a suggested training schedule. -First thing to address is diet, a works burger from the blue -Seriously? -Who's the sensei here? -Wax on, wax off. Gotcha. -Thank you, boys, but this I'm not bringing an entourage to -Why are you rehearsing -Because half our dancers We rehearse them here and And you are? -Oh, sorry April. Um, Academy students. They begged me for -Ah. -We'll be like ninjas. Quiet, and you won't see us. -[french]. I'll see you in there. -This is mine, see? That is my name. -I thought the skirts [music playing] [music playing] [whistle] -Got it! Goal! Woo! -Thought you were Kat, that was on three. -Sorry, April! I'll go faster! [music playing] -Woops. Sorry. [applause] -Marylin, meet Tara. She's going to coparent. -Saskia's right. Prelude is the most boring -Mommy Tara wants to do the Marylin? -I used to watch the video It means something to me. -Well, couldn't Lucy -Ms. Raine already thinks victimization. It'd be different if she me in class, but-- -Saskia's pretty good at when she needs to. -Exactly. No one is ever going [music playing] -How's that looking? I always have trouble with -Yeah, great. You should be very proud. -Man, we've only been Thought we were going to-- -Baby steps, protege. I don't want you going That's when injuries happen. -Wait, did you even look at -Yeah. We're not gonna do that. -Talia's got this banker unbelievable. We're all gonna share -Kat. -Hi. -How do you think -I'm terrible at these Um, it felt slightly better -OK, tomorrow is massive and you down, so I'm suggesting -Oh, no, absolutely. I think my body would thank -Perfect. -Night. -Ignore her. She says that after Seriously. Paris is a party town, and to social stamina. We'll get your muscles straight -I'll be back in a sec. You're still here. Um, what happened -Pre-freak out. Realized he couldn't handle -Oh. -What are you doing now? -Um, girls bonding session. -Right. All right, well, thanks for -Mm. Quality time. -We're good now, right? -Mm-hm, yeah. We're tight. Like glue. -Is this the right size I really do not think right size plug in. -Deep breaths. All you have to do is get her -Guys. I asked you to watch, so -You're not getting -I knew it. Ms. Raines pitched this guy as couldn't care less. -Look, it could just be a rumor, kicked off the third Major director clash -Brilliant. And now my entire future What are you guys -Good to go. -Ugh. You kids should really -Sammy and I aren't -De ja vu. -I've been working really hard I want is just one chance -Thrill me. [music playing] -What do you think? -Everything I said last Sweetie, I know you want this to -I need more than that. The other teachers, they give often don't. I mean, I know you haven't -Oh, so you're questioning -No, I'm-- I'm trying to understand -All right. So, what made you -Well, at first I was inspired connect with the story. -Do you? And what are you trying -Victoria's pain. Finding the love of her life And in the end, performing -So you've experienced -Yes. -No you haven't. You're a child. All I see is a silly kid arrogant enough to think -I'm worried about you, Tara, girls here that are more What's going to happen at the don't get a contract When you don't get a I know this is your pretty -Say it. -You're never going You're not good enough, -No you haven't. You're a child. All I see is a silly kid arrogant enough-- -She sounded so sure. -This is like one of those We should put it online. -Oh, no, no. This was just for Ms. If Saskia saw that I set her -A, you can claim WikiLeaks did see this, you won't be the WOMAN (OFFSCREEN): When you -I should call Kat. -You need to wean yourself She is not going to be able Look. Ballet teachers get away with have the power and Don't you think it's time WOMAN (OFFSCREEN): You're you never will be. You're a child. All I see is a silly kid Yet you have the arrogance to [VIDEO PLAYS ON MULTIPLE -There's a comment here from You've gone viral. -Girl after my own heart. Solid gold. -I've got to talk to this gets out of control. -No. Wait until she comes to you haven't seen it. If you go to her now, you're -The camera really I'd invest in some concealer -We don't know what you're -See? I'm-- I'm already incriminated. I'm the one in the video. -Wait. Is gonna be my turn next, or? Nope. Still you. I heard you got kicked off I told Humphreys where to choreography. I should be [inaudible] my year me for having an opinion -Which means I'm-- I'm what? Community service? You tutor me, you -That's about it. -Yeah, see, I don't know what that when I request -Protege. Where do you think -It's a shame, because third break it, isn't it? But then again, so are my aren't being met. -Dude. Look at me. Look at you. You really want to be WOMAN (OFFSCREEN): We'll start all warmed up. Kat! I think you're gonna have to watch. -I know! I'm sorry! I'm sorry! -Your skirt's on backwards. -How are you so perky? -Practice. And caffeine. -Aw. -Are we keeping you ladies? -No. -Tara. I was going to come find you. Um-- yesterday, the specialist told And I didn't take it so well. -That-- that's understandable. -And I think that you caught I shouldn't have gone so -Oh. Right. -It be great if we could -Uh-huh. -And I'll get your [inaudible] It's a promise. -She hasn't seen it yet. -Sammy, getting touch with -I just need a bit of extra -Your week's looking about -You saw it? Thoughts? -You don't need a -You set her up, T. I get stand up for yourself. I really get that, but-- -You know, I forgot that with I'm going to tell Ms. Raine -Tara? I believe we need -Yow! -Yow! -Yow! -Yow! -Right. Take five, everyone. Kat, can I see you -Hey, if you shout me a latte, rest of eternity. Well, I thought that For a second rehearsal. And check this out. [speaking french] -What? Please do not urinate -Uh-huh. -Essential. Take a seat. Kat, I know you're young, but professionalism that we expect -I know. I know, I'm sorry. I won't be late again. Scout's honor. -You also brought to your first rehearsal. And then you partied last night after my specific request. -I think I've been a little -Unfortunately, we can't take -Why? Where am I going? -We're letting you go. -You were a borderline choice, would show enough maturity. You are really talented, Kat, this contract. OK? In a few years with, you know, experience, who knows? But we should stay in touch. -Do you know how I found A board member rang me wanting waging a war against I had no idea what she You didn't just maliciously You attacked the school. -I didn't mean to. I just wanted you -What I don't understand is when This is a competitive All the teachers are tough. I'm tough on you. -Yeah, but when you're tough I don't always like make me a better dancer. With Saskia, that's [music playing] -You work pretty hard -Have to. No one's around giving -Right. Life is so hard for you. You know the reason I failed? I thought it was because my dad I had to work all these extra maybe I just wasn't -Thanks for sharing. -And you, you're kinda You think you know it all, me because I don't. I look at things from angles, and I doubt myself. And I failed. But unlike you, I'm not blaming You think you got kicked off the an opinion? Mate. You got kicked off for -You've been practicing this -I told you, I'm motivated. -How about we take embarrassing to competent? [inaudible]. -You don't want to eat anything status update? -I'm thinking I should [music playing] -Hey, I've been workshopping how I can stow away to Paris. Look. -Ha. Looks cramped. -Looks better with an Hang on a sec. -A lot of people are going to -Doubtful. I, uh-- I was a tiny bit late and April professional enough to -Now, that's crap. You wouldn't want to work -No, actually. She's, um-- She's really great, she's talking about. How-- How did I do this? I had an amazing opportunity, The Kat effect strikes again. Sorry. I'm so sick of screwing -Saskia? Tara and I have had a long wrongly she acted. -I shouldn't have done It was-- It was cowardly. -I had no idea you were I've only ever tried -Then I can trust that both of behind you. -Absolutely. -Yes, Ms. Raine. -It's already forgotten. -Good. -And Ms. Raine? I'd very much like to dance the that's OK with you. -From what I saw, it -Well, guess we better If that's OK with you. NARRATOR: Before I came here, me not to get caught up in the because it's the worst form I don't know why I do what I want the most. I need to learn how to be brave, what I want. Even if it's just admitting WOMAN (OFFSCREEN): Come in. NARRATOR: Because that's going to get it. -Katrina? [theme music]