Hello, I'm Mike, and an iOS app in minutes using this one And what's more, I've got no previous experience making iOS But the AI tool did it for me. Before we dive into that, I was delving into my YouTube most of you who watch my videos Would you do me a huge favor please, It really motivates so I can do more videos So without further ado, let's dive in. What are you going to need? I'm using a Mac Studio, MacBook, iMac. Anything like that will do perfectly. You're going to need to download It's an Apple app, You won't be writing the code. The AI tool will be doing that for you, Okay. And then you're also going to need It's incredible. I've used it for a lot of coding projects and you'll see a video on your screen now If you want to dive deeper First, what you're going to need to do Now make sure it's very important and then choose app and then go next. Now you need to give the app a name. So I'm just going to call it Tide Times going to make a Tide Times app. And then you'll need to select a team. Now if you haven't got this set I'll show you how to get your name in organization identifier can be So if you had the domain example.com Example I've got the domain mrc.fm. So I'm putting fm dot mrc. Not easy for me to say fm dot mrc You don't need to worry about that Just click next and then it's going to say to save the files for the app? I'm going to choose my desktop I'll click create and you'll see up there And it's also created And these are just testing We're going to write the code Now, I did say, how do you get your name Well, you need to go into the Xcode and then you'll see You need to go to accounts ID, take a look at the screen here Yes, that's right, it's Hello World on the iPhone screen, And I can actually change World Hello mum okay. And it's really cool. I can also change globe here to smiley And look, now I've got a smiley face. So that's basics of manipulating code. And once you've seen enough, you can kind of read it with your human So this shows you how easy it is to get started, We're going to use cursor to do that. Let's take a look. This is cursor I'm going to actually And make everything a bit bigger. Now there's just one option. When you load cursor And of course if I go to my desktop you'll It's very easy. Click open and you have essentially It can now start writing code for you. So you'll see here if I pop these open these are like folders And actually if I open that one Yeah it's all there. Everything that I did in Let's start making that app. And to do that we're going to use Cursor Composer, which Watch this. Hit command, shift an eye on your keyboard you've got an untitled composer. This is something fresh and new that So what am I going to do? Well, first and foremost, Best practices when creating my app. Now you can train in Apple best practices to cursor How do you do that? Type the at in cursor composer appears like that. Now you'll see. I've already trained in some previous documentations, Now this is where I can add a web page. And you'll see actually, I have got a bunch of different websites First of all I have So I'm going to copy and paste it in here And then click confirm. And it's going to start training Now I want to train a few more documents and don'ts from Apple so that again, Oh, and we'll save this for later We'll do that So far we've trained in Apple Swift docs. Also, Apple UI design tips and cursor is going to reference So we're bang up today. We're not using any old training data. This is the latest stuff on Apple's One more at tag we're going to do before And that's at code base okay. Code base is very important because we've got existing files over here and we want Ghost Composer to see and edit Now with everything at tagged And I've simply said It'll do these things. Use a Tide Times So essentially it's going out to a website and integrating it into the app. You don't need to worry because Cursor Compose Then it's going to ask the user Ideally, each time the app is reopened, and it's going to show the highs And you can do things like zooming but let's just get the MVP. This is all I hit enter and you will see As you'll see, it's writing code I don't know It's just simply making my app Let's click Accept All. Over in Xcode And actually it's giving me the ability So let's go ahead and start typing in. Oh look there's Dover. Now we've got a white screen. So no data is presently being shown. We'll go back to cursor and we'll prompt it again So I've said at code base, no data shows It's going to go ahead and update the code Okay, back over in Xcode. The project is refreshing, an area along with a rather squiggly Even has some debug info down there. And I guess I can select the location icon And I can type in a different area. So let's type in Southampton and boom, It's not really following Apple So now let's fix this in cursor show Add data underneath with highs and lows in text and make the UI really pretty and follow. This is where we at. Tag Apple UI design tips and we'll let cursor Fix that all up and make the app Okay, just waiting for those changes And look at that. Now I have a beautiful, lovely Apple esque looking The next 24 hours Now, this is just a brief overview but if you want to learn the nitty gritty The link is down below. Now this is looking absolutely fantastic. Let's give it a quick test by maybe typing in another location And we'll go for Folkestone. And again looking absolutely perfect. Now we're feeling really happy We can try it out on a virtual iPhone And the way you do that up here at the top of Xcode you want to test it on for real, Once you've done that, It's going to fire up a virtual iPhone Okay, here's my virtual iPhone with yep, Tide Times app. And again So let's do this. Click into that. And yes we've got Southampton tide times. Let's go for somewhere else. Let's go for Aberdeen for instance. Click that. And yes we've got Aberdeen with a beautiful looking app Next, let's create an app icon so we can get it onto my device So you might remember earlier on developers giving best practices Well, let's hit command A on that command Now will paste this into ChatGPT a unique, memorable icon that communicates And then we'll just add here a Tide Times Best practices. We'll leave the same and we'll let Dall-E Now you'll see. It's just give me text back as to what So I'll now say create that icon and boom Dall-E is going to work here. Creating my app icon. Now you see it's done a prototype. So I'm going to say again no borders I couldn't get it to cut out the border Every time it gave me a prototype wasn't the best, so I copied the prompt Here in mid journey I use the imagine there to get my app icon design And boom. Within moments I quite like designed them before, And because I. Image generators seem to love style designs, I'm and use the generative fill inside And boom! Now we've got a nice looking app So now back over in Xcode, And you'll see already Now if there isn't don't worry. You just go to the plus button down here. You go to iOS But as I've already got it here, now. I've gotten beautiful I've got any appearance dark and tinted. We'll just start with any appearance that's there on my desktop. For now, I'm just going to put that icon Of course if this was a production But this will work for now. Now is the time to get it onto my iPhone In order to do that, yes, we're going to need a cable When I've done that inside Xcode, I'm and I'm going to select my iPhone You need to click on your phone Otherwise it won't show up. Mike's iPhone. And I'm going to click the stop button we started earlier and click Build is succeeded. And now it's going onto my phone With that done, That looks really good, doesn't it? now. If you're enjoying what you see so far, do because I'm always doing tutorials I can then click the location pin up here. I can choose the location. Let's just choose any location and boom! The app is now fully functional That is incredible. And again, They're all working well. And also, it even follows the dark mode scheme So there you go. Just a few minutes of your time. And one I tool on your physical device. Now, bear in mind Developer account, but then you need to reload it Otherwise, it just expires. If you pay for an Apple Developer Account, you can use apps like this on your phone before you need to renew them, to publish your app in the App Store, It's never been a better time out to the world and into everyone's I'll be in the comments supporting you, so I can't wait to see what you build where we're discussing Further, there's a big community right now and other no code tools. So come and join us there. And also, you should probably watch right now, because YouTube thinks you'll