The life of a groupie might sound super but there was a definite dark side to groupiedom. Understanding the 1970s-era groupie begins by Age didn't matter, to the point groupies.&quot; When she sat down to talk to described being in junior high when a who was already popular on the groupie scene by &quot;She was so glamorous, totally one-of-a-kind, wearing scarves for shirts and going had not yet turned 15 and [David Bowie] She says she wasn't ready then, but were both involved with Iggy Pop yet lusting when Bowie requested her presence at dinner &quot;David drops the kimono off and As for Starr, by 14, she was a staple at the When Thrillist talked to Lori Mattix about still a young teen, she stressed that she &quot;I was an innocent girl, but beautiful. [...] Who wouldn't want to Fellow groupie Pamela Des Barres said similar saying that she was proud of Mattix for the way &quot;Yeah, she was young. [...] But it was Des Barres, too, says she has no regrets, and &quot;I took my birth control pill out of my purse and took it in front of people on the Others strongly disagree. Dr. Rosemary Lucy Gender Studies at the University of Leeds went into the world of the groupie with the power imbalance makes &quot;Some people think it's never a free choice of these things are true at the same time Between groupies and the rock stars perceptions likely differed. Speaking with &quot;He mesmerized me. I fell in love I was 15 and totally in love with On the other hand, Page told &quot;Everybody knows what they come they act so special. I haven't Page was far from the only one to &quot;It's kind of like being at a buffet where to take this or this or this, but it's Even '70s-era boy band The Bay City Rollers a shrug and a laugh. In a 2015 conversation that he'd found his decades-past relationships &quot;You realize that all that stuff is a bit shallow, compared to the depth of the He joked that they'd had girls lined up in &quot;One in every port, that was the expression.&quot; Groupie Cherry Vanilla insists she but not all 1970s-era groupies Morgana Welch was one of the underage, LA-based and Gillian McCain's punk oral history Please found the music scene of the time, but admitted hangers-on who were looking for the same perks &quot;A lot of girls buddied up. In because you had somebody. You But that didn't always work: Welch and her friend, Tyla, were kidnapped, arrested as sex Groupie Bebe Buell famously became the mother of memoir, Rebel Heart, she was pregnant and torn when Tyler's behavior became so erratic that it recover the following morning, and use &quot;'I'm really scared,' I whispered to Todd over the phone. 'Help me get out of here. I It makes sense that some of the most devoted and perhaps the most famous was Cynthia career of creating plaster casts of rock star and continued with the realization that not but it got her interacting with the scene's &quot;My art teacher told me to homework assignment of something That gimmick earned her Frank Zappa's patronage on the help of other groupies to prepare stars to enlisting the help of significant others. with the project was a unique insight into &quot;I was just doing it to get While Albritton says her work was side of being a groupie, too. Describing &quot;It was a horrible experience. They had a coupled with a violent streak. feet on the ground, and While fans see only the image rock stars project, Sloatman Zappa was a 1960s groupie turned 1970s groupie Pamela Des Barres for her book, Let's she called &quot;the groupie state of mind,&quot; in which &quot;They took groupiedom to a whole other level who just got lucky -- girls servicing ones servicing the crew or anyone near the But Gail Zappa felt something else. She'd for the up-and-coming Rolling Stones introduced grown up with. She said that it was the idea of and making her own way in the world that In her autobiography, Take Another Little about the discovery that it wasn't always about to the hotel after the ill-fated concert he wanted to talk about the concert and &quot;Who's fighting and what Des Barres also wrote of her experiences with accident in which he hit and killed his She told Louder Sound that after the accident, &quot;He said a lot of times, 'I don't deserve and wailing in the middle of the and give him [lots of] placidyls She's been candid, too, about the fact that and limousines. Toward the end of her memoir, companion and confidant named Beverly, to a included Keith Moon, Jimi Hendrix, Mama Cass, and own health worrying about others, saying that, in &quot;There was nothing I could do.&quot; Some groupies were invited everyday lives of the rock stars with whom they Pamela Des Barres wrote about meeting Gail that even rock stars like Frank Zappa could have own kitchens. Gail offered her friend a job as Remembering how she moved in with the Zappas in Laurel Canyon to take care &quot;The love I felt for them was different single thing from those munchkins, and with them because I had to but found Morgana Welch has also spoken about Speaking with Please Kill Me, she said were never appreciated. She recounted &quot;I had certain recipes, like where I could feed the band and the roadies because they were broke and starving. So in a way, a lot of groupies were [...] doing things to help Being a groupie in the 1970s meant trying which meant getting creative with fashion. &quot;Our art was fashion. Ambient art.&quot; Thrift stores were a groupie's piece together outfits with complete Pamela Des Barres spoke with Vogue &quot;I just wanted to be understood She recalled spending hours putting on makeup &quot;I wanted to express myself along with She added that part of what she did as a groupie the clothes that ultimately shaped their style. who's widely credited with changing the entire the 1970s. Keith Richards even gave her &quot;I started to become a fashion icon It's impossible to talk about what it was talking about Cameron Crowe's iconic Almost as a music journalist at the time, but Des explained that being a groupie was all about that the movie is told from the perspective of &quot;We are not groupies.&quot; &quot;This is Penny Lane, man, show some respect.&quot; Des Barres says, &quot;[The film is a] horribly misogynistic look at the groupie like she's portrayed, is pathetic.&quot; Des Barres takes particular issue saying that no true groupie would have been she says it was always about the music. Among the problems Des Barres Famous were the bus scenes. She explained, &quot;I was a groupie before there were bus cutesy and too clean for what really would For many, touring with the band meant getting a jet was first chartered by Led Zeppelin later after hosting Peter Frampton. Those The general vibe of the plane could be summed up in lines of cocaine and a bedroom complete leased the plane, nightly activities would Deep Purple chartered the plane, too, and it was one of the band's go-to methods &quot;Fathers two states over were calling the cops.&quot; Parties went on 24/7 no matter what the city, and drummer Ian Paice of Deep Purple &quot;The Starship was a great place Pamela Des Barres told Fashion that word &quot;groupie&quot; from anyone who might use sex-obsessed women throwing themselves at rock Almost Famous as a shallow depiction of what &quot;Don't you think you could &quot;This is what I want to do. This &quot;Just sleep with rock stars?&quot; &quot;And their crews.&quot; In fact, Crowe's film depicts precisely starts talking to the young journalist and gets him access to the band. According to Dr. at the University of Washington in St. Louis, that Harper went on to explain that groupies was going to be having the best parties. When it was the groupies who made connections. Harper acting as adept and experienced PR people, but they would have gotten paid. Take Gail Zappa: when she and her groupie friend traveled to to one radio station after another. She said breaking the record into radio play -- and that's Des Barres believes that there's type of groupie who's just out to add &quot;You're not hurting anyone. If &quot;We'd wander around in the backstage area, But here's the thing: Some of the have spoken out about the harm that When Des Barres interviewed groupie-turned-wife Together, Zappa confirmed that yes, her sex scene even after they were married, and &quot;Well, everyone had groupies. I mean, are aspects that were not easy and not fun, cry on his shoulder over it. But what &quot;Girls that will readily admit that they're you know. They aspire to that position.&quot; Franka Wright shared her heartbreaking story keyboardist Rick Wright, she confronted only to learn that the groupie was immediately on the heels of Franka's she said, came because she flew along &quot;If I wasn't there when he wanted me, then he According to Morgana Welch, she would baby groupies in a heartbeat. It's an and she explained that the reason After the AIDS crisis and the emergence of &quot;[We] went from expressing She added that she had gotten clean, saying: &quot;I don't want to be out of it. It's something that other groupies grew into Issue that if she had any advice for her younger &quot;The early drugs were fine, pot and it sort of denigrated into cocaine and pills because there are things I don't In Rebel Heart, Bebe Buell also told some groupie who was dating Alice Cooper at the time &quot;I called Todd [Rundgren] on the She told another story of swearing off such a bad experience that she had no doubts