(truck engine idling) - [Tate] What? - There's laws on the reservation. That don't apply to people who don't live here. Sometimes people come and Does that make sense? Well, it's the truth and I just need to make sure - What if it is? - Everything's gonna be all right, buddy. - If it's gonna be all right, why are you taking a gun? - Just like your mother. Stay here. (suspenseful music) (suspenseful music continues) - Daddy? - You hear me? Are you hurt? Can I come in there and (tape ripping) You okay? - You kill him? Good. (truck engine idling) (wrench clicking) (truck doors shutting) - Oh my, God! What happened, baby? Tell me what happened, baby. Danny! - What happened? - I'm not sure, but I'm pretty sure it was bad. I wanted to take her to the police but she wanted to come home. - You know who did it? - Yeah - Let's go get him. - I already got him. I just don't know what to do next. - [Receptionist] Sheriff Haskell line one. - Yeah. You know Boyd - I know of him - Committed suicide. Meet me at his ranch. - What's that got to do with my office? - You'll see (sighs) (music playing) (horses whinnying) (sighs) - He leave a note? - Sorta - Son of a bitch. He's got kids, don't he? - He's got two of 'em. - The bank take those too? - Well, soon as the medical examiner releases a death certificate, Kayce, the bank takes everything. - Can't take 'em if they're not here. What if we round 'em up and take 'em down to Billings and put 'em in a sale? Give those kids some Is that legal? - Hell no, it ain't legal. And I'm not so sure that should be your first act as - Yeah. What if it was though? Where would you stand on it? - He was my cousin, Kayce. That's where I stand. If you want to do it, I'll look away. But if the bank finds out, you are up to your neck in trouble. (music playing) (engines roaring) (air brakes hissing) - You weren't kidding. What are they? - Just mamas and babies. Think you can move 'em all? - You sell 'em in a package? - Prefer it. - Hell I can sell 300 in a (truck door shuts) - How y'all doing? - Our dad died, how do - Sorry. - Everybody's sorry. And it don't make no difference. (knocking on door) - Mrs. Nelson? - She's inside. - Thank you. (indistinct chatting) - Oh my word, this is hot. It's burning right - Carolyn, this Kayce Dutton. - Mrs. Nelson. - Thank you. - How much did you get for them? - A little over 16,000. Was hoping to get more but should help with the funeral. - This is the funeral. I ain't spending a dime burying him. That coward can rot where he lays. Cowboys and dreamers. Why I only love cowboys and dreamers. I will never understand. They put me through hell (sniffles) Knowing me, I'll probably Hey, let's get those - You a cowboy? - Yeah, I am. - My daddy was a cowboy. And I'm gonna be a cowboy too. (somber music playing) (truck engine idling) - [Speaker] Can I help you? - I'm the Livestock Commissioner, I need to speak with Ralph Peterson. - [Speaker] You need - No, I don't - [Speaker] Leave, or I am the police, now open the gate. - [Speaker] I'm calling my lawyer. (truck engine revs) (gate crashes open) - Now I'm on with the police. So you go ahead and stay (groans) - This is Livestock Commissioner Dutton. I got Mr. Peterson in my - You don't have a warrant. - I don't need a fucking warrant. No, if I charge him, I'll bring him in. (grunts) - You're arresting me? - I wanna see those cattle guards. (grunts) Why'd you do that? - All spring, he's marching - Oh, your cattle don't shit? - I don't have cattle. Raising - Well, you're claiming an So what are you raising? - Llamas. - Llamas? What do you do with Llamas? - I don't do anything with - Of course you do. That That violates his easement he doesn't have to load cattle in trucks because you don't like cattle. - I don't have anything against cattle. I just don't want 'em on my fucking road - That is not your choice. - This land is mine. It's mine. You can't tell me what to do on it. - You know what I can do? Make a good neighbor out of you. (grunting) (groaning) (chains clanking) - I'll just put in another one, ya know? And another one, and another one. There'll be cattle (intense music) (screaming and yelling) - You fucking crazy? You can't put me in here. Come back, god damn! Stop! No, no, no, no! (whimpering) Are you fucking crazy? - You like your cattle guard so much, Why don't you fucking live in them? - Come - You can't leave me here. Come and help me! You get me out of here! (music playing) (horse hooves trotting) - Can't be here. - I'm Livestock Commissioner. He's tribal police. These horses are property of the Confederated Tribes of Broken Rock. - These are Mustangs. We rounded them up yesterday. - Mustangs don't have shoes and brands. - Son of a bitch. - Yeah. - We herd them with a helicopter. Don't get that good of look - Trailer 'em to go where? - Auction? I guess. Some go to the prison. - These don't, they're gonna come with us. - Got proof they're yours? - Stolen, you say? - Yeah, somebody cut a hole in a fence. Tried to herd 'em with dirt bikes. Guess they didn't wanna be herded. (chuckling) - Damn right, they don't. Pain in the ass getting them in here. Took two choppers, and half a damn day. Look, you know how the When the wheels are motion, I'm supposed to herd them out Friday. But if you get them out before, so be it. But I don't know how you're gonna do it. You can't get a truck back here. You damn sure can't do - We'll see what we can come up with. - Figure it out by Friday. - Got any ideas. - I got an idea. - Care to share it? - This idea is hard to explain. You'll just have to see it. (intense music playing) - You ready? - Ready as we're gonna get. (intense music continues) (horse hooves pounding) (music and hooves pounding continues) (cheering and yelling) - Get yourself some trail cameras. Put 'em somewhere nobody can see 'em, point them at this gate. Someone tries it again, - Thank you. - Yeah.