Today is the operation video. How long did it take to clean the whole aircraft? We are completing the aircraft within 30 minutes. Waiting to push back the GALs. I'm not the baggage pal area The whole baggage trail system is 14 kilometers long. This is where we monitor every flight that lands at this airport. Welcome to the biggest ground support equipment workshop in the world. Good morning, 4.30 a.m. out at Hamad International at Doha. We're out on the runway, catching a special plane today. Today is the operation video for ground staff. And I have Kim here. How many years working at the airport? I've been working here for 8 years. Tell us about the first thing when this airplane arrived. So the first thing, once the airplane arrives, we need to put the chocks, and then the phones, and then connect the step, and then also connect the ground power equipment for the aircraft. Also, for our special handling passengers, we need to connect the MHL if there's any. Wow, how much time we have today if we'll turn around? For turning out today, we have quite a long ground time, so we have two hours still departure time. Departure time is 7.15. Every minute counts here because the people and their luggage need to get on to the next aircraft through here. So how many manpower you have today? So today we have around 12 guys over here. . Just 12. Yeah. Just for the, for the, um, the loading side, just for the loading side. Right here we have the medical high lift. As we call it, we use it to accommodate special handling passengers, those who... Cannot go down the step or climb up the step on departure. I just got on the airplane. It's different to the beautiful cabin. Normally I see right and Roy, you're the supervisor in charge of cleaning, right? And tell us, what do you guys do? We two teams are on board on the aircraft with two team leader and we allocated the staff for business class and EY class. Business class first of all we are removing the used blankets and used pillow covers from the cabin. pillow covers we are keeping inside the aircraft in the in the storage for Japan Station and blankets we are handovering to our catering team for the cleaning purpose. and after that we are cleaning entire cabin area including the vacuum wiping including the vacuum. and after cleaning we are pre-setting the material, new pillow cover, new headsets and new chappals and new menu card whichever is on board on the aircraft. This is the most area need to be hygiene, the toilet. Yeah, removing the bins and disinfecting the toilet floors and bins, wash bins, and after we are pre-setting the materials. He was checking if this is order, waterproof card, disposable card, and safety card, magazines, and Wi-Fi card. This is the order for the airline. We are keeping this. He was checking this. Look, he was keeping it orderly. It's regrouping up. Yeah, in every single seat. There's a lot. Wow. It's interesting to see, they must have worked out this is the most efficient way of someone picking up the trash, someone doing the pocket cleaning, refilling stuff, someone wiping the table, all taking place simultaneously, same time. With so much manpower, specializing in every different area to clean, how long did it take to clean the whole aircraft? We have the PTS of 30 minutes, we are completing the aircraft within 30 minutes. 30 minutes you'll be cleaned Yes. So, we've completed the arrival activities as LM Ankit has checked, we have three units of cargo for the departure, two pallets, one container, let's try to do this on time also today. All right. Thank you very much. Bye, guys. Just having a sip of water, it's getting quite warm here, but it's only 545, so I can imagine how warm it is here around July and August, right, it's brutal on the tarmac, because there's a saying saying, never a place as hot as the tarmac. so i'm at the baggage belt area this is a magic area because it's the bags coming like roller coasters I'm always wondering, how does the bag get sorted? Let's say I connect from London to Doha here, onto the JAL flight to Tokyo. How does it get sorted around? The bags coming from the inbound flights, we know how many time is there. So bags is going to the inbound induction lines. So we induct the bag over there, and the system screen the bags, sort the bags as per departure flight, and the bags coming to the carousels. The only manual work is just loading into the container. When the bags come here, the staff is having the scanners, so the staff is scanning the baggage. When the staff scans the bags, the system is showing that the bags are okay to load. We are loading them on the departure flight. Now we have two bags on the way to the same carousel for GL050. So the screen tells you two bags on the way. I'm winning So we have seen that it's for the economy class. This is economy. So we have to load only the economy in separate units. Total seven containers today Yes. I see. Here's the text. Yeah, all 50. Haneda, this is the one. You scan, you scan. Time to confirm, what does it say here? White glass. White clout, the economy, incredible. I even tell you the weights as well. 9.4 kilo Okay, nine kilos. Yeah. Okay, let's go. Then after loading inside, you load it back into the... Every time, you need to know which container to back onto. Very good, very good. First, we do a pre-boarding announcement explaining all passengers how the boarding will take place. There's so much connectivity on to this flight from everywhere, from Middle East, from Europe, from North South America. And sometimes you have to hold the flight, waiting for the passenger, because if you miss this flight, you have to wait for another 12 hours. Yeah. Yes Mostly like Japan Airlines, they will wait maximum of 15 minutes extra, yeah, so they will wait for another 15 minutes extra, if they can connect passengers and the baggage, yes, they will accept. If not, then we have to hand over to Qatar Airways, so they will do the needful for those passengers for re-routing and all. Very straight. Very straight rules Would there be a scenario I ran to this flight, I made it, the bags didn't make it, would they accept me? Yes, okay They can still accept me, I can still fly. They will inform the passenger that the baggage will not get connected. But still, if the passenger requests to travel on the flight, yes, they will accept them. And Qatar Airways will take the baggage for them. Oh, wow. This is a new experience for me. I've done many times riding a bus as a passenger at the back. First time sitting at the front, waiting our driver to take us to the Japan Airlines flight. Hello, how are you? You're in a 2nd bus today. That is First part to go, let's go Is it easy or difficult to drive the Tesla? This one is very nice, isn't it? It is very nice. Give me up. Wow, this is so cool! Never rode a bus in the front! Ahead of the passengers boarding! We are the load master for Japan Airlines, our responsibilities include to check the locks and the loading as per LIR. So as of now this is the first container we are loading, it is a cargo container with the perishable flowers on board and after putting the container inside we have to put the locks and then do a checklist for the Japan Airlines. That's it for now. I'm ensuring that the aircraft is in good condition. Before the for the intended site, uh-huh Uh-huh, I see you have a lot of oil here. Yeah. Yeah, I got it. Lots of oil cans so putting oil what is this thing here tell us This is the oil tank of the aircraft. Oil tank Build type. Build type of engineer. Yeah. So, how many liters of oil the trim liner needs? It depends on the destinations. Coming from Haneda, I put three quarts here and also three quarts on the other engine. Before I close this funnel, I ensure that the cap is properly closed. the cow Yeah Yeah. This is where the oil goes. Yes. Yes, I see I see. I'm at the front gear of the 787 there's a panel here service an APU shutdown panel it's very interesting This is a P40 surface and APU shutdown panel because it is with this APU part shutdown push button located. And also this one is for the communication panel as well for the ground to cockpit communication during pushback. And if you want to call the captain, speak with the captain, you can put this headset for the inflight and surface interpol. We're 10 minutes before departure, we're waiting one missing passenger. I hope he's gonna make it! This is very cozy here. The air conditioning vehicle here waiting to push back the GA out. We are four minutes to go Oh, you cropped the wheel. Because that's the point. After the aircraft pushes back, we have to do the FOD checks. Anything left behind, any foreign object debris, we have to check and remove it from the bay. Thank you I know 7, 8, 7, 8, 7, 8. 7017, wow! Yeah, very nice. Oh, yeah. Today's a happy day, we achieved the on-time departure, so It's not just one person's work. Look at how many people, everybody here, the teamwork. I would like to thank everybody showing me what a day on the ram is like. You guys are very underappreciated working in hot weather. Thank you. This is like playing the baggage catcher here. That was the whole process, right? So, as the aircraft comes in, it's separated into two facilities. One is a long transfer facility, one is a short transfer. It's collected from the aircraft, transported to this facility, offloaded on the transfer in-feed line, inducted into the system, as you can see at the bottom, come through these particular routes, go down to the make-up area, get loaded, and transported to the next flight. So the whole baggage belt system is 14 kilometer long, stored a camera on top of a bag, and let's send it away, and we should see something interesting. So why there's still a lot of lost facts in general in the aviation world despite we have barcode scanning precision from the computer? So, I mean, you have an element of human and then you have an element which is attached to the system. So, the system portion, there's a lot of things that have been developed over the years, but your main things are if a tag gets lost, you have a tagless bag, you have short connections and then some manual handling where there's intervention from the human element, which is still relevant in the industry. But I believe the technology has such an extent that you can track bags in that sense, but the human element is still there. It's still visible. What if this breaks down? It's going to be mayhem for a transit hub like this. That's correct. For every system you have a redundancy. Or contingency, sorry. The system is divided into different sections. The likelihood of the entire system breaking down is unlikely. There's always a redundancy so that you don't have what they call a single point of failure. One line goes down, there's the next line that you can use. One facility goes down, there's another facility that you can use. So there is such a contingency plan for this large transfer operation at this airport. Hello, Sam. Welcome to the Qatar Aviation Services Now Centre. This is the Now Centre of KASH. And this is where we monitor every flight that lands at Disaipur. Yeah, hello Every flight is monitored by different flight control supervisors. And they have an activity that they monitor at a time, 10 flights, one staff. And we overlook it through the different system tools that are provided by the airport as well as the airlines. So you handle all the airlines in Hammer International. Yes Yes. Not just Qatar Airways. We have a lot of flagship carriers and total approximately 45 airlines we handle. Okay. We'll advise. Okay. Thank you. Uh, TLC didn't advise the capital regression for the cabin engineer on board, please. This is the arrival activity right from the onshocks till the actual for the arrival and plus here we have for departure as well. So we have the two things, this is the pit turn, we monitor over here the life, the activity with the TRC field in this PDA, we monitor over here the life, if the cleaning has been done, the other activities and plus we have the CCD over here to live what's happening really on the aircraft side. So basically, he's like an emergency call centre. You know, I see he's getting a lot of calls already for American 121 flights and this and that. So he's allocating resources like a planner. So everything, what happens on ground, first it comes here. So he's the one who relays it to the respective stakeholders. So it may be a requirement of resources, it may be a requirement of engineer, it may be a requirement of fuel. Whatever is the activity, it comes first to him, and he relays it to the individuals. Guys, I'll be good. Sorry. Khadari127, captain, good morning. Good morning sir, any update on the brake fans? We have a long taxi. If we eat up, I'll come back. We have already advised for ground cooling, we will follow up on that. I see they're talking to the captain, so there's a frequency they speak directly to the airplane. Yes, Sam, this is this is something interesting and this is the flight watch position So this has the frequency from ground to air. So any aircraft that comes into the Qatar FIR Connects on this frequency with CAS and they cannot they ask for any kind of requirement that may be paramedic MOI It is ground support The additional resources that may be required the gate assignments so this monitors 24 by 7. All kinds of communication that are coming from the pilots that are. Coming into the FIR. I want to hear out some of your emergencies, what do you do? We had an aircraft that was bound to Ahmedabad, it turned back to Doha because it had a hydraulic leak issue. So, yeah, we responded to that kind of emergencies. And when it comes to weather, just lately we had about 12 aircraft that diverted here to Doha and they ran low on fuel, they couldn't land in Dubai, so they took Doha as an alternate. And yeah, we were handling those kinds of flights as well over here. Hi, how are you? All right, welcome. Nice to meet you. Places on the bowl, sir. You've noticed that. So here's something new, I've never been to a centralized low control room, so tell me what are you guys doing? you know, in relation to loading airplanes. First of all, centralised, which means we handle the entire QR network from here. These guys here, they have two main functions. The first function is to plan how the aircraft will be loaded, which means how the pallets with the cargo, the containers with the baggage will be distributed to make sure that the aircraft's structural limits are not exceeded. Then, based on the confirmation how that aircraft is loaded, we issue the document called load sheet, which contains two crucial information for the flight crew. The actual weight of the aircraft and the position of center of gravity. Yes. Yeah, that low shit, I keep seeing the low shit, that weight calculation, that's crucial because the CG, the center of gravity of the airplane has to maintain. You don't want to have a tail strike, oops, and then the plane, because the CG all shifted to the rear. That's correct. And that's why we do it last minute. We send a document based on the absolute absolutely final confirmation of all passengers boarded and Aircraft calls are closed. So we know exactly and that position of separate gravity After the airport tour, perhaps this is the hidden highlight of the day. Yeah, welcome to the biggest ground support equipment workshop in the world We are divided in sections. This one is taking care of EVTs, electrical baggage tractors, GPUs. This is a ground power unit. Being connected to the aircraft. This is what you see people disconnecting from now. So it's a diesel engine with a big alternator like the one you have in your car. This is small toys. They are electrical they have. Lithium batteries, inside. Airport service vehicles turning EVs now, electric vehicles. Yeah, there is a good tendency in the industry all around for electrification. For electrification, yeah, for electrification. This is actually, now I realise what it is. It's a big boys toys workshop. Like trucks, buses, like tow truck, tractors. Oh my gosh. It really is a garage. Like all this oil lines and all the tubes and switches. Here is the heavy section. Out of this point, all the machinery is big guys. Big pushback, big loader. I know this one. This is the high loaders. Yeah. Yeah, this is a high loader. Heavy stuff, man. Yeah, it is. This is a high loader Yeah, this is really heavy. We have high loaders up to 35 tons. Wow! Wow. Tow truck here, missing a wheel here, right? But this one I notice is the more traditional one. It's different to those one hug the wheels and push back. But what are the difference between these two really? Well, the main difference in the operation is that with this kind of push-backs, you have a bar and then you need two guys, two staff, for performing the push-back, while in the other one it's just a single operator doing the whole operation. This is our paint shop with two big booths. Come in! But I only knew airplane paint shop and I didn't know this bus need a paint shop as well We are rebuilding the exterior and the interior of our buses. I want to go in and have a look, yeah. So like you are refurbishing the seat as well you're yeah, we're Yeah, we are refining Team Zenfuno! How about now? Wow, this one's like, you know, it's like interesting. Airplane refurbishing seats, new seats in there. Buses do the same thing. How many co-buses you running around the airport? We have over 170 apron buses running in this airport. That's a lot! Yeah, a lot! It's a huge fleet and from time to time we need all of them up and running. That's a lot of bus How much one of these bus cost? Roughly 300,000 euros. This is the air conditioning system of a bus. It's really important. The weather here is really tough. Passengers must feel comfortable inside the bus. And we need to maintain this equipment, which is set on the roof of the buses. That's why we have this set up, with this platform. Almost thousands of pieces of equipment. How often do they come in for a service? They are working more than 15 hours a day, so we need to serve them nearly every month, every two months they are coming here for a check. And that wraps my day at the airport. We've seen so many interesting areas. Which one's your favorite? See you next time.