This episode is brought to you by Brilliant. In response to new Quantum theories, Einstein One wonders what he would have said if he some of those dice are also highly explosive! Antimatter is the most destructive material gram of antimatter coming into contact with 50 million kilowatt-hours' energy. If done the power of the Hiroshima Bomb, and if we the material, it could serve as both the greatest can also use it for more peaceful, mundane discussing today. areas we need to discuss. The first is what we could mass produce it, the third is how is how we could keep this dangerous material and the fifth is all its applications and initiator of desirable nuclear reactions. and we'll be dipping into particle physics grab a drink and snack to power your brain. a material that's prone to a lot of misconceptions and popular science, and we need to clear bulk form is quite rare, it is something you of it kicking around your body, though only will not make you explode. radioactive, and this is true. In rare cases is an isotope with a half-life of around a in the creation and emission of a positron, is an example of Beta Decay and Beta Radiation, electrons, and the emission of antimatter atomic nucleus decays in a way that changes emission should not be confused with the atom This makes it totally different than an antimatter a nucleus composed of antiproton(s) and antineutron(s). there are no antineutrons. type with an electric charge has an opposite reasons our Universe ended up with vastly anti-protons, anti-neutrons and anti-electrons, and it's quite possible there are Universes protons and electrons are rare instead. Such in their behavior, except all the people in with the Law of Conservation of Evil. it's specifically a particle of the same is like static electricity, not flowing charge just electric charge too, there is also opposite terms, which way the thread of a screw goes, level there are differences which help to as color charge, with antimatter having anti-colors. of these terms, just know that there are aspects unique kinds and characteristics. They can characteristics. Where they can't combine, just behave in their own ways. All these unfamiliar in other ways, like shapes, sounds or textures. term for certain properties of quarks, which and their other class members. Quark color found a property of quarks that came in three as red, green, and blue to make visualizing and anti-blue though we'll often use cyan, Again nothing to do with actual colors, we intuitive concept for. In truth, electric words are made up - some terms for electricity where a charge is the gunpowder you put in 'flavors', with up and down - the most top, and bottom, and these have nothing to It's common to say that when you combine but that's not quite true. A photon for just another photon, because photons don't two are in the same place at the same instant positron and electron don't exactly explode opposite charge and combine briefly, then photons, gamma rays, which shoot off in opposite This leads to one of the easiest ways to discuss particles, using electron-volts. When you photons whose total energy is equal to the measure that, using Einstein's E=mc2, and each, or .511 MeV, mega-electron volts per pair, either created or destroyed. One electron-volt gains or loses when passing between electrodes is why you so often hear particle mass and giga, or tera electron-volts. Everything was acted in an electric field of a certain voltage energy of tiny particles. has to do with what happens when two particles out new particles: usually some high-energy be unstable. These properties are carried things like electrons, positrons, and muons, protons and mesons. So even though an anti-neutron that will annihilate if it closely encounters but there's no opposite electric charge chance, often referred to as the cross-section unlike the photon and some other particles, vacuum, collisions between free antiparticles if, but when. product isn't just photons, you can get too. Pions incidentally are two-quark particles, a strange quark rather than an up or down, bind molecules together. In general such two-quark quark-based annihilations are concerned, it's not really about if they're a proton or It's really if two particles are interacting you get a pure annihilation and new stuff or other particles, with photons being more interacts and most of the energy is just transmuting while photons will generally escape that atom. fusion and comment about how you're only out of the deal, that's basically why: virtually basically just shuffling around the particle externally, but when it shuffles all that a type of energy that can both escape the into, like you. Neutrinos incidentally do but neutrinos interact with virtually nothing think of as anti-matter. Getting whacked by going to incinerate you, and a good thing neutrinos, mostly from the Sun, but only in from that passing swarm. and neutrons aren't really made of just mass and compared it to a proton or neutron quarks only mass about 2.2 and 4.7 MeV each, mass, whereas a proton or neutron is around being a bit heavier because it has one up one down, a tiny mass difference. Only around the mass of those quarks. The other energy which are the virtual particles popping in the time, the normal three quarks being known That notion of stuff popping in and out of it's a critical aspect of producing antimatter, all the time as virtual particles, and it antiparticle. They generally annihilate near and collect antimatter. and out of existence tends to bug people but quantum entities as stable classic objects aren't little balls, they're stable or a place and only certain combinations are particles and paired particles can exist. aspects of our universe would not function example. Stellar fusion cannot proceed until cannot change into neutrons except with the massive than entire iron atoms, and therefore not-super-high energy conditions inside normal can be called into existence there, very very Quantum entities aren't objects but more of patterns don't collapse, and there's equally viable, the antiparticles. When those something else, but that something is always just happen to be their own mirror image. energy to spacetime. A little handful of space atoms or photons actually passing through seething around forming a pattern and its into each other to recombine and vanish. As residue of real energy. bump through one of those virtual interactions interacts with one of them and that's essentially But if you had a virtual electron-positron - and this has to be very strong because - you could pull them apart and make new have to provide real energy in order to make those base level energy fluctuations of spacetime the talk of quantum fluctuations and the vacuum seething with potential, or vacuum energy. accurate, to just think of it as a big soup energy can sometimes linger as what we think terms can be anything from a trillionth of trillions of years. Some energy configurations particles, but the vast majority aren't Anyway, this is not a particle physics lecture why it's so hard to make and store anti-matter, is to say, it is stupidly easy to make antimatter lets you grab those particles before they is a big issue for production and storage. macroscopic scale, is electrically neutral or electrons, or their anti-particles, into of electric force they have would be massive. of trillions of times stronger than gravity, or a box full of electrons because the repulsive Similarly you can't make a beam of electrons trying to shove off each other into a widening in some spot they're all trying to shove into other things that will blow them up. in order to separate the matter and antimatter out out if mixed together. But you need them to store them at some useful density. Not move the stuff around electrically or magnetically. and manipulation suggested, like the Stellaser, that's still a bit out there but maybe could as optical tweezers I'd imagine, and they'd electrostatics or magnetostatics, allowing Since these things we call particles can be with specific wave-states, we might be able configuration and location of our choosing, Essentially using a specialized waveguide patterns of intense light to pull the desired tease them apart, be it an electron and positron antineutron. Eventually even something much which would be a lot easier to store at a there and probably a topic worthy of its own Particularly since your ideal antimatter for than a gas of antihydrogen. Normally we talk an antiproton and positron to link up but or beads of some material like anti-iron, magnetic levitation in a small vacuum compartment wrecked by a very occasional single atom annihilation, material. produced by white dwarf collisions and their which is highly radioactive and decays only antimatter positrons. We see its telltale near our crowded galactic core, but it is has a half-life of 60 years, but it is believed becomes stable when fully ionized. It might to safely and more easily use its positron Eventually we may send harvesters to collect learn to produce it efficiently locally. and tested fashion, you've probably heard energy in to get antimatter out. We've been we don't normally set up particle accelerators They're normally just particle experiments mass produce them. We've had design concepts thought to be able to do more like 10,000:1, would be very useful. Back in 1995, in his L. Forward suggested using a large solar array of about 10 terawatts to produce about a gram Again, that's inefficient as heck but we've to cool it, and such a panel would help with to beam energy down to Earth, and since you need and solar panels have no fuel they burn, outside peak hours and days to run such antimatter the simplest of Dyson Spheres, Swarms of thin englobing the Sun, which could be constructed sort of manufacturing a simple and early-design at. could probably be assembled over a vastly populations to reach the number needed to often ask what you'd do with all that power. efficiency, is one example of what you could a day. After all, minus the ecliptic plane that sunlight and it just goes to waste in of it, even if it's inefficient use; 1% when talking about starting with 2 billion Earth. natural sources of antimatter. Cosmic rays kilogram of anti-protons passes through our scoop it up from the upper atmospheres of a lot more than we are producing now. Saturn Still, that won't get the job done for anything probes. Though if those tiny probes are von arrive at another star after making the journey and build stuff, like the interstellar laser to let ships run on rivers of light between the Sun's excess power for. regarded as anything more than meager, but holes and neutrons stars can spew antimatter particle colliders with relativistic particle in a distant future, and I say farm rather around them to fertilize production and harvest In many cases antimatter production might We talked about using surplus space-based but you might get antimatter as a byproduct Short of farming it in an extreme astrophysical ever come up with a way to economically power method would still need more power input than we have a concept called antimatter catalyzed a hydrogen bomb by using a regular fission by conventional chemical explosives, you can antimatter. Current estimates say you need a thermonuclear detonation and it need not like pulsed-nuclear spaceships as we looked Ideally we'd like a spaceship that used but fusion driven ships are nothing to sneeze a good way to do this. You could also potentially event, which is much more than that released antimatter production. Producing your antimatter would be very handy, given the storage issues We'll get back to them a moment. of catalyzed fusion using muons rather than are short-lived and much more massive versions atmosphere by cosmic ray proton collisions muons. You get hit by thousands every minute they can bounce around a lot and this can deuterium and tritium. and to do it at room-temperature too, and done in labs plenty of times for decades now. significant byproduct while it's at it. the muon will stick to an atom a bit less bounces around so many times igniting fusion quite inefficient at producing muons, much muons efficiently, that alone might solve this up on a grander scale in some environments such as the upper atmospheres of gas giants. some methods of defeating the problems with Getting some fusion energy is easy, but getting deuterium and/or tritium needs to be in a collisions will occur during the brief lifetime pressure, use of liquid isotopes of hydrogen, cryogenic liquid deuterium with muons, and liquid, but that only consumes power, for is the liquid is made at a much colder temperature That kind of refrigeration consumes a lot To turn this fusion into an energy source, and the warmed state must do net work, just in a normal steam-electric generating station. hydrogen isotopes to high pressure as gases waste heat, so that is not a productive path. like the middle-to-upper atmosphere of Neptune, liquified using a relatively small amount of deuterium. It can be separated from the during or after compression and liquefaction. high pressure, which uses little energy since injecting negative muons into it, the liquid pressure. Then it can do work in a turbine, the turbine will now contain a little helium, the deuterium fraction is recycled, cooled of making the muons. And some antiprotons is definitely worth the cost of hauling out also be exported. of normal hydrogen) to about 50 billion electron-volts, going the opposite direction around the accelerator. of pions since they are the lightest mesons, very quickly into muons, from which the negative area. The energetic photons from all that some in-turbine expansion, and/or used to the turbine. Waste heat from this heat engine outside, so that heat plus waste heat from factory is transferred into one or more balloons lifting force to hold the entire antiproton of the gas giant. are enough to make a shipment, then launch antiproton-catalyzed fusion of deuterium. factories can operate all at once, in the rate of antiprotons can be made rather high, be exported. Otherwise those gases will sit trillions of years, doing no good for anybody. you could produce your antimatter while in to the storage issue. We have a device called field, usually inside a cylindrical body, confined within it instead of hitting the with these is keep stuff confined for about to get a trajectory that isn't confined dealt with by size and temperature. a ton of kinetic energy when made by the processes such bottles aren't big, which means it Double the size of the vessel and you double it has to cover more distance between bounces you achieve similar. at that scale cooling is achieved by slowing with other stuff moving slower. But you could and also produce your antimatter at lower really make the stuff with mass production at particle temperatures far beyond the inside scale helps, and while antimatter's portability want giant Penning Traps, it's perfectly of kilometers of length to be used to slow into something smaller once that's done. chunks of antimatter, as pellets of something that just had enough ionization to let you a vacuum flask. one with an equal mass as the antimatter within, Antimatter by itself produces no energy, anymore is antimatter and an equal amount of matter, again a gram of the stuff is equivalent to are destroyed. And if it's a weapon you because that's provided by the target it 20 to 40 grams, though varying widely on caliber, an explosion big enough that only someone in the blast zone of their own weapon. or ones with less antimatter in them, and the stuff, it also gives you an alternative rail guns are a popular idea, getting those is no easy thing, whereas antimatter is as is rocket fuel and would allow you to fire friction in the air, and up in space it allows an alternative to laser and particle beam quite a warhead into the shot too. Now, while I and others have raised the concern having technologies so dangerous and easy a doomsday device in their basement, and while it's very unlikely it would be. You would all likelihood for the inefficiency and waste also a power glutton and that makes it easy At best you're producing it by using the produce and in all probability even the most of magnitude less than whatever fuel and power free energy, and some would-be terrorist is bill and huge thermal blossom at their facility. times the normal electric consumption they household, that roughly 40 billion joules to net them the equivalent of 10 tons of TNT, of years at that rate to get it up to atomic You probably could get away with producing you don't need a gram of antimatter to wreak bombs but the antimatter equivalent is a pen-sized on how small your Penning Trap or alternative it can be used as a fusion catalyst. If a into 1 liter of liquid deuterium, the results for fissionables or even high explosives to Now, that said, you'd almost have to smuggle in the kiloton or higher explosive range unless obscure your power usage or let you siphon sort of thing you'd store in quantities and as large as you needed to ensure efficient with your security assets. I don't think enough to go off as a nuke when you could to a modern fuel depot going up in an explosion. the tiny size implies. First, a pen is not going through ports of entry, and if we're going down to Earth, then we're probably think you could hide even a small hollow and a milligram, or even micrograms, just from if those are being run by fairly decent AI starting to employ in a lot of medical scanning. either but it's no worse than a large truck the fusion catalyst option is worse. is an MRI, a Magnetic Resonance Imaging device, traps or other magnetic confinement systems magnetically penned up, and disrupting that results. It's also a defense against antimatter or orbital platforms, since they could hit as an alternative to shooting them down. You employing magnetic shielding or keeping the the particles inside aren't bouncing around off, and you counter that, for hidden bombs, We also don't have any materials that are and those all rely on thickness, so barring very strongly against magnetic fields and going to be able to detonate hidden bombs those magnetic metamaterials in the not-to-distant more discussion of that, which might be problematic for storing or making antimatter too, amongst We also don't want to think only in modern possible the customs and border security in robots that go into someone looking around viruses, mysterious microscopic cavities in and so on. detonate themselves, as would occur with the security outpost to such a bomb is no laughing ones and potentially even telepresence for from the worksite while scanning people. Also, an entire kilogram of the stuff going off is only going to get a fairly tiny amount danger there would be setting off a Kessler for more discussion of that. the accidental explosions by not employing like anti-iron earlier, because it's less gas if you can make it, but every particle not made out of up and down quarks, like strange with those types of quarks in them and others your antimatter power source, since they can and charmed quarks aren't exactly hanging to say, once we can start producing more of we may come up with all sorts of other safety So, it's quite a security issue but not like most security issues arising from new so as you get better at producing and storing safe from accident or malign intent and employ Obviously the big use besides weapons is spaceship There is no better rocket fuel than antimatter, on micro-blackholes and is easier to make light stored inside a box that was a perfect level device and is essentially what antimatter to get near light speed if antimatter is your other speed too. There's no complexity in parts, you combine it with matter and you But we don't always need a ton of energy Given the security risks it sounds absurd but keep in mind that it's all about quantity. or even nanoscopic ones, may be an ideal compact for lower energy antimatter like positrons, billion times more energy dense than the typical modern batteries, and probably can be made some exotic matter, like strange quarks, we if the containment got ruptured. normal modern fuel, there's no more energy ruptures its tank and goes boom, indeed rather tote your fuel and associated equipment around, fast like airplanes and especially like spaceships. probably never, but I really wouldn't be century saw folks walking around with tiny or personal cybernetics. That explosion issue than regular folks walking around on their use in things like military vehicles, armored power armor. is already in use. Beta-decay atomic batteries its medical applications are already there, have PET Scans, and that is short for Positron used to save lives, and we've been experimenting too. heard folks say we were entering the nuclear fission or fusion, so it might be that the stuff, but if you don't antimind, it doesn't So we covered a lot of particle physics today, how counterintuitive quantum mechanics often Quantum Mechanics, then I'd recommend Brilliant. Objects that will walk you through not just concepts, and do so in an interactive fashion. education, Brilliant's focus on fun and whether you're a student, a parent trying brushing up on cutting-edge topics, or someone the world better, you should check out Brilliant. day by setting a goal to improve yourself, every day. Brilliant makes that possible with that you can take with you wherever you are. your problem-solving skills, or need to develop get Brilliant Premium to learn something new. and computer science content helps guide you breaking them up into bite-sized understandable interactive explorations, over time you'll If you'd like to learn more science, math, your own pace and from the comfort of your and try it out for free. civilizations series to consider the notion mean it, in Benevolent Aliens. Then we'll Livestream Q&amp;A in our new SFIA studio, on &amp; Summer by returning to Jupiter to contemplate and look at some techniques for how we might on Jupiter. out make sure to subscribe to the channel, button and share it with others. And if you'd the show on Patreon or visit our website, see our list of episodes or book recommendations, Until next time, thanks for watching, and have a great week.