Vsauce! Kevin here, with... 100 pieces of paper. And I'll teach you how to hire the right even find the love of your life... by quitting. Each of these 100 slips of paper has a number The numbers can be anywhere from 1 to a Googol The Game of Googol is to turn them over one got the highest number. Here's the important part. Your final flipped paper is your choice. You can't, like, flip five papers over and because it had the biggest number. No, no, no. That's against the rules. So the trick to winning The Game Of Googol Alright, let's play. Paper number one. 100,028. Ok, that's a pretty big number, but it's It can't possibly be the highest number So let's flip another. 94 trillion, 288 billion, 381 million, 109 That's huge. But it's far from a Googol, so I should I think? Honestly, I don't know. How am I supposed to choose the highest numbered are? The lowest number could be... 7, or 10,000. The highest number could be... well, anything So, the odds of me picking the highest number No. The odds of me choosing correctly are actually Optimal Stopping Theory, the branch of mathematics That way you get the highest reward or the The Game of Googol was invented in 1958 and figure out an elegant approach. The key is... e. The number e. Uhh.. excuse me, papers. I gotta talk about some e here. Euler's Number is an irrational number that's shows up in exponential compound interest. e is one of the most important numbers in it's a component of Euler's Identity, And to win The Game of Googol, we need to Not like that. Like this! The reciprocal of Euler's number -- 1/e, 37%, is the lowest our probability of winning we stick to the optimal strategy. We don't need to know the numbers on the with 10 slips, 100 slips, or... 642 duodecillion We just need to answer one question... When, exactly, mathematically, do we start Ok, so I can just go through this solution Alright. Here we go. Yeah, lookin' good. Mmm Hmmm. Yup. No problems here. And, forget it. We're not gonna do that. We're gonna do instead is we're gonna use a quick, accurate point at which we need to Let's solve The Game of Googol with just The trick is to take a sample of numbers, number we pull that's larger than any in So, with 10 slips total, do we decide to take The third? The 5th? It can't be too late in the game, because likely have already revealed and passed over Let's not guess. Let's get Eule-y. If we divide our number of slips, 10, by e, integer, we can stop collecting our sample Then we'll keep choosing slips and stop of those first four -- and there's around This works for 10, 100, or 3,781 slips. Because that's just 3,781 divided by e, a number higher than any in the 1,391st slip. We'll be exactly right about a third of be really close. Look, I'll mix these up and I'll play a we'll just see what happens. So there's my sample of four slips. And now I'll just choose the next number that's Alright, my choice is number six. Let's see if that's the highest number here. Oops. So the strategy didn't work. Six wasn't the highest number, it was actually A 1 out 3 success rate of this strategy might You're still going to lose about 2 out of But imagine how low your success rate would and as the number of slips in The Game of your uninformed guess is actually right trends Thirty-something percent is a lot better than, We, as humans, don't calculate probabilities our brain does seem to have a general heuristic rules -- that helps us decide when to stop. Researchers at the Laboratory of Neuropsychology ran fMRI scans on brains that were trying best choice or commit to the current option... light up when faced with an optimal stopping Euler's number and optimal stopping theory "this is the best parking spot I'm gonna gonna buy," or, "this is the YouTube video Without even realizing it, you played The video about The Game of Googol. You didn't scroll through every single video was the one to click on. You scanned some options, clicked me, and You're Johannes Kepler and I'm bachelorette In 1611, Kepler interviewed eleven women in He passed on eleven women. Kepler was left alone. He rejected all of his options and thought Luckily, he went back to bachelorette number after. Kepler found the love of his life, but he All he needed to do was divide 11 by e to next option better than those -- which would've life, hidden in plain math all along. And as always, thanks for watching.