- I'm thinking about Thanksgiving today, and I want to share with y'all a recipe for our oyster dressing. Down south, especially here in Savannah, people love oyster dressing and it is so good. But the thought of eating turns them off, so you always want to have your southern cornbread and then your oyster dressing. I'm going to make my cornbread that I make it for my So I've got- Gosh, what do I have here? I've got- - [Theresa] One and a - This is one cup. This is one cup of That word mix is very important. In fact, I will take the bag out right now and show you what to look for. Okay, here we go. This is a buttermilk cornmeal mix and it has other ingredients in it, not just meal. So this really, really to me, extra special. Now I've got a half a Now, if I did not have self-rising flour, I would use plain flour and add a teaspoon of baking powder to it or baking soda. So, we are going to just mix our dry ingredients together. And because this is self-rising, we don't need to add any We don't need to add anything to it. So I've got two eggs here. I've got, oh gosh, maybe two tablespoons of vegetable oil. And yes, I looked down here And then I've got three Look, that buttermilk looks - [Theresa] Mm-hmm. - So pretty and so thick. All right, so it's that easy. Now, here is a tip that when I'm making my cornbread. I like to get my pan real, real hot, so when you put your cornbread it'll sizzle and give you that wonderful crust on the bottom of that cornbread. Now, I haven't even turned our oven on yet and this is what I'll do sometimes, if I have not- (clicking) If I have forgotten to I'll put it on one of my burners and I'll just let it get hot. And that way it will crisp up So this is the first step, gosh, few days ahead of time and just throw your until you're ready to But I will say this you have to be so very careful because if you add hot to cold and put it in your refrigerator in a container where if you do it too far ahead of time, I'm talking about sometimes just a day, it will sour. I have thrown away more bins of dressing because we'd have it in big bus tubs. Theresa, this pan is getting, getting warm. So I think I'm going to I hear a little bit of There's nothing like and getting it so hot. Yesterday Claudia, Claudia sent me a text and she said, &quot;Guinea, Millie is asking for you to come over and And she said, &quot;could So I said, &quot;okay, I'll come&quot;. Well, I walked in the door and Millie said, &quot;okay, Guinea, today I want to be the (laughing) Honey, she bossed me - [Theresa] She gets it honestly. - I'm telling you why. Okay, I'm probably going to to start with. Or no, I think I'll do it on and we'll check it, All right. Our cornbread that it has turned out, it's cooled off and it just made a beautiful And we've got seven slices of white toast. And when I say toast- (loud buzzing) Every time I hear that And when I say toast, we just put it in the so you can hear it. You just want to be able to do this to it. You want to be able to crumble it up. And that's hard to do if it's good and soft right You just want to dried it out, like it feels like stale bread, you know? Something you wouldn't eat a sandwich on. So we're going to crumble all those up. We're going to put our cornbread in our bucket. This is the old bucket I make my dressing y'all, because it holds the most. All right, now I'm just I'm going to lay it in a little bit of that butter. Delicious cornbread. When you're making dressing, your cornbread is so very important. You never want to use that are full of sugar, And I know some people but you never ever want for your dressing, for your southern dressing. It will mess it up terrible bad. So, I have put a stick I've got two cups of celery and about a cup of onions. And you can put as many into your stuffing. And I don't let mine cook for very long because remember, we going to have 45 minutes and I do want it to still And my grandmother, Paul taught me so many years ago how to make good southern And it just thrills me and say, &quot;I make your grandmother It just thrills me to pieces to hear that, that my grandmother's All right, so while I'm letting that- While I'm letting that saute a little bit, I'm going to go ahead and And it doesn't have to be real, real fine because when we put our liquid in, it's going to get like sloppy, soppy. Not sloppy, soppy. All right, so to me, that is done enough to suit my tongue. So I'm going to pour all that in. So it's still going to have And my granny Paul told me to always use a sleeve- All right, now here in my little dishes, I have a poultry seasoning, which gives that a nice kick. So I'm going to put that in. I've got some salt, I've got some course ground black pepper. Now this ingredient, I know my aunt Peggy does not like sage. I can't remember if my I really can't. If she had used it though, she'd have used a very light hand with it. So this is just a teaspoon of sage, so I'm going to go ahead and put that in. And this recipe calls for maybe six cups of chicken stock. But what is going to make what's going to make it so good, is we are going to use the oyster liquor. So I'm going to be cutting back on this. I'm going to be cutting Since I didn't have any chicken to boil, we made our own base out of the wet bases that you can buy now. And I was watching TV the other day and a ad came up for all oh my gosh, for like Mexican dishes and- - [Theresa] Oh wow. - Yeah, so, they make a lot. Okay. So I'm going to go ahead and add that oyster liquor so I can determine how much chicken base I need to put in it. And you want, you want your dressing to be maybe the consistency of maybe like a pancake batter. Because that moisture will cook out. Okay Now I'm going to put my eggs in last because I'm going to want to taste this to check the seasonings, but I don't taste it once Because, in prior videos eggs. And I just don't like the Mm. Ooh. That's good. That's good. The oyster, the oyster liquor is really good. So how many cups did you - [Theresa] Seven. You just put two. - Mm-hmm. So we are down to four cups. So I'm taking three out of here and about a cup out of there, so, so far it's like five cups. Now Grandma Paul taught me to scoop out one scoop of raw dressing and put that aside to drop down into my gravy. You know, our turkey gravy that we make? I always stir that in with a boiled egg, a sliced boiled egg. And that's our- All of a sudden, I can't - [Theresa] Giblet. - Yeah, giblet gravy. Now I'm going to go ahead Those are big. - [Theresa] Fat - Big oysters. And you know, one more time, I think I'm going to pull and I'm going to do a little cutting so everybody will get Now normally our oysters so I wouldn't do this, but since these were about (laughing) I'm going to cut them up a little bit. - [Theresa] That's crazy. - I mean, those are large oysters. So I've beaten our eggs. But anyway, this is so important. What I'm fixing to talk about is the fact that, this can sour so very quickly. Like, if I had this boiling hot, the base, my chicken stock and I added it to cold cornbread, that will cause it to sour, adding hot to cold because it will take a while when you put it in the and that's the period that it sours in. So everything is cold that I'm And so now I'm going to add the eggs. Now if I was making this and this is really important too, if I was making this the day before, I would make sure everything and I would not put my eggs in until right before I went to cook it. Because I just have a feeling So there goes our eggs and I made my cornbread in my smallest cast iron skillet. So, this is what I would make for a family of four to six people, maybe. About that size. So I'm going to, I'm going to add some more stock. So I'm down to three I've used five cups of stock for this corn bread. And that looks- - [Eddie] Did that that you? - Yes. We started out - [Eddie] Yeah. - And then I got another cup from the- There's some more base in it. I'm not going to need all this because we had so much So where I would've told probably five cups would do perfect. Four to five, yeah, four to five cups. And I'm going to put one more little drop and that's it. I'm happy with this consistency. And I hope Eddie, that you can get it. - [Eddie] Yeah, that shows pretty good. - I mean it's, it's like a pancake batter. And if you put this in the refrigerator, if you're cooking it the day before and you put it in the refrigerator, put it in a pan, something like this, so it will cool quickly. Not in something real thick. So it may take two of these So that is it. - [Theresa] And it's going in the- Oh. - Uh oh? It's going in the oven, isn't it? - [Theresa] Do you want this pan? - Uh huh. - [Theresa] What you going put- - No, I think I'm going put Eddie got out. Because- - [Theresa] After all - Yeah. Eddie's right quite often. (laughing) - I'm going to wipe this down for you. - All right, now I'm going to spray this. Because it will stick. All right, so, you'll know this is done when you shake it and the center just If you shake it and it still appears to leave it a little bit longer. And if you feel like it might then just cover it with tin foil. But make sure that center is set. - [Theresa] Perfect. - Look at that, y'all. It is Thanksgiving. Ooh, I love Thanksgiving. Don't have to worry about You just show your love to your family through the food that you cook for them. And you know what? I'm not going to be cooking Thanksgiving this Thanksgiving either because we're all going and we are going to stay on the island and we are having our Thanksgiving meal at Paula Deen's Family Kitchen. Hip-hip hooray! So in a roundabout way, With a lot of help from my friends. Yum. That's all I got to say. This is some of the prettiest dressing I think that's ever come out of my oven. All right, now I'm going to, I hate to mess it up by Now my family, we have always liked our dressing moist. And you know, some people it's like, looks like crotons, you - [Theresa] I can't (indistinct). - But not ours. You can see the moisture in it. I mean, it's just perfect. And I smell the oysters. Mm. So good y'all. Mm. Mm, mm, mm. - [Theresa] Can you make us a turkey? - Would y'all like some? (laughing) I got some sliced turkey from the deli. (laughing) Mm. And I'm glad I took my scissors and cut those oysters up into, little bite size pieces. Y'all must try our dressing recipe. If you don't like the increase your chicken but I think you will really like it. Happy Thanksgiving.