Gueroult: Professor Tolkien The Lord of the of fiction of the century. and I'm going to start with one or two questions, For example um I thought that, conceivably connection? Tolkien: Oh yes they're the same word. Most people have made this mistake thinking or is another planet and you know in the science But it's simply an old-fashioned word for as imagined surrounded by the ocean. Gueroult: It seemed to me that Middle-earth ''this world we live in'' but um this world Tolkien: No ... at a different stage of imagination Gueroult: Because this is interesting, because appendices, exactly correct, about, up with time as we know it today, why is this? Tolkien: Because it had been impossible. Because you would completely interfered with trammeled one in a free invention of history Gueroult: Nevertheless, despite what you've most of the action if not all of the action Tolkien: It won't really work out, you know, paleontologically or archaeologically at all, the landmasses as I described them nor of course can you uh really have such as I described which includes tobacco, umbrellas other things to what little is known of the I wanted people simply to get inside this in a sense of actual history. It seemed to me that to be cut off by a big effect into some remote part of the galaxy. They don't really explain how but you get in a possible world but far away. This is the same sort of thing in time isn't Gueroult: Oh yes but in uh what one might the authors seldom go to the trouble anything you've done in tying this imagined world so Because so much of this is very close to what I won't say today but in the recent historical Tolkien: Oh yes it really resembles some of as against the perpetual infiltration people Gueroult: Yes. Tolkien: Yes, yes it certainly does that but, a poor man, who building a story, he himself knows. He doesn't rush around doing Roman history But that mean if he's been brought up as I and on reading, that would be the material Gueroult: I've been interested in the fact of which you have created thousands in in I mean literally thousands, are very close the name of the hall of gold. Tolkien: Ah that's another point, yeah, this came from the extreme north of my geography, in the section on translation, there would be other northern kind. The Dwarves, you remember are represented and have private names in their own secret and public names like like gypsies. Therefore I gave the north actual Norse names That's quite different, not that the my Dwarves like the Dwarves of Norse imagination but of rather attractive Dwarf names in one of Eddaic poems I'm afraid I simply bagged Gueroult: But not only in the Dwarves there the descendants of the Elves, the race of of the names relates to other things. You speak of the two trees of Valinor is anything like that... Tolkien: Laurelin, Laurelin and Telperion white silver... Gueroult: have these... are these in any way of the the great world tree the Norse world Tolkien: No, no they're not like, it they're the trees the sun and the moon, the great Alexander stories. Gueroult: Trees play a very important part... Tolkien: Oh yes, indeed. Gueroult: ...throughout the the Lord of the trees of Minas Tirith. Tolkien: Oh yes they're all descendants yeah. Gueroult: These are trees that are more than because they are symbols of great importance something in your own life in your own background... Tolkien: They're not symbols to me at all, can find that they are symbolic they may be but they're not symbols to me in my conscious I'm entirely strictly? minded. Gueroult: Well this is true perhaps, but nevertheless as a symbol of lordship of kingship do you Tolkien: Oh well yes yes an emblem certainly Gueroult: But not symbolic of anything more Tolkien: Well what are the leopards of England Gueroult: I state I take your point. Now, the rangers they protect Men and Hobbits But particularly they seem to have a fondness Have you a particular fondness for these comfortable that the Shire embodies? The... you know home and pipe Tolkien: Haven't you? (laughs) Tolkien: Of course, yes yes. Gueroult: You have a particular fondness then Tolkien: Yeah that's where I feel at home world which I first became aware of things, Which was perhaps more poignant to me because I was born in Bloemfontein South Africa. I was very young when I got back, but the it bites into your memory and imagination If your first Christmas tree is a wilting and if you're normally troubled by heat and then to have, just at the age of imagination Suddenly find yourself in a quiet Warwickshire I think it engenders a particular love English countryside, based on good wall stones small quiet rivers and so on, and of course, Gueroult: At what age did you come to England? Tolkien: I suppose... when I first landed Pretty poignant of course because you see remember is because, thing on the same plate. Slight changes simply make a blur, but if uh it's conscious. What it tries to do is to um fit the new memories I've got a perfectly clear vivid picture of but I now know that it is in fact a beautifully and mine grandmother's house in Birmingham. Because I can still remember going down happened to the gallery, So constantly I do remember things extremely I remember bathing in the Indian ocean. and I was not quite two and I remember it Gueroult: I'm going to return again also to and looking back a great distance. Let me turn to another subject for a moment. Frodo accepts the burden of the Ring and he virtues of long suffering and perseverance the Buddhist sense he ''acquires merit''. He becomes, in fact, almost a Christ figure. Why did you choose a halfling a Hobbit for Tolkien: I didn't. I didn't do much choosing, I wrote the Hobbit all I was trying to do was carry on from the There I'd got hobbits on my hands hadn't I? Gueroult: Indeed, but there's nothing particularly Tolkien: Oh no... no no. Gueroult: It seemed to me strange that this Tolkien: I should say he was Christ-like I he has several... some of the features I guess Gueroult: Perhaps I've exaggerated. Tolkien: accepting a burden but... Gueroult: But in the face of the most appalling he struggles on and continues, and wins through. Tolkien: But that seems, well I suppose, more I've always been impressed that we're here courage of quite small people against impossible wild beasts... they struggle on, almost blindly Frodo had very little idea really, because he was beginning to understand things very I thought the wisest remark in the whole book The wheels of the world are turned by the while the great are looking elsewhere and because it's their daily job. Gueroult: Did you intend in the Lord of the should embody certain principles: the Elves men husbandry and battle and so forth? Tolkien: Didn't intend it, but when you got you've got to make them different haven't Well of course as we all know ultimately I only got humanity to work with. It's the only clay we've got and of course if they're speaking and thinking, are what humanity as one knows it, with slight alterations It's all you can do isn't it, really, ultimately. Because the Elves are simply uh in this sense not really only legitimate desires human race We should all, at least, large part of human uh have greater power of mind, greater power by which I mean, that the gap between the execution should be shortened, we should like should like of course a longer time if not to go on knowing more and making more. Well therefore we make the Elves uh but merely that they lasts as long as the The Dwarves of course quite obviously, you of the Jews? All their words are Semitic, obviously constructed This is a tremendous love of the of the artifact warlike capacity of the Jews to which we tend Hobbits are just rustic English people made because it reflects the general small reach But it's not the small reach of their courage Gueroult: Um you're obviously intensely interested I mean Fangorn for example and the Ents are they have been in existence longer. Tom Bombadil Tolkien: He's of course a very odd character you've asking about age in...? Gueroult: Age as such you're very into... in longevity. The Eldar's descendants all have this gift Could you expand on that? Tolkien: That's different longer life that's purely that's what's... that's oneself that's it's an added power this world. Also if you are more time, or to do more. That's rather different to the to the appeal I love history and I always feel, you... even really want to you want to know the history we walk in, with all this tremendous history But if you're writing a story, which you know come to the end of that history. The history is always backwards isn't it? Gueroult: Did you evolve a system for naming and therefore the histories and alphabets Tolkien: I didn't evolve it I mainly used but yeah that is rather difficult question, but uh every human being, at least every human has a what you might call, his own native That's quite distinct from the the first learnt But every human being has an individual linguistic as he has an individual face, coloring, body. And I think therefore you'll find that people but of course like one's physical characteristics as you have more experience. Well the language I've entered tried to fit pleasure. Well now obviously from history those two They're quite different all you do is you original form, original sound scheme, and develop certain sound laws and come to ''B'' certain other ones produce ''B'' they will seem Gueroult: So therefore if you have for the or purpose of some part of the book to invent for a new character if you consciously say in Quenya this name will be so and so, but Tolkien: Yes you do... In the first test it has to sound a nice name even if I don't know what it means, but then unfortunate fact that if it very doesn't always that if you uh then work that those same elements it doesn't always come out as a So then you have to have to about. Yes it's a minor technical craft actually. Gueroult: But it's an interesting technical when you name unpleasant characters like Orcs instantly identifiable as unpleasant characters Tolkien: Yes I suppose they would, you wouldn't could you now? Gueroult: Yet Dwarves, although they have similarly uncomfortable consonants to to the don't... the names are not unattractive immediately And this seems to me one of the great strengths enormous conglomeration of names, one doesn't At least after the first reading after the lost. Tolkien: Cause he does need an extra, I'm I gave a great deal of trouble, well you must my thing is I didn't try to use the languages which is off to all the primary most important ...humanize, you try to use them for that Also because gives me great pleasure, a good I always in the writing, always start with and it produces a story not the other way Gueroult: Of the languages you know, which Lord of the Rings? Tolkien: I don't know... well because I started because uh same way that my reading... hardly got through any myself. Gueroult: It it's perhaps an added discipline to sources in a work of the sort, but do you invented more to Scandinavia or more... Tolkien: I don't know no either out of these I should say that uh Welsh always attracted by its style and sound more than any other even though I first only saw it on coal trucks, Gueroult: It seems to me certainly that the you've chosen for mountains and for places Tolkien: Yes very much, but a much rarer Finnish. Gueroult: Now women play very little part Eowyn is... is almost the only woman in the of sexual awareness at all, did you deliberately Tolkien: No, but after all these are wars a terrible expedition to the north pole so Gueroult: But um other writers have occasionally to digress if it be digression in this way. Tolkien: Surely there's no lack of interest Gueroult: Oh it's not a case of lack of interest Tolkien: Wouldn't you thought that uh that every character is tempted at some point. Wouldn't you call Galadriel's temptation and Gueroult: Yes I think so, but um there is Tolkien: I don't know how to explain it I how one reviewer explained it, he said: written and knows nothing about women except for a and all his all his characters... all the come home, like happy boys safe from the war. I thought it was very rude from a man as far about a man surrounded with children, wife's still it isn't that that's not the reason That uh that it's a happy story. One friend of mine said, he only read it in Gueroult: To turn to a practical point, how develop from the Hobbit because clearly it Tolkien: Oh yeah, because um Hobbit was successful, for the only point in it that I thought we'd choose a Ring the mere ''germ'' of course, yeah. Then when I saw of course that if you're going I wanted to make a big story I felt... got I invented that little rhyme in my bath one Gueroult: Now this this ''germ'' actually many mythologies the rings of power, are there not? Tolkien: Yes, yes there are... Gueroult: It's guarded by dragons is it not I suppose Smaug could Tolkien: Oh yes very much so, except no the a being uh humanoids with a being... took Smaug is... just he's pure intelligent lizard. Gueroult: You have a fondness for intelligent Tolkien: Dragons always attracted me as a... They seem to be able to comprise human malice and sort of malicious wisdom and shrewdness... Gueroult: Asking how the Lord of the Rings leads onto this question... Tolkien: Then it grew... then it grew without Gueroult: Without control this is the point Tolkien: No, No... well except there was a Gueroult: I mean did you know the ring had Tolkien: Oh yes, yes, you see because Gandalf Therefore at some point where a Hobbit... um to cracks of doom obviously isn't it. That's the only thing, and several times I ahead of time it never... it didn't come out, All I had to wait for it to come through. Gueroult: Did you decide right at the beginning was to play such a part, or did you go back and write in the various linking parts of Tolkien: Couldn't get Gollum out could you? If you think the Gollum's relation to the If the Ring is going to be important then I liked him better than all the other characters Gueroult: But you see this is interesting he's practically the only gray character, to the book Gueroult: And Denethor yes, the others are Tolkien: They all have their temptations actually but nevertheless, um your reader knows what to be a goodie or a baddie. Tolkien: Yes yes well of course yes, one knows I have to simplify a little bit. Gueroult: That's why Gollum is so interesting he almost repents one point doesn't he where Tolkien: That's to me the most poignant the the most poignant moment of all, because it's it's the good people that do the damage so It was fair Sam's suspicious faith for this which ruin Gollum. You see that if you go a long long way in then comes your chance which you can't therefore that you made nice and easy at that point, very sticky the last chance and he was too Because I printed a lot of thought about it I mean I almost could see gover... Where I've been most criticized most right is for seeing it, The thing that people some people thought in this age when we are now faced which can't be resisted. People do good people who realize more clearly the motives which would go into such a situation It's very rash to put yourself in a position presumption. If you're going with a good emotion and then which you can't face up to, then that's up Some people have been very angry about it. Sold people... the private management systems brainwashed in that ratchet, or giving them A design of mind that steal advances, hmm... Gueroult: That's true yes yes, but you find your correspondence in fact, complain a great certain incidents in the story, or have complained? Tolkien: I one said nothing is roughly true every part of the Lord of the Rings is a failure On the other hand there's another list Gueroult: At what point, I'd like to know did the book take control of you? Tolkien: Long before I wrote the Hobbit and I ahead constructed this world mythology it existence it was offered to the... publish (and..) This mythology and the Eldar and the Valar and the Dwarves and so on, they don't uh... they'd already been constructed. There's nothing in the... in the appendices Gueroult: So you had some sort of scheme on Tolkien: Well, immense sagas, yes... I rather simply think, I got sucked into it you see, The Hobbit was originally about his but as soon he got moving out into the world Gueroult: So your characters and your story I say took charge, I don't mean that you were the sort. Tolkien: Oh no no, I don't walk about dreaming no (laughs), no no it isn't an obsession any Another people have had written large things um you have some days, maybe a purely psychological you have a sensation, that... um at this point and you've got to wait until you see. Of course there's no doubt subconscious because Anyway there's no good trying to uh to anticipate, ahead of times, good when you got there. It was story I guess written backwards as Gueroult: This is I thought probably yes. Tolkien: Well you see Boromir, well he had it became important at a certain point, into book one. Because I had maps of course. If you're going to have a complicated story, work to a map, otherwise you can never make The moons, I think, finally the moons and what they were in this part of the world in They must have something where they... I mean one... I couldn't to work out where they might have been But as long as they correspond to some real Moons are much more tricky to deal with than but on the whole, I don't think the moon is Gueroult: You began in '42 did you, to write Tolkien: Oh no, I began as soon as The Hobbit Gueroult: And when did you... it was finally Tolkien: I wrote the last thing about 1949 I remember I actually wept at the field of where of course the tears come easier I think But then, of course, tremendous... revision. I typed that whole work out twice attic. But then couldn't afford the um course of There was some mistakes too and also what because I suppose, I'm in a position which now. There's some frightful mistakes in grammar, shocking isn't it? Gueroult: I haven't noticed any. Tolkien: There's one where I used bestrode Well there's a lot of things like that yeah. Gueroult: Will you ever correct them at another ? they're always into the new ones cropping Yes there are some... and of course 'Dwarves', to cover it up, I have a tendency to uh to increase the number of concept like: leaf/leaves. My tendency is to make more of them than now And I'm afraid I really thought dwarf/Dwarves, Gueroult: Did you evolve the languages before Tolkien: Oh yes, yes... Well, yes I've ordered them a little I mean. Did long before, in fact they began the folly Gueroult: For what purpose just for fun? Tolkien: Expressing one's tastes, Gueroult: Of course but you see an artist but occasionally with communication in mind. Had you invented these languages with any Tolkien: No but I hope to find when I founded Yes yes of course it's not an uncommon you as most of my boys is frowned on because they because it's taking off their time for something And enormously a greater number of children what you might call a creative element in And it doesn't necessarily limit it to certain They may not want to paint or draw and not but they nonetheless want to create something. And if the the main mass of education takes the creation will take linguistic form even It's so strongly common I once did to think ought to be some organized research I think. It be very fascinating not only from the point of of art education and impact of education that part which would be fascinating from extraordinary interesting in getting a large the linguistic predilections of children at Gueroult: Do you feel any sense of guilt at English language, sources of language fictional thing? Tolkien: No actually it done language a lot No... no there's quite a lot of linguistic I don't feel any guilt complex about the Lord Now we know what you wasted... wasted the you can now get on and complete some of the Usually I tried it out I was more busy working Gueroult: Is the book to be considered as Tolkien: No, no. I dislike category whenever I smell it. Gueroult: Do you consider the world declining And do you see a fourth age for the world Tolkien: Well the person of my age, you see, lived through one of the most quickly changing That the world is a totally different place At a speed everybody feels that, anybody who begins to feel that uh all through history but surely never been in 70 years so much Gueroult: Oh surely never no this... I mean one doesn't have to be 70 years old Tolkien: This is the world which I brought was indefinitely closer to the world of Shakespeare... Gueroult: There's an autumnal quality throughout there's a sense of continuous change each part of a story that's forever continuing um a character says: the story is continue (yes) however everything is declining and third age. Every choice tends to be upsetting of some to be somewhat like Tennyson's "The old God fulfills himself in many ways..." Where is God in the Lord of the Rings? Tolkien: Mentioned once or twice. Gueroult: Is he the one above the... Tolkien:The One... yes. Gueroult: Despite the continuous war between you never personalize or personify goodness. Good is there but it's totally abstract, you to ascribe any um Godship to it particularly. Tolkien: No, no there's isn't a dualistic No certainly not. Gueroult: But I mean the whole book is nevertheless Tolkien: Well that's, I suppose actually conscious stuff that I was brought up in a &quot;War to end Which I didn't believe in at the time and Gueroult: If I can take this a bit further In battle Frodo and Sam call on Galadriel Gimli calls on his ancestor's axe if I read and the Men call only on their swords by name I would expect them to call on their gods name the deities Have they no gods as such? Tolkien: There aren't any. Gueroult: I would've thought a story of this believe in some theocratic division, some Tolkien: There is is indeed that's where the The man of the 20th century must of course whether he believes in them or not, you must But he can't make himself believe in god's Zeus and that kind of thing. Gueroult: You can't believe that the Men in Tolkien: I couldn't possibly construct a mythology Olympus or Asgard in it, on the terms in which the people who'd worshiped those gods believed God is the supreme the creator, outside the But the the place of the uh the ''gods'' is So well taken I think it really makes no difference is taken by the angelic spirits created by the particular time sequence which we call language ''Ea'' - ''That which is'' that Those are the Valar the powers... it's a construction in which a large part of the demiurgic of powers that are creating there under The One. it's something like but much more elaborate C.S. Lewis's business in his ''Out of the silent we have a demiurgus who's electing command And the idea there was that Lucifer was originally So it was a silent planet because it fallen Well this is not the same with me. Gueroult: Yes yes... so then you have in your you have an ultimate one whom you call Gueroult: The One only, and then the Valar Tolkien: This particular little group of them removed from other paths of universe to do it. Gueroult: In the book I get the impression a high place. You have high seat as Orthanc, Meduseld, Barad the towers of Minas Tirith and Morgul and up. Is power for you always, so to speak, at the Tolkien: Well that's just a symbol isn't it long towers and so on. You could have them down in the dungeon or there are, matter of fact, Morgoth the prime lieutenant..., of some kind... not that the Valinor has any Gueroult: Well that is almost without the Tolkien: It's in the physical world according (Ahh) I have an Atlantis complex in addition to And quite independent of that I... a permanent let's say that uh the ineluctable wave has sometimes coming in over the open country. It always ends by one surrendering themselves It comes in all kinds of points like whenever nearly always a lone figuratively, vast oceanic So of course I had to write quite in appendices which I call Numenor which means the land Well this is the fable, you see, is left off the stage actually. It occurred but they're not learned these They were given this great island the fairest not in the... in the divine world, not in And then of course will always come a seemingly like the fruit of the tree of evil, C.S. Lewis Their ban was they mustn't sail west... they Gueroult: Hence the ultimate downfall. Tolkien: Then became an intellectual in time but not present time. And of course the Numenor was drowned and so then... you could then get to Central America. Told you that the world became round because but they... but people could now sail around And that's my solution of the... I also want to give the fall of Atlantis some Because the point is really, I've written you suddenly see the real coverage of the You're on a line which leads to what was, of time is but what was, what is... has that same existence but that's just so... those things of memory. Gueroult: In this world which you might have had you been given the power to do so, had the Valar had you been say the Morgoth um solidly feudal as the Lord of the Rings? Tolkien: Oh yes very much so yeah I think Gueroult: in the wider sense. Tolkien: ...in the French sense. Not in the strict way (Gueroult: Oh no no for land owning..? Tolkien: Hierarchical, rather. Gueroult: Hierarchical, exactly, yes. I mean that that power should descend by a Tolkien: The heredity yes yes... I don't know about that and a motive thing but um better than any other system in looking very much. it's never been worse to generate that the... you haven't got Gueroult: You're... you're wedded to the feudal Not... I don't mean the medieval feudal system but of... of power descending through through Tolkien: Yes, I am already to those kind of because uh I think contrary to most people, touching your cap to the Squire may be damn you. Gueroult: Do you find a continuing interest Do people still write you, despite the fact Tolkien: Dozens of letters a week, yeah. All I've been keeping a secretary to answer Gueroult: Were you surprised at its success? Tolkien: Nobody'd been more staggered... I was up at the Stanley Unwin's birthday celebration bookseller came up to me but he said that kept him going (laughs). Well he gets his Guinea off the set you see? Gueroult: Almost the last question um, do believe, yourself, not in the context of this in the sense of straightforward strict belief, spirits? Tolkien: Well the Eldar must be distinguished Gueroult: The Valar I mean... I'm sorry. Tolkien: Yeah... um... Gueroult: Are you in fact a theist? Tolkien: Oh, I'm a Roman Catholic... know about angelology, mean... yes certainly. Gueroult: Well they seem to me to be the saints Tolkien: Well they are in some ways take the in the invocation of the saints which are lesser Oh well obviously many people have noticed the stars like Roman Catholic of implications Gueroult: Do you wish to be remembered chiefly on philology on other matters or by the Lord Tolkien: I shouldn't thought that I could but if I'm remembered at all, it'll be by I wouldn't mind the other being remembered and not very important. Won't it be rather like the case of Longfellow, People remember the Longfellow wrote Hiawatha, of modern languages.