This hot day Why are you all working in the yard? Good man, you don't know We live here It's heaven on earth How dare you sit on the ground when it's too hot? And those who don't pay will be put in jail I want to live but I can't live, I want to die but I can't die Even if it is locked with a big chain, Look, it's moving. Wake up That's amazing Get up, get up, get up That's amazing! OK, OK, OK Good job, that's awesome. OK, OK, OK how Brother, you are definitely not an ordinary person, you are truly a god. quick Walk Waiting Go inside go Good man, good man, let me tell you a routine You just got here If there are letters and money in the package, Take it at hand, the officer will come in a moment. You secretly gave it to him. If you are hit with a killing stick, you can hit it lightly. Thanks for the reminder. There are some things in my package. If they ask me for it, I will give them some If you ask me for money, I don't have any money. Hey man, don't say that. The ancients said that they only feared officials but not management. How dare people not bow their heads under the eaves? It's better to be careful, okay. Be careful, I said you should The dispatch officer is here Who is the new prisoner? I am You also have a nose and eyes. Don't you know the rules here? You are the hero who fought the tiger on Jingyang Ridge Worked as a headman in Yanggu County I thought you were sensible. Why are you so ignorant of the times? Even cats won't eat you if you hit them. You come here to speak You want me to do you a favor? I don't have a penny. Do you want a pair of fists? I have some loose change here. But I left it for myself to buy wine and food What do you do with me? Are you going to send me back to Yanggu County? you Just wait, you will be in trouble soon Hey, how can you fight him? You will suffer in a while. He told the camp commander later. I will come to take your life at night No fear, no fear, let's see what he can do to me If words come, they will be met with words; if force comes, force will be met with force New prisoner Wu Song, come out with us The master is here, not going anywhere else What are you yelling about? Just go, I'm afraid of you, go Go fast Go Go fast Can the new prisoners understand the old system of Taizu Wude? Can the new prisoners understand the old system of Taizu Wude? When you first arrive here, you will be assigned to a military unit. They must first be beaten with a hundred sticks The back of the bag will rise You don't have to do anything. If you want to fight, then fight. If I dodge, all the previous hits won't count. Retry If I hum He is not the hero who fought the tiger on Jingyang Ridge bring it on This idiot is simply looking for death I don't even know how powerful the killing stick is. If you want to hit me, hit me harder Don't use any favors I'm not happy with the beating Wait a minute Father, Wu Song is a famous hero Do you see? New Prisoner Wu Song Did you get any illness on your way here? What disease do you have? I can eat meat, drink wine, and sleep. Never been sick He came here because he was ill. Look how bad he looks. Let's remember this beating for now. This is Guanying Xianggong taking care of you Just say a few words before you get sick. Never harmed, never harmed I don't want to remember this stick I have sent you a debt, when will I pay it back? Fight I think you have a fever. How can you speak nonsense when you have never been sick? Don't worry about him. Take him away and put him in solitary confinement Yes, yes Get up, get up Why don't you fight? I told you I'm not sick. Walk Never been sick, go fast Go inside Don't you have a letter to Guan Ying? No Then sending this stick is not a good intention I'll come to fix you at night How will they punish me? In the evening they brought two bowls of yellow rice Eat with you After eating, I will wrap you in a straw curtain Plug your seven orifices In less than half a minute, your life will be ended. Is there any other way to end my If nothing else, I will tie you up too. Just fill the bag with sand Pressure on you He'll be dead in less than half an hour. This is called a soil pocket What other laws can harm me? It's just that these two are more scary The rest doesn't matter. Wudutou Wudutou If you have anything to say, just say it Whatever method you have, just use it. Guanying asked me to send you some snacks. You dare to eat these snacks and then deal with me? I'll eat first and then deal with it Whose companion are you? Why do you treat me with good wine and good food every day? I have already reported this to the chief the day before yesterday. I ask you This daily good wine and good food treats me Who is it? What if I eat his? He is the young Guanying from Guanying's family. Let's give it to Dutou to eat That's weird. I am a criminal There was no benefit for Guan Ying. Why treat me like this? This little guy doesn't know Just following the orders of the little captain Let me wait for the first six months or three months before speaking. Half a year and three months, are you asking me to get fat? Come back and I What kind of medicine is sold in this gourd? This wine is unclear. How can I eat peacefully? I'll ask you What kind of person is Xiao Guanying? Where have you met me? If you don't speak well, be careful of my fist Back to the head When I went to the viewing hall the day before yesterday The one standing in the hall The person with the white handkerchief wrapped around his right hand It's the small camp. Could it be that he was standing next to Guanying Xianggong? The young man Exactly. When I eat the killing stick He yelled for help, didn't he? Yes, yes, that's the person. That's weird. I don't know him. Why treat me like this? There must be something fishy going on here. I ask you, what is the name of that young captain? His surname is Shi and his given name is En. He is also known as the Golden Eyed Tiger Shi En. He must be a good man. Invite him to see me immediately. Otherwise, I won't eat any of this food or wine. The captain ordered the little man Don't tell the chief in detail. It took only half a year or three months before we met. You still said, do you want to eat my fist? Let's go inside and tell I have seen my brother. The villain is a prisoner under the rule I have never seen your face The day before yesterday, I was rescued and beaten Today, I treat you with good wine and good food, which is inappropriate. I haven't sent any It's really unrewarding, and I can't sleep or eat well. I have heard of your famous name for a long time. I only regret that the clouds prevent us from seeing each other I was fortunate to see my brother here recently. Just want to meet the majestic face I just regret that there is no hospitality Therefore, I am too ashamed to meet him. But I just heard what my companion said Called Wu Song After half a year or three months, I have something to say May I ask if you have anything to say to me? Since the village servant and my brother said I should tell you the truth It's just that my brother has come a long way to get here. Lack of strength and incompleteness Please take a rest for half a year or three months. When your body is fully prepared I will tell you in detail later. Wu Er had malaria for three months last year. After drinking Still killed a big beast on Jingyang Ridge Just three punches and two kicks Especially today. Walk There is water here, come on Where Here Come Come Come on, brothers, drink water, drink water Come, come, Your Majesty, drink some water Come, come, come, come The military advisor is really great. I didn't expect this guy to escape here. Second Mother, you said that we have made such a great military achievement. How will the emperor reward us? What is the purpose of rewards? So many brothers died in battle I wish I had not been recruited and was still on Liangshan The head of the Boss, what's wrong with you? Second Lady, go! No, let's go together. Go, Second Lady No, let's go together. Go, go, no Fang La, why don't you surrender? Who is coming? The Walker Wu Song If you surrender, you will be spared the pain. I have heard of Wu Song's name for a long time. You just want to catch me I'm afraid it's not that easy Fang La Wu Song is no better than this Wu Song is no better than this What is this sound? How can there be laughter in the wild mountains? Brother, be careful when you are alone outside. Don't take the lead in everything, be patient if you can I endure, I endure If I can't bear it anymore, I won't be Wu Song anymore How dare you, thief, to break into my temple? You Taoist Don't be a good Taoist priest in this mountain forest But here they do such dirty work What a disgrace My master can do whatever he wants. It's none of your business, just get out of here My knife has not been released yet I'll use you as a sacrifice today Dare to kill my Taoist child Good knife, good knife Spare my life, sir. Spare my life, sir. I won't kill you Those two Taoists are dead. Let me ask you the reason Thank you, Lord. Thank you for saving my life. I ask you, where is this place? Who are those two bird Taoists? This is Centipede Ridge I am the daughter of Mr. Zhang from Lingxia. This Taoist, I don't know where this Taoist came from. Said he wanted to stay at my house My parents let him stay for a few more days. Who knew that in the end this Taoist couldn't be driven away He killed my parents, brother and sister-in-law. Forced me to live in this nunnery Damn people. Do you have other relatives in your family? I have a few relatives. They are all farmers. This Taoist is so capable, who dares to argue with him? The government can't do anything to him. The government, the government is useless How will this slave live in the future? this Live a good life with money Thank you, Lord. Thank you for saving my life. You are such a bully. Master, please don't be angry. Please don't be angry. If you want wine, that's easy. I'll get it for you. You obviously have good wine and good meat here. But he refused to sell it to me, fearing that I would not give him the money. These fine wines and delicious meats belong to Erlang himself. He is temporarily staying with me. Did they force you? No, no, no I hate those who bully the weak the most. Don't be afraid, tell the truth I will definitely give you justice No, not at all Master, please don't say that. That was all my own free will. You are such a useless lord Being bullied, I dare not even say anything I've never seen a monk as arrogant as you. And I said I was arrogant. How can a monk say that he belongs to the master? I have this temper. How can a monk say that he is Laozi? you I said this brother How can you, a bully, pretend to be a good person? Get lost You stinky monk, what are you talking about? I'm talking about you Look, an old man is being bullied. I dare not even fart Hey, you bird monk It is said that monks should not be angry. Why do you curse at everyone you see? I'm scolding you. I advised you with good intentions but you spoke ill of me Looks like you want to eat a fist. Jiro Stop fighting. Second Brother Jiro Go aside Jiro, ah Jiro You are in big trouble, Jilang, Jilang This guy is so ignorant I helped you but you blame me, go, go, go, go For Jingyanggang There is a new big insect that kills people Now the cane is limited to each village The hunters were hunting but failed to catch If there are any passing merchants, You can go across the hill together at the three hours of Si, Wu and Wei. At other times, single guests are not allowed to cross the ridge. You may be harmed, please be aware of this Yanggu County Government Office There really is a big beast on Jingyang Ridge I'm going back like this Wouldn't you be laughed to death by the shop mistress? This wine is quite potent. This is a good place Where did the big insect come from? Big insect There are also big insects You, are you a human or a ghost? Yes, are you a human or a ghost? Kiyokawa Takeji Who are you two? Why pretend to be a big insect? I was shocked by Wu Er's name. We are local hunters You, a foreigner, don't know Here, there is a huge beast on Jingyanggang It comes out every night to hurt people Even our hunters lost seven or eight. The number of past guests is even more numerous. They were all eaten by this evil beast The county magistrate is now the village chief. We hunters are here to capture But the beast is so strong that it is hard to approach Who dares to step forward? We suffered so much punishment for this. Just catch it It's my turn to hunt again tonight And dozens of villagers here Put the bow and arrows up and down, and wait for it here. You will later No need to eat the limited sticks of the county magistrate anymore I just passed by Gangshang I happened to see a big insect Now, I have been beaten by three punches and two kicks Let me be beaten to death You mean The tiger was killed by you with just three punches and two kicks real You, you, you are neither a human nor a ghost You are the Vajra Arhat If you don't believe me, come here. Look at my hand, there is still tiger blood real real Come out, everybody. This man said that he had killed the tiger. Come out, guys! Come out, come out, all of you Done, done, done This is really amazing Look around, walk around Master, don't underestimate people. I just don't believe him If he really has the ability, he can use his stick to I think he is the real coach. good Master Lin, what do you think? The villain dare not I guess you won't You are timid. The more timid you are The more I force you to use your stick, Master Lin, how about we have a fight with him? This Master Hong is the master of Mr. Chai. If I knock him down with a stick, it won't look good. Master Lin, you don't have to hesitate. This coach Hong has just come to my place not long ago. There's just no rival here. So the eyes are higher than the top The distant mountain is still higher than the mountain above Master Lin, there is no need to hesitate any longer. I also want to see the skills of the two coaches What Chai Jin said just now I'm afraid that Master Lin will be embarrassed by my appearance. Unwilling to use one's skills Knock me down with one stick, okay, come on I want to see how you can defeat me with one blow Knock me down with a stick, and the silver is yours Please put down the silver. Lin Let's compete with him. The senior official is laughing. Please teach me a moment Why We lost The two have not yet competed. How did you lose? This man is wearing a shackle Even if I win, it's not fair. Just consider it a loss This is because I, Chai Jin, don't care too much. But it's easy. Take ten taels of silver. Chai Jin is bold Please two adults Remove the shackles from Lin Chong If anything happens in the prison camp It's all my fault. Ten ounces of silver The senior official has given orders, how dare we disobey? This is another ten taels of silver. I have to do a favor again I'm not afraid that he'll run away. Open Open No need to untie the shackles I'd like to wear shackles Only one stick to knock down Coach Hong If I play second, I lose. Wait a minute The rest of the money is here. The two coaches' fight was different from other This money is a bet. Whoever wins gets it all. Lin Chong, you come to fight for this big silver again Sir, if I can't beat him today I will no longer be your master The master just needs to use his skills. Everyone back off Okay, bring the wine. I give a cup to Master Lin You shouldn't go too far and embarrass yourself The teacher was injured and lost money. When you know that pride is shame You are injured and have difficulty moving Hurry up and apply some medicine To avoid symptoms in the future You guys take the teacher back to the village. Pick up the silver on the ground Dedicated to Master Lin, yes, yes Please come to the coach's shed, let's have a few drinks today Coach Hong, come here, coach Coach, please I can't take this bag of silver. Lin Chong is not a greedy person I just want my ten taels of silver back. Coach Hong, wait a minute. Please return the ten taels of silver that the great official lent me. Master, you can't kill people Teacher, you can't beat me. Fighting again would only bring humiliation upon oneself. Give me the silver I'll sell you a flaw Today, let's make it a draw. How about it In the future, you can still walk on the manor of the great official I can't beat you, but I can kill you You thief, you In chains, with bare hands I want to see how long you can hold out. You brought shame upon yourself by forcing Lin Chong to ask for money. Coach Hong, Coach Hong, Coach Hong Lin Chong humiliates me, which is to humiliate Mr. Chai Humiliate, humiliate the servants of the village You guys always call me Master. How can I just stand by and watch at this moment? Kill me Sir, please stop it! Don't hurt the prisoners. Just let Lin Chong show his skills. Do you see any fear on his face? It would also be good to let these bullies be left with nothing. Those in chains know Cheating is self-humiliation Great Leopard Head Lin Chong Shame The coach only wanted These people are my disciples. How to save Xiao Ke's face Try to make them win And not lose your own life? The official knew what Lin Chong was thinking. Master Lin is really Even in life and death situations, you can still think of others I, Chai Jin, treat you with good wine and good food. Respect in every way The purpose is to let the coach show his real skills Otherwise, it's just that I, Chai Jin, am blind. Do you want me to dig out Chai Jin's eyeballs? Throw it on the ground, throw it in the soil Okay, then Lin Chong will use his stick as a spear. Look at the Lin family's gun skills good The ten taels of silver were Lin Chong's Ignoring the face of the head coach of the 800,000 imperial guards Grit your teeth and close your eyes I begged and borrowed it from Mr. Chai Just to send to the prison camp Not being maimed by beatings In exchange for being able to struggle back to the capital alive in the future Reunited with his wife He will make meritorious contributions one day and regain his human dignity I really had no choice, I'm sorry You are so cruel OK, OK, OK Master, Master, you are so good, so amazing! This master is very skilled. Make a good tool Master, our cheers don't count. This teacher applauded, so it must be good. Yes, Master. who is he He is the spear and stick instructor of the 800,000 imperial guards. Name is Leopard Head Lin Chong This master is extraordinary Make good equipment The hero Why don't you come in and discuss with me? You are unarmed and in chains. How can you stop me? What's wrong with having nothing in your hands? Then you can't blame me, look at the Zen stick Good power Good Chocolate You have no way out, why don't you get out of the wall? What if I get out of this wall? There is always a wall higher than another You were just one step away from going over the wall. I'm only an inch away from destroying your garden wall. Walk Master, please try harder. You are bleeding Better than sweating Good fight, very enjoyable A Prisoner and a Monk Perfect match good