(upbeat music) - Today, I'm gonna tell There is the bull and (clears throat). (chicken clucking) That wasn't gratuitous I'm illustrating a point. The fact is the best comedy often comes from the unexpected and the absurd. And the Lamborghini LM002 delivers. This is a 6,800 pound, four-door, four-wheel drive pickup with a V-12, a dog-leg, five-speed manual. Oh. 20 inches of suspension travel. Oh, my back. And it carries The rear bucket seats are bomb, literally, because the base of each seat Speaking of bombing, this Lamborghini once made of the worst cars ever, having nothing to do with the car itself, but because of its, quote, including Saddam Hussein's Stay tuned for the story underhanded, sneaky, elicit, illegal cock and bull plan to make a buck to ever wear a Lamborghini batch. And that is saying something. Urus. Here we go (car revving) (upbeat music) All right, okay All right, okay - This video is brought to you by the Hagerty Drivers Club, which includes a subscription 24/7 flatbed roadside Join or get more info at the link below. All of that silliness aside, I don't even know where to because it's all so insane. So let's start with all of the based on the way it looks. First off, it's absolutely even and especially on a as Automobile Magazine said, quote, &quot;Like a sports car for King Kong.&quot; Of course, it does have the to any production car ever. Those are 345 width, same at the rear, and it also has double-wishbone suspension This at a time when other luxury SUVs and trucks like a Range Rover hadn't yet even figured out It has a short geared dog-leg manual out of and it has one Lamborghini Taken straight out of the Countach, it's a 5.2 liter, quad-cam, 48-valve, 7,000 RPM V-12. Early versions like this one sucked through six twin throat Weber carburetors, and it made three times the power of the then also new to the The LM did weigh more than two Countaches, but its performance was It beat that brand new Range by five and a half seconds, 7.7 seconds to 60, and 16 flat through the quarter mile at 86 miles an hour made this not only the quickest truck the but those numbers were dead nuts identical to another four-valve per that the magazines had to be reckoned with. It's that, it's a Scirocco 16-valve. (upbeat music) The LM did more than exactly match the Porsche beating Volkswagen's Scirocco 16 valve's acceleration. Despite weighing literally it stopped as quickly, too. Ooh, once, because while each of had two Range Rover four-piston calipers, they both squeezed the same and the 12-inch drums at the back, the only drums ever would probably be on Still, point is that was 1987's hot hatch and this land yacht could keep How much has changed in Chiefly that cars have gotten so big that the LM002 only looks large. In fact, it's within an and wheel base of today's totally normal In fact, the Lambo is four and a half inches shorter in height. The LM's cockpit is gorgeous. It is lined with wood and leather, and genuinely would be perfect if space wasn't considered a luxury, because somehow it is tiny in here. The seat is about as narrow The steering wheel is so close and the dashboard that if you did try to turn the steering wheel quickly, it would break your fingers. And then the center console a Countach on it. The entire truck is full of But if the job of a Lamborghini well, the LM might be the of all Lamborghinis, especially once you factor The early 1970s were not kind Enzo had just sold half of Ferrari to Fiat in order to stay afloat. And by 1974, Ferruccio sold his A year later, as Countaches the factory was ironically The company didn't have enough money to purchase new raw materials that people were impatiently waiting for. Lamborghini's new owners, sent technical director, Franco Baraldini, out into the world to find something, anything to keep the money coming in and the factories buzzing. He came back with not the uno, but the (speaking in foreign language), which means two opportunities. Is it not clear? One was an agreement to engineer and build a car for BMW Motorsport, the one that we came to know as the M1, another was a project so outrageous that it reminded him of the Countach. Lamborghini's parts introduced Baraldini to from California who were to build their invention. This was a vehicle that they'd cooked up while working for a company called FMC that was trying to win a very lucrative US government for the CSVP, the Combat Support Vehicle Program. The CSVP was a set of specifications for an off-road capable vehicle to replace the aging out M151 Jeep. FMCs proposal was called the XR311. And though there were a it all went absolutely nowhere, except Tamiya created a After meeting with Baraldini, Johnson and Ferris signed an agreement to have Lamborghini build their invention. It would give Lamborghini a revenue stream and keep its workers working. More importantly, according &quot;Change everything.&quot; He had no idea. The two now ex-FMC employees set up a new company called MTI and, built a prototype in California. It had four-wheel drive, a rear-mounted waterproofed Chrysler V8, and Lamborghini badges. They shipped it to Italy, Lamborghini dragged it to and christened it the Lamborghini Cheetah. It made quite the stir, not just because what on the Lamborghini stand? Not just because it was really cool, and not just because the brochures were printed only in Arabic. Lamborghini's Swiss owners had connections in the Middle East and thought in the truck. But nobody was more interested than FMC, which took one look at the Cheetah and realized it amounted to little more than intellectual property theft on the part of two of its ex-employees, and therefore Lamborghini. And FMC sued. But Tamiya once again and made an RC car out But Lamborghini terminated and shipped the Cheetah back to the US. This would've been a huge if it weren't for what came next. Lamborghini got a million dollar loan from the Italian government to help set up production which would've saved the company. Instead, it diverted those the Cheetah to try to sell it. And guess what? It didn't work. Not only was the rear for the third time, but the And so the BMW project was dead, too, and Lamborghini was bankrupt and shamed. BMW shows up in the middle and steals its parts, You can learn more about of revelations on the BMW M1. The Italian court takes and receivership and to keep the factory alive, including spitting out of the Fiat 127, called as it's pronounced in Italian. But like any movie villain, this thing wasn't nearly A couple years later, the Saudi border Patrol &quot;Hey, remember that SUV? We're interested.&quot; and then Kuwait says, &quot;We'd like to order 3000 of them PDQ.&quot; Turns out those Swiss to print the brochures in Arabic. The next year, Lamborghini of a 24-year-old Patrick Mimran. 20 somethings in charge at Remember that the entire crew who invented the supercar 15 years earlier were also in their 20s. And Mimran, a fetus, of course, thought the badass off-roader was cool AF. He'd probably seen this photo. So he starts development back up. Enter the LM001, LM for one for its first in-house design, except actually it wasn't in-house, it was yet another copy of the FMC design, just made much closer to new In the intervening years, the US government canceled the Jeep replacement, and in its place issued for $1.3 billion worth of HMMWVs, High Mobility Multipurpose The LMOO1 still had but this time it was an AMC V8, because Mimran's family had In testing climbing a steep sand dune, famed Lamborghini test rolled front over back at low speed. Well, that finally ended Lamborghini threw out the moved the engine up front, and created the LMA, or front Anteriore was The LMA proved unstoppable by Middle Eastern governments. It was the only submission easily beating out the entrance And so Lamborghini was was about to place that 3,000-unit order that it went ahead and That was a big mistake. War had broken out once and the government stopped messing about. To quote Car and Driver, &quot;Expecting a squad of dropout draftees to field service six Webers and a four-cam V-12 would be like entrusting with a space shuttle.&quot; Offensive. Not all draftees are dropouts. Anyway, the LMA was dead once again and the company was in trouble, except it wasn't and it wasn't. Chairman Mimran, now 25 years old, lined the LMA with wood and leather, dragged it to the 1982 Monaco Grand Prix to be seen by the (indistinct) jet set and photographed by Playboy and Penthouse. Everybody wanted in. After building one prototype of Lamborghini's other V-12, they settled on the new from the Countach. It made 30 more horsepower It was nicknamed LMOO2 by Its customers included Malcolm Forbes, Sylvester who had a wagon made out of his. And years later, one Miss Tina Turner. - Congratulations. You're the first to survive the audition. - Who couldn't see over to those two enormous intake humps. And Tina didn't like In this case, I can't blame her, because Tina was known And if she had to deal her left leg would've been Turns out Tina Turner She needed an automatic So she had the engine and slush box from a wrecked Mercedes And by the way, it still and did 127 miles an hour. I know this is a total sidebar, but it was too cool not to talk about. All right, now back to the main story. For the record, MTI wound to Teledyne-Continental Motors, where it went up against one from Chrysler and one from AM General, who used to make the M151 Jeep that went out of production And the AM General designed They produced 281,000 units. Lamborghini made just 301 LMs. And for sure, we know one because the US military blew (upbeat music) They probably didn't Nobody knows what this because you now know about the most Lamborghini Lamborghini to ever Lamborghini. (upbeat music) (car revving) (car revving continues) (car revving continues) (car revving continues) (car revving continues) (car revving continues) (car revving fades) (gentle music)