Antigua was established as a city after Spanish conquistadors took the land from The Spanish made the city, nestled in the Panchoy Kingdom of Guatemala, for over 200 years. The city earthquakes, until Santiago de Guatemala was mostly This caused the Spanish to establish Nueva After this exodus, the area was nearly abandoned indigenous residents. The locals began to refer meaning old Guatemala city. The city was designated rated the top city in Central and South America did not completely level the Spanish colonial with impressive facades. There are plenty of bars to eat traditional Guatemalan food, as well surround the city and on a clear day you can catch times Antigua has become a booming city for built as a way for nuns to get from the convent school across the street. But there's a lot more to Breakfast is a big deal here in Guatemala. a two for one special. The restaurant we're at but the hotel that we stayed at had a two for one the desayuno Chapin, which has eggs and plantains onions and tomatoes, but we had them switch it a piece of sausage or meat that we didn't have that they were able to make that adjustment And that delivers for sure. We haven't had a lot of beans or rice in our And then we have even the plantain here which Are you good with coffee? We just got some more. Thanks! And the service is amazing! And i have the tostadas mananeras. And it is a tostada with beans, guacamole, this; and this is how it comes we didn't change Yeah, i've never had a breakfast tostada Good morning! Thank you. Did she say &quot;one dollar&quot;? Well, you know, we've been lied to before. What was it a blanket or a scarf? It's a table we don't own a dining room table so that might not The weather is pretty nice. It's a little bit the famous arch and basically where everybody And right here this looks like a And behind the arch is a volcano but Okay, that's the truck that we tried to avoid. The garbage There's a market with traditional things know how long we're going to have decent weather in the rainy season. This road Not the craziest ever but you would think pedestrian path. But there's motorcycles and trucks to take your photo under the arch you're gonna have to navigate all the cars too. Yeah and some I heart Antigua. So far I agree. We are at... Wait, hold in the way but now that we're at a distance. view does look really cool but everyone was on the don't get to see the volcano too. So i think Looking good. Guapo! You can see it this way She's enjoying herself. She's having a lot of laughs. because of allergies. Look. But maybe? You think... Well we are in the land of eternal spring. from some of the plants? There's tons Oh remember we saw this in Guatemala City? Right. We So it is ice cream? And it's based off of a Camioneta is what they call them. Okay yeah. And friendly tuk tuk drivers. Will definitely Also, if you come to Latin America, especially like banos everywhere. They're &quot;donde esta un bano&quot; won't get you as far as you think. What is this? This is a Guate drum. Drum? Local drum from Guatemala? Like this? Hat is on the Floor. Hat for your outfit? Hat for your shirt, miss? No, that's okay. Why does everybody just want to put a hat on Let's dance. Let's dance and buy. Good idea lady. Thank you. Good offer. Come on! Take one. Just one dollar. Just one dollar! I don't think it's one dollar. We are in Central Park. It is action packed here. Katy head. Again! Apparently that's not And also you learned that you're a We got pigeons. Someone must have It's like a Hitchcock movie out here. Look at the little girl in the middle though. She's just sitting there. I wish i was that brave. One bracelet in jade? No heavy. It's jade. We have a fountain. She's trying to cover up herself but Safety first. Thank you. Found this a pop-up market that's just But let's see what they have. It looks like they Everything has sugar. It is made with cinnamon. Is this also made of Tamarind? No, it is made with guava. Here we have our Guatemalan guava dessert. It's a bit loose and wobbly. Is it like a gummy bear texture? It's difficult. I guess if you had a giant gummy Definitely a lot of sugar on it additionally But pretty tasty. And we got two pieces for five It's a traditional Guatemalan drink. Oh, Antigua. So lemon, ginger, and pepper. Okay Very refreshing. Some of the people like to prepare it with: vodka, rum, whisky, tequila... Thank you! Here we have a local establishment. a local restaurant... Oh it's a Taco We are in a sunflower field! I'm so excited because mom's favorite flowers. And we are in a sunflower years so i'm so excited! And where are we right now? Oh yeah, so these kinds of things you have to go on the outskirts of Antigua. So we are here in the nature. We've got the volcano behind us. It's beautiful out here. It feels like we're in And then over here you'll see some So many sunflowers. I wasn't sure if there was After the walk out to the sunflower field and back we ourselves up an appetite. So we're at a local Guatelaria. Yes, exactly what you said. to get pepian here but the Maya version just spices but once they had the Spanish fusion they so that wasn't gonna work out. But the soup that also the chicken version. This is lentil polique. But we have basically lentil soup, we have some It looks really really delicious. Let's So so good. For a vegetarian dish that's amazing! And then also here we have Hummus Chapin. had a lot of in the past with these nice crispy Guatemalan tortillas. Nice We'll have that off camera but Also really really good. Different flavor East, you'll find in Turkey, but they really know In addition to this we also had a appetizer beans and we think maybe parsley but some there was like a red sauce. It was like vegetarian feast. But we highly recommend trying We have made it to the local market and we're looking for ideally made out of jade because we heard we can find some affordable ones. Will is He loves the one that he has but he wants another Christ is life! Yes, that's so true. Amen. These are cute. They even have a fancy sign over there. Yeah for the artisanal stuff. Yeah. Yeah, maybe that's My earrings. You're not going to wear them. Yeah i'm not gonna wear them. I'm sorry! Please don't attack the children. Is this the one you're looking for? That would be the one. Yea. That's the one you're looking for? That's what i'm looking for. Yeah. We just need How much does it cost? 70 Quetzales ($9). This one is small. I have extra large. I have double extra large. This is the extra large? Yes. I've gotten topless in a lot But this is probably one of the busiest. She's telling you it's going to be small. Small? Because I am fat? No, tall. No no no no no. You're very smart. Dos Equis (Double X). Stay Comfortable my friends. Yea, that's much better. All good? Yes. What's the price of this? 90 Quetzales ($11.50). 90 Quetzales ($11.50)? I thought you said it was 70 Quetzales ($9). Yes, for the extra large and smaller. This one we have to send to make separate because it's bigger. Yeah but you should want to be able to give 80 Quetzales ($10.50). But you're you're trying to sell You can do better than this. Give me A good price is 70 Quetzales ($9). That's the price where we started. You went higher then A good price is 70 Quetzales ($9). All right give me a great price then. Give us your best price. 65 Quetzales ($8.50) is a good price. 60 Quetzales ($8) and let's do it. No 60 Quetzales ($8). No 60 Quetzales ($8)? All right. All right, well there's a lot of other REALLY?! Which is yours? Both. Ok, One that is double extra large. How much does it cost? Double extra large? 90 Quetzales (11.50). That's the lowest price? 85 Quetzales ($11). Lower? Yeah he said prices are based on the size. 75 Quetzales ($10). Okay well that guy would at least do it for 65 Queztales ($8.50). The other shop said he would do it for 65 Quetzales ($8.50). No? 70 Quetzales ($9). Okay, he said 70 Quetzales ($9) is the lowest. Okay cool. Let's look. I mean there's a couple He said he can do 65 Quetzales ($8.50). I mean I can get it from him for 65 Quetzales ($8.50) from him. Can he do 60 Quetzales ($7.75)? 60 Quetzales ($7.75)? No? I can give you extra large for 60 Quetzales (7.75). Okay he said if you were extra large he'd Friend! 60 Quetzales ($7.75). 60 Quetzales ($7.75)? All right. All right let's try this on and if it works we got it for 60 Quetzales ($7.75). 60 Quetzales ($7.75). You did it! But Don't back up too much. You're good. All right so we price that i wanted in the first place, and that was ready to do business. now let's continue All right, so we're in the artisanal market right next door to the other market. I don't remember the name of the other market at the moment. I think it's just their main market. Their central market. Hello. Come in. We need to need to get our patch. I think we've seen... Hello. What are you looking for? A patch? Of what? Of Guatemala. Ooo Antigua. Oh wait. The flag. We also have Guatemala. We have one of Guatemala, but Antigua has a different flag right? Yes, this is it. Why? The small municipalities have their own flag. So she's saying that all the different municipals have their own flag and so does Antigua. And we still see that flying so it's their current flag they have up next to the Guatemalan flag like on the official buildings. Yeah yeah How much does it cost? 35 Quetzales ($4.50). What is the best price that you can do? 30 Quetzales ($4). How much did we pay for the other one? For the Guatemalan patch? Yea. It was 25 Quetzales ($3). So it's not terrible. Can you do 25 Quetzales ($3)? Yea, that works. Okay, because we bought the last one in Guatemala City for 25 Quetzales ($3), so that is the price we had in our mind. With bargaining, you have not, because you ask not. Always ask. Coffee is from Antigua. From here in Antigua? Uh huh. Okay, so this one is already grounded and the other one is not. How much? 35 Quetzales ($4.50). Is it strong? It's medium smooth. You want it strong? This one is strong. And the other one is a little smooth. Is it strong? Yes, it is strong. You promise? Yes. How much did you say? 35 Quetzales ($4.50). Can you do both for 50 Quetzales ($6.50)? 55 Quetzales ($7). Okay. 55 Quetzales ($7) for both. Since we found our patch, we got good vibes from her. And then she talked us why not let's do it. This market's a friend of Jesus. I love it! Are these earrings made of jade? Of what? Jade. It's the same okay. How much does it cost? 70 Quetzales ($9). What is the best price you can give me? 50 Quetzales ($6.50). There are different color stones. Wow, he did a big jump. I was not expecting that. So... So I guess we found our jade earrings. That was easy! God came. He died. He went to the tomb. He resurrected. He will come again. Now we are waiting. How did you know? We're Christians. Oh it's his design. We have something similar in the United States. He's been doing it for 6 years. It's his design. Oh, that's cool. Here in the colors of Guatemala. 80 Quetzales ($10). Called to serve. That's awesome. Yeah yeah yeah. Oh my goodness, these are so cute. These are quetzals too. Look because it's the long thing (tail). Ooo these are so cute. Hello, how are you? Welcome. Thank you. How much are these? These are different prices. 60 Quetzales ($7.75). Can you do 30 Quetzales ($4)? 50 Quetzales ($6.50). 40 Quetzales ($5). 45 Quetzales ($6). 40 Quetzales ($5). 45 Quetzales ($6). I needed to say 35 Quetzales ($4.50), So that you would say 40 Quetzales ($5). 40 Quetzales ($5). 40 Quetzales ($5)? Yea, can I get them? Sure! They even have a nice Guatemalan cross. We landed quite the haul at the markets. We were able to buy everything on our list and more. From there we went to a multifaceted establishment that was home to the Antigua Brewing Company, Vita Rose known for smoothies, and our first stop Ulew; the Guatemalan cocktail house. Like a 1920s speak easy this bar is hidden in plain sight. But this one is right behind a phone booth. Ulew is a word in the Kaqchikel Mayan language meeting &quot;earth&quot;. There's no menu. You just sit, tell the bartender the type of spirit, flavor, and taste that you like, and they prepare a unique drink for you. We asked them to make their version of an old fashioned. They began with Botran from Guatemala. Instead of smoking an orange like in a traditional old fashioned, they set fire to a piece of Guatemalan chocolate. It was time for a stir as they mixed this batch of ingredients together. Next, we saw them take out a giant ice cube and place it on the bar. Then out came an apparatus that looked like it could stamp a piece of paper or seal an envelope. Lastly the ice cube was carefully placed into the drink, the glass was moved to a trendy plate, and we were ready to give it a try. After enjoying our old fashioned, perhaps called an &quot;antigua moda,&quot; we exited the phone booth to the surrounding Antigua Brewing Company. The stage was being set for a live band as we ordered another round of drinks. The first drink we got was the froze rose. This was a drink made with ice, watermelon juice, and Illegal mezcal. The mezcal in this drink was smoky, which was a change from the last time Katy added a straw to the drink when she tried it to not completely freeze her mouth like I did. We originally were going to try the espresso We ordered something similar, however, as our second drink was essentially iced coffee and rum. Both bars were different but still a lot of fun. As we were making it rain inside, God was making it rain outside. We were fortunate that we were able to see so much before it started pouring. We could have been done but we heard that there was a restaurant nearby, that served a vegetarian version of pepian, so we had to brave the elements to find this place. When the food came out it looked incredible. To the side of the bowl were tortillas, rice, and a tamal. This thing was overflowing. The stew made with tomatoes, garlic, also included a local squash, and massive carrots and potatoes. The tamal was small in size but big in flavor from the peppers. It was worth it to walk through the rain to get this meal. Inside we saw a proper sign for the restaurant; El Sabor de mi Tierra. Besides food they also had a super cool looking bar with flashing lights and a huge alcohol selection. They also had a hookah lounge. The walls were decorated with license plates and football jerseys. Antigua is a major tourist city and we can see why. We always love ruins and the ones here did not disappoint. They are not the Maya ruins As the sun set on our day, we were happy Thank you for watching this video. This is WITY TRAVELS. What could possibly be next?