A friend of mine runs the How Money Works Money Works guy" or "dollar question mark". He is a retired tech Investment banker in he is not originally from San Fransisco and We were speaking recently about where he should can really work from wherever he wants to. It's not that easy of a problem to solve. So, I decided to help him out - and maybe - by making this video analyzing home prices opportunities and various costs you would locations. Let's look at what you get for your money Mark" a good place to live. Now, the population of California (where he - and a big reason for this is that California prices and state income taxes. As Californians have been moving, they have the kind of house you can buy in Texas (where versus what you would get in California for And, you get a lot of home for your money The Menswear guy (one of the big accounts in on this topic last week when looking at He commented that there was a risk of becoming much larger than the Californian one. We might even be able to solve that problem You just buy a smaller home in Texas and put in the bank. Maybe even spend some of the interest income Your loneliness problem is solved... We (of course) have to take more into account While we might be able to find a big cheap find it noisy and stressful, and you may not Your lifestyle is going to matter a lot too Some people would prefer to live downtown live in the calm and quiet of the countryside. For most people the availability of work and choice will matter a lot. A quick way of comparing different locations of average home prices to average household You shouldn't be too surprised if a home also costs twice as much. You are paying up for the opportunity to earn to be around people with similar incomes and There will be all sorts of cultural amenities to live near them. You will next need to adjust this calculation based upon the location you choose. If you earn more in a given location, but not really a win. Other things that you will need to adjust faced with. In the United States citizens might pay lower than in Europe. In some cities there may be great public schools while in other locations they might find themselves When comparing buying a large Texas home to the additional cost associated with heating footage. You need to take into account the additional face too, extra bathrooms will mean more plumbing If the bigger house has a swimming pool, a own, you will need to take into account all by buying the bigger home. How Money Works is a fancy guy, he's not OK so lets look at American cities, and how ratios, then look around the world to see We'll look at some quality of life measures they do. Before we get to that let me tell you about The other day I wasted hours trying to cancel no longer using. This can be frustrating and feel like a bad Well today's sponsor, Rocket Money, is here Rocket Money is an all-in-one finance platform This personal finance app allows you to manage budget, and grow your savings, all in one It safely &amp; securely identifies recurring you. It will negotiate the type of bills like internet you ignore them and allow you to set budgets To save more and spend less, join the 3.4 Rocket Money dot com slash PATRICK or click for free or unlock even more features with That's Rocket Money dot com slash PATRICK Get your money right. When we look at real estate in the United trades at four times the average household Looking at the ten most populous US States at 6.2 times average Californian household at 2.5 times average Illinois household income. New York (the state- not the city) is average at 3.2 times income. Going back to the Texas / California -or Joe The average home in Texas costs $300,000 and per year. Californians earn 26% more than Texans - the but they pay on average $743,000 for a home them under considerable additional financial They don't get to keep all of their additional Being a higher earner will push you into a And in California there are nine state tax There is an additional 1% mental health services the state's highest tax rate 13.3% [remember, The average Californian who has a household of that in state taxes alone. There is no state income tax in Texas. In Texas, sales tax on all of the goods you it is 7.25%, which pushes up your cost of Texas homes are much bigger than Californian out from each other too. For the same budget you will get a home five your money in California. That's why Joe Rogan now has all of that So, let's adjust the family incomes in each average tax rate, and adjust the average home utility costs, and home insurance headwinds. Here we come to a more nuanced story... Those 7,000 square foot Texas starter homes 2 acres of landscaped gardens aren't going You'll need 3 air conditioners to keep the home price range, you might not be skimming Adjusted for maintenance costs on different for income and property taxes, we find a much 10 US markets. High taxes in certain states reduce families' costs increase the expense of owning a large California becomes even more unaffordable An individual earning the average state income tax income to own the average home in the Some states like Florida have low tax rates offsets the other and you don't really win Now, you might feel that living in a high services for the higher taxes you are paying better roads. Things like that. If you feel that you get a lot of value for tax location that is less affordable might OK, so what do you get when you look around Well, it turns out that home affordability household income ratios averaging at 6.8 times Spare a thought for the Dutch, with home prices Ireland where I grew up is above the average home. When you start looking around the world you duties (or sale taxes) are incurred at 9% that many Europeans don't start out with over time, they typically rent until they there for the rest of their lives. When we adjust European housing affordability and maintenance costs - which are often the situation gets worse. The Dutch find themselves paying almost 16 home. The Greeks come in at 4.3 times income - similar The UK is a bit of an interesting case. The average home in the UK costs 362 thousand average to 1.6 million dollars. The average Londoner is thus paying almost much higher multiple than the average Brit London accounts for an outsized share of Britain's According to John Burn-Murdoch in the FT yesterday, British statistics would show that the rest poorest state in The United States. Let's look at other big cities around the Well you wont find it in Shanghai where whole Shanghai house prices trade at 49 times average In Bangkok people pay 31 times average income, income. In Sydney it is 16 times and Toronto - just 12 times average incomes. Mexico City trades at four times average incomes. It is worth noting that in Shanghai you pay building, not the land it's built on. You get a 70 year lease on the land and then government when it expires - otherwise you It would appear that the Americans are doing on housing than the rest of the world is. Meaning they have more to spend on other things. So do they live in much smaller homes then? No, they live in much larger homes. According to Sonia Hirt from the University Home is 1650 square feet which is about 75% home in the rest of the world. Australia, Canada and New Zealand have similarly The UK has some of the smallest houses in only China, Russia and India are home to smaller So, in order to help "How Money Works" dollars in different parts of the world. OK, lets start where he is in San Francisco. It seems you can get a 1400 square foot 2 of just under 8000 per year. It looks OK, if a bit small. And they seem to be highlighting that the Vuitton and has been storing the bag ever They also have two hat boxes... OK. I'll have to check with him if he has any Let's try Manhattan next, a big financial Well, we've got a two bed two bath, a little nice view of the East River. The Condo fee is 43 thousand dollars per year, Just to be clear, I'm just looking at the on the website... These are not necessarily representative. OK, so Boston next, let's check out the We get a two bed one bath, 925 square foot annual condo fee. So far San Fransisco doesn't look so bad. OK, let's check out Houston Texas next. Houston is the fourth biggest city in the Here we go. 3 bed five bath (that's a lot of bathrooms), There is no swimming pool though, but it is the size of the others and there is no condo The Texans aren't paying a condo fee... OK, let's try London next. A million dollars is around 800 thousand pounds. Here we go, Kensington, that'll be nice. Oh OK, its above a shop, and it's a two building. It does look like something struck it allright... The description says an attractive opportunity throughout to their own taste &amp; style. I mean what would you change - this is his They don't list the square footage, but I mean this one is the obvious choice right? Just needs a bit of paint... OK, maybe we need to up our budget in London. One of the problems with comparing locations look really expensive. Wealthy people will pay up for holiday homes that location will be priced out. Cities like London, Paris and New York attract to live, but they also attract a lot of tourists of things to do there. Other tourist locations are tougher for the they don't even have highly paid jobs like real estate. When we look at different cities around the different population density and that can The graphic on screen right now shows how take up if everyone lived in the United States of different cities. As you can see, Paris, New York and Singapore The entire global population could live in York City. San Fransisco has a lot more space, London Things are spread out there. In Paris and New York, you don't really would be essential for getting around. So how do people weigh this type of information Well, they don't necessarily weigh it at Housing is a notoriously "sticky" asset or the legal right to work, and to settle In some parts of the world like Singapore and working there and you lose your job, you unless you find a new job. In contrast to this, citizenship of some countries local economy, buying real estate or securities, It can cost as little as investing $100k dollars. As I said though, not many people do these In the United States studies show that the or her mother, according to an Upshot analysis Over the last few decades, Americans have those with less education or lower incomes Only 20 percent of older Americans live more parents' home. (Researchers often study the distance from than men.) The biggest determinants of how far Americans Those with college and professional degrees their parents than those with a high school job opportunities in big cities. Wealthier people can also afford to pay for need to rely as much on their families. It appears that the more education a person to go. In recent years Americans appear to have widened further from their original homes. The median distance that buyers traveled to to data published by the National Association That's more than three times the median ranged from 10 to 15 miles. People moved to favorable weather, lower tax and a good job market according to the National In a separate report from Realtor.com, more for listings outside of their metro areas That's up 4.1% since last year. We cant wrap up without first talking about you you should move to cities like Vancouver These indices look at things like access to more subjective elements like a city's capacity I don't have a good way of measuring a city's I can't even generate a sense of community Despite the fact that American cities are world and have larger dwellings, no American livable cities lists. From what I can see when looking at these downtown cores) don't even qualify as cities are not sufficiently dense. Public transit seems to be weighed heavily like access to free health care, and levels favor US cities. Other reasons given for US cities not making less favorable work-life balance in the United Many of the highly ranked Quality of life estate relative to worker income, and being give people work life balance. The top three cities for quality of life, cities but have average home prices at 11 respectively. It is possible that these cities provide a who can afford the expensive homes. When we look at a list of the ten most visited American cities, implying that despite the world are very willing to visit. OK, so taking all of this research into account, live? I dunno, maybe Dubai. He is one of those flashy YouTuber types. He probably wants to live on one of those goods, and maybe do some indoor skiing. That's just the kind of guy he is. A friend of mine was there a while ago and who polish your sunglasses for five dollars. He is just the kind of guy who doesn't want I think Dubai is the right place for him, that the YouTubers have. You can't make these decisions with a spreadsheet, If you have any suggestions of great places let me know in the comments section. If you enjoyed today's video you should Don't forget to check out our sponsor Rocket See you in the next video. Bye.