We didn't get a chance to talk about the six an average size pear that has been shown by MD and actually make the difference of whether you're not. Or the bacteria akkermansia, which can be grape juice or cranberry juice that seems to responder. They benefit, they, the tumor is get checkpoint inhibitors for their cancer because respond. We're beginning to find out that what you your gut bacteria, looks like you can actually could be life and death. And so that's something Please. Welcome to Target Cancer Podcast. My name is oncologist, also known as the @theoncdoc about things that look scary and people wanna And for that very reason, I'm super stoked. I have today. It's Dr. William Li, who has both on news media, he's published, he's a Mass General, he talks about things that not complicated. And the main thing that we're that I get so many questions on social media. Is health. He's done it. He knows it. and I couldn't be more excited. Dr. Thank you Sanjay. It's a real pleasure. We had great discussions before we but I have to talk about, your book recently, it was a very interesting concept because you've a lot of different foods that can help. risk and cancer risk generally are like the exercise and working out and health and some super interesting was on eating to beat your is it was it said right? And it was, what you're in a way, affect your metabolism to be like what called good fats that can actually help you bad is bad. Fat is bad. I love that you're because I don't like this culture of naysayer and it's just give us more is what they're asking closer. And I think I know the answer because of of things that, that have evolved. But what made given in America, it's hard to always have these Yeah. I think a little bit of my background will do internal medicine, so that means that I take and sick. And the thing that actually drew me to of oncology, is, what is the basis of health? when we were in medical school, we were inundated, information about diseases. So we became very we were almost deprived of actually teaching about just the absence of disease, it's a result of our function. And that's what I think patients really health. You don't wanna think about your cancer. the cancer patient thinks about health. How do really important thing to communicate to doctors, that our bodies are hardwired in order to be question of course is, a woman who de discovers a or somebody who has blood nurse stool, who has comes up whether it's asked or not. How did I get as a scientist and a and as as a doctor, I related question that is the opposite end of that, How come everybody doesn't get cancer? All right? Like we ask that question, it seems so asking that and saying, how do we get at that? actually is hardwired in our body. So when we're a, let's call normal lifespan as healthy as our blood flow works pretty well. We don't develop the toxins in the environment, right? Who's not Petrol fumes at the gas station, barbecue things are harmful. And frankly, you wash your the chemicals that are used in modern society don't get sick more often is because our body is swashbucklers. They're actually able to fence off us. I can tell you get an example, like basically artery. So our body's pretty good at keeping vessels, and we need actually better blood flow. down? You know what? When our organs degenerate, to medical school, no longer controversial. We the inside out. We've got stem cells that are million extra stem cells that were leftover, which and cut it and you get stem cells, umbilical cord you need it. Honestly, that's the leftover stuff. creating all of its stuff. It's got some about 70 these stem cells get stuffed into our bone marrow. and we use them. We use them to regenerate as we because you know this idea about, by the way, I'm which is the new frontier. They didn't teach this medical school, but we hardly know everything and think about it Sanjay we were in they teach us about how bad bacteria was? How bad, you said how bad they are. So basically, Never like the concept of good bacteria or... right. I guess so many questions on my social media. look, I don't know. I know when you have and I think it builds a little mistrust, like you're gonna tell us is we're learning. And that's just, unfair kind of criticism in the a lot of merit there. And that's exactly what And we're learning about it. So basically, we've human body. We've got 39 trillion bacteria. So and there's the bacteria self. And by the way, relationship. And so it's crazy that doctors are antibiotic to kill bacteria. I will tell you, they encounter in out throughout their lives are in your gut, most of it in the last part of your to the gut, healthy gut bacteria, in the wall of know that when you treat your gut bacteria well, and helps your immune system fight cancer in a second, about what we're learning about and being able to survive your cancer if blowing actually how powerful this actually is. and we think about that, right? Watson and Craig CSI, right? That's what DNA is all about. Now, there's a hardwired part of our DNA that actually it, if you go to a tanning salon. Okay? You're beach and get a sunburn, you're also damaging sun is shining in through your window, you're also how come then you are not developing a skin cancer reasons, because your DNA is hardwired to fix And think about cobbler that fixes your shoes. that are, every time there's a problem, it just shoelaces. That's part of what our DNA does. It's by DNA mutations, this fixing, this fix ability. is like the missile shield that you send up if the missile hits the ground, , your DNA can which is why, partly why we don't get cancer more our immune system again in medical school. And you think about how doctors are educated, understanding. And hopefully a little empathy of keep learning. Okay? And the doctor you want is actually pretend that they know everything and another opportunity for us to digest some new bit It defends us against viruses and bacteria. Okay. us against invaders from the outside world. bigger role in defending us from invaders inside health defense system, this five things I talked DNA repair mechanisms and our immune system, to nutrition, so much emphasis is placed on, the to eat. And yeah, okay. There's a lot of foods out and we know what some of those are, but honestly, actually enjoys the history of food, I like to it's a, it's an amazing world out there. If you're up. T he research is now showing there are foods to enjoy. Are not only enjoy the foods, we don't our shields by popping up our health defenses. before we get cancer. That is something we can to prevent that recurrence, that watchful waiting on that, . Okay. Getting your health defenses right? So again, this is this is part of the shape doing that I think is one of the most mind-blowing health defenses and your metabolism, right? So it how our body uses energy, how our body uses fuel, we can exchange all kinds of complicated mumbo, But the average person's gonna be watching this. simple? But there's a lot of misunderstanding your body uses energy. Where does your energy as a having an engine just like your car, that you energy. The same way that a car's engine needs That's how our body works. Now, how does our car, when your fuel gage says you are almost outta and you actually have to fill up. When our bodies' table or we gotta grab something to eat in order we actually think about that. Now, in a car, when Protect your engine, it's gonna run longer and we eat, which provides energy for us. The better engine, our body's engine is gonna last. Now versus poorer quality fuel? That's one question quality fuel actually makes our engine run better, raises up our health defenses. So good metabolism if you put bad quality fuel in your car, you know street for sure. You might even be able to take if you keep unloading crappy fuel into your it's just not gonna last quite as long as you There's so many things I want to touch on that you I remember when I was I had this thing where I working out. So I think I accomplished, the thing but the aesthetic how to get muscle I made sure I got the proper amount of proteins like the actual, like the rest of it. I was protein to rebuild my muscle. What you're it's not maybe the short term like gains, but when when people that are working on are saying and it's not just the protein, but it's the needs. Is that playing a similar relevance Absolutely. It's not just putting fuel in the actually put in. It's the oil you put in the brakes when it comes to nutrition. There's all their own merits to how well the performance write about in my new book called Eat to Beat because although the word diets in a title, Right? It teaches you how you can actually metabolism without ever having to go on It's just basically rearranging what you're about it. I thought that was really had discovered a few years back, and I read It's like there is so much more than this concept like just weight, but we're, we're talking about what is health? What is the basis of health when self, like you, I sat, I left internal medicine and arthritis and these kind of things that I'm bullet. But obviously the things you and I are on these things, but just inflammation stuff and that's where you can get very tailored which is never not the right word on how calories and not just the macros and all of that Yes, absolutely. And a lot of that billions of dollars that were invested to and I've been on that path for many years to for complications of diabetes and even vision that gets generated is really pretty awesome. that have been made that support the development prevent disease? Or how do we compliment medical for ourselves. Think about it. Sick care is what but healthcare is what we do for ourselves And healthcare is really, it can't be outsourced to and for, and that's the key. We do for ourselves. Every choice you make really has a, has shields, or potentially take down your shields. too stuck on doing one thing like a robot. That's of the time, if you do good things to yourself you can withstand a couple of hits to it. You you you're gonna bounce back, don't worry about because I think cancer is is something that's but from a science perspective, here's something down to the simplest possible explanation, wild. Normal cells aren't doing the same thing and those mutations allow them to go crazy. It's they run around wild. And so they start to they're they can do all kinds of harmful things and how often do we get cancer? The answer is probably all of us are forming cancers invisibly in our on your face in the mirror, you pay attention your back and on your butt all the time, and you And guess what your body takes care of. It makes our body are invisible because they can't grow factors. Our shields are down before our cancers your viewers and listeners a little taste of this. your cell actually could result in a cancer. All right? I wear sunblock, I don't drink alcohol. right? Wrong. And the reason is because those means they have to copy, paste each other, right? today we're copy and pasting ourselves, right? And right? Think they fall off our bodies or they all the time. Now, if I gave you a one page 10 times. Like a paragraph, you would get it If I ask you to copy it a hundred times, you it 40 trillion times, you definitely will screw up Just the copy pasting function actually causes body, every 24 hour, how many DNA mistakes How many? Take a guess. 10,000 mutations DNA errors are the question. How come we don't get cancer more? when you actually have tiny little cancers that defense, our immune system wings by conducts patrolling a quiet residential neighborhood and it escape, looks like a drug dealer sitting on but you know what? Your immune system's gonna get rid of it so the neighborhood stays clean. time. It's happening in children, it's happening in adults? It's pretty staggering. It turns the ages of 40 and 50, who died of accidents. and they do the autopsy studies and what they and 50 have microscopic breast cancers, okay? 40%. all right? Because they're gonna get wiped away by so they can't survive for a long time, et cetera, might help to wipe it out. In men, they studied 50% of men between ages and 50 and 60 have turn into a deadly condition for them. forming these things all the time, and our time. So why don't we get more cancer? But to your point, there is the one thing I think little TikTok on, it's a trick question. I said, And it was like smoking, it was alcohol, it was, answer is age. That's, that is the biggest risk on the copy and paste. The example I use is back any kind of big text, they would've people under just like transcribe in ink. The entire book and stuff like that. And so how would you, if so the word didn't, you may question and say this is like it's erroneous. But if things are, could you're only copying what you had previously. And point, and we've talked a lot about, the immune mechanisms. But you said it in a manner I hadn't more, which is there is an inherent fail stop blow up. Something ain't right. Hey, we like whether that's something you were born but that a BRCA problem is on repair and like talk about for a second is TP53 is one like, beep, blow up. Something doesn't look and something called Li-Fraumeni syndrome, that's inherently in the cell whether that was a meaning that you got that. During your lifetime, born with it. And when you have that issue, it's or by 50 years old. It's so bad that you like year because you wanted your main systems and if it's not working, then how come they don't something that's more of an external regulation, if for some reason they inherit like the you also have this entire other layer of people look right. And when I speak, I'm always like, us. One was the last time we thanked our immune this and all those cancers. Because remember, it average CT scan, right? 200 mil ... 200 million 50,000 or a hundred thousand, cancer cells, at system. But well before then, well before anyone immune system takes care of it. And that's why we when all of a sudden we saw some of the most all of a sudden those lymphocytes, those CD CD4's supposed to. We know what happens and mice models some other things. What happens when that outside an opportunity for something to escape. And that's it's why elephants have an insanely low. And I cancer is because they actually, I believe, where to 12, like some insane number of these blow up animal like sea lions or there's these animals because of the inside cell blow up mechanisms. And that doesn't work when the immune system fails and which blows my mind as an internist and diet immune system. I always say Harry Potter sheet invisible, they, cancers find a way to put on the that pull it out and all of a sudden that external go by? I say, sometimes when you go to a house your couch and a dust ball comes out, like a lot like you think I don't like dust. And you do, you that was the mechanism to protect. And then like blows it out and all of a sudden you're like, those are the, some of the most promising, like because you may, and we see that in melanoma in we're most optimistic. Nobody can say the cure rightfully like fragile about certain terms. But down to that last cell, that's what, conceivable, Sorry, I had to unpack all No, it's a, it's amazing. It's no I, I think up on a couple of points that I think would TP53. Now most people who are listening to this soup that two doctors are talking about, which I, but let me just tell you it, you it's a it's some people, in some cancer patients, usually problem. And it's a smoking gun. And we call it's not quite accurate like anything else that let's call it TP53, P53, that is actually known, which means that normally when it works, is why when you have a mutation, a mutated problems because you can't suppress it then, What dysfunctional the the blowup is it doesn't Exactly. Exactly. And so I think that, solar system. That defenses that we have starting then outside of the cell to our metabolism, to the outside world. And a lot of people say helpful, right? That's removing something harmful but you still got a lot of other things you gotta will appreciate this. If all you did was shovel lawn. You didn't actually pay the bills, you mess. And that's why I think that, like we, and but there's, and not just simply exercising, make a big difference. What you eat, what you, how difference. And I wanna bring it back to the, to if you have a good metabolism and your engine is car and you drive it off the lot, it just feels no creeks, nothing's dragging on the ground. But pay attention to it, and that little, noise, a it's still there a little bit louder. That's our body if we don't pay attention to our signals and we've got chronic inflammation. Okay? That is disrupting that solar system of defenses working In fact, it's more like pouring gasoline onto to triggering. It makes it a lot easier for the talk about inflammation and people hear about it. Chronic inflammation, which you actually have too much harmful body fat, when you've got of things. And by the way, it's not just big Oh yeah. Can have too much harmful body fat. It's this harmful body fat. It's obvious if you're but there's something called skinny fat and and visceral fat, subcutaneous fat. Subcutaneous fats on your butt. That's what women always talk the most harmful kind of fat's called It's like Indian .. It's like like we have. We all have It's packed inside your shell and the way that around your organs like a baseball glove. cuz you can have it in a skinny person FedEx and you're gonna actually ship something Or champagne glass. What are you gonna do? gonna pack it with peanuts, right? And that it would break, right? So you need some fat, really pack those peanuts in, alright, so much And then you close the box and then you tape it but inside it's bursting at the seams. And Visceral fat can grow in skinny, thin, lean that's why one of the things I'd write about we want to, we do wanna actually fight harmful get a beach body or fit into a bridesmaid dress. you want to tame that extra fat that can grow in it. Okay. Now here's something Sanjay you may not That's, that actually was so surprising to me it makes their jaw drop. Where one of the when eat too much or whatever, he'd har don't where do you think the first place in your Abdomen or face. That's what most people would think. Turns out extra body fat. So this is normal body fat. This Your tongue really can get fat. Not the front of part of your tongue, not the middle of your agile. The middle is very strong. The posterior a ribeye steak. Okay. And what happens is when you get more rib, you get more fat in the rib eye. when even skinny people, even slender people gain tell them. Hey honey, you're actually snoring. What happens? You're sleeping in a posterior sags to the back of your throat and you wind up It's so funny. I have an eight to 10 pound, not my wife like will stay. When I start gaining start snoring. And that makes perfect sense and it's, I'm like, it's so crazy to think anything different. But then I'll that is absolutely wild. And that's why people for high blood levels, right? And they wanna a fancy term , which is technically cancered, as growth of the high red blood cells. And they'll stop bang as a scoring system at birth. But the the residents are looking at that now. I'll look they're staging, if anyone's listening to this feel wake up restored and you google Mallampati each debulking I did two out of the four that I never was. But but if I, when I send it and they obese at all. And it's like amazing. There's sleep so that, that deposition and as you were. That good kind of immune cells to, to attack. your immune system? It's, there's inflammatory the chaos cause a great smoke screen where they do this thing, they blow up the trash can Yeah. That's essentially an environment That's right. An inflammatory setting. That's right. The same way that H. Pylori, that bacteria, now Pylori that causes the stomach cancers. Yeah. That makes it very opportunistic. And times your immune symptoms I think that in communicating to patient and when they're searching around for inflammation. we didn't have the ability to have inflammation, cut yourself, the bacteria would come in. What our whenever there's injury or trauma. So that there to wipe out any bacteria and make sure That actually is a good thing. And the problem that never chronic goes away. And then when it's bigger and bigger way, that's the calamity you're imagine you're camping with your with your right? It's inside the stone walls and you're just or whatever and get warm and tell ghost stories. a little warmth. You set up a good campfire. You go to the camp? You don't leave it burning, but to do anyway. That's what the Rangers tell you and not only did it, not didn't, doesn't go the flames jump out of the fire pit and they the forest floor and fire. Now the fire's outta when inflammation races through your body and it bit by the whole forest is actually on fire, but it could be a raging forest fire. Now you can't and causes untold damage. That is the calamity. is really important for people to understand. Temporary. Inflammation is bad if it's runaway gets bigger and badder. And that's If I may ask though, so when I do that, when I called granulocytes count, neutrophils. Those are or in the African American population, even though there's supposed to be inflammation. But what I do is I check an ESR and a to the inflammatory stuff. What is there anything I empathize a lot for the people that comment nothing wrong with me. I don't want anyone told all your labs are normal, that there isn't repeating concept for you is is you, are just because we're saying your lives are like justified or correct about something ongoing. laps to show other interleukins or cytokines or, it's maddening. They're like, I'm told it's all in on our assessments, on being able to talk about not fires we gotta put out right now. And so they Listen I think the cardinal rule of a good doctor, to is really somebody who is open-minded and somebody that's willing to listen and not just we all know our bodies better than anyone else with us and we bring it to a doctor's attention, I try to listen and register it. Gaslighting That's why we got a lot the beginning. Yeah. And, the whole term gaslighting is really It certainly is in their head, but the question going on? And back to your point about blood order, that we check, the boxes are, the Chem 10, look at a doctor's computer screen when they're very limited number of boxes that we actually same number of boxes for 50 years. . Okay. We are we can send a rocket in this space over and land it back on a boat, okay? And the question is think that there's a big catch up to do between thing like an EKG. You do, a cardiologist eh, it looks fine. I'm, I swear, doc. My, my take it seriously. Let's think through what but let's apply them anyway. And what's especially with wearables, that a lot of people something else you could put on. You can actually 24 hour glucose, with one of those glucose sensors you don't have diabetes, your glucose is running cloud. That could be a signal. That your doctor's blood test every, whatever, six weeks or every on. And that might be the trigger for you to we're at this awkward time in medicine where we tell it to us all the time. We're beginning to but it's not in mainstream practice yet. And so try to do for doctors who are listening is, please that, we're empathetic, we're listening, we'll can figure it out, but we're trying to figure it the honest effort to do this. And by the way, the really profound is that, every cancer patient that is it now? What kind of treatments, how to long that are front of mind for somebody who's been gonna come to you and basically say, Hey Doc, what I eat? That is not taught in medical school, And it's injustice to patients. Because you in between the visits. And we do a very bad job, are trying to, innovate this concept of doing the things where you need to like you said the you need a nail here and we can put band-aids, but lot out there today that I would love to follow up the idea of health. And that's the in between. about the car, the performance of the car. The or expanded on further. Because I remember at least aesthetically, right? Like I was, like that I'm so embarrassed about. But people be like, not healthy. I did very little cardio, right? was some aspects that I would say again, may look even run a couple of miles, like most people, And so health is a very relative term that's being point and to the overlying concept is it really is for all these things that seem obscure or we're backwards to see what may have been the aggregate you're in a very tight schedule, but I would love know about health and so they're doing everything some things maybe I did as far as send them for their GI system. It's negative. What is, and overall modification I can make or discretion when a healthier kind of inflammation, polarizing, I in six weeks. That's what I would do with the down here. We've ruled out of the major things. of the things I want you to try, like a dash diet that we could focus on, lifestyle wise for You know, that's such a good question. And I write where I have a whole... I talk about metabolism, And then I present an approach, a strategy that and it involves, taking a look at the things and actually trying to cut down or cut those things that are good for your life. And in fact, I actually quote Bruce Lee, the martial artist. things he said that I think is that he believed approach to martial arts was that, you first need are first. And I think a lot of people just of say, there's something going on, let's check would tell people to do is to really take the time What time do you get up? What time do you go to you cook it? What kind of brands do you actually And you don't have to work out. You can even And I think by getting to know yourself and being change, positive change comes from first right now. It's hard to change something you don't is to really do this careful audit with diet. What are you eating, by the way? And how do you feel where, you eat it, you don't feel that great, students are famous for that. Like you're sitting like you just don't feel that great and yet you so the bottom line is listening to your body, out the things are that aren't so good for you. So to Beat Your Diet. I have a list of foods that are Like notice I didn't say eliminate. Cut down or gonna be doing what we're gonna do anyway. So actually is so very important. And then swap putting in so in my new book, I actually have a These are foods that if you were to, and they got a sharpie and circle them. These of the foods that Okay? Figure out at the very get-go at the All right, look, you might keep eating that's not so good for you. All right? And These are the foods that actually boost your fight excess body fat. And if you swap them out, look for what I do. I go with preferences. okay? Just quickly circle 'em, check 'em or circle boost your metabolism. I bet there'll be a lot like to eat. Start with those. If you start way ahead of the game. Okay? And then cut down or and also volume of food is really important. being I think indoctrinated with Clean your plate. Eat everything that's on yourself? The lunch lady put us, slapped it they plated in a gigantic lump of food. You go can eat all right. Hey, there's nobody that of idea of listening to your body and stopping Yeah it, I love what you said and I think a forget if nothing else, if nothing changed, which that, but there's a fulfillment that comes with it's... it endorses pride, your head space, if you feel like I'm unhealthy, I just, that's because it's that thing that's collecting the car that you're like, I've actually never I'm willing to bet more than anything else, thing. And number two, I had friends that I did 4-H Club and I was like, what was that? what is it? 4-H is where you had a sheep or a every, like for four months, the whole summer you learn to do so many things for this thing to the pride alone, let alone that it looks pretty itself is a reward. And I think we all owe if nothing else. But number two, you're telling don't know that you like it. You're like you tell Yeah. So I think people will be Yeah. To find out that I just had no idea that gonna include more dark chocolate, for example, you mentioned, so I want people to know that about. You've talked about soy because people your book. And this thing wasn't designed for very intrigued and excited because I get so many work this era of what percentage of your diet were basically like saying, and I hope we all Like it is not something so macro in the way two thirds. It's a good start, a very rough I, if it's okay, I'm gonna read your book. I want we should all try it before we hopefully get you receptors and T2R receptors that stimulate, like Or, we didn't get a chance to talk about the in an average size pear that has been shown microbiome and actually make the difference of immunotherapy or not. Or the bacteria akkermansia, or conquer grape juice or cranberry juice that positive responder. They benefit, they, the tumor get checkpoint inhibitors for their cancer because or beginning to find out that what you eat and how of your gut bacteria looks like you can actually could be life and death. And so that's something Please. I literally said to my wife the pear and I was like, , I love pears. I don't hadn't eaten one in probably two years. when I find that out. Now if I'm walking by pairs. But you just, the mind doesn't know on the microbiome part, I just found out that he said there's early literature showing like the reason the chemotherapy may not be effective, but is the microbiome and the bacteria you have the amount or concentration or metabolism of the me that, I'm like, bro, we already like BSA liver. You're telling me there's a whole nother bacteria metabolize things that also influence if yeah. Time will tell. But... . Yeah. This, look, this is there's maybe the big science is very, is a very positive force when it beating down a path to finding better ways to people. I'll end with one quick story about my an endometrial cancer. We removed her uterus spot radiation, and the pathology showed which means unfortunately it would look like a Lymph nodes were negative, but it looked like the uterus. And with some radiation brachytherapy year old person at the cancer be coming back is But in her case, in under a year, this thing cancer. Okay? It's everywhere. All right? And the Basically told her, look, this is really bad. family members aside and said, this is pretty much work, and it's gonna be a lot rougher on her than While there's good quality of life. And I'm a researcher. Do you know what I do for a I'm all about the science. And try to figure out find their way through this jungle? This is really get out, don't fall into the piranas and avoid you get to that jungle? And that's basically case. And I really tell this to really project a self-advocacy. This is you fighting for Her oncologist wouldn't give her, fancy treatments like, that's not really true. Number two, I said, can I have her tumor? And he is we don't really They didn't sequence it? This was about almost 10 years ago. Oh, okay. And about eight years ago, so I had the tumor and the, when we call sequencing a tumor, what we're the genetics to see is there TP53 and all those we understand everything. There's about 30,000 techniques now. The tests that are not yet everything. And once you look at tumor sequencing in the cancer. Like everything is known. We might We may not have a target, but we know what's Exactly. So in her case, we actually found one eligible for immunotherapy. We got her on, an immunotherapy, a checkpoint inhibitor for amazing in, in three infusions, each one about every three weeks apart by the third infusion. was gone. Eight years later. She's got no cancer. know what we were treating. And she lives next Literally the beginning of this episode, I that's the one where you can hope for deeper Yeah. Because it's unreal. And anyone listening to marker was PD-1 or PD-L1. We've had, we have so have Keith Flaherty from Mass General as well if you're a stage four cancer solid what is my MMR status? Or am I MSI high? an automatic qualification for an immunotherapy, MSI-high, I'm gonna put it on this podcast that immunotherapy, and it is missed all the time. It's beautiful. I especially like the part that literally why we do this podcast. That's why I'm a community oncologist. I know that I am like I want everyone to have the information they look? What is my MSI? What is my, PD-1, or do I for lung cancer, for EGFR, not even sequenced. that are. So anyway, the point is listen, I cannot wait. I'm not kidding. I've never I would love to have you back cuz we just have so come back and we can continue this conversation and anti-cancer treatments. Because it's not medicine and all working together. That's really to find out more about this, you can come to my @DrWilliamLi. And I run all kinds of things. all free. Come and join me. I like I, I routinely similarly to what you do, Sanjay to, because I lives. People want to know it and they need yeah. Thank you for doing what you do You're amazing. I really appreciate your responsibility. The society gave us this. They gave us, and what you're doing is amazing. Thank Thank you.