You sprint through the crumbling streets of you. It feels like the world is falling apart Panic takes over as fires rage, buildings to get to the mountains- to get to safety The shaking stops. You turn around- and over 100 feet high, looms over the city, This isn't a disaster movie. It's real life. And episode of The Infographics Show, we'll show you If you've ever been in California, you've probably huge earthquake that's going to wipe us all there may be a big one on the horizon...but it San Andreas and Dwayne "The While everyone warily looks at Southern up north, in the beautiful forests of the Zone. And if that earthquake hits, it will The Cascadia Subduction zone runs 700 miles around 70 to 100 miles inland from the be right in the middle of it all, a sort of And how would you know it's coming? Imagine you're standing near the Space air. Every dog around you starts barking The first sign of the earthquake also known as the P wave. Moving fast at very but dogs and other animals can...and they The compression wave is released before starts. Though this might not seem like a lot mass transit to shut down and evacuate, In Japan, compression waves set off do all of that. Unfortunately, in the Pacific there will be no such early-warning That's because the Cascadia Subduction Zone wasn't settled. It also has a unique combination rare earthquakes, which have made the need for Suddenly, the sound of dogs barking is drowned out by the sound of rumbling and deadlier wave - known as an S or shear wave The shear wave is the result of stress of the North American continent; they meet known as Juan de Fuca, a much too sassy name pushing under the eastern plate, Unfortunately for Juan, the North American against another plate. So instead of Juan de Fuca ends up violently grating under the Once in a while, the slow grind builds up wreaking havoc on the ground above. This earthquake as scientists currently think is like an asteroid hitting the Earth, which would Scientists doubt there are fault lines an earthquake that would reach 10 on scientists also didn't understand the depth and A 10 on the Richter scale is ten times is exponential. In the past, earthquakes in Japan - 9.1- have caused tens of thousands of But the Cascadia Zone worries scientists, because Back to Seattle, where buildings around you. The only thing you know about but the chunks of concrete falling all around moving like a wave, shaking you off your feet You start to run towards the hills to the east, hoping you can get to higher ground and But first, here's something important to have a clinical mental health issue like Therapy is a safe space where you can share sadness, worries, or relationship A therapist listens, asks thoughtful from new angles. They can give you useful your emotions, reduce stress, and Seeking therapy is actually a sign of courage to acknowledge when you need help and While therapy can sometimes be expensive, like online therapy platforms. video and they're on a mission BetterHelp is a platform where therapists effectively and get the most out of therapy. out a questionnaire and you will match with They carefully make sure therapists and their customer support team is there If you're struggling and think you'd benefit description, or go to betterhelp.com/infographics You look down to see what the problem is, and notice the ground is A good portion of the Northwest is built Richter 10 could reach up to thirty which would eventually cause the As you try to remember from cartoons how you see entire skyscrapers sliding into lot of effort, you get closer to the your tracks because...a massive landslide is In fact, landslides are happening everywhere. dislodged from nearby hills You need to find cover and quick. The hospital more sturdily than anything else around it, has made to withstand a Richter 10 earthquake, a Electrical wires snap all around you, every place they're stored or used in, including and sparks cause fires to erupt in every Since the ground is moving and sliding around, the fires on top of them are pretty A few minutes later, the endless rumbling and snapping from underneath your as one last piece of drywall sailing through the But you know something else is coming. When the Cascadia Subduction Zone causes an Fuca could fall up to six feet under the when spread out over a big chunk of the Pacific You finally climb up the hill you've been Pacific. In the distance, you see something in the middle of the ocean. The seawater with hundreds of feet of underwater Then, the mass of water starts to you realize what this means...the tsunami big wave. Instead it looks more like the barreling towards the shore. And you have no You're going to need a bigger hill. You look up to the Cascade Mountains in of concrete somewhere, and even if you could understand committing a crime, just this The entire road heading up to huge chunks of it missing. A bridge steel beams jutting out of the You run. You run for your That's because tsunamis are some of the least way to avoid dying in one is to be nowhere near as you see a wall of water slamming through You break into the fastest sprint you can manage, turn around for a second and see that the tsunami and it's no longer just water. The fast moving house walls, and a whole pile of massive No human is a match for this. Water only needs over an adult man. And that's when the water deceptive and dangerous. It doesn't need to And this water isn't at your ankles; above sea level, and moving at almost a four to seven floor apartment building, You turn back towards the mountain and bridge by using a land crossing you know. as sprinting towards the mountain alongside Some of you - either the most desperate and/or as the tsunami passes right below you. You find out the many, incredibly strong aftershocks As you pass the time waiting for help, you look destroyed - buildings submerged in the ground, that at least the tsunami took the fires out. A Richter 10 earthquake leaves almost no You look towards the east and see looks like a nuclear bomb hit truth. When the 1960 earthquake in Chile more than one person actually thought it was a The reality is even worse. A Richter 10 one million nuclear bombs like the ones the nuclear bomb dropped on that city instantly of the metro area, and let you imagine And the damage doesn't stop there; the tsunami didn't just hit here.....a and another to Chile, flooding major cities With a Richter 10 earthquake, almost no cities, civilization as we know it would be so damaged that rebuilding within a human Even if the government and emergency services their way through mountain passes completely off the map by the tsunami, using roads that are You're probably wondering...how likely Well, over the last 10,000 years, there have been in the subduction zone in the Pacific Northwest. The last such earthquake was in you might be starting to panic, another earthquake around 1943. And As for good news, most scientists think that a not pass a 9.2 on the Richter scale. The 9.5-scale over 1,000 miles long, while the Cascadia least an earthquake here likely won't be a So what should you do if you live in the learn earthquake safety...and hope for the best. Oh, and get a dog. You'll know the Now go check out The Worst Natural Disasters