That day, in Central Africa, It's general panic. The minibuses are on strike, So, inevitably, they become - Bangui taxis Usually there is transport, I am the threshold to come here, - About thirty travelers It's been rolling for 40 years. His old 504 dangerous, but no matter, - I'm trying to do business. I'm going to buy some coconut - This vehicle, It means: He's picking up speed, And alive! - Surely alive, - There is a joint here normally, We have a problem with the carburetor, - Public transport is the nightmare of Central Africans. Since 2013, ended up destabilizing Of the fleet of 8,000 taxis and 5,000 buses there is almost nothing left. Many vehicles So, to get around, livestock trucks took over. - We have a logistical problem. - The country's wealth goes into the pockets of armed factions. Without any maintenance, isolating entire cities. - Doctors Midwives - The only solution is to send the sick They have become - This work is to help families to take care of themselves. It hurts me - On track as on water The Oubangui River is or rather these strainers. - There are a lot of rocks. - With these tubs, Every day, fight a daily battle - That's what I'm going to eat, as you can see. The President of the Republic - Nola is one of the most landlocked cities in Central Africa. Getting there and leaving it is always a problem. That day, two cattle trucks were the only taxis available. Dozens of travelers are fighting to get a ticket. - You see, it's like on a plane - Yes, but in a plane, and there, we will have to share the space. - Animals, bags, goats, meat, you can put everything in it. Even pigs, you see, they are put in cages. - There's even a surprise animal. - It's the pangolin. - The animal may be cute, but we forget is suspected of being the cause But hey, this time, the beast has nothing to do - Who still owes me 5000? - Guillaume, the captain, is overwhelmed by the number of passengers. - Wallah, you're blocking our way, we don't know how to work anymore. Great William, move your people back a little to free up access for us. - Wait, I'll push them back first, - A good idea that no one listens to, everyone wants a place. The truck is stormed. There is at least one advantage, boarding ends Inside the dumpster, everyone defends their place. The start is given. No, false start! - Stop! Stop! - Guillaume, Some smart people took advantage of the hustle and bustle. - Tickets, tickets, tickets. - What do you control? - Tickets for each passenger. He doesn't have his ticket, He just paid, She over there, check. - Mom, who gave you permission to come up? Seriously, before you go up, - It's time to hit the road. Karl's terminus is 420 kilometers of rutted track. The driver is one of the few A feat he owes and, in part, - That's religious. I put it in the vehicle You know, some people here are jealous of your success. They cast evil spells on you You can get hurt, but the worst would be and above all, if there are deaths, - Deaths are not rare. In the back of the trucks dozens of passengers are crammed together, vulnerable to the slightest shock. The danger, everyone prefers to laugh about it - I am uncomfortable. We have a problem ! It's difficult The government does not provide anything - I have to take this truck. I'm traveling with a child who has malaria - It's the same for me, and this truck is the only way It's over, I'm not giving birth anymore. We just ask God to help us. - These travelers are not - Look, all these people! - Are they going to go up? - Are there going to be even more of you? - Yes. - Once again, is completely overwhelmed by the crowd. - How many people ? - We can imagine 70 people. - With the children? - Let's estimate 100 people. - The gates of Hell The travelers even if they breathe better, Beware of heads sticking out. Songs to forget and the obstacles that approach. The throes of the track. - As a child, I always drew Then I started always trucks and cars. I grew up with the idea of being a driver, They beat me without thinking about studies. But I managed to convince them So, at Christmas, while my brothers - The journey has only just begun and has many surprises in store for all of them. Bangui, the capital of Central Africa, is built A strategic point with the Democratic Republic of Congo, This river highway is used by whalers, ancient tubs, which transport whatever the navigation conditions. The captains supposed to inspire confidence in travelers. - Come on guys, one more. - It consumes a lot of fuel - How much ? - We will consume 3 barrels. - That is 600 liters. Before each departure, and it is better. His whaleboat is named Promised Land 3 because the first two sank. - Around the year 2000, The boat drifted onto the rocks. This created a hole. Water came in and the whaler sank. Almost 50 people died. - Unlike truck drivers, Captain Dieudonne that once his boat is full. For a week now, travelers have been camping out waiting to leave. - There are a lot of They are still outside. They are late. - Relief for everyone, a few hours later, He heads located 200 kilometers from the capital. A completely isolated town, The boat is the only way to reach it. Well almost, whaler and waterproofing It floats thanks to the courage of these sailors. - My job is to empty That's a sailor's job. - Are you doing this the whole trip? - Until we arrive. - Maneuvering a whaleboat is a delicate operation. Between the bow and the stern, there are 40 meters. Suffice to say that the pilots, barely see the front of the boat. Captain Dieudonne but thanks to a lookout, Leon. - Go right, my little one. I am the one guiding the captain. Without me, he sees nothing. I am the one who sees all the dangers - The whaler serves Travelers which supply these remote regions. They make this journey several times a year Fabienne earns her living by cooking delicious meals for passengers. She nearly died - Last year, There were many deaths. The boat sank completely. We were in a flood period, Those who could swim escaped, I was rescued who were passing by. They dropped me off on the shore. The crossing is dangerous, but if I don't travel, This job is my only way to survive. That day, Fabienne will have At the end of the day, It can be Captain Dieudonne is not serene. Darkness and storms Strong winds make maneuvers difficult and the whaler Luckily, Leon - When I want the captain to go right, I shine the light to the right. When it's to the left, When I want him to go straight, Actually, my arms are my eyes. - Its light is strong enough to be seen, but far from being powerful enough Leon doesn't see the boat appear. It's the accident, the whaler has just sent Relief, As for the boat, his captain cannot afford to abandon him. These sailors will pull him towards the bank - We need to find a solution If we succeed, we can leave. It was difficult, we are good sailors. - But also courageous men. While the castaways the sailors will take turns all night Headlights, a dream they would like to be able to afford. Like the captain of the whaling ship, Carl, the bush taxi driver, takes the risk of driving at night. He does not have a choice. He has accumulated too much delay, - At night, the road is really To pass them, especially those sitting They can fall easily, they will have to do and, most importantly, - When it leans, drives the truck onto its side. Precisely, this passage is delicate. - Those sitting high up It leans too much. The slope is so steep - About fifteen people and they did well. In Central Africa, drivers the largest vehicle has priority. Be careful, there are people ahead. Go forward, don't give up. You already know the track, - The men galvanize their driver, but everyone forgot it, the biggest - It's your turn to pass, Don't accept, don't give in, go ahead, - The cars but these men belong to the presidential guard. Backing down is not their habit. They want to pass. - Park, please. What, you let us engage Do you know who you're talking to? - A soldier just fired a burst of Kalashnikov fire into the air. - Sorry, sorry. - The truck passes, A stop is necessary. - There was a crackle of a weapon! - Why did they shoot? - They shot because the apprentice because we have the load, They reacted like this. - Tested and tired, the captain, Others, on the contrary, want to continue. - Listen, the driver is exhausted, We can stop there - It's up to you, - We'll stop at the village, - We still have to leave. Stressed by the gunshots, Carl stopped his truck - Yes, that's the bad side. - The last kilometers Arriving in the village is a relief. - Don't worry, we'll rest a little. - What are all these things - Look how crowded we are! You have to stop taking clients - Some have been traveling standing 18 hours of suffering. - Everyone will sleep there, We'll rest a little and tomorrow, at five in the morning, we'll leave again. - The scene is surreal. Without complaining, to spend the night When the doors opened, no gifts. Every man for himself. Child or not, it's up to who They begin and it will not be more restful On the Oubangui River, the passengers of the whaler The places are already acquired. Almost everyone slept on board. Do you recognize This is the one the whaler sank after a night of bailing, he is ready to go again. Like this rescue, the whole country The civil war may have been over for seven years, the population lacks everything. Finding something to survive is the first thought of Central Africans, Whatever the cost. Those that they eat that is, they work hard. They don't kill themselves fishing, No, they come up from the sand. When the Oubangui is in flood, they go down - My head hurts, my ears too, even my eyes. This is not good - More than 70 dives per day, it is enormous. The pressure gradually damages their organs. Fatigue and the powerful currents cause several victims each year Symphorien had no other choice - I became a sand fisherman thanks to a friend. I used to be a security guard. Because of the military-political conflict, With the whole family at home, Then, there was a friend and he taught me the job. It allows me to earn a living. - For once, Depending on the quality of the sand, Symphorien and his partner share between EUR6 and EUR15 per canoe. While the population - A full canoe can take out 60 baskets. It can take us - More than 30 kilos weigh on his head. - It already hurt me on the head or on the arms, like that. - Thanks to the sand fishermen, buildings destroyed can be rebuilt The men intensify the dives. To best preserve their eardrums, - When you dive with blood coming out of the ears, - In a war, not all soldiers fall on the battlefield. Far from the bullets, some are killing themselves The bush taxi zigzags between the holes. Only, it doesn't change anything. The passengers are still shaken. They have been taking this bad treatment for two days and at the same time, why complain? The driver is not responsible. Carl does what he can, but the last rains that he is forced to let his passengers down again. - This morning, it was fine, but now, It's bad. - To prevent the truck from tipping over, men try - It's better like that. To protect the passengers, These are protective measures. - My baby is sick, The youngest is also sick, to be treated. There is too much suffering on the road. She is truly hellish. We have to constantly get on and off the truck. - Cheeky, the mechanics, - We suffer too much, - This is only We are asking you this People are crying Like the old man there, he walks and he complains. - The women, they, - Hold him, or he'll fall. - Now you'll have to hold on tight in the dumpster. - Let him be careful though. - The terminus is still far away and the suffering of the population still long. Central Africa is struggling to rebuild, especially as the warlords Several armed groups share the country's wealth. The land is full of oil, gold, timber, livestock, wildlife and especially diamond. Death stone, precious stone which does not enrich the country, Without money the cities are now inaccessible by car and even by 4x4. The goods are therefore delivered by motorbike, the only machines The city of Ngoto has been cut off but that's not all. The civil war that saw Christian, animist and Muslim militias clash has reshuffled the cards of commerce. The priest is the last authority present in town. - Before the war, and you know, They brought a lot of items, There were many shops and because of the war, so poverty set in. - The market stalls remain desperately empty. The lack of roads has increased the price of goods. No one can afford to buy. There is money around, but the isolation plays into the hands of the militias that control the region. For the 1000 inhabitants of Ngoto, The forest is almost The cuisine changes During the rainy season, the inhabitants Makongos are caterpillars. These will not have time - We collect those that fell It's difficult but if we don't come and collect them, - The bucket must be well filled, - Only, caterpillars For this, that they are very heavy. - Look, there are plenty over there. - That day, they seem to have started a hunger strike. There is almost nothing to pick up. Abraham, the older brother, knows - The trees are too big for you. For trees like this, - In the jungle, trees with long, light branches and bonds as strong as rope. In a few minutes, they made - You have to hit it well - Everyone is relieved. Tonight, bellies This technique, passed it on to our grandfathers, We continue to transmit. This season is really very good, We will be able to eat well. - It's a good food, We like caterpillars. To have them all year round, and it also allows you to sell them Today we're going to eat everything. We will return to the forest tomorrow. - Eating as healing, everything is complicated Access to care is extremely limited. So, it's better not to get sick. - There was a pregnant woman - Benjamin is a nurse and at the same time runs the health center. Faced with the lack of everything, - This is the waiting room. State-certified nurses doctors midwives It must be said that the means of transport and living conditions are difficult. - The queue is growing quickly Several patients worry Benjamin. - What is his problem? He has elephant feet, he is anemic, that is, We can't take care of it here. - This man's child is sick too. The child is very anemic, his life is in danger. They live in the bush I prefer to evacuate it - Reach Boda City Hospital, There is a third sick person, an injured person, - There, we don't have the means - Only, it's all that's left Either way, - You over there, come here! - So Benjamin adapted. - Currently, he is in a life-threatening emergency so go get the motorbike Come on, go now. - The city's isolation Not a week goes by without a sick person For the most fragile patients, - Some are seriously ill. So, sometimes, We suffer a lot. Often, those who accompany the sick so we stop often. When you drive in the rain, I carry corpses too, when a patient dies in the hospital, - Put your foot here. - Three motorcycles, three sick people they will try to arrive in one piece but it's off to a bad start. - I don't like the trip. The road is too damaged. We have a road problem here, Look how the bike jumps. If I wasn't a good driver, but I am very strong. - Whatever the means of transport, Suffering and danger accompany On the Oubangui River, Obvious? Not really. She takes on water and without the courage of these sailors she would already be at the bottom of the water. Captain Dieudonne and his passengers are on the alert. In the rainy season, - Normally, we should pass. - Only, is not really It all depends given by the lookout to the captain. - You have to take the small road, To reach the right passage, Are there any rocks? - Tighten to the right, there. - It's good, that's it. Relieved? We are relieved, we are happy We've done the hardest part. - After two days of sailing, It was time to arrive because some goods - Ice is very important So that it doesn't rot They put the ice in coolers to keep it longer. - It must be said that in Possel Only generators The whaler resumes with its synchronized ballet of bailing sailors. They will suffer for a long time to come. Navigation is not easy, but it is still than a motorcycle crossing that cars no longer pass, Especially for those sick people, stuck between the pilot and an attendant to hold them to prevent them from falling. The man whose feet swell - It's hard for him. He has trouble keeping his balance. He can't get his feet on the motorcycle. - The three two-wheeled ambulances are speeding Despite the end of the civil war, chaos still reigns in the Central African Republic, but it has at least one virtue, that of strengthening solidarity. - This work is to help families to take care of themselves. It hurts me Compared to these difficulties, I have to pay for the fuel I do it mostly - In order not to spend too much, the precious fuel is bought drop by drop. Consequence: 10 kilometers from the hospital, - His tank is empty. I remove the tail light cover With my petrol, he will be able to go - After three hours of track the three sick people are finally taken care of by real doctors. - Did you fight? - Today, thanks to the bikers, For others, On the road to the capital, The taxi truck took two days to reach him. Two days to swallow and it's not over. For passengers the path must continue. - We have a little something to do before we leave. A damaged shock absorber blade needs to be welded. We still have before coming across - They will not arrive in the capital until the following evening. Despite all these struggles, Armed groups but, as the driver likes to repeat, no matter how long the night is, the sun will appear.