The countdown to a Bali High Wedding has At The Royal Palace of Ubud villagers from far and wide are carrying out their centuries old Balinese wedding traditions. "We've had about six pigs donated so far, but At the centre of it all is the mother of the royal "I'm just trying to work out how much one pig Organising a wedding is stressful for any "it's pouring with rain hmm, yeah, that could What if you are also expected to supervise complex Hindu traditions... observe royal protocols... and your son, the Prince, is marrying a celebrity Indonesian actress With only a week to go before the Big Day, hundreds of villagers arrive daily, with their donations of ritual offerings and food, tributes to their revered Royal family. It's also a chance to get close to the celebrity " I'm nervous for my wedding, excited too, It's a whole new world for Happy, a Muslim from Java, But for Prince Tjok Gus, a Hindu, their marriage ceremony is a familiar part of his people's spiritual life. "Balinese weddings are different to anywhere in the world. It's kinda of a mix between animistic and Buddhist and Hindu beliefs, It's something that's unique to Bali so being Balinese it's important." "I don't think she's ever seen a Balinese wedding, so laughs/ I don't think you can ever be prepared for what's happening! It's probably better not to be!" The Head of this extended Royal family, of about three hundred members, is Princess Asris's husband, the groom's father... "My name is Tjokorda Raka Kerthyasa/I come from the warrior family. We can trace, track up to twenty-four generations back." Until the early 1900's, and Dutch colonial rule, the Royal Family were the feudal monarchs of Ubud. Ubud lies in the interior of Bali. At the heart of Ubud is Puri Ubud, The Royal Palace. It's the cultural centre of Bali, renowned for it's spirituality. Balinese Hinduism, mixed with an ancient reverence for the natural world, is part of the fabric of daily life. And the villagers look to the Palace as custodians of their faith. Back in 2004 the royal family presided over the the cremation of the daughter of the last true a woman regarded for most of the In 2004 Princess Asri's daughter, Princess Maya,was an eleven year old schoolgirl, boarding in Sydney for most of the year. She came to Bali to honour her Grandmother and fufill the role she was born to, a Balinese Princess. Ubud's royal ceremonies bring together thousands of local people, a community of over sixty-nine villages. And now, seven years later, the community is once again preparing for another royal event in Ubud. This time, the wedding of a Prince. And today, Princess Asri and her husband Prince Tjokorda Raka, are hosting a party for their Royal family, and everyone is invited.. "we're just having a pre-wedding get together of the family right now everybody's busy eating, everything in Bali involves eating!" As Princess Asri entertains her royal in-laws it's a world away from the reception she received as a young bride-to-be thirty-two years ago. "My name before I got married was Jane It was 1977 and the 23 year-old kindergarten teacher from Sydney, holidaying in Ubud, fell for the local children's theatre director, a Prince. "Oh that's a long time love story/ yeah it's... Jane's parents hadn't expected a holiday romance would lead to her marrying the Balinese Prince... "My father was fine about it/, actually I remember him saying " Thank God he's not Australian!" Laughs! He wasn't a great Australian fan my father!" Lieutenant Colonel Rollo Gilliespie, an ex British Intelligence Agent, had made a life in Australia with his wife and two children. "My father had been married before so he was quite a lot older than my mother but not as old as Raka's father was. Raka grew up with ten mothers and numerous siblings and of course I grew up with only one mother and one brother" As the youngest son of his father's tenth wife, Prince Tjokorda Raka was expected to marry within the Balinese Royal Family. "there was quite a lot of opposition to it and people trying to talk him out of it they took my passport away and had me checked out in Interpol." Prince Tjokorda Raka refused to bow to family pressure and in 1978 made an Australian commoner a Balinese Princess. For newly wed Princess Asri Palace life was "We didn't have electricity, we didn't have running water, refrigeration, telephones, we didn't have much at all really. In those days Ubud was a very tiny village. I think my parents were a bit shocked! It was rather primitive for them when they saw the conditions we would be living in stepping back in time almost!" With the arrival of their first child, life in the "Here was me with a degree in Child Psychology and Child rearing being told you can't do this and you can't do that and I had my Mother In Law sleeping outside the door, knocking on the door every time there was a whimper, it was quite difficult. I remember having to lock myself in my room sometimes" "The biggest challenges were our own cultural differences and expectations I guess. He had a lot of apologising to do to his family for me I also had to learn to bite my tongue and give in to things when I felt it was necessary" "It was a steep learning curve for both of us to And for a Balinese Princess, observing sacred "I went to an Anglican School, I wasn't religious at all, so changing to Hinduism wasn't big deal for me. It's part of daily life here, it's not something you have to consciously do or don't do everybody does it In your heart you can pray to whoever you want, you speak through your actions and through your heart" Thirty-two years on and Asri's seen Ubud's tourism and prosperity transform the once rural community. Increased wealth means Balinese Royal Weddings are observed far more lavishly. For Tjok Gus and Happy Salma, Asri's wedding portrait is a picture of days long gone... ....Simple life" "all over Bali , it's not just in our family, people are much more affluent and they spend their money on ceremonies so it's much more of a big show now than it was in those days" The Head of the Royal Family, Prince Tjorkda Raka is keeping an eye on the Royal Invitation Committee "Some of them preparing for invitations to be But in Bali not all invitations come printed on The groom's Father and older brother, Prince Tjok Gde, are supervising the preparation of invitations made of food. "These are like a cultural invitation, the traditional way that you send out an invitation to family and other people within your cultural circle" While the women are busy making elaborate decorative offerings for the wedding it's traditionally the men who prepare these customary food invitations. There are strict conventions to observe with the "They have to count/the sticks of the satay for a High Priest it should be 22 sticks for the more important person it becomes16 sticks it becomes recognised how important is the person we are sending the food" "They'll go out in pick up trucks all over the As the traditional invitations are delivered to hundreds of Royals, High priests and village elders in Ubud, Down south on Bali's surf coast, the groom is personally delivering wedding invites to his mates. "No more chicks for you matey! You set for "My full name is Tjokorda Bagus Dwi Santana Kerthyasa also I'm called Max by a lot of Western people, cause that's what I was called when I was a kid in Sydney I grew up just like a normal kid in Sydney we used to come back every year/ a little taste of Balinese culture" When Asri and Tjokorda Raka decided to educate their three children in Australia it meant leaving Bali and living as Aussie's. "I was born in Bali when your born here they bury your placenta and there's a saying that, Balinese are a type of people that find it very difficult to move abroad they say that's because your placenta's buried here rather than cast away,." "We moved back and forth a lot/ I still get a bit confused sometimes, they're such different cultures! They're like a polar ends even though seemingly close" For his sister, Princess Maya, these cultural "growing up was really difficult the main conflict for me/being young girl there's just such a big difference in what's acceptable for a young woman to do within the Western culture and Indonesian culture." "There's also a little bit of prejudice because you're half Asian, there's a lot to deal with, you never know exactly where you fit in and exactly where you're accepted." Challenging years for Asri's husband, who "Can you imagine I'm doing gardening, on the street? You know in Australia and that's really a big fight when you grow up mentally it's painful and you have to face it until you pass it and that kind of excercise, you really need it, you have to feel the pain but after that pain is past, next time is no problem. If I do gardening I'm fine, if I do not I'm also fine." With the Royal family now permanently back in Bali for over a decade, Prince Tjokorda Raka has become the Head of Culture and Religion in Ubud, with the title of "The Wise One", "Nowadays they often have to consult with me, because I've been living in the West, that's given me some new perspective, in the modern time, without losing the essence of our culture." Growing up in the West didn't sever cultural "I've always had a strong connection just cause 'Bali's As a teenager Max left Sydney to live "Especially here in Ubud there's not much to do for young people, so ceremonies are like going to the mall or something, you can go out there you can look at the girls, you can meet up with your friends, it's more like a social thing, for young people." "Max has always been a Bali Boy! This is his life here. He's lived in Australia but he prefers it here, he likes to surf, he's got all his friends, his gang." And like his father before him, Max met his "Happy! we met when she was here on holiday we all went to the beach/that's how we first met." "After that things got a bit more serious" "Pedicure, Manicure, Ahhh" Happy comes from Java, an Indonesian Island with very different cultural and religious traditions. Like Asri before her, Happy has a lot to learn to become part of this Balinese Royal Family. "A Wedding in Indonesia, is not only marrying with the man, like me with Tjok Gus, but I'm marrying all the family. Like Tjok Gus marries with me, he marries my family too" "Look she's so beautiful, always beautiful" And for "Happy Salma the TV star" there's another 'family' her millions of devoted Indonesian fans. "I don't really watch Indonesian TV so to me "Some of my cousins and other family people questioning, Oh, you will be have an actress and look, I don't know what they expect" "I never think of her as a celebrity, she's just, " I remember in my high school..." Supervised by Princess Wiwied, her sister-inlaw to be, Happy is on a crash cultural course, learning how to make Hindu offerings for her royal wedding "Bali's still different, they really have strong personality and really have strong energy, so I still learn" " I'm so lucky I have her" "It was pretty much like this/ pretty full on, for A member of an aristocratic family herself, Wiweid had her own struggles when she fell in love with Prince Tjok Gde. "I'm from a Catholic family/when I moved to Bali then hang out with him 'I've got a Balinese boyfriend and he's Hindu' and my family, kinda like 'Oh He's Hindu?" "I used to work in a chiropractic clinic in Kuta he was one of the patients chiropractors, they fix the back/he's got a broken heart, so I have to fix it!" After overcoming her families initial reservations Wiwed and Tjok Gde became another love match for his royal family. "We're rebels! That's probably something we learnt from our father. The traditional accepted thing to do is to marry within the same class someone from the same regional palace or the neighbouring palaces there's still a lot of alliance forming even today a lot of the young generation are still doing that" Eighty-three year old Royal matriarch, Tjok Gde's Grandmother, married a Prince who already had nine other wives. Asri's mother in law was the tenth wife of a much older husband. "I was the youngest in my family, my father, I heard from my oldest half sister he had about ten wives." Polygamy is part of traditional Balinese Royal "A lot of people had said to Raka "oh well that's okay you can have her but get a real wife too! A Balinese wife! I just made it obvious to him that if he wanted to have another wife, that was fine but he couldn't have two. I'm not going to be number one wife and have two wives, I'll be the ex-wife! My Brother in Law had two wives and that doesn't work! I mean it never works, no matter what they say, even Balinese women don't like sharing! " I never talk about it, I never also think about For royal husbands taking another wife is very "Obviously I don't want that to happen, but again it's up to Tjok Gde. 'You decide if you think you need another one' No, we all know that we just want to be the only one but...." Princess Asri has made a last minute dash to pick up formal Balinese outfits being made for the Royal women in the bridal party. Asri's youngest child, 18 yr-old Princess Maya, "I think Maya's in a difficult position because, obviously there's a lot of expectations on her, a lot of pressure on her, not from us! to marry a Balinese not only Balinese but someone from the Family. But when she looks around the pickings are slim!" "If I marry outside of the royal family I basically lose my title and I'm not a part of the family anymore." "She does get a lot of pressure from other people everybody trying to match her up with their son it puts her off going to things she just gets really tired of the pressure " Unlike her two brothers Princess Maya needs to her title as a Royal Princess and to qualify for a "In order to have a wedding like that I'd be required to marry in the family and honestly I don't really see that happening, I don't think that's the type of wedding I'll be having." With her son preparing for his wedding Princess Asri needs to check on their business, an hours drive away from Ubud. "At the moment with the preparations for the wedding it's a bit of a challenge because it's very busy here" Together with her son, Prince Tjok Gus, Princess "I wanted to have a business Mum was also not doing much at the time so we decided we'd do it together" "I thought of the things that I wanted to see in Bali that weren't here and that's when my son and I came up with the concept of Biku" "It's in an old wooden joglo, which is a Javanese House. It's kinda an eclectic mix of Old Indonesia and Old England" When Asri's daughter in law wanted to work "Asri's just like 'Oh why don't you work at Biku? I've become involved with the customer, with all the staff, the kitchen everything I love making the cupcake" With a royal family in charge tourists are not "Oh which one is the Princess? and then I'm like 'That's the Princess" laughs and then would you like to meet the Princess? Oh yeah, if that's ok." And for Princess Asri their Tea House also represents the changes she's experienced, as a westerner in Bali. "Bali's a completely different place to the place I came to there's nothing you can't do in Bali now, Bali's a completely different place, it's a luxury destination. it's decadent almost in so many ways While the tourists enjoy themselves the Balinese people put their traditional responsibilities first. Hundreds of Ubud's villagers are working hard on Royal wedding preparations. Like their many offerings to the Balinese Hindu Gods this work is a sign of respect and appreciation. "Most of this are donation, and the workers are also all volunteers. So that's how, our tradition, to keep the culture alive" As their gift to the Royal Family an entire village is creating intricate ritual offerings to be displayed on the wedding day. The offering making will take days. Time the people of the village would normally spend working in their rice fields or in paid jobs. A replica temple is being made from pork fat and satays. Complete with umbrellas made from innards. Making these offerings for the royal wedding is an age old spiritual custom. "Spirituality is an integral part of life here/it's just a part of daily life/ Bali moves to/ a different set of priorities than Sydney and more commercial parts of the world At the end of the day that's why people like coming here some people who even don't go to ceremonies say there's something in the air here " The villagers have sculpted a macrocosmos, knowing that the Gods and the ancestors will also appreciate the beauty of their art. With the offerings now complete they're needed at the palace. It's a rough journey right across Ubud, along dirt tracks and bumpy roads. The offerings arrive at The Palace in bits and pieces The royal groom, Prince Tjok Gus is on hand to receive the villages wedding gift. "They're just bringing in this decorative offering. They've been making that for a few days.... this one is made from pigs fat and satay, meat made from pigs meat, mixed with coconut." With two thousand guests expected, Prince Tjokorda Raka and Princess Asri are making a personal visit to the wedding caterers "She just suggested that we have a taste She said this is the most popular vegetable the fern and the starfruit leaf it's a kind of mince wrapped in a banana leaf and they steam it You have to try it." Princess Asri is no stranger to organising large events under pressure. When the terrorist bombing, struck Bali in 2002, Asri threw herself into helping with the aftermath. "At that crisis time, helping in the hospital fundraising helping in what ever ways we could after the bomb" "It was hard sometimes to be an Australian Australian's seemed to take it on as their tragedy whereas actually it was a Balinese tragedy people forgot the Indonesians that died in it affected a lot more Indonesians than it did Australians they were left with nothing I tried to help the widows of the Indonesians that were killed there on an ongoing thing, it wasn't just once." "I try to help wherever I can, but not as part of the royal family, just as me" The Royal Wedding is imminent and The Palace is desperate for the forces of nature to come to the party "It's now 2 days before the wedding, two more sleeps! It's pouring with rain, Hmmm, that could be a problem We'll have rain stoppers on the day, so hopefully that'll work." The rainstoppers are Balinese mystics. The Best "This man is the rainstopper as well he's just here to see how things are going Looking after the unseen world, rain is one thing There's also all sorts of other things he can see that we can't see..." " Oh the rain stop!.. Sun's coming out! I'm "Can't wait till it's over!" The Wedding Day dawns at Puri Ubud. In only a few hours time two thousand guests will arrive. They'll witness ancient marriage rituals, unique to Bali and the pressure is on for Happy, who's never even seen the ceremonies before. "It's the big day today...bit nervous didn't sleep so well last night She's pretty nervous too she seems a bit stressed out at the moment" Happy's feeling more than wedding day nerves. Her Muslim background hasn't prepared her for the Balinese rituals that Princess Asri also found foreign. "I was from an Anglican background my other daughter in law is Catholic, we've all adapted she'll adapt to Balinese beliefs and customs cause I know what it's like I want to be there for her " Prince Tjokorda Raka, as Head of the Royal In another part of the Palace Princess Asri is "I think I'm placed in the family now, I think I'm fully embedded in there some people accepted me, some people didn't, some never did. This Wedding day is going to be an epic for everyone in the Royal family. There'll be two completely different wedding ceremonies And the first one's about to start "Tjok gus is getting dressed for his ceremony which is the first part of the wedding ceremony. So in the morning you have what's called the basic wedding, so anyone can have this basic wedding in the morning and they can be married." With the whole Royal Family in attendance the Morning Ceremony begins. As a village priest officiates Happy and Tjok Gus enact the ancient fertility rites and age-old customary roles for men and women. "With the morning ceremony it can be quite amusing "You walk around and he's got a little whip that he whips you with you have to walk around three times and you have, it's all symbolic, cooking, you have to sell things and he buys things... you have to sit on a coconut it's quite involved, but people just push you and poke you and sit you down and stand you up, you don't really have to think about it , you just do it" According to Balinese tradition the couple are now married, but this is no ordinary wedding and grander royal rituals are about to take place. But holding a press conference in the middle of the wedding day isn't a part of royal tradition. When the groom is a Prince and the bride a star, the media won't be denied. Prince Tjok Gus has found the right girl for him. "I went out with a few Aussie girls I always felt a bit too much difference people who are wholly Western I didn't find that much of a connection" Like his older brother Tjok Gus has also "They've always steered toward Asian, usually Indonesian women." "It may be that they've seen how difficult it was for me and they wouldn't want to put anyone through that!" "Maybe we saw how hard it was for Mum to adapt here cause it was a huge change "She had to learn two new languages and learn how to speak to different people seeing her come through it the way she did was something that gave us inspiration We've both married people who aren't Balinese as well they have to adapt and change a lot to life here, but I guess it's a little bit easier for them" "We have a word called Jodo in Indonesia which just means the "one who your meant to be with". A whole new guest list of VIP's is arriving to "Old friends, the Australian Consul, my hairdresser." The Bride and Groom are now being clothed in "don't know about the lipstick when no ones looking I'll try and rub it off it's not too bad, I think I can handle it for a few hours, I think it's worse for the girls" The bride's crown is layers and layers of gold "it's so heavy, its so heavy and.. I don't know, I Like his brides regalia, the Groom will wear the traditional High Outfit, only seen in the Palace of Ubud. A Prince of the warrior caste he'll wear a Royal Kris "Krises are a symbolic dagger they're considered a sacred heirloom Each palace will have an armoury of different Krises handed down by different generations There's a very mystical, very magical element to the Kris story so you'll ask where they came from and don't be surprised if someone tells you that it flew in a window or popped out of the ground, so these types of things happen at certain times in Bali" "If a royal marries a royal you get carried on the shoulders of your helpers, two big strong guys from the village, but if you marry someone whose not from the Royal family you have to walk, so we've all walked!" With her family watching on Happy's becoming a Balinese Princess, and like her Australian Mother in Law she's taking on the role of a lifetime. "This is my destiny so..." The High Caste Brahmin Priest bestows Blessings and Holy Water on the couple. In this rite of passage Prince Tjok Gus is formally accepting his cultural obligations. "I've still got a lot to learn but most people they start after they get married and they have to be more involved with the community it's just a process that keeps going on" As the Royal couple embark on their life together in Bali Princess Asri knows what they'll face. "Happy will find it challenging to be part of Balinese culture, that's quite demanding for anyone who hasn't been born and bred with it." "And for him, I guess he'll be negotiating throughout the whole thing, which is also difficult." Prince Tjokorda Raka has continued a Royal "We're all quite good at swapping between cultures I like to encourage the keeping of Balinese culture" Today their children have chosen to embrace their Royal Balinese heritage and live in the modern world. "The most important thing in Bali is the concept of balancing Balance doesn't mean stagnation, balance is moving that's life."