My name is Marisa Merico, and I was a former Mafia princess to one of the most feared This is how crime works. The 'Ndrangheta do have with hit men, car bombings, It's really, it's bad. They're vicious. I guess that's because they mean business. And they're saying, &quot;We do this to show you And do not, because this There isn't one single Italian Mafia. You've got the 'Ndrangheta, you've got the Cosa So, and then within It'd be very difficult for one family just to stand on their own. The one is a little bit further ahead, is in with the initiatives, But they will also need the other family for something else that So they all complement each other. The biggest clans are still the ones that have been there quite a few decades. At the age of 22, I took which is my family. If you're in the family, you don't need to be made. One of the daughters marries someone, he's technically not blood, but there are rituals And they go to the Madonna della Montagna, go procession through the streets. The Madonna gets carried. There's all singing and dancing. It's actually a very religious festival. And then afterwards there'll be a party, and someone will be made. That is one of the customs and one of the rituals, if you will. What makes the Italian Mafia different from the American Mafia is the Italian Mafia is old school. The American Mafia say they There's obviously a The Americans are A lot do expect respect like that. Whereas the Italians, You have the boss, which is at the top. The boss is the capo. Then a consigliere, who gives advice. The difference with the the generals are the capo of each group under them. That would be a big insult And then you've got, under that look over, if a project was coming in or there were exchange of Underneath them, you've Then you're going right So they're the ones on the street. They're the ones that It's just like the ranking of an army. Because it is an army, So, my father was the boss of our clan, and he was looked upon as a boss from our family down in southern Italy. A boss' child or another can only take over his role, obviously, when he'd dead or in prison. And even in prison, he's But you can't just give it to somebody. It's showing how intelligent they are and having that assertiveness that you need in a powerful position. My father was arrested, and my uncle was trying I was always surprised. Well, they must have seen I was my father's voice. And my day-to-day tasks If any product was I took the money. Taking taking the money for payments for product. The women have never run the Mafia. Or, never known to But actually, from from the sidelines, of course. So, the 'Ndrangheta have such because of the violence But there are rules. you don't touch children, Just stay in your lane and do your job and not trample on One clan can't take out It doesn't work that way. It's much more to do with where that killing's going to take place and whose territory that's in. Well, it happened with my came and asked for permission to kill someone that was on our patch, my nonna and my father's. If they'd just said no, to war with the Camorra. Or if we'd reciprocated, you know, needed that help in the future, they could have said no. So, the law of omerta where you just don't speak. You just do not talk about it. I was arrested, and I've You know, people say, &quot;Are you not scared of repercussions?&quot; I said, &quot;No, because I spoke of things that were in my trial I've never spoken about anything. And there's other things The homicides are declining because it's not lucrative It's a last resort. It just flares up sentiments that the Mafia don't want. Foggiana, a Mafia which is in Puglia, they are acting very violent at this time. They're asserting themselves And unless there was fear, Unfortunately, you get the casualties. There has been reports of There must be someone outside or something that's affiliated with someone, because they wouldn't give So, with the 'Ndrangheta, it's said they're making The pandemic has made The 'Ndrangheta will on buying failing businesses or forcing the owners out of a business and taking over it. There's many people that were actually, were going to close the But once they are involved, they own you. The wealth is divided with You can't have one family do a lot less and be entitled to the You know, my family started on the streets tobacco smuggling and all sorts. We were going to open up You know, we had a leather factory. Anything that's through We invested everywhere that you could, especially to clean the money. There was a lot of kidnappings but that was to do with a government. It was a gang even my Dad knew them that kidnapped very wealthy people. There's been a decline in the kidnapping because it just doesn't look They just come down really hard on them. And, of course, they found other ways, such as the drug trafficking, that could be far more lucrative than having half the because of one kidnapping. I think the 'Ndrangheta in the drugs trade towards the '70s, when there was the big hit of heroin. The heroin would be from Turkey, coming through from North Africa. I mean, my father went into cannabis. He was supplying nine countries. There was tons of cannabis coming across to Italy from Morocco. It's been said that 97% of the cocaine that comes through Italy Gioia Tauro has always been a And also because it's in their territory, so they can control it. They have many on the payroll. And not just the workers at the port, the authorities around The 'Ndrangheta does have because the language is very similar. And then there's that thing The drugs that are imported, they could be something that's They could be taken out by schoolchildren going for the day to the port, and then something under Then it would be taken out. You got the weighing of it. But you know already where it's going, who's having what, who's got to pay what. It could be independent people that are in the drugs trade that want to buy a We had people that you'd never People very wealthy, but their sideline was selling that. Police do get paid off. The 'Ndrangheta has police agents on their payroll, definitely. Police, judges, lawyers. We're talking about the garbage, you know, influencing who gets So it could be an that can do the waste disposal, so the inside person can sway that they will get the contract and it won't be this other My father's escaped He corrupted prison guards and a doctor in the prison, and he escaped. Police never tended to stop us, but they would come and And then we'd know when because there was an informant inside the police that would tell us. I'd be sat in the kitchen and sat on a loose tile They would never make me There'd be bazookas, AK-47s, explosives. You know, we're talking We'd go around with guns for protection, because that life, down the line there's always My family was the DiGiovine family. My nonna, she was like the boy mentality. She wanted her own. So much so that she left and created her own group, a clan. She could see that there of making money there. The areas that we had I was born in Milan. She went over to Italy as an au pair. Met my father by accident. So, I moved into the UK I was 9 years old. I'd never forgotten my Italian. My mom still always spoke My father was arrested in '91. Was on the run for a year, and then he got arrested again in 1992. And that was the time that for about a year. It was never for power or money or ... it was genuinely to show him that he didn't need a boy. I as a girl could do that. So, the crimes I was accused of, that I got convicted of, are the money laundering then ultimately into a UK banking system. It's the money laundering, gun running. Went down to southern Italy, took the guns myself with my then husband. I got a three-years, nine-month sentence. I served half of that. I was extradited to Italy, and I got a 10-year sentence over there, which was reduced to six years. It wasn't that I was too scared It was my, it was almost, It was my life. It was my family. I love them. We would do and that went with it. I regret the choices I made. I regret some of my decisions. The date that I left was when my whole family was, Up till that point, I was And the main reason was my daughter. I really took a step and then I had my child. But then when you get a such as your child, everything sort of, it's a slap in the face. I didn't want her to like I had seen my father in Like, history repeating itself. Now he's out of the witness protection, and he's a qualified chef. So, since leaving prison, I decided 10 years later to write my book. Now I'm a criminologist. I help where I can through my knowledge, experience of my life in that. The 'Ndrangheta rose obviously through the misfortune of the Cosa Nostra. Cosa Nostra was largely in decline because of the arrests and the authorities having a crackdown. You know, the links with well, almost not given, but they would have been There's currently some of against the 'Ndrangheta Every so often, they manage to get enough See, it's like a domino effect. Once one starts to the rest follow. Because they want to do the crime, but they don't want to do the time. In 20 years, I see the 'Ndrangheta still in the same position. The corruption goes as And unless that changes, you It's the authorities that It needs to be the government Nothing can be done about Gioia Tauro, not for as long as there's Sorry, it's my Dad. That's my father ringing. [chuckles]