Hey everyone, as you recall we've had some fun says. And we also debunked the hell out of Billy chapter over, but then Terrence Howard appeared on and I just couldn't resist commenting. If you're In case you need a little context, Terrence Howard spewed a bunch of gibberish that he thought made 2nd grade math. Then he went on there again and got exposed by Eric Weinstein but not properly. Tyrone Karlson the convicted felon, went on the that he lifted verbatim from Zecharia Sitchin his deep friendship with Terry, and how they talk Shout out to Terrence Howard, because I Oh, ok. talking about wave conjugations and everything. barrage of hatred from Terry and Billy I put out those debunks, I'm going to do and that is mock the crap out of these bozos That wraps up the context, so let's get started! thumbnail for this video. Time to break the for! The ego on these two is immeasurable. The isn't as big as you think, fellas. If your once it starts, Terrence can't get on the because he can't figure out how to turn on his We have a great announcement going on with our TV getting a whole new look. It's gonna be super Prime just got married, ok, and they had a baby. Yeah, you bet. His shitty Kirkland-brand Amazon Prime got married and had a baby, two 300 billion dollars. Good call, Billy. We look Look, Elizabeth is working on trying to trying to get it all sorted out. But meanwhile, you guys in a little bit on the Karshdev scale, what that, and I'm reading directly from my Billy needs to stall a bit, so he's going to tablets which absolutely do not exist. And what scale of course. That's how Billy pronounces that phonetics don't apply to him. Why would he is after the D in the word? That attitude is why and be like Billy if you want to be successful. for how to pronounce them. Go on, Billy. Tell us And if you wanna get more information about of the Emerald Tablets, you can get it Yeah, or just google it and learn about it wasting your money on his toilet paper Humans eat dead plants and meats, which sustain Karshdev, we are a type zero civilization. And words, the Karshdev scale categorizes humans point and at this moment in time, we're not even that's why information like what Terrence Howard share is extremely important to our civilization. earthquakes and volcanoes and master nuclear times tables so we can become a type one earthquake secrets on this podcast. but there are ways to travel faster than the something called the Alcubierre drive, which was or whatever it's installed in, to move space. Now actually had great results. The only problem is antimatter, we can only create a very small amount because we live inside of a global No, this technology is completely hypothetical, this, and Billy is talking out of his ass and he knows as little about economics as So when you're thinking about mankind it's not really there. We're the new kids on You heard him, we're all the new kids on but really we're just a bunch of Wahlbergs. We're The types of Karshdev civilizations are type four, and type five. Interestingly enough, descriptions of the various levels he witnessed the Atlantean priest came who wrote the emerald and the levels that he has witnessed with mankind rise and fall throughout the universe. Thoth who never existed and wrote some imaginary so all of that totally definitely happened. Why in the 1920s a grifter named Maurice Doreal Emerald Tablets of Thoth in Egypt, and then sold it, without ever having produced any he made it up. It's just like Joseph Smith his head while staring at a rock in a hat. Both they had the balls to make up something original. the crap that other frauds made up and presents internet. Yeah, I said it. No, I'm not saying enough to fall for Billy's grift. But only black twist he adds to his pseudo-motivational rhetoric. other stupid things. Like white supremacist people aren't infesting my Billy Carson debunk Expecially at the time when people were to find out how they were gonna get This is proof that Billy just has a bunch He's talking about this supposed time of Thoth, and he uses this hunter gatherer phrase. This the Sumerians in his Joe Rogan appearance. to worry about, how they're gonna get and all these kind of things, who has time to art like the Epic of Gilgamesh for example. historians think Sumerian scribes, were hunter gatherers. Facts don't matter to and regurgitates at random like he's selling cars. just joined I'm reading from the Compendium of book that I wrote four and a half years ago. It's the number one best seller on That it's the best selling book on your crappy I'm skimming over most of this section because for the tiers in the Kardashev scale that book. Somebody get this guy a Pulitzer. which is something I'm working on right now, and I'm calculating the traversing of photons a photon to actually not travel from point A to pixel to pixel, just like in a video game. experiments" where you are "calculating the mean anything. So what are you calculating genius. Photons are going back and forth between go from point A to point B, but they go from be points? Of course there are no pixels, but with a lamp and a stopwatch pretending to do to read this bullshit off a teleprompter The energy and the information is then... opens up and the next pixel. is a hard word but you got it. the software that it's running on, 'cause it is codes and it's running on um, the Adinkra codes now. In science, actually peer-reviewed science. Mandlebrot sets! It's peer-reviewed bullshit you want and say "it's science" You're just a woman with a small brain. With But that's enough of Billy's Terry to make his fashionably late arrival. a technical difficulty which is why we're Having some technical difficulties right now. on here, let me see if I can bring him I thought it was 8 o'clock LA time. Man those technical difficulties of Terry not every time. Maybe he was busy hat shopping. in case you don't know who this man he's an incredible mathematical genius, he's you may know him from acting, he's received Yeah, we know him from acting, Billy. Most To where they mention that, ok everybody but when someone starts speaking the No, that's just you, Terry. Whenever you start the hell up. Because you're insufferable. then maybe you need new fundamentals. you don't challenge that. Facts! You just need to learn the fundamentals. I call my people leaders. I don't have Yes, you have "leaders" who do nothing but for hours and never challenge or fact check any And what is science after all, it's to explore and analyzation, and actually to try to break or find ways to go around them. And if we've never now connecting with each other via satellites and status quo to make this technology even happen. satellites and cell towers? Which "status quo" was Most science is not a perplexing paradigm shift, of the social fabric. It's just educated I mean heck, even the people that they were outlaws. I mean you have to go Yeah, you have to leave a country to all over existing real science to make There's three things that can't be hidden, Well the truth is hidden every day, normally by Does anyone wanna tell him about eclipses? Oh and the other side of the Earth. This is basic stuff. him down, or stopped him. You know, From enlightening the world a little bit? yourself from IRS collections actually. When the whole world is laughing at On the show Eric didn't show as much interest, on Friday we had Shabbat. And I took that I tried to share with him on the show. you to make himself to seem smart while still actor. It's pretty gross. But Terry takes a revelation in private and decided Terry's four hours of looking stupid on Joe Rogan. tetryon which represents the electric potential, represents the full or complete magnetic field. the truth and not about imaginary things. Like all those patents you imagined out of several minutes of insane rambling with the even trying to decipher any of the gibberish. their point across to the fullest, and then you don't ask a person a question and then cut a person to get their point across. That's the point. When he's asked a question, someone cuts him off and asks him to clarify actually saying anything, which is why he's been months by anyone with more than two brain cells. badge of education honor instead of saying you just, let me tap in and see if I can wrap my what he's trying to teach me, what he's trying Billy wants educated people to be humble. In other to forget all those things so that Terry's A much better idea would be for Terry to humble no idea what he's talking about, and actually I mean you can't just say I'm gonna run down and Can you talk about that a little bit? Yeah I mean of windows which has now become the basis for the the game at the time regarding how to maintain, so to maintain the patent so that was abandoned. duct tape a fork to an alarm clock and patent pathetic damage control after being exposed for invent anything, this was a rejected patent every three months to maintain a patent. This is lies grows and grows, and only the most gullible You know I have in just the US alone, you copyrights, all of those things, but over 67 No, you don't. You're just lying some more. Do you "over 97". They would either use a multiple just the number he's been using to lie, and he himself. As we already discussed, he has a children's toys. He's never invented a single it to us every second of every day. I used the wrong term, I shouldn't have used have something allocated for that. I should have Terry admits that he's a moron who says and then asserts that he should have been to pack in even more stupidity and wrongness. understand is still in there, just with even how you admit fault. And Billy just nods along So a lot of those patents came from there. And one they're like we're doing a peer review, a peer There was no peers on that show because none of This is the definition of pathetic. He has he's not part of it. He's an idiot actor who they aren't peers because they haven't made the never discovered anything in his life. He thinks they have to have already independently made nobody can publish a discovery unless someone else they would have published it already? How is he allegedly discovers or develops something, other review the work. It's not that hard to understand. that will speed up, I did this with Jeff Ye, a up the radioactive decay almost 5 to 10 times. making up a dumb name for a fake invention that strip makes his dumb made up thing suddenly neutrino gun do? Does he not realize that 100 body every second? What's a few more going to do? A particular nuclide? All nuclides? It makes Especially since neutrinos are striking all a level of total disregard for real science me off no matter how many hours of it I listen to. their agenda that this self-educated Yeah scientists are so uncomfortable with black the thousands of black scientists who actually on podcasts. Way to pander to that base, Terry. every other race has six... six DNA, um... yeah, six Did you wanna think about that a little longer, The human genome has about three billion base are the "six sequences" exactly? Unbelievable. Africa because it should be called whore based on the Latin word. Sunny whore? You know that anyone can google this Oh right, nobody who watches either of these in their entire lives. Billy just responds Anyone that stayed, that's from Africa, which provides a greater potential for genius. but series? Congratulations, that makes even have proposed that black people are genetically people are anti-science assholes, right? But Terry that's cool, yeah? I mean how could black people to white people? It makes total sense. And let me remind you of the time ten seconds ago that black people are genetically superior You know but they never examined any of the stuff show me one time where an action times an action I will say 1 x 1 = 1. But as long as an action more than one in multiplying those numbers. And you know, well there is a metaphor called it's mean that it's maybe cats and dogs aren't Terry just demonstrated about three different while quadrupling down on the crappy math that not actions, two actions don't always have a how many cats and dogs are falling from humanity every single day of your life until There's still something wrong with our math for where the square root of two cubed has the same should not take place, and that's just one of the Hey remember when I already explained how dumb there can't be any number where doubling it how we proved that root two does exactly that, a gofundme to bribe Terry into watching my headset thingy so he can learn something for of saying the same things over and over again. inventions that exist throughout the known world, of them were created by black people, especially become innovators because of the amount of labor were like listen man, we can't keep bending over tractor. We need a, you know, motorized plow. a white person in 1892, after slavery was this afrocentric bullshit. Yes, there are as there have been throughout history. Black many incredible feats. You two are not among them. black people inventing tractors, you are doing achievements of black geniuses, and equating like neutrino guns. That's why intelligent black bullshit and script of lies. Someday your Everyone else, all the other races, they left born prematurely. A child born two months that a child that goes to full, to their full African descendants, we stayed in the womb. it isn't wrong in six different ways at once. have lesser potential than babies that are and subpopulations of humans who left Africa due to differing environments, they weren't They came on that show specifically to tell me countless times. Stop teaching. Yet I get on the head of math for UC Berkeley, and we spent two Ed was like don't worry about Tyson, don't worry You're gonna be remembered for these things. academic that supports him it's always just an while every academic that speaks about him told you not to teach because you have no clue important for a teacher to understand something step. Go back to kindergarten and start again. world, you know everyone they're associated with their new understanding, and try and the information that I shared with them. picking random things that people at that it's based on the dumb shit you say. and we now have the geometry of hydrogen, place in the universe. That makes us gods. and one electron. None of your dumb shapes have how do your dumb shapes allow you to manipulate right now? Why haven't you mastered fusion You know and Eric Weinstein went on you know, well 99% of what he said was BS. but I'm not sure it's his. I'm not sure it's He was being charitable, Terry. 100% of what you your dumb drone, indeed is not yours. You paid don't have any engineering patents of any kind. that exist within the flower of life. And TetraheDRAWNS. Axisees. Vertisee. Billy whine about elitism all you want, talking about know how to say words correctly. theoretically is unparalleled unlimited which exists in every Planck unit in spacetime to tap into that, I think some people have tried have you looked into anything with that? of incidence. They're still trying to approach audience I say Cartesian, it means orthagonal or that's the basis of their entire understanding. energies inherent in spacetime, we're just using word salads through spacetime, you have to do Cartesian-like. Stop being so Cartesian. This unlimited power. This would be cute if they were But they're not, they're grown ass men with But what we've been able to accomplish with more energy out of it than we're putting energy but it's by using the proper geometry. system? The one in your dreams? Terry is not absolutely no clue what zero-point energy means, like Billy and his fake space agency, which is literally just a website. But don't worry, is super cheap so I'm sure it won't be long now. have in the youth cause I deal with a lot of they can't see their potential success in a lot limited. Where I grew up, in my neighborhood was the kids that I grew up with, they thought that outside of what they could be potentially Yeah, so many black youths don't recognize their his poverty-stricken community, and what did and cure a disease that plagues my community! and help my community with their legal struggles! crappy books full of lies and sell magic potions ticket out of here! Way to lift your people up, And you have to trust that cause that instinct that instinct is what got you to the egg. your brothers and sisters. You trust Yeah, you totally trusted your instinct ignoring all the haters and swimming your That wasn't just a blind cellular process. But if these show a better prediction to predict earthquakes for the last three area. You know with our simple equipment. ever, or it would be front page news, which is his dumb shapes would allow him to do this. You know one thing with the wave conjugations, how do you initiate the wave conjugations or is it These are, I call them, these are the dark be the aether. What we've defined is the aether. says that the wave conjugations are dark matter only one of which exists, and neither of Did their very best to make go away, cause the the same people reconducted that experiment the aether, but that information didn't become widespread. Why? Because they No, the aether does not exist, all subsequent the aether doesn't exist, there are no data and Michelson and Morley never did anything developed by Feynman. Clueless to the nth degree. expand out, they represent the dark energy that they're ok with understanding only 4% of mysterious. Whereas we don't have that problem. That's not what dark energy means. It refers expansion of spacetime. Nothing is "moving through to dark matter simply means it does not interact it "mysterious", you just never even looked up the the Bohr model in 10th grade like the rest of us. A to point B, that it propagates something similar with this, with the way Well light doesn't travel, that's what I'm is being reproduced. It's reproducing itself, there's a sexual mating. idiotic meaningless thing I made up, that light I noticed that light doesn't move at all, also the exact opposite of what you just with eyes lit up like a kid in a candy store. seeing the shadow of it in this thing. We're the matter and dark energy. Our entire existence, is just a balancing between two The entire universe and everything in it is just and also a balancing between two a totally different contradictory and imagine Neil Tyson rolling his eyes at this crap. light. Then you have to understand, living eat a concrete brick and get the nutrients No, nothing feeds on light, because light is say. But not as dumb as saying that you can't live insects into his mouth every day, but I'm and cooked plants and animals, thanks very much. directly, wouldn't light have to be alive? that everything is actually alive in this No, not everything is alive. If absolutely life would be meaningless, and the word some basic biochemistry, morons. years back were able to reproduce No, nobody ever made any 8-dimensional anything. But they're not seeing us in real time, because the time it takes for the photon to go to the back of the brain and get Hey remember just a couple minutes ago when Terry him? And now Billy is talking about light moving putz? Yeah, just making sure you caught that too. they would have an opportunity to be present in it actually pulls you out, and that's what I was that space where you're not effected by any of the the universe as a whole and the technology. that Terry is referring to but not explaining forces! No more gravity, fly away, because you're not affected by the strong nuclear disintegrated. I remember when this happened to thing Terry is talking about. It was crazy. created a lot of slaughter and murder, that they moon in the 1800s. This dogma has really held us it's held us back and robbed our birthright, and this hole trying to get to who we truly are as because of people like yourself and many others some ways, it's just like man, it's just a happening on a very small scale little by little. to overcome a lot of adversity over the in fields like science and politics. And this progress by filling their minds with lies But he really encouraged me to get this stuff great. But there's truth. There's all truth and if wouldn't have given me the patents if it were BS. It's BS top to bottom, the educated populace patents. Thanks, Terry. UHH THAT'S A FACT JACK. Anyway, Terry then skedaddles off to his talking from. Billy then talks by himself who cares. Listening to another second of his self-help spiel isn't worth my time or yours. not a single one of you are actually watching, thing out of the mouths of these frauds with zero would be in order to make you feel special. If you education. To the unfortunate folks in the inner to listen to this crap 24/7 would be a torture I the hell up. He certainly never does on set, which Oh yeah and he beats up women, don't forget that. and choking. And to Billy, you are also a garbage really you prey on them. You encourage them to snake oil you sell them, which will only influence actually elevate them out of poverty. You are the and your fake empire will crumble around you fake name picked out for when that happens. this pathetic powwow didn't break the anyway. I guess a couple hundred thousand after all. And that my first video on Terrance gives me a sliver of hope for the future, even whiny haters dropping by to slather on the hate. Howard and Billy Carson, the Barnum and Bailey place in my heart, so I'll continue to check in we have some other targets to get to, like