[narrator] Sandy beaches, flamenco and world-famous buildings, This is but one side of Spain. For the country on the Iberian Peninsula An abundant wildlife, full of surprises. And spectacular wonders of nature. From the depths of the ocean... to deep into the interior. From the swelteringly hot south... to the green north and It's almost impossible to find a larger Between Galicia and the Basque Country lies a completely different Seas of clouds surge against in the north of Spain. Humid air masses from the Atlantic accumulate along the almost This is why Northern Spain is but rather with another The region thanks its lush, green The weather holds no sway And rain is certainly no reason This brown bear mother keeps She is aware that [crow caws] She raises her offspring completely alone. The males live solitary lives. Should the male bear discover to be able to pair with the mother. Mother bear is aware of the threat. If she wants to bring up her cubs and the next few months, she has Although they first saw the light the little ones have to adopt a brisk pace in order to keep up with their mother. But all's clear. After hibernation, the male is simply interested The annual volume of precipitation Twice as much as in the UK. But even the most persistent rain Bears never faced extinction and have evolved into the Cantabrian brown bear. Around 140 of them currently live here, making them Western Europe's Nonetheless, poaching This mother has but one cub with her and as brown bears it's quite possible that a male bear has As with all brown bears, The mother prefers fresh oak leaves, while her youngster is It's amazing how the otherwise manage to wander around the steep As with most single children, the bond between mother and child For the little one, At an age of just four months, he has more than enough time The intimate connection The mother will spend about Then, she will drive him away But until then, The rugged slopes of his home The Cantabrian mountain range spreads to Galicia in the west. The Picos de Europa National Park one of Spain's most spectacular regions. Small mountain villages are embedded Villages, like Mogrovejo here - Aquilino Campollo Guerra is as were generations before him. He uses traditional and is specialized in cattle farming. [he speaks Spanish] [translation] I became a farmer with the cows when I was a child. Before I took over the farm, My father retired and my brothers so I now run the business. I like being my own boss, But I don't have any and I've liked cows For them, today is a very special day. For the first time this year, Aquilino sends them out At last, free of the confinement Aquilino should be satisfied. The sumptuous grass so that the calves grow up healthily. An intact nature is essential who can then live from their cattle. Last winter saw A welcome chance to collect to prepare for the next cold season. You have to be as tough a leather No hustle and bustle here - And this means Unfortunately, in idyllic mountain almost only the elderly remain, as the youth can find much better Many villages lose their inhabitants. As a mountain farmer, He will remain living here, at the foot of The Cantabrian Mountains are interspersed The banks are full of life in spring. The Asturian fire salamander with a complete yellow coloring. Just like all of his relatives, And you can't beat The earthworm thinks and soon understands The fat snack should keep the This dipper had a lot less luck Most of the streams of If the salamander would he would, at some point, One of the particularities of are the so-called Rias - that cut their way Memories of Scotland or Ireland abound, as Spain is so unexpectedly diverse. Even in their traditional music, one can At the moment, care to visit Asturias' green coast. It's more the summer haunt from the heart of the country. Then Galicia - Spain's westernmost region. Here is also the notorious Costa da Morte, This is percebeiros territory - home of the goose barnacle collectors. One of them is but everyone calls him simply Paco. [he speaks Spanish] [translation] I've always been attracted As a child, I often came We used to collect worms as a lure, Maybe I made my choice back then. I've now been collecting And this is arduous and very risky. Firmly attached to the rocks, Paco's workplace is the dangerous, Even the slightest His instincts are attuned to waves. Seven years in this profession He is always on guard. Only those that respect can successfully brave the elements. But not everyone can. Sometimes, tragic accidents occur, as these memorials on [translation] I do get scared sometimes. I knew some people who died while Sometimes, you just get It all happens so quickly. You slip and smash your head Or you underestimate the power of a wave It's easy to get killed in this job. Paco is aware of the risks, Yet still he sees his profession After work, the yield has In order to keep stock stable, the collection of barnacles They may not have the appearance but they actually belong Although not exactly pretty, they are classified as the most In restaurants, gourmets spend On quiet days, the rugged cliffs with what power the Atlantic Just a few miles from the sea, the peaks of the Cantabrian mountain In the meantime, spring has in the higher regions. It can be seen and heard. [birdsong] Two bluethroats are vociferously It ensures them food and habitat, reasons enough to keep Mother bear now finds Her offspring prefer The work for the protection of the bears that the impressive animals can continue The immense diversity is unique in the entirety Columbine, daisies... the blue Iris and countless orchids Butterflies are especially fond The Picos are a magnet One of the largest and rarest His proboscis enables him to absorb the Without regular mowing, The flower meadows [he speaks Spanish] [translation] I can leave the cows in the meadow, there's less work to do Aquilino has waited for quite In the winter, he feeds the mown grass Apart from a few small villages, the mountains of Northern Spain The best conditions for an unspoilt When night falls, [crickets chirping] All senses sharpened and wide awake. The bank vole notices It's best to go. No matter how elegant and silent the bank vole was faster. The genet has only recently Her offspring were born in a tree hollow and the little ones Although they are already quite big, The males have hardly anything While suckling one of her young, intensively to fur care, One rarely gets to see a genet. They lead a hidden life To be able to provide the mother has to catch prey which is why It will take about another week can leave the protective den themselves. One can see by the way Genets belong Patiently, she moves into position. Who knows? Perhaps she will manage The coast of Northern Spain is Plenty of room for seabirds. [seabirds call] Their day on the coast of Galicia There are around 16 types Surprisingly, the Mediterranean gulls don't have their biggest Spanish breeding but here in the north. Most of their chicks have hatched. Just recently, too, as one can see As precocial birds, seagull youngsters as soon as they have hatched. As they are so advanced their energy demands The chicks have to be cared for and it's time for the older birds The birds keep a lookout Gulls always know where They can reach 30 years of age and more... time enough in which to become As no predators pose a threat they often leave their young behind. Before long, they begin to feel hungry. Eventually, the waiting Almost all gulls species have Instinctively, the chicks rub against this This, in turn, stimulates although this does not guarantee that The little ones are confused. Where's my share then? They have to be fed several times a day. Now at last, the snack bar is open. Not a single morsel will be wasted. The ocean provides them but first it has to be found. Paco's profession requires It's not something for wimps. But whether or not one can work The big goose barnacles and they can only be found A close watch is being kept [translation] Nowadays, from collecting goose barnacles. I always make light of it by saying but rather from my wife's. It was a lot easier but today it's impossible For one, the prices have With a ferrada, an iron shovel, Paco removes the sessile Then a quick peek into the next crevice, Paco knows the rhythm. Collecting goose barnacles is definitely Mysterious shadows of powerful beings make their way through The scary basking shark is a giant the world's second-largest fish, With his barn-door-size mouth, he filters exclusively His name is derived from his Compared with most of his relatives, Sharks have existed for long before dinosaurs walked the Earth. They therefore belong to the most living in the Seven Seas. Porpoises can be found on many They belong to the most prevalent whales Related to dolphins they also one of the smallest species But their curiosity belies their stature. Talking of stature... The sperm whale. With a length of up to 20 meters he is the biggest predator on Earth. He can bind extremely large enabling him to make do with one Giant squids are often prey when they dive into greater depths. This relative of the squids is not large A fin seam keeps the body The sepia is just around and likes to hang out in shallow, They attach their eggs to the ground This prevents the current and at the same time supplies them The genitals of squids can be This makes it difficult to ascertain or more of a fight. Rare insights into the underwater The few people who decide to move usually have the same destination, Santiago de Compostela, The old, time-honored cathedral that have wandered along The joy at their arrival The ultimate pilgrimage is nonetheless the zero-kilometer mark In the old belief, it was considered as legend will have it. Not far away from the end of the world, Paco relaxes by doing To enjoy the ocean without Angling is a chance for him [he speaks Spanish] [translation] I was born in La Coruna, My father was an angler, We used to go angling a lot back then. When I was 19 and had yes, that was hard for me, The people on the coasts between have always lived with and from the sea. But that which makes is the direct clash of the Atlantic The Picos de Europa. The highest peak in the national park stretches some 2,600 meters Sailors returning home used long before they saw the coastline. This is how they got their name, the pinnacles of Europe. [bird chirps] Beyond the tree border, a world, that appears barren Difficult to find, Wallcreepers add color and are something quite special. Only slightly larger than sparrows, they have chosen the rough Ornithologists from all over the world are enthused by The prey spectrum of the wallcreepers that they look for in the rock face. With success. When the rocks warm up the insects that reside there The female knows only too well Unnoticed, she is being watched, closely, from someone who appears The female has cunning plans For weeks now, most food But for him. The hungry young bird But nothing doing this time. The female wants to lure to help him begin an independent life. This is upbringing wallcreeper-style. The young bird is certain It's hardly squalid around here. Food is plentiful, too. Parts of the mountain range were declared and the national park has been From the mountains we move on eastwards The permanent exchange of ebb and flow In some places, the tidal range This is why, during the flow, water is A surprising animal species Red deer live in the Basque Country but also in the midst of reeds. These protect them from enemies [red deer calling] Autumn - while little egrets take rest here before flying on it's anything but peaceful The rutting season is in full swing. It's now all a case of respect The lower-ranking animals Seems harmonious, [red deer roars] There's excitement in the air. The animals incur surges of elation The bulls require patience when mating, as a doe is only able to conceive With a time-frame this short, that a bull demonstrates excuse the phrase - top dog! Whoever gives way first, loses Each of them has The bulls are evenly matched. Both of them deserve But only the most tenacious has a Bitter confrontations such as these After rutting, the bulls will have And in the end, the winner lets [red deer roars] And the ladies, too. It's done! He has successfully His competitor, shattered. Fortunately, one of Northern Spain's But the rutting season The next confrontation Back to the Picos de Europa. In the autumn, the annual a very important event. Aquilino and the other mountain hope for a few good deals and look forward to get-togethers Those present, whether man or animal, accept the rainy weather As it stands, Aquilino can still But for how much longer? Who will then takeover [translation] My sons are studying Young people don't want to be This is why my farm will just disappear, In the meantime, most people Once, they worked in agriculture, now they work in their gardens But Aquilino is not even He wants to see many generations of Nowhere in Spain as it is in the Cantabrian Mountains. It's time to prepare The rosehips have to Whilst trees reduce their metabolic mushrooms literally For some, they are the last The odd nibble as long as the wind disperses its spores. Sea air draws across the land and The first snow of the year has The high mountain region is They represent a subspecies The females live in a group The bucks usually go their own ways. But in November, as then it's the mating season. The buck is completely focused But they observe The buck remains on the ball. His hormone levels But the ladies are But one can only try! Well, that got off to a damp start. Resigned, the buck Time is now of the essence, Snow and ice define the climate in Hardly anything seems to move. But those who want to survive The jay collects The acorns that he doesn't immediately eat The jay has an incredible memory and is later able to find A clever lad. Whilst winter forges ahead, A group of ravens have discovered Hunger and cold had obviously Ravens often search for carrion Others also appear interested in the feast The situation at the carcass But trouble is not far away. Griffon vultures. The huge birds know that there is They maintain their distance and But they are hungry. The ravens slowly lose control. Time to depart. Soon, nothing will hold [squawking] The ravens remain in the background. Anyway, the snow provides a surface Playfulness is a typical raven trait. But there's something that is To snuggle up to one's partner. It's soon mating season for ravens. Just a few feet away, the battle Griffon vultures can easily weigh with a wingspan of almost three meters. Reason enough, For the vultures, winter is like and there is always carrion around The cold season will soon be over. The winter thaw is under way. Slowly at first, then ever faster. Spring can no longer be constrained and, [birds twittering] And so, another new generation awkwardly at first, into a life the homeland of Aquilino and Paco. [translation] I'd never want to swap. I have my friends and my family here. [Paco speaking Spanish] [translation] The sea is You look towards the horizon Andalusia, the southernmost province 30,000 greater flamingos have gathered at the lagoon of Fuente de Piedra. [flamingos honking] Here is Spain's largest breeding colony and also one of the largest in Europe. With their specially shaped bills flamingos filter micro-crustaceans These tiny animals Equipped with extremely long necks the greater flamingos are the largest The elegant movements of the birds were the inspiration the flamenco. Even their name was passed on. Flamenco is the Spanish word for flamingo. The old, time-honored towns of Andalusia are just as famous. The Alhambra in Granada, for example. [bell tolls] And of course, Seville, Southern Spain is a wealth but also has a unique nature Off the beaten track there are unspoiled landscapes, like the Cabo de Gata, Andalusia's biggest nature reserve The geology of the 82,000 acre betrays its volcanic origin. The vegetation is sparse, but it's sufficient for the goats. At the Cabo de Gata, one that is becoming ever more seldom on the Andalusian, Mediterranean coast. Here, nature dominates, not only at first sight, but on second sight, too. Hardly anyone gets to see a European chameleon face to face. The bizarre creatures are incredibly successful insect hunters. The tips of their tongues come equipped with a suction pad-like hollow. They use this to strangle their prey, which sticks to them like glue. The European chameleon for more than half a meter. The locust hasn't the slightest chance. Chameleons have excellent eyesight and can move their eyes independently This enables them to determine the distance of their prey exactly. Their peculiar movements make them difficult to find for both enemies and their prey alike. The beetle disappears into his mouth within a fraction of a second. The hunting success The chameleon is concerned, his body language shows. Chameleons are loners, neighborliness is not their thing. The speckled animal has The coloration signalizes stress. Resolved, When territories overlap, And then, to end up A messy situation, obviously unpleasant for both. No one is interested and, eventually, There's room enough for everyone, and prey, too. To the northwest of Andalusia on the border to Portugal, The province, with its more than is roughly the same size as Switzerland, yet is one of the most sparsely populated This is something In many other countries, he has become rare, one can hear [bird hooting] He searches for food industrially. The permanently hungry offspring is waiting for the next delivery. Their menu comprises insects A big fat mouthful but by no means enough. The hoopoe is roughly but due to its feather bonnet and long beak, it seems much bigger. The beak enables him to pick and poke for prey to his hearts content, but sometimes it can take quite a while for this to be successful. Meanwhile, the chicks have to be fed The old bird knows how to take care The young have developed well and will soon leave the nest. Then, at last, the strenuous hard graft will be over and done with. What at first sight are in actual fact otherwise known as Dehesa. They are characteristic In the spring, the storks begin to take possession of their nests. There is often the odd quarrel, but for the most part, as the joint clattering proves. [storks nattering] Whereas many storks merely spend the winter thousands of couples and breed in huge colonies. [storks nattering] Storks lead a serial This means that the partners come together This increases the chance of bringing up [storks nattering] Around 30 days after breeding, the young begin to hatch. They remain in the nest where they are taken care of Until they are ready to fly, they will have quadrupled their weight. The Extremadura is deemed the Wild West of Spain. One has to be a tough dude to live here. Frugality and composure are the most important qualities Manuel Gomez Romero, or Manolo for short, has got some important business He has to feed his chickens But as laidback as possible. The Extremadura doesn't do stress. Manolo is self-sufficient This enables him [he speaks Spanish] [translation] What I like about my work is go to the finca in the morning, experience the sunrise The wealth of animals here [pig grunting] [he speaks Spanish] [translation] I have two sows I don't need more pigs than that. Not far away, bee-eaters have returned from their African wintering regions. They have a long and tiresome flight On arrival, the migratory birds begin their search with steep, sandy escarpments topping their list Only thing missing [birds tweeting] There's more than enough to eat including all kinds of insects that bee-eaters catch in flight. The hard chitin shell is inedible and is quickly spat out. The birds search for new partners and every year, the males that they are the right choice. It has to work this time. The most promising bridal gift is, of course, a bee. But first of all, Things are very courteous The male is fortunate. She has decided he is the one. They will pair up several times, A short while later, the female will lay her eggs The seemingly tropical birds breed in almost the entire When their offspring have fledged, they return to Africa again The coast along the Andalusian cannot be used for farming purposes. This is why the inhabitants Like Victor Manuel Zurdo Bueno. He came to the coast, bought his own boat and took up life as a fisherman. [he speaks Spanish] [translation] I came to the Cabo de Gata because the landscape here is unique. I fell in love with the area I simply feel attracted to the sea. I just wanted to spend one summer here and now I've been here for eleven years. To make a living from fishing especially when one [he speaks Spanish] [translation] I think our way of fishing and this is not just our opinion. People from the EU, from Brussels, paid us a visit and said that So different from industrial fishery, which has nothing at all But in the end, the big fish eat the little ones. Victor's catch today While many regions of the Mediterranean have been over-fished, life pulsates in the protected areas. Barracudas, the wolves of the ocean. The predatory fish Every smaller species of fish keeps well out of their way. Nowadays there are more than in the Spanish regions that comprise The wealth of colors The cleaner shrimp in the next best mouth of a moray eel. The tiny crustacean eats morsels of food from between the teeth and as a reward, is not eaten himself. Hermit crabs and sea anemones have a deal too, the one offers mobility, In the sea horse world, They carry and fertilize the eggs that the female previously deposited A huge sea bass, these fish only reach in protected zones. A cuttlefish glides by. Everything under control, the octopus has exceptionally good sight. When danger lurks, Sea slugs outdo one another with the most garish of outfits. This fellow here Aliens could hardly look any more bizarre and fascinating as many of the creatures in the oceans of our planet. While the elegant blue shark Victor returns to the harbor. Total catch limits are only imposed on a few Mediterranean species. The industrial use of trawl nets has to be drastically reduced. Victor will hardly become rich but does help maintain [men chatting in Spanish] Back in the harbor, but he always finds time for quick chat. [men talking Spanish] [Victor talking Spanish] [translation] As a fisherman, I like that. You get nothing for nothing, it's a hard life, [Victor speaking Spanish] And this can only improve, the more sustainable catching fish At sunset, with a great deal of luck, when the air is especially clear, one can experience the legendary A magical moment. Away from the coast, Southern Spain reveals its typical face. Old olive groves. Sun-kissed Andalusia is one of Europe's To protect them from the heat, the houses have all been whitewashed. In the summer, in the shade. The further one gets in the interior, the more barren it becomes but also all the more spectacular. Only the locals know that belong to the driest regions Although the snowcapped peaks the landscape tells the true story, this place is a real furnace. Here, Senses have to be sharpened. Carelessness can be very costly. The praying mantis is more than used She is not alone. There is after all the age-old law, eat or be eaten. But who eats who? OK, the question has been answered, the scorpions poison But in this duel in the desert, When the sun goes down, the temperatures sink slightly, but one can hardly speak of it being cool, even at night. Under cover of darkness, a very special hunter becomes active, equipped with sharpened senses and extremely good climbing abilities. To be able to navigate so skillfully through the branches of the trees, she needs excellent eyesight and pronounced tactile perception. All of this Her long tail helps her balance. She is about the same weight The genet originally comes One assumes that she was brought by the Moors during the Middle Ages. She has been part of Spain's fauna A very successful part, too. The animals are loners. Their food spectrum is varied, they also eat birds, This allows the genet This flexibility is possibly for their distribution In Europe, they have only been found on the Iberian Peninsula Individual genets have been spotted but one assumes Before midsummer arrives she presents herself The Dehesa seems to glow. Dense areas of lavender and poppies cover the landscape. Those looking for the old can discover it here. As yet practically unknown by tourists and with little or no industry, just pure, unadulterated nature. Manolo is on his way to work. His old bicycle but still does its job Every few days, he goes to see They can, in fact, be left alone but the odd control is the better bet. Is the herd still complete? Are there any sick or injured animals? [he speaks Spanish] [translation] I have around 400 sheep. For the most part, we sell the lambs. We don't make any cheese. [sheep bleating] But when I shear the sheep, Sheep rearing is widespread Fortunately, so that there is also plenty of room for the wild inhabitants. These fox cubs are around five weeks old. They were born here in their foxhole beneath a holm oak to venture outside these past few days. Apprehensive and curious they begin to explore To be able to survive on their own, they still have a lot to learn. Eventually though, uncertainty will soon become experience. Their mother often goes hunting. Thank heavens for siblings. Scuffles are important for the cubs, they help strengthen their muscles and establish their rank order. But above all, they are a lot of fun. When mother comes home, she is the one and only star. The cubs cannot yet consume solid foods and are therefore suckled by the vixen for another two or three weeks. When the cubs were younger, the female stayed with them the whole time and the male provided her with food. He has now moved on, leaving the mother to fend for herself until the little ones are able and search for their own territory. The real dimensions of the Extremadura can only be seen fully Griffon vultures fly effortlessly Their enormous wingspan They know how to use air streams Spain is the vulture country in Europe, nowhere else do so many species breed and nowhere else are there as many Vulture protection in Spain plays an exemplary role The blistering sun but fortunately, the huge wings also double very nicely as solar sails. At feeding time, the old bird regurgitates food out of its goiter. Vultures exist almost exclusively They do not attack living animals. Griffon vultures breed on steep cliffs. There, they erect their nests made of a few loose branches Not until the young birds reach the age of around four and a half months will they attempt to leave With such widespread sheep it's hardly surprising This doesn't go unnoticed for long. Black kites are among the first An Egyptian vulture, Europe's rarest and smallest observes the hustle and bustle. Although black kites they won't say no The Egyptian vulture couldn't agree more. The offspring of the griffon vultures and he is not the only one. [bird chirping] The flying giants and now demand their share. Panic breaks out, the situation escalates. More and more vultures begin to circle They are planning a hostile takeover. [birds screeching] The kites are unable to defend against the overpowering defense. And the wild dancing begins. [birds screeching] They can only watch in despair. [birds squabbling] The awesome beaks of the vultures Within the shortest space of time, there is hardly anything left Normally, are somewhat more civilized. Manolo is preparing the food including finest Iberian ham [translation] In the Extremadura, making cold meats like chorizo, and of course, ham, really good ham, Manolo prepares Migas de pan A dish consisting of bread Typical country fare. His oldest son is busy the hydraulics have been Here in the country, [chatting in Spanish] Most inhabitants of the Extremadura live on smaller farms. Manolo's finca is already Traditions and family cohesion Well-fed and satisfied, Stress at Manolo's is almost unthinkable. Los Barruecos is an Eldorado Storks have also discovered Their nests are amongst the largest some of them have been in use and can weigh as much as a ton. [storks nattering] Now, in the summer, the young birds and busy practically forcing their parents But soon they are old enough More storks breed in Spain than in It is estimated that there are And instead of flying to Africa, many of them simply spend winter here under the Iberian sun. Not only humans and towns of Andalusia, the lesser kestrel is also a fan. They breed here in small colonies They build their nests for their impatient between the roof shingles. [bird chirping] Locusts are big favorites with the kids. Quarrels can hardly be prevented in such cramped living conditions. As insects constitute lesser kestrels react extremely to the use of pesticides in farming. The number of lesser kestrels Just 5% from the global count of the 1950s remain. This makes the protection all the more important. [bird chirping] Timing is of the essence they start with their brood is readily available for their offspring. [bird chirping] A persistent sparrow By now, the kestrels But most feel uneasy in the vicinity of the passerine bird. He is under critical observation. The sparrow is a pure granivore, so what is he looking for? Some feathers Hard to say, whatever it is, he's causing a big stir. At last, the little nuisance buzzes off. A big, fat, juicy locust is just the job when it comes to calming nerves. And not just one, there are many more of those Spain's rich fauna is outstanding and that is because nature protection has become extremely popular People have realized that nature is one of the country's [pig squeals] In the autumn, to release his pigs from the pen. In the coming weeks, they will spend because the holm oaks and pigs love nothing better. Manolo then gladly offers a helping hand. Ample acorns and plenty of movement this is how the ham of the Iberian pigs develops its very special aroma. The jamon iberico And of course, This type of pig farming in the Extremadura for centuries and is an important reason The open holm oak forests are a man-made cultural landscape. The trees have to be cut back regularly to ensure a rich acorn harvest. This requires a lot of experience. [chainsaw roaring] The open countryside and its careful use are the reasons behind As a pleasant side effect, they also secure The fact is, cooking is widespread in the more rural regions central heating plays a very small role in a country In the Sierra Nevada, the highest mountain range autumn is well under way. It's the kingdom of the Iberian ibex. They are now tucking into the very last grasses and herbs of the year. The first snow on the peaks The mighty horns of the bucks They also come in handy It's mating season and the males interest in females is slowly gathering speed. The competitors firmly focus their reciprocal control on one another. The rutting season The bucks analyses This indicates to the male whether the female is already fertile. Tenacity is paramount. Patience is a virtue but some of the males With rotten results. To propagate one's kind, the bucks need to learn The rutting season is still in full swing. But the animals sense In winter, the Sierra Nevada becomes Spain's cold chamber. Meanwhile, the animals have descended to the lower lying regions, because as of a height nature succumbs But in Andalusia, winter is but a short intermezzo. By the end of January, the almond trees are once again The first insects begin to stir and on high, above the white villages snow begins to melt At last, spring returns. And a new generation Here, in the south of Spain, one of Europe's most varied regions. And as far as Manolo their homeland is definitely a very special place. [Manolo speaking Spanish] [translation] the wealth of animals and the oak forests I wouldn't want to swap any of this The little villages and the environment, [Victor speaking Spanish] [translation] I love being outside in the fresh air. I would feel like a bird in a cage.