Having the ability to make, modify, and harden useful as a mechanic. And, of course, being important too. Therefore, in today's video, I'm heater that was sent to me by Vevor to see just on YouTube of people removing rusty and stuck same content over and over. I think this tool on top of removing hardware, and that's what We'll see if it has the capacity to be able we may wish to make around the workshop, to and modify tooling. I'll test if it has the compare it directly against propane as well as other unique tasks that you might So, it comes in a really lovely, which is kind of convenient. I like that. Of and a selection of different coils. Now, one you one--in fact, they give you two--that you can That's something I did earlier using a socket, and and I could use any socket I liked. To get the the better, and ideally, as small a gap as up and the coils themselves. Of course, you because that would start to damage it very at which that part heats up and allow One thing that stands out about this tool is to put the coils in really easily and doesn't so many of them come with. It's just a more One thing I've done here, which is going starting out, is I took a little graph of and put it in place here as a reference to make tool. The tool has a duty cycle of 2 minutes, impact what we can and can't heat up and just The first test that I've come up with is to try I've been working on. It's started to unwrap but that didn't work. However, I recently bought the induction heater can heat this cable up enough this tool only works with ferrous metals means cable up and the brazing rods will melt when the this silver brazing flux which we'll apply a small of the silver solder and place it on top hands on the induction heater, giving me more so I'll let you know as soon as I pull that That didn't take long at all, did it? It's heating that silver solder has melted right in. That was so quick. Check that out, and that's going to be the brazing rod is not the right way to do it, the only way it can melt is by heating up the substantial now. This is a hardened steel punch. see if we can braze this little nut on top. First, a little bit on the nut as well, brazing rod we can keep some of that in there like so. Start the bottom, and the solder is starting to melt. We'll have to look at the stopwatch, I can't fast. That can't be more than 10 seconds, surely. that joint is. Let's have a look. Might have not going to allow me to grip. Want to squeeze nut. Let's try and hit it off with the hammer. but that's not moving anywhere, is it? has certainly done everything it needs to, and off. I don't see why we shouldn't be able to. Here we go. Sorry, I nudged you there. That's so of about 10 seconds. That's so good, isn't it? amount. Now, what I want to try and do is see if then anneal some tool steel. Now, this is a file. but the tang I'm more than happy to play around we can harden it. It's hard to hold it still. It's back because we're going to hit this, and if it's it should only take a slight tap, just like that, actually came in your direction slightly--that it. Let's make it strong, slightly ductile, but I've gone over on a sanding machine. Now, ideally, you would just go with some Scotch-Brite. But the temper colors. This is going to make it nice hit it with a hammer, it shouldn't fly across the goes well, it'll be a nice, even straw color. So, and go from there. That should be a fairly good no shininess so you can actually see the colors swap out the two heads, and that way, it will give up to that straw brown without overheating it. up too quick, so we're going to do really short you can do it, and it starts to change color slow process, but I'm going to do it in real time. change color. Hopefully, it's going to slowly and you can see it's starting to all go that nice I think that is going to be perfect. Now, all in that here, and we'll give it a hit and see. Now, which is exactly what it is. It's really hard. and it's not brittle. Now, let's take it Isn't that incredible? So, you have got really but also by changing coil size. The bigger the Okay, the last thing I want to try and do and we'll let it air cool. And that should now complete the cycle of being able to heat something which is what we'll do next. So, we want to get go back to the smaller coil on camera. We're it should be a little bit more ductile. Already, and down all the way along. I'll hold it here Okay, that's been about 3 or 4 minutes now. technically, if it's been correctly which it certainly is. That's so we've now gone through the whole process: we've and it's back and ready to be drilled, tapped, with a hammer to be able to make whatever Right, the next test, let's see if it can not my preferred method using heat. I'm always that could actually cause any damage. I don't so we'll give it a go. And I've put the larger it's okay. Now, spark plugs are so I presume this will take much longer. we got a nice smoke happening already. I brush? This is the best I could come up with. that carbon off at all within a really short preference. But if it's yours, an induction heater Right, we're going to try something very stickers. I've actually cut my number off on this using the tool. Now, I'm skeptical whether it will act as a heat sink. But I've already put Oh, there we go. That only took, this has only just been put on there, but it does but at the same time, how controllable it where you've got really fine control. So, awesome. Got the sticker residue So, next we'll compare propane with the induction that we're going to cover. So, we have safety, consumables, availability of consumables, speed confidently say not having an open flame around a heater, and it also reduces the chances of a grass too. Control, again, I think it can go to and it drastically reduces the chances of, say, might be in the area. Ease of use, I wouldn't button-operated and neither require any skill or you're not dealing with the open flame that has obviously paying attention to any surrounding a win for the induction heater. Portability next, but you do need, of course, an outlet this is certainly a win for propane. You can this is a tricky one. Short term, the initial the cost of consumable gas in, I would say the this one a draw. Now, cost of consumables, this each one of these coils, and they're very cheap to as 6 Australian dollars each, which is about 20 Australian dollars per cylinder, 14 US, and it the induction heater certainly wins. Availability available, but I can walk into any hardware I need a canister. And although the coils are everywhere--it's not something that I can again, I think this is a propane win. Speed and is certainly a win for the induction heater. It chunk of steel to bright red, where it might take versatility, both are incredibly versatile, but can, of course, heat any metal; it doesn't have the heat with the regulated dial, and you having to worry about coils knocking onto it. So, I don't think that these tools really replace over and others where they excel at, but I what you intend to use the tools for. It's hard and controllable the heat is, and therefore it's discount code in the description below if you want of this video just how useful it is to be able to with your engine repairs, and that's something I and Stratton classic engine. I hope you enjoy