- Wanna learn how to make a (upbeat music) Hey, everybody. It's Natasha of natashaskitchen.com. And today I'm gonna show you how to make chicken pot pie soup. This is everything you love about the comforts of chicken pot because you don't need a crust. And I'm hungry, so let's get started. I like to have all my ingredients prepped and ready to go before For this recipe you'll need five cups of cooked shredded chicken. You can use a store-bought or cook your own. And I'll leave links in the or our quick Instant Pot whole chicken. Once you have that shredded we're gonna set that aside If you're not a fan of mushrooms, But just eight ounces of mushrooms add a ton of flavor to this soup. You can use white or And if you're curious, yes, I did rinse and dry my mushrooms. The only time I don't wash my mushrooms is when I'm making stuffed mushrooms. And then I'll just wipe them But for soup, it doesn't matter. I rinsed them because Next, chop one medium onion. You should get about one Onions are one of the classic aromatics that form the base of so do not skip them. Next, we're gonna peel and The quickest way to smash them with the or you can use a bench scraper. This loosens the skin, and it should come off quickly and easily. (Natasha laughs) Now finely mince your garlic cloves. And garlic is a flavoring that I use in nearly all of my soups. And if you love garlic our classic zuppa Toscana recipe. You'll be amazed how And make sure to finely so they disappear into the soup. Once you have those all Now onto finely chopping the celery ribs. We're using just two sticks of celery. And celery is another that add amazing flavor to the soup. I know not everyone loves but it does add great flavor. So the key for me is to finely chop it up. (upbeat music) Next I have two medium carrots Slice those up into thin rings. And if you have a large carrot, you can cut it in half and Now onto the potatoes. We're using one pound of potatoes, or about four medium yellow potatoes. I've already peeled them, now I'm gonna quarter the potatoes, and slice them into bite-size pieces. Potatoes aren't typically but because this is a chicken pot pie soup the potatoes add great texture, flavor, and make the soup really satisfying. After some quick prep of your ingredients we're ready to fire up the stove. Place a five and a half quart Dutch oven or a soup pot over medium high heat. And melt in six tablespoons Make sure to check out where I'll link to this pot and all the tools we use in our recipe. Once the butter is melted, celery, and your sliced carrots. Continue sauteing those stirring occasionally, for or until they're softened Add the sliced mushrooms and saute those for another five minutes. Stirring occasionally until (upbeat music) Next, sprinkle the top with one third cup of all purpose flour. The flour acts as the And you wanna continue stirring constantly. It's important to cook off the flour so you don't taste it You can see that flour is starting to look a little bit golden. Now we're gonna add six cups You can use store-bought stock, but homemade will give And I will link to our Stir in the broth, scraping Then add your sliced potatoes, three and a half teaspoons of salt, and about half a teaspoon of black pepper. Or you can season to taste. Bring the entire mixture then reduce the heat to a simmer. Partially cover and 12 to 15 minutes, or until You can see the soup Give it a good stir. And now it's time to add Also add one cup of frozen peas You can also use canned drained corn. Now stir in half a cup of whipping cream and add one fourth cup Stir that all together. Then bring it back to a simmer and continue to simmer or until the corn and peas are tender. (upbeat music) Now, just like with the classic pot pie, this mixture should be very well seasoned. So taste it the end and add (salt grinding) Once it's done, take it off the heat, and it's ready to serve. Oh, who's excited? All right. My kitchen smells amazing right now. And it is time for the taste test. Whew, oh yum. I love me a good soup facial. (Natasha laughs) Not really. All right. And I love, love, love to serve chicken pot pie soup It gives you that satisfaction but these take like 20, 30 So easy, ridiculously fluffy. I just, I don't even have words. They're so good. All right, let's plate this up because it's way past my So let's do this. Oh, look at this. It is so creamy, but light. This is one super And I love that it's loaded I mean, this is seriously Look at that. And the best part is, it tastes Filling is our favorite And the whole family approves of this one. Get one more scoop. Okay, that looks delicious. And I love to garnish this, add a little bit of and a little bit of black pepper. You know, just like they do in All right, here we go. So you gotta take a bite of that's just how it works. Seriously you guys, try I'll leave a link to These are sure to become So here we go, this is Mm, so fluffy and buttery. Oh, it smells so good. Okay, get a little bit of And it's still blazing hot, so be careful. Wow. This just made my day. That chicken is so tender. And I love the little sweet The sweet peas, and corn, and carrots too. Also, this soup is because it reheats really well. I love to have a pot makes meal planning so I hope this becomes a new Let me know what you think And we'll see you in our next video.