NARRATOR: The animal kingdom... a remarkable collection of living, Enthralling... impressive... tenacious... and nurturing. Innovative... tough... surprising... always genuine. Discover their past, Just breathtaking. Just intriguing. Just tremendous. Just animals. (SOFT GUITAR MUSIC) Penguins... instantly recognisable members The contrasting colours not only makes them distinctive, From the aptly named measuring barely more than the size right up to the majestic emperor This striking group Capable of speeds three times faster they are accomplished (COMICAL MUSIC) But on land, Clumsiness aside, penguins can be breathtaking ... (SQUAWKING) ..and ear splitting. (NOISY SQUAWKING) These raucous colonies Despite the endless choice most species are monogamous - Whether it's their ability to endure or just their comic demeanour, there is something captivating (CHIRPY INDUSTRIOUS MUSIC) Penguins are unlike any other but that doesn't mean They, like all vertebrates, which is evident Penguins lay eggs - an ability they share with One characteristic that does set a distinguishing feature creatures commonly known as birds. Apart from their feathery coats, birds have several other They are all bipedal, which come in a variety Birds have front limbs Like mammals, birds are endothermic able to maintain a body temperature They all have tough, the same substance that makes up There are 23 orders of birds. Well known examples include owls, and penguins. That is their common name. To a bird expert, This scientific name meaning &quot;wedge-shaped&quot; - an unflattering yet accurate of these exceptionally upright Their impeccable posture is the result of feet Depending on the species, penguins need to either waddle Above the waterline, a penguin's an accessory to show off Biologists classify them short, stout appendages with the primary purpose A penguin's odd design Their bodies are engineered Their elongated shape, reduces water resistance Their feet act as rudders, and their powerful flippers Overall, it's an ideal arrangement if only they didn't spend Within the penguin family, there are The crested... banded... brushed-tails... little... yellow-eyed... and, lastly, the great penguins. The variations in appearance but the differences amongst is more than skin deep. (SOFT MUSIC) Of the estimated 400 billion birds penguins account for roughly one hundredth And, while their populations to the southern parts of the world, they're far more familiar to us than the most common bird Africa's red-billed quelea. (CHIRPING) Penguins are often associated but less than a third of them The majority prefer the temperate of Southern Africa... South America... Australia... and New Zealand. Only one has ventured the Galapagos penguin... which has taken advantage swirling around the island group It is the smallest of the four growing to just over half a metre. It shares South American waters the Humboldt and Magellanic - both birds named after the European The final member of this group Apart from their prominent and their preference banded penguins all share one (BRAYING) ..the ability to bray (SOFT MUSIC) Coming into shore Native to Australia and New Zealand, the little penguin spends 80 percent only coming ashore at dusk Because of its petite body, it's often referred to These small birds can also be called due to the unusual colour Out of the 18 species, they are the only type Little penguins are the only So too is the one of a kind When on land, these birds dwell in the forests of The colouring on the yellow-eyed but part of its head as well. The fourth group of penguins, take 'ornate looks' This is the biggest group. All seven members having their own To complement crested penguins have orange beaks (JAZZ MUSIC) The royal is the largest, making it similar in size Like all of the crested species, it lives around The macaroni is a smaller, almost identical copy of the royal The smallest it's considered 'the mountaineer' The rockhopper lives up to its name. As for the fifth group, they are also named but theirs is more practical The gentoo has the longest up to 18 feathers creating a sturdy platform Despite their length, their tails Gentoos are the fastest swimmers capable of speeds Quite an accomplishment (QUIRKY MUSIC) Chinstraps are a petite, yet feistier member (SQUAWKING) These birds have a reputation and they appear to be dressed (SQUAWKING AND FIGHTING) A combination of a dark head makes it appear the inspiration for their name. Chinstraps are one of the most It's estimated at least live around the islands They are often seen in the company of brush-tailed penguin - Adelies. Slightly smaller than their more these plain-looking birds They are one of only two species that breed on the pack ice The other... is the emperor - the largest, heaviest, (SOFT PERCUSSION MUSIC) They belong to the sixth group - These birds are double the height and weigh up to 45 kilograms. Emperors have a remarkable ability of an Antarctic winter... all while caring for their young. The other great penguin is the king. When compared to an emperor, longer, less curvy beaks... and stand slightly smaller They also prefer the relatively experienced on While they have spread themselves climates and terrains... and share the land and sea penguins stand out. (SOFT MUSIC) To survive in such extreme penguins have needed to adapt Temperature control has been especially for the ice dwellers. With temperatures in Antarctica dropping as low emperor penguins but they've come up with a range Like most animals that spend winter emperors build up blubber to sustain and provide them with Special fats in their feet despite constant contact Another line of defence they have The emperor's secret is a generous coating which trap pockets of air A penguin's plumage is that they completely replace it This shedding of all feathers at It has come to be known Depending on the species, during which time the penguin leaving them weak To be as safe as possible, keeping watch for predators. (UPBEAT GUITAR MUSIC) For members of the family it's all about staying cool. The waters around these might be refreshing, but on land, temperatures To cope with the heat, extends its flippers, It also stoops slightly to shade its feet from the sun. All banded penguins have featherless to prevent them from overheating. The pink colour comes from blood which is then cooled by the air. Penguin feathers are more than As with all aquatic birds, thanks to an oil produced by Penguins tend to their feathers to ensure they remain waterproof. This is vital around the sea where temperatures plunge Unlike the long hollow feathers penguin wings have short, designed to reduce resistance (SOFT MUSIC) When they dart about any trapped air is released As the viscosity of the water the bubbles lubricate their path, making their movements While most birds have air spaces to make them lighter for flight, penguins have dense, heavy skeletons As a general rule, the bigger Emperor penguins have been known to and remain underwater To survive such long dives, by many of the larger known as the Mammalian Effect. To conserve energy in cold water, they shut down non-essential organs Their body then requires so they can stay down longer. Penguins have a number of other that earn them the title of When submerged, they can make bulge outwards, allowing them Salt is an issue Penguins are able to deal with through a gland above their eye which filters sodium chloride (SOFT EPIC MUSIC) As eye-catching as their coats in the water they're designed Dark back feathers when viewed from above From beneath, white bellies streaming down from the surface. This form of camouflage and for penguins, it's their best If they are detected, gives them a speedier means (SOFT EPIC MUSIC) Smaller penguins They have the ability to launch to get back on firm land. (QUIRKY PONDEROUS MUSIC) Out of the water, however, their When a penguin waddles, it's making Short legs and webbed feet for covering distance on land... but their swaying motion than a static walk. Those with access to ice employ tobogganing... a faster, and arguably Whether on land or at sea, penguins have made the most of physical features and specialised (DEEP MUSIC) Modern day penguins They are descendants of an estimated that are all now extinct. The earliest family members as far back as 65 million years ago. The prehistoric penguins disappeared that seal and whale numbers giving rise to the theory they were Modern descendants in the 15th Century. Their name is the result It was originally thought known as the great auk. Its scientific name While that bird is now extinct, there are plenty of its relatives the genetic makeup of penguins to other aquatic birds. It may not be obvious but the albatross and petrel are a The one noticeable thing is the structure of their beak. Shearwaters...loons... and frigate birds also share these links tracing back to when penguin's ancestors While today's penguins and have shrunk in stature they have inherited the tools to (FAST PIANO MUSIC) Penguins are very social animals - comfortable in the company of but any other animal As elephant seals they make harmless neighbours. When breeding, penguins of 'safety in numbers'. Their annual gatherings most astounding spectacles. This king penguin colony has close With numbers like these, amongst the crowd... but these birds have developed for locating their mate. (SQUAWKING) Each penguin's vocalisation a 'calling card'... to announce they have arrived. (SCREECHING) The screech of a chinstrap the bird is often referred to (SCREECHING) When it's time to fish they opt for the safety of swimming All penguins use body language particularly when they want to or assert dominance. There is no pecking order as such but penguins can be territorial. While they gather for petty jealousies Competition for building materials This African penguin not to borrow Emperor penguins know the importance both for safety and comfort. When winter blizzards set in, The penguins pack in tightly. They each take turns Temperatures in the middle can reach despite the bracing winds This clever technique cuts heat loss allowing their fat reserves Emperor penguins maintain this Every year, a procession travels up to 160 kilometres inland the same ones their ancestors used As fascinating as their individual when witnessed en masse Every species of penguin has Some chicks emerge in soft burrows, (UPBEAT XYLOPHONE PLAYS) Others arrive in a nest And then there are those that hatch With most species, to plan and prepare Step one - find or build a home. When materials are in short supply, resorting to petty theft Step two - attract a partner. The more effort put in, Step three - devote the next Penguins are creatures of habit - the majority of species return Rockhoppers are even more precise - apparently they head to on the same day, year after year. They are one of the few penguins others include the African, (SOFT MUSIC) The majority of penguins Pregnant females all lay two eggs, except for the great penguins, This common doubling up increases the chance Incubation periods range from and both parents take turns There is one notable exception. Male emperor penguins literally, while the female The egg is placed on his feet and warmed by a featherless fold known as a brood patch - Blood can be directed to the surface keeping it at a constant despite the freezing environment. The male relies on fat reserves and sustain himself, having been fasting By the time the chick hatches the father will have lost If fishing goes well, the female will be back in time to If she is delayed, the male can produce crop milk, from his oesophagus, that will nourish the chick (SOFT EPIC MUSIC) Hatchlings are tiny and defenceless, relying on parental care Despite being the chick of baby emperors only weigh the same as three decks of cards. In contrast, they are almost of a little penguin chick. (SOFT PIANO MUSIC) King penguins hatch initially relying on the warmth until their plumage begins to grow All other species arrive covered As these feathers aren't waterproof, For nutrition, they're supplied from both their parents. Penguins will only feed instinctively returning to their With no set home, are drawn to their chicks (CHIRPING) The chicks grow quickly, can look a similar size but there is no mistaking Scientists believe is designed to safeguard the chicks. It identifies them as a non-threat When they are strong enough, the hatchlings are left together for protection from predators. This is where their appearance Juvenile down replaced with an uncomfortable process Mortality rates are high the chicks of burrowing penguins such as lizards, (SCREECHING) Aerial attacks are also common. In Antarctica, are the greatest threat apart from the extreme cold. Sadly, only 10 percent and half of king penguin hatchlings Even with this high loss of life, the emperor's choice to breed By the time the chicks The pack ice has begun to melt, making their journey to the sea (QUIRKY UPBEAT MUSIC) Plus, food is available Once out on their own, but mature penguins Life expectancy varies Little penguins average while kings and emperors can live Penguins don't have an easy start and those that manage face constant dangers all so they can pass on their (SOFT MUSIC) When it comes to food, the world has a generous assortment Despite this, consisting only of seafood. This makes them a specific known as a piscivore, from the Latin word 'pisces' Since they rely on vision these aquatic birds where sunlight penetrates Hunting styles vary from simply snapping their beaks to actively pursuing large fish. Banded penguins often forage Many pairs of eyes being able then drive the cluster where they can dive through The smaller Antarctic penguins, chinstrap and Adelie, small, shrimp-like crustaceans that spawn in their millions Each of these birds can of these tiny delicacies every day Larger penguins, eat a quarter of their body weight They can travel over 1000 kilometres For all that effort, the size of the fish they target They prefer small varieties, It means they need to catch 30 Penguins have powerful beaks to help They don't have teeth. Instead, they have sharp, and roof of their mouth which help position their prey When at sea, these feathery hunters Killer whales and leopard seals When ashore, penguins can be and carnivorous mammals Individually, they may seem but as a group, make a vital impact From spreading nutrients on land to keeping populations in check these delightful birds both as prey and predator. (SOFT MUSIC) For an animal that is only found penguins have been universally From the moment these strange birds were first documented they have become creatures of celebrated for their quirkiness. The yellow-eyed penguin is depicted It's Maori name hoiho (SCREECHING) Penguins have been immortalised and they fly around the world on letters. The emperor penguin has featured an impressive feat for a bird With their striking appearance it's not surprising that penguins are incredibly popular Countless books, toys, feature these beloved creatures. An industry has grown out of our to witness their gatherings. In reality, many of us these flightless birds in the wild, but it says something about our that they have become ingrained in (SOLEMN MUSIC) Though they are globally adored, more than half of all are listed as endangered and their demise is all down From the moment early explorers penguins were in trouble - harvested for their meat, In the past, their eggs as a source of sustenance. On one African island alone, Little wonder that African penguins with as few as 5,000 Although egg collecting was banned their hunting grounds overlap Oil spills are not uncommon. The results are catastrophic. The biggest threat for penguins Rising sea temperatures impacting hunting grounds (SOLEMN MUSIC) In warmer climates, are invasive species, such as foxes, rats and ferrets. The news isn't all bad - some species are on the rise. Adelie penguins are estimated Chinstraps over eight million. Thankfully, gentoos, littles Macaronis have the biggest numbers - at last count, Scientists believe are a good indication of As more attention is focused on to global warming, conservationists hope they can help Wildlife parks and aquariums by raising awareness whilst also bolstering penguin Eco-friendly tourism provides and educate the public These ventures often raise funds Globally, environmental vulnerable breeding grounds It's a long process, Hopefully, these interventions these charming, so that future generations can also Captioned by Ai-Media