- [Colin] 1967 Shelby GT500. - [Craig] I purchased back in 1977. - [Colin] This car gets - [Craig] With the Twin they're making six, 700 horsepower easily. - [Colin] You just put it to 11. My number's a little higher than yours. (The Appraiser intro theme) Turn your driving dreams into the world's most trusted since 1954. Hemmings offers live online auctions and tens of thousands of collector cars, trucks and bikes daily. (engine revving) - [Colin] Craig. - Hi Colin, how you doing? - Good, how are you? - Good to see you. Thanks for bringing your '67 GT500. - [Craig] No problem. - [Colin] You're kind of foolish, I think, for bringing a car like this in to me to get an appraisal but... - [Craig] Well, we've done a so why not? you're very trusting. So tell me a little bit about your car and your history with the car. - [Craig] Well this car from a woman that was the - 1977? I wasn't even born yet. - (chuckles) Well, I was and I saw this in the PennySaver, which is a little newspaper that It was just in there as a Mustang. Went down and took a look at it and saw it was a Shelby Mustang. She said that this was a car that her brother had bought new. Unfortunately he got and never came home in '68. So it was very low mileage, I purchased the car. I had it for a few years to a good friend of mine And with the promise that I 35 years later, I was able to buy it back. - [Colin] And have you done anything to it since you bought it back? - Yes, some special bought out McCulloch &amp; so I thought this would be a great car to put two Paxtons on it. - Two Paxton superchargers? - [Colin] A little bit's but you just went all the way. You just put it to 11. Okay, all right, well I'm Other than that, is it transmission, sheet metal, - Honestly, I took the original engine out 'cause I was gonna twin supercharge it and put some power to it. So I didn't wanna hurt the original engine so I built my own 428 with because it's gonna get plenty It's really only about 445 cubic inches, and with the Twin Paxtons you know, they're making easily and maxed out about 750. That's all the air they - Basic premise here, as you know, I'm doing an appraisal and because it's somewhat invasive you don't wanna see how - (laughs) Okay. you away to a secure location, and then we're gonna and have a conversation. I'll tell you my number and see if you fall down or you jump for joy. (rock music) So we're taking a drive with not one but two Paxton superchargers. (rock music continues) I finished my appraisal of It's an interesting car. He has a long history with it. He originally bought it That's pretty special stuff but what I wanna start with because this car gets really Now originally this would've had a 428 which has dual quads Now Craig, being in the Paxton superchargers for Shelbys, wanted to show what he could do so he put two of the bad boys So instead of just a that this car would've and no forced induction, it This is a very similar supercharged Cobras that which later became known In the middle of all of this insanity Craig has done something pretty smart. He's taken out the original for this car and put it on a shelf. In its place he's built a to put all this forced induction onto, so if something goes he's not destroying value. Beyond that, the car just low-mileage, rust-free California car. The Shelby serial number so it's a very early car. Now being early 1967, it as inboard headlights. These were later changed to what they call outboard headlights, where of the grill because of lighting laws. They were getting in trouble for having these lights Now let's continue our walk around and I'll show you some other stuff. (hood clicks closed) So this car is Dark Moss Green. Today it's a very desirable color. They made a lot of them fell out favor for a little The other thing you can is that it has what they This was an optional wheel for 1967. The base wheel was a 15 with a Thunderbird hubcap placed into the middle of it. You could also get a or these Magstars, so there for '67. Besides Paxton superchargers, of making new wheels for vintage Shelbys. His company makes Magstar wheels so Craig has made a special just for his own car. He made 15 by 7-inch ones for the front and 15 by 8-inch ones for the back, because he wanted to put on some big tires and try to get all that Twin If we walk around the outside, you see the original fiberglass scoops. Everything's in place. It looks essentially bone Now in the trunk, one of the casualties of putting two supercharges means that the battery had So Craig's moved the battery to the rear, much like a 1965 Shelby that would be easy to reverse in the original engine and You can see he's having a little in the trunk with these taillight covers. He must have had to do or replace some light bulbs, but what I do like to find I like the fact that he original California registration receipts, some old pictures, the He has some Mel Burns license plate frames from the original selling dealership, and also there is a magazine Craig used this car for a so the car has also got some When it was in the magazine, you can see it had the so you can see the difference. There's also kind of a neat years ago in a garage covered so I would assume this (car trunk slams shut) So we walk around the and there is one feature that I noticed, that the rear quarter panel which is odd because that put Twin Paxtons on his but I guess to each their own. More of the same over here, in the original paint, not a big deal. It's actually nice to have On the interior from this side, we can see has original seat covers, the original carpet, the and the factory shoulder Everything's where it should be and it's all correct 1967 Shelby stuff. And let's get behind the wheel and see what it looks like in there. So there are a few little that have been done for the It has this triple-gauge which is not original. Has a vintage Sun fuel pressure gauge, a vintage Stewart Warner and a modern digital Wideband because when you put that kind of pressure into a big block Ford with you probably wanna make so Craig is keeping tabs The car shows 28,000 original miles. The original aluminum dash fading a little bit, which It has a really nice original This is hard to find, one The factory gauges under I did take a look in the glove box and found something very interesting. I found a couple of pictures in here, which I believe are Craig, and these look like they He's wearing a different shirt Same car and it looks like maybe he was doing a little work I think these were but maybe I'm wrong, they could be older. Kind of cool to have stuff like that. (engine turning over) So it has a little lumpy idle The car does have headers on it so it has a little tinnier just sitting here idling, of what's going on under and you hear the supercharges wind up. (engine revving) So a big block Ford with is never a bad thing. So I finished my appraisal I have my number, I'm gonna and tell him that number as pressurized as this engine or if he's nice and cool about it. Let's go get him. (rock music) Hey Craig, welcome back. (chuckles) - [Craig] All right. - Can we still be friends - Of course, Colin. (chuckles) How much is that gonna cost me? Well I like your car. As you know, I've gone over I have a number. Before I give you my 'cause just like when you go scrapping, like you never wanna throw so it's your turn. You get to throw out the first number. - [Craig] Well, you know, which may be a little bit, I but I think this car is in today's market. - Yeah, I mean not that because you have a pretty and you let her get away once. - [Craig] Yeah, special car. - I like your number. Would you sell it for 200? - [Craig] No. My number's a little higher than yours. Like you said, I think today's market is, you know, going pretty well, cars are trading for a lot of money and this is a special car. You know, you have a unique with this hot-rod Twin Paxton setup that not a lot of people have. You pull into a car - That's pretty cool. but if you wanna go back the other way, you throw the stock engine back in it. So you haven't really by just plugging in your hot-rod engine. - Right, that was the idea. - So I think today, I like $250,000. - Wow, that's pretty cool. - I like how you're I was ready to jump back. - If I was in the mood to sell the car then maybe I would be more into it but you know what, it's It's probably gonna be - I did find that recent - Uh-oh. looks like you got lots of time left so thanks so much for bringing - Thank you, Colin. - Always good to see you. Yeah, you too. (engine turning over) Colin's assessment I from my assessment. I mean, I've been in this and so has Colin and he and he sees a lot of stuff, so I think he's pretty spot-on. It's a pretty special car to me. (engine revving)