We are so excited to have Vlad with us here today well-known YouTuber, so let's give it up for you're here. Thank you. So we're gonna hop disappointment and we've talked some about that before you've talked about two different world regards to demonization and some things in the before on YouTube, you've talked about it could you break down and just intro us into discussed before. Well first thank you for having time in the church and I'm already experiencing so thank you. I do believe that the foundation just the ministry of deliverance but to I call it warfare worldview versus a blueprint sovereignty and stretches it further than this is how it is usually portrayed. Everything God is in control. And these things have some accidents, people getting abused, people dying out people being defeated and you begin to throw that going to happen. The challenge with that though is the devil is innocent and usually if something worthy. We're the ones that take credit. With deliverance because everything is God's will. confused because on Sunday morning you're saying, then on Monday you're going to the doctor and say, very confusing way to live. I believe in a warfare direct result of God's will. Otherwise Jesus driving out demons. Jesus wouldn't be stopping doing good, healing all who were oppressed everything happens as God meant it to happen. sickness. There will be no abuse. There will be no something God wills. Evil is something that God Because the first mention of the word church, will not prevail against it. Meaning the church world. They will drive out demons. They will heal that means that we are soldiers in war. We're not as a blueprint, every bad thing that happens you that's going to a Disney vacation and they didn't when you see the world as war, all the good things they're not supposed to be happening at war. Yeah. that happens. At war, you learn to celebrate the it's better to be a warrior in the garden than Christians is they treat this world as a Disney Beach, where we are soldiers. We shouldn't be hey Lord, if it's Your will. We should be praying come, Your kingdom come, Your will be done on who have the blueprint worldview, what begins to they view pretty much every disappointment in disappointment or in some kind of a view that all the hardship, for some unknown mysterious from that. I believe that God gets glory and Jesus God gets glory. God doesn't get glory from evil. His power. So that's in a nutshell. So expand God's will, we live in a world of warfare. How can way that ties them to the warfare blueprint, even week in our own house there was a tragic accident number of years ago lost a son. So sometimes they so could you help us understand? Just go further become strongholds and then how to break the know I have a good example of that personally well my mom had a very difficult birth with me. one goes down. And so I've, when I grew up you my life is for a reason, everything that happens in my life is God purposed it. I had a difficult of that, not only because of my optical nerve was time I would get exposed to the sun. So in order away from the sun, staying in the building. So top of that as a teenager. My family immigrated so the culture shock, the new language. I didn't that just pretty much kind of caved on me, and I by allowing me to be born. And why, why did I life is supposed to be part of His perfect plan. was kind of angry at God even at some time. I was You know I'm like, what did I do to deserve this? hideous crime and you prevented that? I mean what was filtering everything that I was experiencing God's will. And when you start to get to know went about doing the will of God by healing the way I was born was not God's will. Now it it and then He could redeem it, use it for His believe that we're born in a broken world, we are this world to draw us near to Him, 100%. But the Secretary of Transportation because of the not right and that's not even fair. He's not for how I was born. The doctors at Soviet Union evil and the people's decisions are responsible. factor in that I kind of helped me to overcome He is good to me and He can take some of the stuff it for His good. I've experienced God's healing healed me of headaches. So that's completely have perfect vision. Out of four siblings and both I don't have a problem with vision. My problem eye surgeries before I got to this revelation in the school I was bullied, I was being made fun And so I thought that if God heals the face then You know I'll be accepted, I'll have good grades And so but of course that that won't change problem wasn't with my eyes, the problem was with and He probably will. I have a few people that didn't have enough faith. Let me pray for you. I who actually have problem and they're usually just believe for your healing. I was like, a healing with my eyes. But God didn't heal that way? He changed me on the inside. The guy that different guy. On the outside I'm still the same So what I believe is this is that in order to deal we must understand, God is not guilty, Satan get the credit for good stuff. Say that again, not guilty for the bad that happens. Satan is not for everything that bad happens. What I'm just fingers in everything that's bad in this world. In and all of his minions are involved in the evil God is not responsible and I know that they're not was going through what I was going through. He was he finds joy in my suffering and that bothers because God doesn't find joy in my suffering. God saved us through His suffering. He's the one that is not guilty for my pain. My God is the one who saves me and my God is the one that promises that And meanwhile I'm in this earth, He says through me to fight against that pain. And some of it that And so in my case, not only I've seen Him to change that mental image that I had on the inside down. But I couldn't break that stronghold until I I see in the mirror, I not what happened to me you that. And God is on my side. He wants me to experience disappointment in an area for a long There was a study once one time they did with the a fish tank and they put other small fish in the so barracuda fish ate all other fish. And so what the fish tank. Barracuda fish on one side and tiny ones. So barracuda fish again saw the lunch know barracuda fish, though not Christian but not didn't go fast but it still hit the glass. The slower knowing that I'm going to get hit somewhere fish stopped going to the other side. They removed why? Because though the glass was removed, after of the fish. When you experience disappointment a prolonged battle seeps in inside, and the on the inside. The devil isn't just interested in well, building within us a new image, a stronghold layer by layer, disappointment by disappointment. if our circumstances change, Israel gets out of They're still complaining. They're still whining. were in. It got inside of them. It's like that of my headaches you know and seems like my life mental stronghold was removed, I couldn't walk had to do is to heal my eyes. You know all He had skeleton and then everything will be changed. And would convict me and He said, Vlad, you're just you're looking at the mirror in the bathroom. It that's not who you are. He's like you never, house. He's like that's your house. You just got not your house, you are not your body. You are a skin stretched over a skeleton. He like yours so when I got that revelation, those mental the inside the Lord start forming into really a I can do what God says I can do. And you know I wouldn't say disappointment. It was a temptation found out after a few years that we cannot have of health reasons the doctor said you cannot develop disappointment, you can say man nothing I have to fight. And so I was in the Ukraine in me an image of a boy and I get this impression. have a son. And so here's a reality, I cannot have that I could believe in or I could say, I'm But I trusted, I knew the Lord enough to know And so the Bible says you shall know the devil uses facts to bind us. God uses the truth but honestly I'll be honest with you, after 10 on to me. I was no longer trying to believe for between faith and trust. Faith is active, you're He's got me. And like the three Hebrew boys said, not bow and your idols I will not serve. Meaning I know he is true to His word and I trust His God is faithful and you know now I have you know powerful, but truth can change facts. And the biblical stronghold. A train of thoughts, dominant that I experience should not dictate my almost every person that I have encountered walking in crazy favor, has first encountered they refused to be offended by. They didn't trip have this silent frustration with God. Why I've been fasting. Why am I being dealt with this? receive it as God's perfect will. They said, Lord I'm pressing and I'm believing for a miracle. But kind of, not that you give up. You kind of go. And it's not that you're surrendering to the under Your mighty hand, I trust in You and I'm next thing that happens is you're beginning to to allow those disappointments to take root inside an accident that happened. Not to allow to derail this side of eternity, the closest thing that we this life, even if we get all the breakthroughs, deliverance. All of them are secondary nature. The we always have to remind ourselves that that's the in a position where they're just bound by this their life, it might even involve repentance responsible for this. Even if I just emotionally acknowledge but internally I'm saying, He could you talk to us about even repenting towards the it's a very religiously bound area. People are mindset that you mentioned, that's like this whole about that. About seeing God rightly and then even themselves from entering into that position unhealthy perspective of God is responsible. How what you just highlighted is very important is one theologian, he said why do bad things happen He volunteered. Ultimately we do have to remove we are good, we're entitled to good. We are mercy sent His Son to take us rebels, and not only into His family and make us part of His plan. And of repositions us to really just have an attitude suffering. Whatever we're facing, that alone is is that the workings of the Holy Spirit like I Mary, Martha and Lazarus were friends of Jesus, and you know thinking that Jesus is their friend. see them. And the Bible says, when He heard that it's like man, what's the point of being a close else except to you. And I think every believer, experiencing that part of friendship with God, Jesus to heal your daughter and walking with just out of nowhere touches and gets healed. It's just doesn't happen. And so I think everyone will cannot have kids. Hagar, bam, got a child. She's that she can have a child, and here I am walking You already changed my name, my wife's name. to have just to have something that other people You know to have something that should come much for being a &quot;friend&quot; of God. And so I translates other people's dreams, in three days it's like God put it on the pause, and then put And he's walking with God and these other guys if you walk closer to the Lord you experience people that either just got into faith or are not life easy. And I do think that that will happen to have to learn to process that. And if we trust in frustration toward God, like Job did. The he started asking all the questions, he ripped his place also to grieve because if you don't grieve talking about you're blaming God. You're talking hurt into the presence of God which what happened psychic. He didn't go to some kind of a weirdo media, didn't do a live stream about it. He was Bible says, and he worshiped. And then afterwards so and that's what I had to do every single day. still when I had headaches, I would lock myself Friday. As a freshman and sophomore and junior honestly bleeding in prayer. It wasn't prayer. you know why did you let this happen to me? Why am You know but and God can handle that as long as with that, what I started to experience is peace which was weird. I was like and this God is complain to Him. So as long as I trust Him He can handle that and it always gets filled with bringing that grieving, suffering, going to God. shadow of death, I fear no evil because I walk He heals me from that and then comes a point where the Lord, the Bible says when they reject you from is from the city. I think that principle applies you went into that you experience rejection, that off the demonic dust that comes with it. That God has abandoned you, nothing ever good is going shook the dust off, I mean who would have thought, be speaking in the United States to other people mistaken me for somebody else. And today the very me from being used by God, is the very thing that listen God can use anybody and He can use somebody like a knife. If you stop taking it by the blade, thing by the handle and it becomes a tool. That it becomes a weapon against the enemy. The very becomes the very thing you stab him with. Yeah. repentance towards the Lord but also the grieving, some of us, though we might believe God is good, admitting God isn't good. And a spirit of religion have bad feelings, a Christian should never cry, actually something we need to process with the Yeah. A whole Book in the Bible is Lamentations. an emotional roller coaster, and you're talking was an emotional nightmare. Each Psalm is either or like you're reading you're like, how is that you're like yeah I kind of feel like that my life normal. And then you know it's okay to feel that, Yeah, yeah and so emotions unprocessed with the what you're saying. Yeah. Wounds neglected become but with Jesus it takes time to heal. And so the it up or because if I bring it to the Lord it I lack discernment or any. No, you're a human in the garden. He was telling His Father, can so, the Bible says that His sweat was like drops blabbing, grabbing it, and stomping it on the says His sorrowful, His soul was sorrowful. That But He didn't process that with Pharisees, He with His Father. So coming into the demonic, disappointment can be natural. It can actually empowered? I think when we allow, especially The hurt itself is not, is not bad. Everybody gets got deeply rejected and betrayed. They put Him on He died. But on the cross in the middle of that who didn't think what they were doing was wrong, hardest time to forgive. And I think the only were done to us and the things that we experience our heart and our soul with forgiveness, release release God from being responsible to cause that God. God is not at fault. But what I'm saying don't hold Him hostage to that. Release Him When we don't do that and we develop bitterness bitterness is what we do to ourselves. Betrayal this inner wound that gets infected and then that kills you. It's the infection that hurts you like when somebody has a gun, gun wound, you know you have to right away treat that, why? Because going to do now staying in your body. And so when to come in, resentment begins to come in. And the way demons work is demons work in groupings. bitterness becomes this gate opener. Bitterness bring havoc into your life. That demon's goal of them. The demon of wrath, the demon of death the third cousins and the rest of them. That's you always see it's never one demon. It's always groupings. One comes in. You open the door to one. them. That's one of the reasons we should never are most susceptible especially in the west is the with offense because we're also very in touch with people walk around eggshells around us and we're around us and our feelings are very big deal And so the enemy takes advantage of that. And those wounded feelings to remain untreated and through repentance, what begins to happen is the then after that comes other stuff. Like for It was a tragic death and this young man was angry but he was still angry at Him because for some angry at God one night, they didn't live very Now I don't know who told him to do that. He wrath and anger against God, and saying, God he felt something enter him. And so after that anger. And so he just would snap, lose Now afterwards he would recognize what just and he would see the bruising on her face. He I lost control. Now somebody looking at him can for your actions. But in reality somebody else went to jail. I mean his life, his whole life was wanted to diagnose him with some kind of a mental on the third pew dressed in a suit and a tie. As know like the whole nine yards and so we bring him I entered him at the cemetery because of his anger The demon gets cast out. Not only one demon. There once you open a door for that one demon, you don't why it's dangerous to allow unforgiveness because they bring, you don't decide that. They do. And he asked God for forgiveness. The Lord restored he has kids. Never had that outburst again in his supernatural. So like in his story something outbursts of anger, actually had then to, had to who would say, I'm not really sure that this is more discipline. And sometimes that is the case. become, how can we sharpen our eyes to see things not over spiritualizing and acknowledging the is anti-supernatural. Anti-supernatural, why? naturalistic, atheistic world view that seeks miracles is a violation of natural laws. But Miracles are invasion of God's kingdom, and God with them. He can invade them. Now typically God kingdom and He wants to bring His kingdom in so and He doesn't owe us an explanation for that. And you can't study them in the laboratory. It's are like you know in Costco you get those just taste it. So miracles are a foretaste of about to come that's going to fully invade the there's going to be no more demonization, when the resurrection of the dead happens, it's When a healing happens it's a taste of we're going it's a taste that we will no longer have Satan, we part of the supernatural when it comes to demonic, of those people that sees a demon behind every A lot of things are you know people have mental people just lack discipline. But with that said, it would have not set them free. Working hard in fact working hard in Egypt makes Pharaoh out is not through working hard because that's Pharaoh made them work hard, and in fact by freedom. They just got deeper and deeper because Discipline only works on the flesh. It never works Jesus would have told them pray harder, fast, more and give more. Jesus never treated any leader, pastor or a spiritual person who looks tells them, just try harder. That is the greatest thing you can say. That is, that is so bad because that just came out of a tomb, run harder. The guy hey Lazarus run harder. He says, no guys, go loose And it's not that running harder is going to can walk and then so he can run. Now so how do says the way you deal with the flesh is you remove Pretty much we apply enough discipline that is live a crucified life and that's where the flesh live crucified life. How do you live a crucified you practice fasting, you say no to the flesh It's not super complicated. If you've done that, that's not the hand. It's a spirit. You remove the with the eye, you're dealing with the spirit. keeps reaching, and you're still doing it. You with the flesh. You don't need to work harder you need the blood of the Lamb. We're not dealing we need to go into demolition. We need to somebody comes up and they have an issue other stuff. And you know I first ask them, like I have a demon. Like well hold on. Before we deal You know do you get enough sleep? What do you do time or are you like reading the Scriptures? Are you notice that this person is actively engaged and they're being tormented. Then you can pretty not with the physical. But if those things were just go cast out demons. No, let's go and make I have really a demon? Then this demon is going you're more set up for your freedom because and stuff. And so you will really see a contrast, into your life. And so that's what I would to realize the reality of supernatural is that we Because the church culture is built by the pulpit. the culture of the church. We use sermons just we have to teach on it. The other part is that experience the supernatural by praying for people allow a room for people to be delivered and people whether that happens in the back room. I don't an opportunity for that to happen. And the testimonies within our services. The way we defend it's less through our sermons, it's more through years we have never had one service without at the sermon but we never cut back on testimonies. when somebody hears me talking about deliverance he gets paid, tadada. They have whatever their somebody, a lay person that is talking about that can't argue with them. It's their story. You can argue with somebody's story. Testimonies, the arguments and they really can expose people to about healings all we want, but if people don't and I'm talking about with the medical report. just felt heat going over my body and I'm healed church community. Why don't you go back to the go to the priest and get himself examined. let's present it to the church and let's glorify church. Like we've had so many healings like I'm a believer in people instantly getting healed. She comes first time to church, Jessica. immediately testified, Pastor, I felt heat go in did doctors diagnosed you that you had cancer? have diagnosis, and in two weeks I'm going to go that you tell them you know to examine you again. examined and so now it's been a year and every 6 healed. And she has medical reports to prove supernatural, that the church begins to read it, for pastors and leaders, we can often not go for to disappointment. We're fearful of being what God has actually just done in a service And so we, like we stop, which is what I hear you to free other people when we see God move on body, whatever, that's great. But if we stop short partnering with doubt somewhere. And I'm saying, just in case or what if. And that's still love what you're saying because that's actually for leaders. But it's actually very connected to of our conversation, trust in God, because when say. Even if the report comes back, oh you still I know He's good. Yeah, and faith is not denying I don't think that. And I'm one of those people, stuff like, we want to empty hospitals. You know my teeth you know wisdom teeth pulled out, I was and I was like man these people. And then when you know and I was like, yeah I don't think I want science. They have their limits, they have their as Christians just because we're into healing or against counseling or we're against medicine or heals, He heals indeed, He heals truthfully. Whom delivers you from that anxiety and you have a good you got some doctor who really wants to make you a medicated, yeah switch doctors. There's some good And so we encourage people that even if you got reports still don't show that. This doesn't mean just simply say, you know what, hey, I respect faith is not denying the evidence that the doctor it and you can do that respectfully. You can do people, hey you know tell, I reject that report do that internally. Say doctor, I respectfully you mean really well. But you know even doctors a lot of times they would beat those diagnosis optimistic and have faith and not believe you know because a lot of times they have to tell afterwards. And so but faith is simply refusing and that's good because I think what's happening is that there are pockets in places that are supernatural, and then there are places that are saying is showing that God's kingdom is not one or to acknowledge what the doctor says but we're by. It's, it's this well-rounded ecosystem that both then we actually remain malnutrition. Yeah, I think there's a healthy balance. Holy Spirit, I think some people think just because you're You don't have to become weird. You don't have to anti-common sense just because you believe in miracles, just because we cast out demons. And cast out demons from that had trauma, because we get delivered. And one of the recommendations for them by the mercies of God to get some counseling. time the healing process, especially the ones other stuff. They need, they need help. They need walk through that. And yeah they can instantly need somebody to work with them so that they me move to a few questions and you can speed them but I just want to fire off some questions, have a demon? Obviously we've assumed that in this believe that Christians shouldn't have a demon Christians shouldn't struggle with sin, but they Christian have a demon? Well Christian, like my want to have. How can a Christian have a demon? is not one reference in the New Testament that the people who argue against deliverance, they where it's very clear. I'm not talking about where that's not saying that but what Christians cannot And so we see plenty evidence that healing belongs demons. To me it's very clear. So and then we you have a demon, you need deliverance. And so but of us? Well if the argument is if the Holy Spirit because demons are bad and Holy Spirit is good, know yeah the old man is crucified, but the Bible flesh is not out there. It's here inside. So how Bible says this about flesh, nothing good dwells bad. How can He share space with that? Now I don't Holy Spirit lives in our spirit, and you know in pain, we can experience... Can you go further actually happens? So I don't know exactly. I we assume. I'm going to go with we assume because Spirit doesn't share with bitterness. In our soul have unforgiveness? Yes. Can Christians have in their body? Of course. All of us are going to So how is the Holy Spirit able to share room with fine. His presence doesn't cause those things to we can now come against those things and walk remove His presence. Now the argument that I that people can have demons but if I become a it say that in the Bible? There's not one shred my hair doesn't change. When I become a Christian, the color of my pants don't change. There's a the Bible, when Jesus came into the room you don't manifesting, not leaving. His presence provokes Every instance you see Jesus cast out. It never Son of God cast demons out and tells us to do the just lead them through the sinner's prayer. He hey just get them saved. Once we get them saved the spiritual world more than anybody. All He all the demons would have been gone. He never did up they manifested. So that tells me that when they will be uncomfortable, which means hell will when they get saved their life gets worse. Why? you become a Christian. Like they go somewhere in exposed and they start really creating all kinds of attacks begin to happen in somebody's life. now they're being provoked. And that's why we experience deliverance. Now the other part, I Pastor, I don't believe that Christians can have And he gave me the same thing, Holy Spirit cannot one question. I said, can Christians give room that. So wait, so Christians can allow demons that possible? Why did Paul tell us not to give like it's not possible? Don't give place to the of that, and so or the argument is light and that's using the Scripture about Paul telling to unbelievers. And he says do not be unequally not deliverance. The concept is dating or unequally yoked. The fact that he has to commend automatically impossible for unbelievers. We If a Christian cannot have demons, then No they can and many do. They shouldn't, but they and darkness. I find it interesting that he with darkness? He says no, how can light have the same thing. I coexist with my neighbor but coexist with unbelievers. I don't have fellowship around me in this world. The Bible says not to then it says how can righteousness have communion, is not about coexistence. That verse deals Christians do not date unbelievers. He's not Don't covenant with them, why? Because he says coexist. He says they don't covenant. They and lawlessness. It's not that they cannot they're on different teams. And so it is totally but as a Christian a demon doesn't have you. The many people have with the topic of Christians when you say that Christian has a demon, a lot of demon possessed. and their idea of course come of Emily Rose or some other Catholic inspired bizarre stuff, but that's not how demonization Christian through willful sin, through maybe those demons through the bloodline. Nobody just occult because really demons enter through three and it's the intrusion. Intrusion, it's when you when you get involved with continuous, Or inheritance, if people in your bloodline people to demons, and a lot of times those demons would ask, how can a Christian have that? Well these demons come in they don't necessarily become you don't control what comes in. Flies can come If you open the door in your house neighbors cats where you live. Once you open the door you do not doors, and the Bible is very clear, do not give stuff that comes in is not good. Now the stuff For example, if a mosquito gets into my house, the the mosquito becomes annoying to everybody in the and I can kill the mosquito. Mosquito doesn't kill I can drive the mosquito out of my house. So I demons cannot have Christians. So I'm thankful, churches and pastors that do deliverance and they access to a community that one either believes in out, how can someone who doesn't have a neighbor, what would you say to them for becoming free it's not a Biblical pattern for deliverance that met pastors in other nations who were delivered mind during covid. Watched one of my video in the manifestation, puked and everything something Now there is a verse in the Bible where Jesus cast a demon-possessed daughter. So I do believe that can experience self-deliverance, though it's not But you know when people recognize they have a of the things that maybe have led to that and themselves, Derek Prince likes to use the word name because deliverance happens through three the power of the Holy Spirit and by casting demons we don't hug demons out, we don't pray demons out, come out. We actually speak directly to demons out of themselves, through the name of Jesus out. I've heard many stories of people that that of them still sometimes need additional prayer in the Christian circle today, the deliverance has that's been taking place. Where a lot of being exposed is there are people in that church when you're desperate for deliverance, God He will guide you. Israelites couldn't find He did, and He sent to them a deliverer. What minister to you. It could be a book, it could be It doesn't have to be a demon slayer, doesn't have It's just a believer who believes in the power being cast out of a person instead of cast off of Spirit. Yeah and that means your hope isn't in a sometimes I think our hope, it can be so projected what's happening now, as great as they are, pastors and pastoring churches in deliverance you can't project your hope onto that person or to one of the greatest ways to be disappointed in actually that's where I think a lot of people get they had faith in faith or they had faith in the always says, those who trust in the Lord will why was I disappointed? But I wasn't trusting in for a miracle. So if you're putting trust in in the Deliverer, He'll never disappoint you. If If you trust in the Healer, He doesn't disappoint said, I know in whom I have believed. No Paul know my Redeemer. Job didn't say, I know I double portions coming my way. No, when you hit you're not really sure. But you're very sure, my when He's going to redeem, how is He's going to says, I know in whom I have believed. I feel like a lot of times we haven't taught them really who for things, sometimes we get disappointed some people end up you know getting delivered and these demons that were on the inside, they come on the inside. The funny part is that when the were on the inside. Ah that's really good. And you're free. I wish you would have told me that That would have been really helpful. I tell people the inside they never make their presence known. tell you you have other problems. But when the now they're convincing you and usually it's same nightmares come back, the same attacks come person freaks out and they come back feeling like There are cases where people do, from something many cases I use the story of Pharaoh attacking went back to Egypt for another plague. They went enemies you've seen you shall never see again. God drowned that Pharaoh. So this is how you you he's on the inside. It's the same feelings, annoying. It's extremely annoying. It's kind ringing on the bell. It is very annoying, but it's It's a difference between a dog barking at you and inside, we experience torment. It's a bite. When we experience a trial. We experience all of annoying. Especially in the beginning stages of temptations and those attacks can intensify. Why take us from deliverance to deliverance. He wants to dominion. And for that to happen He cannot give over. In the promised land the Lord gave them Actually the Bible says He delivered those enemies for you to now submit to God and resist the devil. us from them. He empowers me to resist them, and one things the lions have, they have a very Lions don't run long distances. That's why they lion, he doesn't have endurance. All you have just stand your ground and he the Bible says will what people usually do is just freak out at first, back. Oh Moses, God didn't deliver us. And that's why? We knew, we knew it wasn't really real greater than Moses to deliver us. Well no, no, no. and you'll see this Pharaoh you will not I think the deliverance isn't for getting into living a cruise life or living a vacation life. in warfare against the enemy. Deliverance Yeah. When you're in bondage you cannot fight, a battle. Yeah. What many people think is God from bondage. He never delivered Israelites from Egypt they didn't fight. They simply just waited. they had to fight. Of course a lot of them when out because their idea of deliverance is what a is just going to bring me into a life of just ease God is enlisting you. God is enlisting you into to a soldier. In a freedom session which is what do you do when someone doesn't manifest but praying, you're addressing things but nothing you're hitting a brick wall. What would be your them is that sometimes people are not ready for we know that they need prayer and so sometimes for a deliverance. Somebody either coerced and and they came. And especially when people, enough to know that they really need deliverance. checking it out like yeah just, just please check really sure. And so in those cases you know just kinda leave it in the hands of God. And the careful not to develop unrealistic expectation upon the person that we're praying for now. Some there are other people who manifest in a way that of infirmity. We don't see manifestation there, people that we don't, everything in God's kingdom matter how much you manifest, vomit, throw up and everything in God's kingdom is received by faith. through a manifestation. And so if manifestation there, we still pray for the person, we command breathe it out, and if they don't feel anything way I ask them to receive by faith the greatest they don't cry. Wow. I think that's where a lot of there. You get stopped, you can get halted because if the person comes in with that expectation as came in and they're like, I've been through every for them in our prayer line and this person is and I drove here and you're my last bus stop, and whoa, whoa. I was like bro. He's like, if nothing going to do. And I was like, nothing's going to the other guys that came to you. No, no, you're good. So I right away disappointed him. I said, agree that the Lord Jesus Christ who loves you to jolt you with 220 electric shock, and you don't now that's manifesting. And I said, if you want you want a show, this is a wrong place. Yeah. I'm like then there are other places who really will you're here to be free. Yeah. Do you want to you want to be free and you're manifesting, well want to be free and you don't manifest, well so not to manifest. And I think when people come think if I manifest violently and if I manifest my deliverance is really, really... Coming back think it's very faulty. I've seen some people who videos have millions of views, their deliverance. just not walking in freedom. The demons are before the deliverance and they are, I know some all because deliverance is a very small piece piece. The discipleship is where the big piece big piece. Deliverance just unties your hands and people say, oh that's it. It's going to change came out of Egypt. Mhm. It didn't feel like the Pharaoh was gone. They were still miserable. that's where the breaking of the strongholds, that's where discipleship comes in. And so when deliverance is the hammer and my problem is the going to solve my laziness. It's going to solve doesn't. It solves one issue and that is the It doesn't solve your bad spending habits. It solve the fact that you like to sit on TikTok. to have to put in some discipline, join a small Most people at least in our area have found all pastors online. They're not being pastored which I wouldn't even say you could actually on YouTube, social media who are bringing great even a lot of wolves in sheep's clothing on it's the topic of deliverance or anything else and so many people go to YouTube before they go say, how would they navigate just that, that whole media, YouTube landscape of teachers who claim they discern truth in that climate. So I think and you know one of them is that there's a danger that or like really magnify that. I feel like Church hurt, all of that. Orphan spirit a lot like and especially deliverance community that supposed to make demons homeless. I feel like I'm a local pastor. I was a youth pastor at lead pastor. I bleed local church. During covid, I'm not against online churches but in our small groups members, every, the whole nine yards. local church. Not zoom, not live streams and so just told all of them, you need to find a local 40 minute drive of where you live. okay I understand. Sunday morning, tune in. Gather we'll cover you. But if you have local churches, preference or that pastor doesn't teach like to get over yourself because we are supposed to You know there are organs of the body that are in We need to be connected there. That's where the without us rubbing shoulders with each other, iron. That happens in proximity and friction. You Christians do is this is the moment they get close holy sparks, I'm talking about disagreements. you're actually missing an opportunity to develop And you keep jumping from one church to another, that's if you take a plant and you keep replanting to die. The Bible says we got to be planted in a delivered I always tell them is this is that you breaking generational curses, God's best method in a different home. Now there's no perfect home He gave us a family. So when you get plugged into breaking generational curses from the family you blessings of the family you belong to. And this It's not a chat box on YouTube. Yeah. It's not a people in the local church need to know when you people need to know if you gave birth to a child. How are you doing? They need to also know if you one to know but somebody in the church that you And the guy on YouTube doesn't even know your name. I mean I have a YouTube platform, I have a single day, hundreds of messages. Pastor I need about this, and I don't respond. I don't read that and number two is that that's not my ministry. I'm not a substitute. And so it's very important that second part is when we watch stuff online, we have online, you don't know their fruit. You can know and the more you do stuff online the better I mean except what you hear me say and how you discernments can be off because people can be, who when you do this for a long time you can become do the miracles and do the signs and wonders, why? you learn to portray yourself in one way and be watch you online, they usually don't see the and there's a distance from that. And so not we have to judge somebody fruit. And it's very we can also you know read it in between the lines, But all of that also is a lot of times unreliable. audience and over those watching. The things we into their lives as we wrap this up? Yeah. So if just may He open the eyes of our understanding, and may He strengthen us to walk in faith, to Lord, I pray for every person that is watching Lord that maybe is dealing with disappointment. I who maybe have experienced unanswered prayer or were expecting that He will do. Lord, I pray in going to take root and become a stronghold in our we don't understand everything that we go faith we understand. Lord, we don't start we start from trust, we trust in You, and from telling us not to lean on our understanding Lord. every seed and every root of disappointment, every enemy that has masqueraded or hid behind facts or ask You right now Holy Spirit that You will help brick by brick in our mind, Lord. That we'll be our thoughts, Lord. We choose to prioritize Your what You are doing, what You've promised to do and trust in You when we can't trace You, when we in our life. We know that You're a God that is pray for us right now God, that we will move from disappointment to an appointment Lord, in Jesus have experienced deliverance and maybe the battle and maybe the struggle has gotten harder, the that You will help them to be discipled in that disciplines that will help them to get through God that You will just just, break that weak, that shallow, superficial, casual Christianity become Christians that are devoted, that live a embrace the suffering that comes with it, God. we walk in faith looking to You Lord. Build that us Lord. To fight, to resist, to come against, to in Jesus name we pray amen, amen. Let's give it up