All right, where every 10 seconds I'm seriously It's GTA. We wanted to create the most insane and so Alex has a brand new board. He's modified the Chaos Mod, so now it happens various other special There's 10 checkpoints in all over the map and he's given me certain vehicles He says the only way is to embrace the Chaos, so let's do this. This is what the world looks The Chaos has now ensued. You know what? I'm going to let this first Airstrike inbound, invisible vehicles. We see where we have to go. There's a giant arrow way off Oh my God, 10 second Chaos is really bad. Oh my God, what? [laughs] It's a black hole. This couldn't be a worse start I love that I have times so I almost can run fast enough except the entirety of the map You can see all the vehicles Okay, but this is good because I'm kind of in control. Never mind. My body is right-- Oh, my. Invert current velocity. I can't even fall to the ground. I just need to get into the water, There. [laughs] I hit the ground. I teleported to a vehicle while I'm dead. Oh, 10 second Chaos is going to be a trip. Okay, I'm back at the beginning. It's fine though. I seem to enjoy getting so what I'm going to do-- [laughs] Oh, God, no. [grunts] I'm in a car with Jesus right now. My hope before the Chaos Mod yeets Oh, okay, Well, that's nice. That would have been an item when I started the map. Spawn Jealous Jimmy. Define Jealous Jimmy. Oh, Jealous Jimmy has a hand-- He's got a machine gun. All right, I had too much Did I just crash or--? Oh, okay, so fake crash. [laughs] Florida Man Coffee will help us complete this mission because it allows you to jump Ouch. [chuckles] 0.5 game speed. Airstrike inbound. Please no. Don't do it. Don't do this to me. Let me get inside of this-- Yes. No. Oh, God. Oh, normal day in paradise Oh, it killed the engine of every vehicle. Oh, why? Why? Oh, wait. Oh, yes. Oh, this is the stuff. Here's what we're going to do. As soon as gravity is-- Is this a fake crash This is a fake crash, right? I feel like this is a fake crash Tell me it's fake. Yes, okay. What we're going to do is when the gravity we've got our parachute, so now, Here we go. Here we go. Perfect. All right, Ragdoll parachute is on. What? You owe $5 to an alien. Oh, the alien's because I have a parachute and he doesn't. Here's your $5 back, by the way. Gravity field. Whoa. Why? Oh, God. [screams] Hey, everyone, The good news is tanks are on sale. The bad news is my mom's car is on fire This is right now what I am-- [grunts] We're going to do this. We're going to do this. We haven't even gotten but I'll never give up. I don't care what it takes. Now, unfortunately, the honking, the horn is stuck on all the vehicles Oh, hey, Jesus. How you doing? Oh, you're going to get me killed, Yes. All right. As soon as the-- [grunts] Oh, the low gravity means Your desktop is getting abused. I know. I'm getting abused. [screams] What? What is this? On-demand TV. There's like an eight-bit It's GTA, More Gray. More me what? Oh, it's just me again. Now, there's two of me. That's great because one of me and the other me can be the driver. I cannot think of what could possibly Look at this. Oh, that guy is fine. It may have looked like I hit He fell. He tripped. There wasn't even a car that did that. Why is there whale Oh, no. I love that I'm getting We have no sky. Oh, the gravity field, Oh, yes. Oh, this is great. This is wonderful. I'm at my farthest area right now too and we have slippery vehicles The gravity field is about to turn off. That's great. I just got barbecued inside of my own car, Heaven rejects you. Where is the arrow? Oh, I'm at the opposite end Really? I don't want to be in this car. Oh, spinning camera. I am so dead right now. You know what? Just hit me. Just hit me with a car. Just end this, please. Why do y'all keep slowing down? Oh, actually, you know what? I'm going to take your car. Out of the way. [laughs] Oh, God. I wasn't going to make you guys Come on, I got hit by a, what is this? Is that a windmill? Why is it always the windmills? Oh, I've got a Dodge. Oh, this means You're on the news, Gray. That's why I'm here. I'm going to do something All you people get Times 10 engine speed? Oh, yes. Oh, we're rolling. Oh my God. Zach loves zooming. Zach is my editor for you. I'm right here. I'm at the checkpoint. Just let me have it. Oh, so close, Okay, here we go. There's no zooming. It's snow, it's fine. Oh, no. Come on, I'm right there. [laughs] I'm right here. I can't see anything. Oh, my life is just torture. Okay, here we go, here we go, here we go. No. No. Oh, sticks the landing? People really dislike me and apparently, I am so close to getting and my desktop is getting abused. I can barely see. Oh, the checkpoint's very clear. That's all I need to know. This is the combo. Low gravity plus the ramp Thank God. Oh, and it's a good day for meteors. Now you can't see it, there is an arrow I'm just going to drive straight. I feel It sounds like a lot of water. I restarted back at the checkpoint and we did get a car here. Fire your stylist. Oh, Lord. Alex has given us a car to use, There's a buggy. That is an all right Chaos item. $5 to the alien, also okay. This is like 10 seconds Heads go boom. That's terrible, so now I want to make sure which is very difficult for me Oh, Lord. Oh, Lord. Oh, no. Oh, driving on [?] Yeeted. Cops think you're suss. I always suss. There's not a moment I guess that's true, where I'm not sorry that I downloaded but there's not a time where, where I'm not being hunted Where did everything go? Whoa, okay, this is bad. I know where I need to drive. I know it's in this direction. Now I don't know Tires go pop. Of course, they do. I guess I don't need this anymore. Don't mind me, I was just running Boom. Boom where? What is this? Oh, I see the checkpoint. [screams] No, [beep]. I need to impress upon you what I've been through to get I'm in the maze. What the--? What is this? What's that? People really dislike you, Gray. Oh, I'm inside the maze. Oh my God. Oh, it's me. Why do I hate myself? No, I caused my own distress. I'm my own worst enemy. I'm inside of the maze and I'm getting abused by cats and the cats just keep Now, I do love cats, so that is okay. You're going to notice just chilling out over here. This is what I've had to go Yay. Oh, for God sake. Oh, hold on. I have a parachute. It's fine. Oh, this is happening. This is happening right now. Yes. No, not save the whales. I swear to God, Oh my God, we have a checkpoint. Oh, it's a teleport. Whoa, hi. I didn't know that would teleport Where's the next one? Okay, There's the next arrow. Hope you've gotten an umbrella. Is it going to rainwater Oh, it's going to rain vehicles. Of course, it is because it's Chaos. Now it is raining whales and vehicles. On the plus side, though, this means I'm going to get a vehicle, My names GrayStillPlays, Oh, apparently Oh, Grand Theft Auto was canceled, Oh, whoa. Want to join a gang? No, but I will take your gang vehicle. Excuse me, good sir. You guys may not be able to tell I'm in the gang vehicle right now. You'll have to just take my word for it. You'll get to see all over my computer screen. What's with the whales? Okay, the whales are still raining, We haven't had too many terrible-- Lock player inside a vehicle. Fine, I'm okay with that. The longer I can stay and potentially protect myself-- Aww, not the airstrike. Oh, Maybe I can use Fortunately, the airstrike so I've managed to get On the plus side, You get to have that sensational feeling of having your retina slowly pushed, aw, slowly pushed out the back of your skull. Oh, the zombie apocalypse. The zombie apocalypse, well, that's nice. Don't know Not going to ask any questions, I was going the wrong way. Here we go. Where is it? Oh, it's right here. Aw. No, not the gang. Stop it. Is that the end of the pier? Hold on, Out of the car through the cow. Oh my God. What is this? It's Hurricane Alex. I need to find a vehicle. Whoa. Oh, God. What I was was trying to say of this area so I can use and get to the top of that pier [laughs] but it's targeted away. All right, I'm going to move-- Oh, boy. Everyone out of the way. I've got bad news for you guys. Everything just got teleported to me I'd like to say [laughs] I knew it was only just Okay, I managed to get an ATV. There. Oh my God, thank you. Oh, let this happen. Checkpoint. Find the next checkpoint at the dam. Okay. All right, now he's given us The dam, then it hooks to the right and it should be over there somewhere. Wow, look at this. It's crazy, isn't it? Just GrayStillPlays a lot of salt water I'm on the road. I'm getting stung by bees relentlessly. I'm on the Aqua Blazer. Things could be worse. Come on, Chaos, Just give me something normal. No. Oh, fake teleport. Oh, thank you, God. I almost swallowed my mouse. Oh, this is happening. No, not Floridian weather. Please, Florida don't do it. Give everyone a mini-gun. Oh, I guess that includes me. Where is it? I'm right where the arrow is. It's pointing down, Oh, I'm in a car. Oh, it's a ledge. Oh, maybe it's down level. I'm in the water. It is GTA 2 with full acceleration. This isn't that bad though. All right, so I have to go-- Oh, it's the checkpoint. It is down here. It was down this level. Don't you dare. Virtual reality, You have no idea There is a gravity sphere. I mean, virtual reality. Oh, wow, I'm still alive, Just go down, teleport everything I've been protected. We have a checkpoint. Everyone is a sinner, Oh, the deer murdered me. You've got to be kidding me. Meaty Bits, we were bros. You turned on me. Okay, and this is the vehicle Alex is giving me. There's the arrow. What the--? Why? Why am I stomping my own deer? Meaty Bits, technically, you murdered me, Oh. Okay, so everyone hates me, I'm going to turn you into venison, Okay, and there, we're good, right? You're fine? Yes, we're fine. I love how freakishly fast he is. Maybe it's just perspective it just feels fast. Improvised weaponry. Man, Meaty Bits, Tanks are on sale. Oh, Meaty Bits, I'm sorry, man. He's like, &quot;It's fine. No big deal. I've had 10 tons of machinery it's not really a big deal.&quot; Super fast motorcycle could be worse. Here we go. I could still deal with that. Oh, this is like a personal record I've only experienced a handful Oh, it looks Minions. I'm super tiny, Gray. Get on the train to reach Beat everyone. I'm right here, I will go ballistic right now. Right, I just need to-- Oh my God, there we go, checkpoint. We've got five checkpoints done, and now it says I need to use the train Oh, I turned the train into gold, Whoa, hi. Back on the train. Everything's hot pink Enough is enough. Great, I am losing the will to live. I've got good news and I've got bad news. I got on the train, but because spinning props activated, it messed up the prop that's holding that, [laughter] I need to figure out a way to get there. My plan right now is to maybe fly and then I can parachute Oh, actually, hold on. Oh. Oh. Oh, I don't need the plane. I don't need the plane at all. I need to do this while the portal This is an amazing Chaos thing. Oh, yes. Oh, where is it? Oh, right there. Yes. Oh my God, oh, we have a checkpoint Next checkpoint is, oh, I can see it. The little edge Here, hold on. I got to get away from Jealous Just trust me, If you didn't see it, Now I can't show This game legit does where the next checkpoint is. This is so cursed. It's creepy. Look at it, I think if we get off the tracks, this should be close Oh my God, a portal gun again, hold on. Whoa. Oh, what is this? Oh, I can't use the portal gun, You have no idea It said mercenaries and I was like, You know what? On second thought, Just tripping inside the colorful world Oh, hey, there we go. Okay, Oh, there it is. I'm so close. I think I almost got murdered by a meteor. Oh, it's inverted gravity. This could be okay. Oh my God, double meteors. I've got a parachute. As long as I don't get bludgeoned Once we get to the top, again, I've got the parachute. Here we go. Just got to aim up. Vehicles have no gravity, that's fine. I'm not in the vehicle, everything's fine. We're going to pull our chute Perfect. Oh, yes, there's a checkpoint. Whoa. You can actually see Oh, the first person, There are three more checkpoints left. This is what the inside of my teeth All right, Let me see if I can cover some distance. Also, totally a random hot I love it. &quot;He won't survive,&quot; mod contributors say. You're right, Give me the boat. Don't mind me. GrayStillPlays the mini pirate just Nevermind. Let me tell you guys just Oh, it's on an island. I was going to say with a delayed camera. Is there like a boat or something Pretty sure I can open up my parachute. Yes, you know what? Let's not try. Very controlled fall right Luckily, I was already covered in strawberry jams how bad that just was.[chuckles] There's a lot of sinning going on here. A lot of sinning. I think it's this way. Basically, 180 degrees maybe, Okay, I was kind of right. I was going sort of the right direction. Killer clowns, don't you dare. Can they teleport inside of the vehicle or do they just go I know this looks like I'm carrying around two barbecued I am, I really don't have the mercenary Oh, $5 to an alien. Get out of the way. The arrows above me, so inside this shack? Hey, where's the checkpoint? Whoa. Okay. You know what? I'm sorry I asked. Oh my God, there's tanks everywhere. We're all friends, tanks? Oh, I hate you so much. Aw, I need to borrow your tank. [screams] Oh, it's inside the house. Oh, the door doesn't work. How do you get inside? It's so close and yet so far. [music] Okay, let this work. Oh, it works, checkpoint. Search Paleto Bay for a checkpoint. Permanent Chaos Second Amendment. Second Amendment. Oh. Oh, yes. Give us this day our daily yeet. Whoa. Okay, I can save this. Hold on. Oh, yes. Okay, this is turning out to be fantastic. Listen, it's snowing, You want to stay inside here, you can, There's only two checkpoints left, otherwise known with an airstrike trying to murder him. Oh, there we go. What happened? Oh, a U-turn. I saw it. It's right over here. I don't know That's not good, Now, inverted gravity I'm going to end up hitting Oh, I can steer this thing. Good day for meteors. Oh, great, I'm going up toward the sky Gravity is done, so all we have to do is just stick Here we go. Aw. Stuck the landing. I need to get to this jet ski, and so this is absolute torture right now. Oh, honk boosting. Oh, yes. Go. Yeet and no. You can still use I never thought Oh, sideways gravity. I was going to say Oh, it's right over there. We can survive Oh my God, everything is turning off. I'm so far away from it now. I never thought I would get so it's amazing. If I can just parachute we're going to be just fine. Did you see what full acceleration Look at the bicycles. [screams] Parachute. I think I have finally found and if you think about it, it makes sense. I think what happened so the arrow was pointing upward. Check this out. If you remember what's here, we got the Second Amendment The checkpoint is inside of the second-- Whoa. Okay, the whole store is on fire and I'm pretty sure everyone which means I get to go insi-- Really? Of course, the fire is right on my groin. It is baking my groin right now. Don't even think about it. Anyway, checkpoint. Whoa, okay. That was a teleport. One checkpoint left. Oh. Oh my God, it's the end. I need to get up this mountain somehow. Sorry, Everyone has a minigun, but everyone's also sliding They're just sliding around. Heads turn into windmills. Oh, that's interesting. All right, through the fence, climbing the mountain. Oh, yes. Oh, we're almost there. What? What is this? Am I pooping fire? Why? Why am I farting fire? Oh, rocket man. Do I have enough time to pull a parachute? Yes, I do. Okay. As long as I can survive, that's fine. Whoa. Walk on water? What just happened? Whoa. What is going on? I keep getting pulled upward. Make it stop. I just want to hit [screams] Now I'm sliding all the way Yes, if I can get up there, I guess and then I parachute off and go Got it. Tanks are on sale. You know what I could really use? A plane. This area may or may not trigger Like what? This is the prop. That's where I need to get to. I got all the way and the area triggered that Chaos? It's permanent spinning props, or I have to do the whole mountain but I am totally missing it. I've been thinking We're not trying to get the checkpoint. The only thing I need Here, so what we're going to do is nice and slow, Oh, my heart rate Land on the arrow. Okay. Oh my God, yes. Oh, I need to outrun the arrow. Oh, the arrow keeps moving underneath me. This is real bad. I need to get to the center of the arrow where the trajectory is different. I'm going to wait, The arrow's going to run under me, I legit can't cheat this. I have to go through the checkpoint. The cool part is now, so getting I can keep trying. Yes, we have winner. Oh, it doesn't matter that I died, Today I learned that 10 seconds of Chaos is worth 10 years off the end of my life. Hey, folks, this episode of GTA. Till the next time, stay foxy. Much love.