- How many people are walking you know, knowing that someone and wondering, &quot;What the hell do I do?&quot; And yet we don't talk about it. We don't really talk about You know, whether you really love a parent or child or a spouse, the way life happens, Nobody wants that kind of I did not want my life story to include my husband dying of cancer when we were both pretty young. It's scary to go into pain that intense and not know how you're I found out the only was to let it completely break me- and that's scary. Andrew was about 14 years older than I am. One of the things that was taking good care of his health. We were sitting on our and he said to me, &quot;You know, I'm feeling a and there's a little bit of a tingling on the side of my face.&quot; And he said, &quot;It's probably nothing. Let's not worry about it.&quot; I said, &quot;You know what? Let's just go in and get it checked.&quot; Just a couple minutes later, When they heard that there was somebody who was suspicious they might &quot;Well, let's get you into the MRI.&quot; It's sort of hard to even remember what our faces looked like but it turned out that the MRI showed that he wasn't having a stroke- it turned out that his more tumors than they It was amazing to walk out of the hospital knowing that my husband and I didn't know how that was gonna work. What happens? The sentence formed &quot;This isn't my planet anymore.&quot; I felt like I was on some and it almost felt like, was I about to fall through the floor? If I touched something, would You just saw all these people around you going on with life, and you felt completely separated from it. One of the things that we is that, &quot;When the Universe And when the Universe ends, I'll still be holding your hand.&quot; We actually do think that are probably very different that there's more to it than we perceive. 100 years ago, Albert Einstein actually and he was writing a letter And he said famously that, &quot;The past, present, and future They're not real- that time exists as more of a landscape, a structure all at once. It's not that this moment now is real as opposed to the past and the future- they're all equally real. When the Universe came into being, in some ways, all of time It's a strange thing to think of. Those parts of the Universe, those parts of space still exist as much as this moment. And I am still holding Andrew's hand, and we're still laughing and and he's still dying in my arms. And that is the enormity of life that physics makes you confront, that we really don't Human brains react a certain you know, our emotions have real meaning. What I learned is that I I couldn't get out of the darkest places until I let that pain happen. When you're dealing with that becomes very harmful. And so for the first time in my life, I had to really deal with You go into this dark cave of and not know how you're And how is it that our How is it that we allow each other to be so isolated and alone, and everybody wonder if In a way, we all kind People often say, you know, Like, you know, poetry and myths and science and all of these things. You know, what use is it I found that all of these to help you deal with the I still feel the pain and the loss. I don't wanna lose that; I wanna weave that into There are people that a beautiful vase that's been dropped and shattered into dozens of shards: They actually begin to put it all together with gold filling in all the cracks. And so, something that was becomes even more beautiful for the fact that it was broken. I am now trying to figure out how I wanna put myself back together. Things are not determined. There's no more a guarantee that I'm going to live a life of misery than there is a guarantee This is what happens when you that you're gonna find some and think about how, you know, you wanna build yourself how you want to grow. But I can tell you from and all the way through, the inspiration I find in the Universe, in what's larger than A few weeks after Andrew died, I hosted a sample taking from an asteroid, and I remember getting excited. I remember smiling. And as we were going down to I just remember the thrill of it and the thrill of the questions. Whether it's the poetry or the the music or the art or the science, everything became a tool to You can enrich your life It will not take the pain away, but it might give you a And that, to me, is worth continuing for.