This video certainly won't be very... dry. [ oof ] I've had a bit of an epiphany in recent See, over the summer I made a video about You can check it out if you like (links are but as a quick recap, this is what purports to be a &quot;personal air conditioner&quot; but in fact it's a teeny tiny evaporative cooler, also known as a swamp cooler. And that's why they're, well, silly! Unless you live in a really arid place, adding moisture to the air is exactly the wrong way to achieve cooling. These things are by and large a waste of headspace, Just... don't. Fast forward to a few weeks ago. Winter's rearing its ugly head here in the which means the air's getting uncomfortably dry. I ventured out to the exotic lands of Walmart to buy a cheap humidifier for my bedroom. In fact, this one! Now, it claims to emit "invisible cool mist" which, ok. Sure. I went to set it up and, lo and behold, the thing's just a swamp cooler. This is, almost uncannily, the exact same save for a much larger water tank and fan. Huh. Yep, this thing is almost stupidly simple There are three basic parts: the water tank, the body which contains the fan, and the water absorbing matrix. A plastic base provides support for the The matrix, which Equate calls a filter but that's... a silly name, sits in a shallow pool of water and capillary action causes that and soak the entire thing. This wicking action is why more sensible humidifier John. Sorry, the wick. In operation, the fan pulls air through the The large surface area of the wick helps the evaporate into the air more quickly, and the fan makes this go even quicklier As the water evaporates, the wick continues The water tank allows for continuous operation and keeping it at a consistent height, at Its shape contains a void for the wick, and Quite clever! That said, this isn't a very good humidifier. It just isn't capable of much output: it takes about two days running at its high setting to go through the entire tank contrary to its "up to 24 hour" runtime. That makes it appropriate for small rooms, but not much else. In fairness, they did say that on the box. Now, I wanted to get something larger - something And it turns out that most whole-house humidifiers but scaled up. Through them, I've apparently discovered where the simplest idea is the most effective. Let's back up a minute. Why do I want a humidifier in the first place? Many of you across the world probably think You probably live some place where it's Fun fact! It's hot and humid here, too! In the summer... yeah we get the worst of In the winter, though, nature conspires against and makes the air often unbearably dry. See, when we talk about humidity we almost always It's expressed as a percentage, indicating compared to air's ability to hold moisture. When relative humidity is 50%, the air is therefore holding half of the water that it can. It's 50% moist. When it's 100%, the air is fully saturated and can no longer take on any moisture. We use relative humidity because it correlates and in fact pretty much everything "feels" humidity. But, and here's where nature sneaks up on the ability for air to hold moisture varies with its temperature. Warm air can hold more moisture than cold at 20 degrees Celsius, or 68 Fahrenheit At zero degrees Celsius, or 32 Fahrenheit, That means that at the same relative humidity, the air outside can only hold a third of the moisture that the air in your home can. Now, because the air in your home is ultimately you're at the mercy of how humid the outdoor air is. And when you heat that air up to make a living you increase its ability to hold moisture, but not the actual amount of moisture This makes relative humidity plummet. At freezing point, even if the air outside when you warm it to a comfortable indoor air temperature now the relative humidity is just 33%. It didn't lose any moisture, it's just and that makes it feel dryer. This gets worse the colder it becomes outside. Since where I live it's not uncommon for zero and 10 degrees Fahrenheit indoor air can sometimes be desert-levels of dry. This is obviously uncomfortable, leads to often makes your throat scratchy, it makes static shocks happen all the dang time, and seems to be a contributing factor to viral although we don't quite understand why yet. One hypothesis is that dryer air allows airborne to remain suspended for longer since those droplets and remain afloat more easily with less mass, but that's just one explanation It's just another way dry air sucks! Anyway, the only way we can get relative humidity is to add moisture into the air ourselves. And that's what humidifiers are for. You add water to them, and they make it evaporate And of course, there are multiple types of Shall we talk about them? Let's talk about them! Including one you can make yourself. This is the ol' standby Vicks warm-mist It's in two parts - a weirdly shaped plastic which contains the water and is nearly impossible to effectively clean, and, uh... this doohickey which sits in the water. All this does is slowly boil water. Seriously. That's- that's all it does. And they're really finicky, too - if your water doesn't have enough minerals in it, it won't work and they have to put a label on here saying, &quot;hey if this doesn't start working in 10 minutes, If it's not clear I don't really care but after all they're not marketed as humidifiers exactly. They're more of a personal care product Vicks' latest cold-fighting rubs or whatever. But the main reason I don't like them is is a rather energy-intensive method of vaporizing it. This uses about 50 watts continuously which, yeah, [voiceover] I was somewhat suspicious that it was only so when shooting the B-roll for this video This is all the lovely crud that came out Yummy! After this descaling, it's now producing That's... a lot. And I've apparently uncovered something Its power consumption is just... weird. It seems to slowly rise when you plug it in, falls to practically zero. I'm starting to wonder if this thing is actually That would help explain the need for salt I've been trying to find a concrete answer So, I'll be taking this thing apart in a A link will be below. I do just want to say, though, that I've It will, assuming it's operating correctly, which is fairly substantial output. It will just use a lot of energy in the process, and I stand by my statement that these are finicky and annoying. Another common humidifier style is this one! The ultrasonic cool mist variety. This is, in my opinion, certainly the most A piezoelectric disc sits at the bottom of A very high frequency signal, in the megahertz which causes it to vibrate at that frequency. This causes micron-sized water droplets to and a small fan draws in air from below the device and When the tank sits on the base, the airflow through this hole in the tank, and a little hat with a nozzle helps direct that water and air mixture upward and outward. What comes out of here are microscopic droplets that's why they're visible. In a sense, this thing generates clouds! But they quickly disappear. The miniscule size of the droplets means that and thus the relative humidity of the air in the These humidifiers are fairly effective - this They also don't require all that much energy. At its maximum output, this unit consumes But, these aren't perfect. If you have hard water, the mineral content Because the water is thrown into the air as and evaporates after it exits the device, you can experience a white dust particularly near the humidifier itself. This is the same limescale that you deal with but now it's all over the place. That's neat. Now, that particular problem can be solved by filling but that's annoying and also becomes and/or have multiple units. There is also the fun fact that whatever mold, bacteria, chemical impurities, or other goodness might be in the water tank... will end up in the air, too. I'm... I'm pointing right at it. Now to be clear, this isn't a gigantic concern, and it's certainly not unique to ultrasonic humidifiers. And then, of course, the last common style &quot;Invisible cool mist&quot; is marketing speak for Evaporative humidifiers simply help water by providing a large surface area for it to cling to and a flow of air for it to hitchhike upon. They are extremely simple, yet also extremely You're right - I said this one wasn't this is its wick, right? And... This is the wick of a whole-house humidifier. See the difference? Here's the humidifier this giant wick belongs It's brown and therefore excellent. This style of humidifier is sometimes referred and it is conceptually identical to the little Walmart one, but scaled up and improved in a number of ways. That said I'm not entirely thrilled with and I'll discuss my many quibbles as we go along. It is, however, undeniably excellent at its job. The device itself is little more than a large (with simulated woodgrain excellence) and a fan. The fan sits on top of the box and when running pulls air through this vent in the rear and blows it out the top. The wick sits directly in front of that vent, and you'll notice that the vent doesn't go all the way to the bottom. That's because, of course, the wick needs and a vent going to the very bottom would kinda ruin that You can see that the water level isn't much which makes moving this thing wonderfully stressful! And with that, here comes my first quibble: The box claims this has a 5.4 gallon capacity which is ridiculously misleading. See, this is its water tank. This is 2.5 gallons. Roughly three gallons sits in the bottom of but that level is kept constant by this bottle feeding it. When the bottle runs out, it will continue and use up some of the water in the bottom, but that makes filling it a two-step process - filling the bottom of the humidifier itself, and then the bottle. You could just fill the bottle, after it emptied at least some of its Even worse is that a float switch prevents when the water gets just an inch or so below the full level meaning you could never get it to actually output 5.4 gallons of water in one go. Therefore, in my opinion, for all intents this has a 2.5 gallon capacity. And, aside from this particular numbers nonsense, the bottle itself isn't the best. I routinely have to re-seat this cap or else it will leak, a mishap that would result in the bottom being overfilled and water spilling out the back! This thing certainly ain't without its problems. How's that for a product endorsement? Anyway, here's where things get slightly The fan isn't just an ordinary fan. It is a fan controlled by a humidistat. A pair of dials, one of them also being pressable serve as a basic user interfffff [with immense disappointment] Blue! Wha, wha, why does it have to be blue? And so bright? Manufacturers of apparently literally everything now cut. it. out. Nobody needs this. It needs to be readable, not eye-piercing. Geez. What if this were in my bedroom? Don't you think I oughta be able to, like, sleep? You didn't even put it on the box, it's not like you thought you'd make another sale by being hip and with it with the blue ell eee deez. Bring back dull, boring red, amber, maybe I am so over this. Where was I? Right, so, atrocious display aside, which I will just go ahead and fix right now I truly cannot believe this product needs to exist you can select between four in increments of five percent. Built into the power cord is a hygrometer and the onboard microcontroller The fan will turn on when humidity is three and it will turn back off when it's achieved one percent One thing I've been genuinely surprised The humidifier's display reads within just and what my smart thermostat reports Honestly a little surprising, but anyway the Being able to self-regulate means it can respond and keep humidity levels consistent. And it's been very interesting to observe. I have it placed in a central location near and when the heat isn't running neither is the humidifier. But, within just a few minutes of the heat the relative humidity falls to the point that it needs to run. This makes perfect sense because the now warmer therefore its relative humidity has fallen slightly. The humidifier will continue to run for about And then it will have satisfied the humidity set What's really fascinating is that it has I have it set to 50 percent, and after stopping or perhaps even 49 percent... but no more. It takes until the heat comes back on for and this appears to be the case throughout the house, I'm actually genuinely curious about this a rate correlated to its temperature drop. I run my thermostat on a program so that the and even then - the humidifier won't run and that can be hours later. Humidity stays right near 50% the entire time It's fascinating, though at the moment it's Anyway, though this thing is ugly and annoys it is undeniably great at humidifying, especially from an energy standpoint. Its fan is quite large so it uses the most while it's running (about 65 watts at its but it only needs to run for about 6 hours on a typical day - and that's on its lowest fan speed. With my current usage, it goes through the Do the math there and we find it uses 144 Certainly a weird metric, but hey! It works. The ultrasonic mister takes the same amount which means it uses 768 watt-hours That's more than 5 times the energy per Oh, and the standby power consumption of this Despite that garish display. My old dishwasher used triple that! Honestly, it's amazing how much water this Just feeling the air coming out of it is impressive, Leaving the hygrometer on the top reveals To give you a sense of how fast it goes through well you can hear the bottle go "glug glug glug" as it replenishes the water level [fan noise, with a faint &quot;glug glug glug&quot;] and this happens more frequently than every five minutes when it's running! It's amazing, this thing is just excellent at getting liquid water to evaporate with nothing but airflow. Setting this thing up has frankly been a little It's so simple, yet extaordinarily effective. Using less energy over a day than this little it's able to take care of my entire home and not just a single room. I've been checking with my hygrometer and, from room to room, varying only by about five percent. Granted, this is ridiculous overkill for the and I do have the benefit of a forced-air furnace to help move air around. But, it really seems that evaporative humidifiers Of course, there's a catch. And it's, uh... kinda big. Evaporative humidifiers can get... gross. To be clear, all humidifiers get gross over tends to present the most opportunities for grossness because there's a giant damp sponge sitting in a pool of water that has air forced through and thus everyone's favorite mold spores and bacteria are brought right to a lovely place to live. It's great. Now, there are ways to combat this problem. First, the wicks are almost always meant to be replaced seasonally, and there are water treatment products available to inhibit bacterial growth. I've been using this for a while with regular which is the most common complaint The particular treatment I'm using is supposed But, here's where I have good news. This is conceptually a very simple device. And that means, you can make one yourself! All you need is something to absorb water And you have plenty of those - towels! Take a large bowl, fill it maybe a third the of a small towel. You may need to weigh it down with something. Terry cloth is great for this - that's why they have lots of little fibers for water to cling Those same fibers provide places for water Try experimenting with different bowls, towels, To gauge the effectiveness of your invention, They're not the most accurate things out and they only cost around $5. You can speed up evaporation with a desk fan And, best of all, you can simply run this and change it however frequently you'd like. Now, this isn't that effective, I won't 100 square foot office showed it could maintain And that was with a, frankly, awful towel What I'd love to see come to market is a maybe a kitchen towel or shreds of towels in a zig-zag, vertical arrangement sort of replicating this wick cartridge but with a washable towel rather than this paper honeycomb stuff. It probably wouldn't work as well as these Just put it in a shallow pan and sit it in This might even push me to buy a decent 3D But, good news for those of us who just can't be bothered, the same manufacturer of this large console makes what they call a "mini" It is little more than a bucket, a fan, and The wicks are placed in these slots, a cowl the exact same humidistat (and with unfortunately the wicks when necessary. It takes in air through the sides and blows This isn't as effective as the big brown but it's much, much more user-friendly. And also quieter, at least on its low fan speeds. Filling it is as easy as filling a bucket that's what it is. Just take the fan off and carry this to a sink. Much less finicky than dealing with a tank Though in this case there's a weird quirk it will be because less of the wick is exposed It's probably best to keep the water level Here's a pro-tip for you, should you decide If you use a water treatment product, which put it in a soap pump! Figure out how many pumps it takes to fill, and use that to determine how many pumps you'll need every time you fill your humidifier. It's much less messy and more consistent, I decided to purchase this amber-glass pump just in case the chemicals in the solution are sensitive to light (which, uh, they probably aren't given the jug it comes in) but you can absolutely just use a well cleaned-out In this case I know I need to add 15 squirts every time I fill this bottle. Also, for whatever reason, large humidifiers seem to only be available in hardware stores, at least in my neck of the US. Your general big-box store like Walmart seems though weirdly enough when I was last at Walmart they sold not only these exact hygrometers but the same water treatment chemical I'm using in these, too. So, yeah. Don't know why that is exactly, but I'd also recommend that you buy a few spare wicks for the years ahead. Any large hardware store should carry them, and to my fellow midwesterners, Menards has plenty. So, that's about all I have to say here. Even though these evaporative humidifiers they seem to do their job extremely I would like to suggest a few revisions to What I'd love to see is a wick that is held allowing the tank to hold much more water, perhaps 10 or more gallons. Rather than requiring it to sit in a pool I think it would be neat if a pump were used to bring water up to the wick. This is actually a fairly common design of This design would allow it to run for days I imagine one difficulty with this, aside is that this would make it a lot louder. A method of catching the water so it didn't otherwise you'd hear a constant Plus, of course, this would add tubing and So maybe it's not the best idea, but I will that I really don't like the float switch on this unit. See, instead of using it to simply alert you that it's I would much rather it continue running the so that the wick can actually dry out. Turning the unit off means that stagnant water the bottom, which is a little unsettling to me. Also, the implementation of it is just super janky. It's a stick with a styrofoam float that and then it pokes the underside of the fan. I'll probably just disable that switch, maybe by putting a rock under it or something. The simple bucket one, for what it's worth, so it'll just run to its heart's content no matter what I much prefer that. Now before I go, I do want to address that your only option. Whole-home humidifiers that get installed are also fairly common, and wouldn't ya know it - those These units will divert some of the air flowing and are plumbed into a water supply. There's often an absorbent pad or wheel though sometimes non-porous materials are Still though, if you've been using one of you might want to look into that. Since I didn't already have one of these I just went for a standalone unit. And, despite its many little annoyances, I'm Certainly it's made the winter much more My lips were starting to get badly chapped but now that I have this running that's gone away. Usually it'd be chapstick time. And genuinely, I feel warmer now with the I don't know why this surprises me, as after in the summer, and drier air feels cooler, The air is just much more comfortable in so If you want to see how a humidifier might It at least will give you something fun Anyway, toodles! moistly smooth jazz This is what purports to be... yeah, no it's facing the right way. Shouldn't have second guessed myself. ...plastic base supports... shoot. That was going great! ...sits in a shallow pool of water and capillary act... dew do be fluef ah heuhhh that makes it appropriate for small rooms, but not a lot much else. Not much else. Why did I say a lot much? That's dumb. Yeah, that's not a whole lot but it's also not [stops abruptly] That cat is having fun upstairs. [rumbling as the cat runs around] But it's also not gonna be ... it's not gonna be do much! Why does it have to be blue? And so bright? Heh, no that's way over-the-top. Secret messages at the end of the videos in the captions? I have no idea what you're talking about. You must be thinking of some other channel that does that regularly.