Hey guys! All good? Today, we're going to talk about seven remedies that are used a lot in everyday life and that harm your heart, and that you can't even imagine. We know that there are medications that are widely used in everyday life that can harm our heart. Most of these drugs that I'm going to talk about are bought without a prescription and the person has not even gone through, many times, some type of service, to find out if they can or cannot use the medicine safely. In this video I will list seven medications, the most common ones that can cause or exacerbate heart problems. So come with me and spin the vignette! Doctor Roberto Yano, Cardiologist. Hello heart friends! All good? I am Doctor Roberto Yano, Cardiologist, Pacemaker Specialist. In this video you will find out which are the seven medicines used in everyday life that can end up with the health of your heart! But first, subscribe to the channel, click the bell to receive all notifications. There are 2 million subscribers already on the YouTube channel and I just have to thank you! Without further ado, let's get to the seven medications then! First remedy: the famous non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. So, NSAIDs, ibuprofen, diclofenac, which are often used to relieve pain, reduce inflammation, can cause heart problems. The problem is that these drugs have the potential to cause some damage to the heart, especially when used in high doses and for a long time. There is even a video in which I talk about how much the use of anti-inflammatories can harm the heart and why cardiologists avoid this type of medication as much as possible. This is a subject I always talk about, anti-inflammatories can increase blood pressure, retain more sodium, retain more fluid, interfere with platelet function. This all ends up impairing the function of blood vessels, increasing clot formation and risk. Of course, not all people will have the same risk and the same severity of anti-inflammatory side effects. This will vary depending on risk factors such as age, presence of heart disease, use of other medications, again how long you have been using this medication. For example, if you are a heart patient, you have to ask your cardiologist which anti-inflammatory drug will be safer for you. The same thing if you have high blood pressure, your blood pressure can get much worse if you start taking anti-inflammatories without a prescription. Some anti-inflammatories have fewer side effects, such as naproxen, for example. But they also have to be used for short periods of time. I always say, people, the issue of pain, you have to treat the cause of the pain. So, the use of anti-inflammatory drugs will often mask a more serious problem. If your body is in pain, it is letting you know that something is not right. And another, the effect of the medication is over, the pain returns! So, no self-medication! Go after treating the cause of your pain. Let's go! Second drug: these are the first generation antihistamines. So, first-generation anti-allergy drugs, chlorpheniramine, for example, can cause side effects on the heart, cause cardiac arrhythmia, increase heartbeat, increase blood pressure. Arrhythmias can occur because these medications, these drugs, have anticholinergic properties that can then interfere with the heart's electrical impulses, affecting and altering the heart's normal heart rhythm. So, these drugs have a stronger sedative action, if we compare with already second-generation antihistamines. So, they cause drowsiness, disturb concentration, give some side effects such as dry mouth, blurred vision, intestinal constipation, urinary retention, in addition, of course, as I mentioned before, cardiac arrhythmias. So, if you have any allergic symptoms, runny nose, nasal irritation, look for a doctor, do not take medicine without a prescription. For those who don't know yet, Yano Clinic is here in Indaiatuba, everyone! So, if you are from Indaiatuba, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Piracicaba, Jundiai, you can consult with us, we are here in Indaiatuba! But let's go! Third medication: these are the tricyclic antidepressants. So, antidepressants, tricyclics are used, of course, in the treatment of depression, they can also be prescribed in cases of anxiety disorders, even nocturnal enuresis, when the person urinates a lot during the night; for chronic pain and even migraine cases. So, we have amitriptyline, nortriptyline, imipramine... Yes, they are effective, good for treating depression, but they have their side effects, which are unwanted for our heart, especially if you already have some previous heart disease. So, this class of medication can cause an alteration in the electrocardiogram called qt interval prolongation. This change in heart repolarization can lead to cardiac arrhythmias. So in addition, tricyclics can also increase blood pressure. So, if you have high blood pressure, have suffered a heart attack, have had a stroke, first talk to your cardiologist before starting to use this type of medicine. &quot;Ah, doctor! So, how am I going to treat my depression?&quot; If you have a heart condition and are taking one of these medications, talk to your doctor. Each case is different! Today there are other classes of drugs to treat depression that are safer for the heart. The treatment is not always done only with the use of antidepressants, only with these tricyclics. Today there are other options that are safer for our heart muscle. Fourth medication: nasal decongestants. So, they are also medicines that you can buy without a prescription, those medicines to unblock your nose, for example. So, I'm not talking about nasal saline solution, no, okay! I'm talking about decongestants. Who out there uses it? Later I want to see, comment there if you use those nasal decongestants. But some decongestants, like pseudoephedrine, for example, can be harmful to our cardiovascular system because this substance is like a stimulant that can increase blood pressure, which can increase heart rate. In people who don't have any disease, the risk is very low, right guys! Also, we have to be very careful, I'm talking about the possibilities, but the risk of this happening to a person who doesn't have a heart condition, for example, is very low! But, if you already have a pre-existing disease, high blood pressure, a coronary disease or serious arrhythmias, do not keep taking decongestants such as pseudoephedrine, for example. Then, there are also alternative decongestants that are much safer for those with heart disease. So, go to your Otorrino and talk to him, so he can guide you. Tell your heart disease history so he can treat you in the best way! And, of course, if you have an allergy, an upper airway obstruction, he will treat you with much safer medicine! So look how important this information was! I believe that many of you did not even know about this issue of nasal decongestants. So, if you like the video, then share it with your family, share it with your friends! My idea is always to save the world and I want to know if you're coming with me or not! Fifth medicine: they are the medicines to lose weight. So, some medications that are still used for weight loss, such as sibutramine, for example, are also associated with an increase in cardiovascular events, both heart attacks and strokes. This medication has to be prescribed with great caution, selected patients, since today there are other treatments that are more effective for those who want to lose weight. So, making indiscriminate use of sibutramine can be dangerous! This medication is strong; it does serve to treat the issue of obesity, I still see many people who have no indication to take the sibutramine and he is taking it there, under the cloth. This is one of the worst things you can do. Never do that thing of taking the neighbor's sibutramine and taking it because it can be very dangerous for your health. Including, I've seen outlandish formulas! People mix thyroid medicine to lose weight; then he mixes antidepressants, medicine to wake up, medicine to sleep, then medicine for gastritis, and mixes everything in one capsule and the patient gains 10 kg in one month and then gains 20 in the next month! We end up seeing everything, every crazy prescription! So be very careful. Finally, anorectics, which is this type of medicine, can increase blood pressure, accelerate cardiac risk, and also cause cardiac arrhythmias, so this medicine is contraindicated in patients with more severe heart diseases. And if you do, your doctor needs to monitor you closely for all these possible side effects. Sixth medication: corticoids. I knew that? Corticoids are medicines widely used for those who have an inflammatory disease, immunological disease, for patients undergoing transplants; the problem is that prolonged use, in high doses, can also lead to the same thing, increased pressure, fluid retention, increased chance of the person progressing to congestive heart failure, especially in those people who already have heart failure. Corticosteroids used for long periods can also cause changes in our metabolism, increase in glucose, hydroelectrolyte imbalance, increase cholesterol and triglyceride levels. This will all further increase a person's risk of developing heart disease in the future. Prolonged use of this medication can increase the risk of clots forming in your blood vessels, whether in a vein or an artery. It is logical that some people will have to make continuous use of corticoids, sometimes for longer or even for the rest of their lives! And that's okay, folks! Just follow up with your doctor and your cardiologist. You just can't help but always take your exams to see how your heart health is doing. But let's go! Finally, the seventh medicine: these are stimulant medicines. There are medications that are stimulants, particularly those used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, also called ADHD. So, these drugs, the same thing, accelerates the heart rate, can increase blood pressure, in addition to increasing the risk of some types of cardiac arrhythmias. In very rare cases, it can even aggravate some pre-existing heart disease. So, the most important thing here is to remember that all of these medications have benefits when used in specific situations. It's not because he can harm the heart, that he can't be taken! So, it's important to pay attention and take it only with medical advice, that everything will be fine! As I just talked about corticoids, there are diseases that need to be treated with the continuous use of this type of medicine. This video is more to alert you, in case you take any medication like that, but without a medical prescription, so, go to your doctor and ask him: &quot;Doctor, is it safe for me to take this medication?&quot; Look for an expert. You must take the medicine with caution, under medical supervision, especially if you have a heart condition. Another important thing is that if you have, for example, a cold, you have to inform your doctor there at the emergency room, your health condition; if you have any illness, what are the medications you already use, before he can give you any other medication. All right, guys! But, I hope this video was helpful! If you liked the content, don't forget to give it a like! Again, share with your friends and family! Leave here your comments with suggestions for the next videos! I want to know what I'm going to record for you guys going forward. It's ok, guys! So, today's message is this! A big hug and until next time!