The Sun, smooth and round and peaceful. Except when it suddenly vomits radiation These solar flares and coronal can hit Earth and have serious How exactly do they work? How bad could they be? And can we prepare for them? [Intro music] While the Sun seems pretty solid, So hot that it rips atoms into electrons and nuclei, This plasma is pushed around and Similar to how the Sun's gravitational field reaches But magnetism is very different from gravity. Magnetism is one part of a dual force: Electricity creates magnetic fields, On the Sun, the plasma--made of electrically creates a magnetic field as they move, and this magnetic field then They're stuck in a dynamic which keeps the sun's This magnetic field stores and leaks out over the Solar System. It carries with it a constant trickle of solar plasma, creating a sort of space weather. But it isn't always calm and smooth. As the sun's plasma churns its magnetic field gets This creates magnetic knots that When the magnetic knots break--like a the Sun can vomit plasma and other These solar storms come in many types, like solar flares; a tidal wave They race through the solar system at the speed accelerating them into a Then, there are coronal mass ejections, which rip millions or billions of tons catapulting it through the solar system at When these monsters hit us, While even smaller storms affect radio communication, or be dangerous to astronauts, for people on the surface, Earth's atmosphere protects us from by absorbing the blast of X-rays well before it reaches the surface. The electrified plasma from a CME is diverting the energy storm to where energetic particles causing the atmosphere to glow As with any sort of weather-- Sometimes, there are hurricanes, though. Or in the case of the Sun, And we know that they happen If one were to happen today, we a sort of flash before the much The thunder is a CME, consisting of that crosses the 150 million kilometers in less than a day. When it arrives, it causes a shockwave that and transfers energy into But it can get worse. If the magnetic field of the CME is the two magnetic fields merge. As the magnetic cloud passes over Earth, Eventually, the energy stored in the It snaps and explosively releases A geomagnetic storm has begun. A few hundred years ago, This storm gushing over the Earth is not relevant But it's very relevant for machines Remember the dynamo? Magnetism creates electric currents. Earth in the 21st century is covered in millions and a complex grid of machines, like A CME's energy can induce currents in our power or worse, destroy the transformer This has happened already, like when the Quebec power grid failed But in general, our engineers know and so we usually don't even notice. The last time a solar hurricane The Carrington Event, the largest geomagnetic storms Massive auroras occurred In some places, they were thinking the Sun was rising. Luckily, we only had one telegraph systems. They failed all over the world, shocking their operators Today, we have a tad more technology, and our luck may run out soon. Another bad solar storm is A storm as strong as the Carrington Event Studies projected that it would've inflicted costing up to $2.6 trillion to the US alone. The time to replace all the damaged systems It's hard to say how bad Experts disagreed. Some assumed there would but others worried it We won't know for sure until The probability of such an event is That's about a 50/50 chance of And, there is more unsettling news. A 2019 paper found that can create superflares Eruptions orders of magnitude we have observed in the Solar System. If such a storm hits us unprepared, the It's hard to overstate how much It's not just the lights at home. It means no computers, no communication, no navigation. A sustained power outage might lead water supply systems failing and hospital generators running dry, supermarkets not being refilled while food rots in the fields. The lack of power might make it extremely taking years or decades to Okay, time to panic? As much as daily newspapers might like for they probably won't. Fortunately, even though solar virtually all of their nasty side effects are. Scientists observing the Sun have a few hours And the engineers working the are well aware of the risks Transformers and substations short preventative blackouts-- or in other words, by unplugging stuff. Engineers can open up extra lines And with investment and upgrades cheap we could protect the world's electric grid But we do need to prepare. While the risk is manageable, it is real. For while our Sun bathes us one day, it might send a monster our way that we better be ready for.