if you're currently feeling lost, and you have all these ideas But when someone asks the question, You have no clue. Or maybe dabble in a few things, but What you're doing. So you end up not following through I've been there I remember scrolling through endless Throughout school and adulthood, I was bombarded with this message Everything will fall into place. But what if that's not true? And that's not the reality I've been told all these confusing advice and that led you nowhere. Probably even more lost and confusing. You were before. The truth is, the idea of a single perfect So truth number one is that your passion Well, I realize it's nothing like and follow along to the exercises. I'll share in this video. These exercises can help hopefully Or if you multi passionate like I am. I want to show you how to get the clarity with your life to start working on things I want to tell you that it's possible of your life, that you're interested in and do it So grab a pen and paper You know that question that your parents What do you want to be when you grow up? I never really was the kind of kid And when you're young But as I grew into adulthood, I with dread every single morning or going to work on something Maybe I had no passion. I thought to myself at the time I've been going through life what passion felt like. And I think we'll come to this point, where we face this moment of truth, crisis, really, of questioning, So between the age of 18 and 28, I changed jobs seven times two, And during this time it gave me the time This is when I realized the biggest thing like when I was trying to find my but is about the expectation. And unfortunately, she was number two sometimes I think the mass media in when we find this one passion, it's We're going to be sleeping We go all in Our brains can be one been the most productive. I'm going to be creating But in all, honestly, that is simply wrong unrealistic expectations like this I'll never find that passion when I move I realized that every single job and things that you will hate Sometimes Everything in life is hard. The process of becoming and discovering But the best part is But you really know this why you watching this video is because Are you willing to do anything to find it I would not do 40 hours in a week but I would do 40 hours a week I love. all comes on this really great question to ask yourself What are you willing to struggle and the answer to this question might be even though now I finally reach the place it doesn't mean that There's a very fine line difference between that because it was We missed the point. The point was to fall in love with And there's this brilliant concept If you spend 100 hours a year in a specific field, You'll be better than 95% of people So your success and your passion of pushing past those days when it's hard because you're willing to struggle for But like all things in life, because you will change it is, like how often you don't fall in Your passion is a journey that you go on with all the surprises and challenges That Moz and Chiefs into who you are. Just like in the relationship But when you fall in love Instead of focusing on the journey, Life has this funny way and you never really know but you follow your curiosity That's really where you can becoming And choose number three is that your passion will evolve with you so doing, the self-reflection, working this video really helped me studying for a degree and going to a job and burning out to eventually building a business I'm also now watercolor artist, And thanks so much for everyone who joined me on this journey educator and also an athlete, I'm If you know what that is, I started with this mental model philosophy, translate into a reason a job is about finding work and what the world needs. So typically Ikigai is represented the first one is what you love. So what are you passionate about? What would you do even without a paycheck? List down of everything. I mean, literally everything Think back to your childhood. If you can't remember that, maybe ask your parents or master siblings The next circle is Does these skill sets Will people pay you for doing this? So now you can cross out anything and you can be super creative about it Why not? again, it's about thinking outside the box and being creative The next circle is What are you good at? So look at what's left in the list. Are you able to excel or if you're really just studying them, to become the top Cross out any of the ones And the last circle, which is where a lot of us really identify Does the work level on this list address and contribute so all the ones that you left the circle, that is your allowing area in your ikigai how do you focus on the strengthening your next career, your next business, to incorporate more of this And what's really interesting to remember What you might find interesting And that could be your special sauce. Your unfair advantage is people To discover more about who you are, really powerful way. I'll find out more about myself I do a lot of this I put together for myself on a daily basis Guide that you can download for free I really hope that these questions or maybe make your own. Just 5 minutes a day of journaling in how you know more about yourself for impact and what you can do and with a self-awareness, mental model to design your ideal life The first one is your motivation. What drives you want to impact? Do you want to make? because oftentimes your passion is a deep desire to help somebody and I think the book Start with Why by Simon Even though the book is mainly target better why they do what they do I think this also applies is that we're not defined by what we do. That's not our identity. Our identity is defined by why I'm a marketer. I realize that it's not that I love is because I love the creativity and using this creativity so I can help more people to make You don't just love traveling. You enjoy new challenges and experiences. He enjoyed learning new things in a whole new city You don't just love music. You love how it becomes how you can communicate feelings we do think deeper about why we love And I can give you so many clues because at the end of day, for us to express the underlying desires The second part of this three part What are some of the things What are some of the things and let me know if this kind of happened and sleep Well, I don't recommend I'm sure you've been there Instances where I was loving to do I forgot I didn't eat dinner. Or maybe I've gone to bed too late. instead focusing on the activity which in my case I would do it so much when I was a kid that literally I forget to eat dinner But also what's interesting is that it even though I was very good It was the fact that I was able and that I improved my skills So let's discover this part about myself obsession into my own business It helped me to become the best version and enjoying what I'm doing by having fun to show that creative side of myself. Last part is your pursuits. Now think about your ideal day in mind. What did you first get up in the morning? How does your morning Maybe you prefer to work from home What are the kinds of people either as teammates or as clients? And where are you having lunch? And when the day finishes, How do you plan or family or taking care of yourself designing the ideal day is probably I did in my life It made me realize what I wanted why I didn't want that every last drop of energy other my body And the other day, even though you tried out the most important part is to go there Because I find that way too long for me to do any action My paralysis, this indecision with ruminating over the choices of But actually not taking any action at all. And I was too afraid to step out of my box So the more I experimented alongside and discovery, So if you struggle with this as well, that you can check out to think about your next steps in finding If you like the video, let me know below. Also, remember to hit the subscribe button going forward. I also run a weekly newsletter in my personal growth business You can check out the link, So you see the next video. Thanks so much for watching.