- This week on Buzzfeed Unsolved, we discuss the famous case of D.B. Cooper, a case that the FBI's referred to as one of the great unsolved It's also considered one of the greatest unsolved mysteries in US history. It's a favorite of mine. Yeah, I've heard of this one a little bit, just a little bit. - Oh you haven't heard it - Oh boy, okay, strap in. - Let's strap in baby, let's get into it. On Wednesday, November 24th, 1971 the day before Thanksgiving, Dan Cooper bought a $20 one way ticket on NorthWest Orient Airlines from Portland, Oregon Cooper was described and wearing a business suit, brown shoes, a white shirt, and black tie. He carried a dark by 12 inch by 14 inch paper bag. Before the plane took off, Cooper, seated in seat 18C ordered - That's a big gulp. - [Ryan] After the plane had taken off, a little after three p.m. Cooper handed the stewardess a note. At first, she just put it in at it, but Cooper said, quote, &quot;Miss, you better &quot;look at that note. I - &quot;Thanks,&quot; and walked away. And he was like, &quot;Hey, ah, &quot;because I've got a bomb, oh god dammit &quot;Yeah, I got a bomb everybody.&quot; - Cooper told her the and asked her to sit next to him. He opened his briefcase surrounded by an array of wires. After that, Cooper asked the stewardess to write down what he was saying Quote, &quot;I want $200 thousand by five p.m. &quot;in cash, put in a knapsack. &quot;I want two back parachutes &quot;When we land, I want a &quot;No funny stuff or I'll do the job.&quot; One odd detail was that Cooper asked for the $200 thousand to be The flight landed in the 36 passengers on and the parachutes he had requested. Cooper kept some crew members on the plane and had the plane take requesting that the plane During the second half of the flight, Cooper put on a pair of with dark rims that would later become part of the sketch that for anybody familiar with the case. - I'm just imagining a as he's just like. (blows) (dramatic music) - If we were in today's age, this guy would definitely playing a Spotify playlist - He would have one of - Not an actual hover board, but a shitty. - Yeah, he'd be like, He'd take out his wheels, put em down, start moving up and down the aisle. (laughing) Knapsack, or I'll do the job. - A little after eight p.m. when the plane was somewhere between Cooper jumped out of the with two of the parachutes and the money, never to be seen again. One thing worth noting his black J.C. Penney clip a piece of evidence that the FBI was able to procure a DNA sample from. - (blows) Clink. (laughing) - With the DNA sample from the tie, let's jump into the investigation launched to identify the man who The case was called NORJAK, standing for Northwest Hijacking, The plane was intensely Desperate to find Cooper's identity, there was extra interest in $20 bills because the FBI had of the bills stolen by Cooper. Remarkably, in 1980, nine a young boy found a rotted package filled with $20 bills that matched the ransom money's serial numbers. There was $5,800 in all. The boy found the bills on a beach at Tina Bar while making a campfire with his father. People theorize that the money possibly fell before eventually making That's basically all they've theorized. - I'm just imagining him just jumping out and immediately just losing Just a man plummeting of money flying around, - [Ryan] Though this discovery to nothing as the FBI scoured finding nothing else. In the year that followed the hijacking, several letters were sent to the FBI, The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, either confessing to the crime, eulogizing a or claiming to be his brother. In fact, in November 1972 two men, Donald Sylvester Murphy were taken into federal custody on charges of extortion and selling his tell-all - &quot;Ha, ha, hey it's me the Zodiac Killer. &quot;I'll tell you a story. &quot;What? Oh, oh.&quot; - Leads were tracked all over the country and more than 800 suspects were considered over the first five years All but 24 suspects were One peculiar fact is have no actual relevance to the case, and the FBI isn't sure It was reportedly a that caused him to be called D.B. Cooper instead of Dan Cooper, which when buying the plane ticket. The physical description of Cooper is thought to be very accurate. Two flight attendants spent and were interviewed separately the night the hijacking occurred. They gave nearly identical saying that he was five 170 to 180 pounds, in his People who interacted gave similar descriptions. His voice was described as but spoke with an intelligent vocabulary. The charge against Cooper but that had a five year and as time went on, with no a grand jury later indicted Cooper for violating the Hobbs Act. The Hobbs Act is a federal statute designed to prevent extortion. It has no statute of limitations, meaning if Cooper was found tomorrow he could be charged even though the FBI investigation has Before we jump into suspects, that the pilot told chose the route the Cooper only requested his end a decision that is a bit puzzling when you consider the fact that Cooper knew he intended to jump out of a plane. This seemingly eliminates the possibility of Cooper having an accomplice, as there was no coordination and therefore, no coordinated drop point. With that, let's jump into the suspects. The first suspect is Richard Floyd McCoy, who is the favorite suspect of former FBI agent Russell Calame and former federal probation officer Bernie Rhodes. The two men even wrote In April 1972, five months the FBI arrested Richard Floyd McCoy for hijacking an airplane. When examined, the McCoy heist is definitely similar to the Cooper heist. Like Cooper, McCoy hijacked a plane and parachuted off of it. McCoy jumped out the back rear staircase of a Boeing 727, the same plane Cooper jumped out of, using the same method. Also like Cooper, McCoy and was calm during the heist. Reportedly, both of the men passed notes to the flight attendants A detail that becomes more compelling when you learn that both reportedly contained the Another suspicious coincidence reportedly occurred while where McCoy was a student, was on break. &quot;Spring Break!&quot; As he just falls down to his death? - &quot;Spring Break!&quot; (grunts) - Perhaps the most riveting detail is that according to Calame and Rhodes, members of McCoy's family identified an object left on the plane by Cooper, an object that was never Some parts of the internet seem to believe that this object was a medallion, with McCoy's initials on it, but this seems to stem of the case, which makes this most likely complete horse shit. Regardless if McCoy is Cooper or not, the FBI eventually ruled for the Cooper case, mainly the descriptions of Cooper Though, Calame and Rhodes listed the two men as looking similar. Additionally, according to FBI archives, McCoy was home with his in Utah the day after the hijacking. Unlike Cooper, McCoy was and sentenced to 45 years in prison. McCoy would actually escape from prison in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania in a gunfight with FBI agents I just love how that - He's out. - He's not out. - He's out. - Shot to death. - That was a roller coaster The second suspect is Duane Weber, who claimed to be D.B. His wife Jo claims that Duane pulled her close and said, quote, &quot;I have a secret to tell (laughing) - I was trying to take a drink and I just imagined. - &quot;Closer, closer, closer.&quot; - &quot;I have a secret to tell you.&quot; - &quot;I'm D.B. Cooper.&quot; - &quot;I'm the phantom of the sky.&quot; I bet she did not see that one coming. - No, she's probably gonna be like. - Did he cheat on me? &quot;Did you cheat on me?&quot; - &quot;I'm a man of myth.&quot; - This revelation led to Jo revisiting what should have been clear clues. According to Jo, Duane had nightmares where he'd sleep talk about, quote, &quot;Leaving fingerprints on a plane.&quot; He also had a knee ailment that he claimed he got jumping out of a plane. Duane's handwriting was reportedly found in the margins of a library Jo also claims Duane took her to the place where the money was eventually And finally, Jo claims that Duane had an old NorthWest Airlines 29 years after he left the case, here's a quote from former lead FBI agent Ralph Himmelsbach on Duane Weber. Quote, &quot;He does fit the &quot;He does have the criminal background &quot;that I've always felt was associated &quot;with the case,&quot; end quote. Himmelsbach also believed may have credibility, but ultimately did not believe it was him. The third and final suspect the favorite suspect of The theory began when Lyle Christiansen, the brother of Kenneth Christiansen, saw an episode of Unsolved Mysteries and became convinced that Lyle also cites a deathbed confession from his now late brother Kenneth. Kenneth reportedly said, quote, &quot;There is something you should know, &quot;but I cannot tell you,&quot; end quote. Kenneth was a flight purser the same airline that Cooper hijacked, which would support online suspicion that it was an inside job. Kenneth also loved shortly after the crime, though it was apparently unassuming. Perhaps the most enthralling is that fact that when he to a flight attendant who'd she agreed that of all Kenneth was the closest. Though, she also said, quote, Bizarrely, the FBI debunked Kenneth on the basis that he didn't So once again the FBI coming in hot with some weird You're cool, FBI, I'm just saying. - You don't wanna make - No I don't especially - Yep. - Another reason the FBI discredits Kenneth as a suspect is because Kenneth was a paratrooper just after World War II. A detail that is damning, who believes that Cooper Which brings us to our next suspect, or rather theory, from that D.B. Cooper did not survive the fall. Agent Carr took over the Here's a quote from him on the matter. Quote, &quot;We originally thought Cooper &quot;was an experienced jumper, &quot;We concluded after a few years this was simply not true,&quot; end quote. Here's some details that Cooper jumped carrying two parachutes. However, only one of them The other was a training Furthermore, the shoot that was functional was a military chute He's kinda starting to - A little bit. - The whole time, he's like, &quot;Yeah, bourbon soda, mm bomb. &quot;Here's your note. &quot;I'm a cool guy, sunglasses.&quot; Jumps out the plane. (screams) (screams) Splat. - It's not a splat, I Just, &quot;No, no, no, no.&quot; (grunts) - &quot;Kill me.&quot; - Little squirrel comes up to him. &quot;Get out of here.&quot; - Here's some more Quote, &quot;No experienced parachutist &quot;would have jumped in &quot;in the rain, with a 200 &quot;wearing loafers and a Other reasons he possibly died in the fall include him jumping into and there was no visibility of the ground at the time that he jumped as there was a cloud cover at 5,000 feet. Obviously, this theory due to the fact his body The last theory we will discuss comes from a group of amateur scientists that refer to themselves I got you guys, don't worry. He's gonna be floored. Citizen Sleuths employed the to discover north of on D.B. Cooper's tie. Among these particles, they discovered cerium, strontium sulfide, According to lead Citizen quote, &quot;These are what they &quot;They're used in very narrow fields, &quot;for very specific things,&quot; end quote. Kaye stated that although these elements were rare during 1971, one place they were being utilized was at Boeing, where they were developing an advanced, supersonic transport plane. Kaye and the Citizen Sleuths posit that Cooper may have explaining the rare Quote, &quot;The tie went with &quot;environments for sure, so he was not &quot;one of the people running &quot;He was either an engineer or a manager &quot;in one of the plants,&quot; end quote. Kaye believes the key rests with the memory in the Pacific North West who was involved in the aerospace industry at the time. If that person is you, all information can be relayed to the Citizen Sleuths via the contact tab on their The FBI called their &quot;One of the longest and most &quot;exhaustive investigations,&quot; As of 2011, the FBI case file measured 40 feet long, and covered more than 1,000 suspects, so what we presented here is The case was open for finally closed it in 2016, though they are still willing to What do you think happened? - I'm gonna go Occam's Razor on this one and just assume that he A little juxtaposition of &quot;I'll have a bourbon,&quot; and then two hours later. (yells) - After all these years, on the identity of the cunning crook known as D.B. Cooper. But for now, and perhaps forever, the case of D.B. Cooper What if the trench coat was like Batman where it was like a flight activated suit that allows him to fly around - In my mind though, I don't imagine him being like, &quot;Oh here comes the tree line.&quot; I imagine him being like, &quot;Oh, I can't see &quot;through the clouds, oh now I can.&quot; - It's just. - Plume of smoke. - Oh hey there, didn't see you walk in. That does it for this but we will be back with a Now I'm gonna get back to this case file. - That's bullshit. (wolf howling) - [Ryan] Look out for a brand new season of Buzzfeed Unsolved