Everyone starts out knowing nothing. We eventually learn but not without some hard painful lessons Thankfully, we've got the best medicine for that, laughter Good company and origin PC who sponsored this video with their Eon 16x and Eon 15 SL laptops So come along with us as we laugh together and some of the Internet's worst tech support gore, like this one Removing RAM from a computer. Oh my god. You know what? I've actually done that one time. Oh, I've totally done this It's super cool. I did it to the school computers in high school Did it look like this? ah You know, I try to just block that memory out of my mind. What were you thinking? That it was off. Oh my god, you did it all by accident. Oh, yeah. you know, it's great though I've seen it where you can actually rip out RAM sticks and the computer will work for a little bit of time yeah, as long as it doesn't try to access whatever was in that particular stick of RAM or doesn't try to write to it because the Computer still thinks it'll have eight gigabytes. Yeah, or whatever Right, like this looks like somebody took one stick out and then the system was like, where did those bits go? I don't like this and that's what happened. Someone unplugged something and now the office internet doesn't work. Oh my god You know, what's crazy our server room look like that. It wasn't this bad. it was that bad. wasn't this bad I mean, that should be easy to figure out though. Just find your modem. I Mean, you know, you figure that potentially. Yeah, it depends on what you unplugged and if you actually have everything documented, huh? I understand how it happens and you know what a lot of the time It's not the fault of the people who are actually in charge of admitting the thing. Yeah, some third-party contract will come in They won't label anything and then your boss is breathing down your neck or your team is breathing down your neck to get their systems Back up and running you go. Okay. Well, I've solved it now. I'll label it later, times 15 years. Plan a burn the office down. No one looks for a bullet in a bomb. Custom loop. Oh god. Hold on. Hold on. No, I see it already There's some things about this that look very good. The orientation of the radiator will help the air bleed out of it. I Think I see where this is going What I had to look away What where did it? Where did the seal break? It didn't look like the tubes. Can you play in slo-mo? I don't have the o-rings in the CPU. It looks like it's there though. No the o-rings not in. I have seen this happen this generation of block needed to be Disassembled in order to change the mounting hold down. If you forget to put the o-ring in hey that don't seal. This is salvageable But my god, this is why when you test your water cooling loop you do it with water Not the like blue Smurf vomit, whatever the hell that is. Yeah. Oh, that's blue fortnight chug jug .Here We're over analyzing it with big brain. Yeah With the higher level of water in the loop could have the pressure and the gravity. No, they don't have an o-ring in it I should tell them it's not a touchscreen. Oh Okay, why is everything they want to touch right in the center? Apple if this isn't enough evidence That you need to make your devices touchscreen. I don't know what will be. what it looks like they were drawing here What are they drawing? Are they trying to summon some demon? It's like someone just lotioned up and went to town on the monitor But I like it this way it's convenient. Oh my god Okay. Yo, this is you like in another life. I didn't even realize how bad this was. Does it work? I mean, that's a cool function if you can make it work that way Oh, yeah, I'm all for it. When I first looked at this I was seeing the glass and I was seeing a phone propped on the glass and I was like, man You go and touch that phone. It's gonna knock over the glass. Your phone's gonna get that was like a battery pack Yeah, I didn't even notice that the phone is split apart Yeah, and then the liquid would spill directly into it, but you know you what you can also do is just lean the phone Against the glass. Oh, yeah. Oh, can you see them? Yeah, you could see them. Oh, yeah Absolute giga Chad right there Is that Elijah? Okay, that's gross Go full screen. We need to zoom in. I don't know if I could handle that This is actually disgusting. look it's convenient. So he's got Heineken and Red Bull Red Bull lots of smoke lots of smoke ports Is that pudding in the bottom left? Dude, dude, the top of the desk is the tip of this garbage But look at the screen let go up up up up up see like he they're showing it off power aid Does the healthy, you know, why do you say healthy if there's like 17 packs? Hydrated I guess. Oh, that looks like this dude. That looks I think that's piss. Oh, no. Oh god. Are those pee bottles? Oh No. Oh, no. Why would you leave them open? Yeah, that's the problem Jake And they're on the look at this just just seems fake. Like I want to know if this is staged and I think we can figure it out. Look at this banana This banana has not been there that long You know, you're right a lot of it looks too new Like why are all the McDonald's cups like so pristine and like the Red Bull cans not crumpled? I mean, maybe this is just a hard day's work. You're drinking a lot. You're gonna be peeing a lot Maybe they take pride in their degeneracy. Like they've been like this for a long time. Yeah, check the comments Let's see what the comments like It's just apple juice How is that possible? Are those splitters? What am I looking at? Wait, go go back. Are those like those two-in-one Ethernet splitters that we did a video on? Yeah, looks like. that like don't work. What are they can work if you use them the right way? Okay, cuz you can use only four wires and so you split the two pairs or choose the four wires. Sure Yes, and use it that way for like cat5 or whatever, but look at all the empty ports on the switch above them Why are they splitting? Like what are they doing? What is the point? Okay. Well, what's on the next rack? Oh god The floor. Oh, you can't even walk in here. All the wires hanging from rack to rack really pisses me off more in all honesty What am I even looking at? Like this is a huge building with a non-trivial number of people presumably who are being paid Which tells you already that whatever company is operating here has a non-trivial amount of revenue that they clearly Do not invest in IT. Who hurt you? Who hurt you? That's like if somebody calls you to come work on this when you walk in the room You just go I'm a billing you hourly. No you go you turn you turn around and you leave. No, I take it What dude no, I'd take the money. Oh, I take the money. You know what? It seems like everyone in the comments are on your side. I'll be paid hourly, please. It's got to be hourly There's no way I would quote the job because clearly that's cobbled together from generations of a hardware Nothing like malicious compliance. speaking of malicious compliance. Our sponsor wants me to talk about the Eon 16 X But I'm gonna do it my way It's got a 2560 by 1600 16-inch display running at 240 Hertz for a Gaming experience, but if you want to use another display like we are today, it's got a ton of options for IO It's got Thunderbolt 4 which makes outputting video or connecting to a dock super easy it's got USB 3.2 Gen 2 type-c which supports DisplayPort and Power and it's got good old-fashioned HDMI 2.1, plus unlike many modern devices It's got three USB type-a ports and a headphone mic combo jack What it doesn't have is what we're about to look at. My heart stopped beating. That looks like our set Oh, I've seen this. Oh my god. This is Sarah. Oh good. It's us. Oh, no, it's us. Why? Oh god, I remember this. Oh, yeah Oh God why is it so crunchy? Just getting it out. Oh Sarah, please just the physical pain of Linus is great here This is just as hard to watch the second time. This is the worst one so far, like actually. Oh, no, it's got 7,000 upvotes. to be fair the computer worked after this Microsoft please remove the nightmare that has kicked off from install Now look Accessibility is a good thing. Yeah this Wasn't the right way to do it. Yeah. No, so this is an argument for imaging things. Oh, yes That's a great thing. Skip all this garbage. Yeah So sometimes when you have to do mass installs for office or a school you can set up one laptop and then use Microsoft's Imaging to create that and install it on multiple devices Yeah, that way you don't have to listen to a thousand Cortana's. No you make the user do it with the out-of-box experience exactly There's got to be a phobia of this people repeating the same thing over and over again. IT managers workstation user one is a domain admin. That's what, it was the login name Really? I thought Windows doesn't even let you do that. It's Windows 7 dude. What I just like sorry. Who is this? User one is the domain admin At least it's not just password That's worse because at least with password they'd have to guess This is just telling you what the password is. That's fair. Yeah. Well, the good news is when they fire their IT manager They won't have any trouble getting into the system. Yeah, exactly. I mean There's nothing like building out and maintaining a fancy Authentication system and then just making the password the username just don't have it This is the kind of office where like no one's really in charge of IT. Oh, yeah, right Someone has to go kick the rotor. All right, like this guy's leading the horse to water right here. Yeah, holy Single cat 5e holding up a rack, huh? Oh, they're tied it on here. Oh, I'm so uncomfortable Oh, I've seen this one. Yeah. Yeah. Uh-huh. Mm-hmm. Oh My god, that's mint. I'm so mad This one really bothers me. I'm confused now because it shouldn't like hook in here. Yeah, why did they take it down? It probably fell. You know what? I bet it is. I think the deep stuff is too deep to fit in it But then they've got stuff just hanging out the front anyway, okay, so it must sit in the bottom portion like it came out Yeah, here's the pills to help them feel better. Yeah, we'll just we'll just tie this Ethernet cable. We've done jank, but this is terrible. Don't do that at all. Why my internet keeps dropping Oh, is this just like follow the cable? Okay, there's gonna be a cat at one end of it This is gonna be a cat. Is this the power cable? It's a phone line. Oh, no, that's the power cable. Okay Okay power up over there heck is okay. We're going Okay, this is gonna be a jump scare. I'm gonna get huh to another power. Oh my god Don't daisy-chain, uh-huh. Well, are we going down into the basement? Did we just We're in the basement now. See a crack shot another power. Surely. He's got a closer power connection Is the house not wired for electricity except for one outlet in the basement somewhere that is legitimately possible Just open across the floor like, He goes to the neighbors house Another What f***, sorry part of my life. it looks like Asia, light switch There is so much wrong with that You know What's funny is I went through this with Yvonne's phone not charging and I realized that her phone charger was plugged into the bedside Yeah, I gotcha. It's got a light switch for yeah. Yeah, it took me it took me like An embarrassing amount of time to figure out why sometimes it didn't work. I'm surprised it booted I mean the modem doesn't take a ton of power probably so I mean but with how much other daisy-chaining stuff We don't know what was on the other end of the. 18 fridges on it. Who knows else? Yeah powering the neighborhood. Grow up. Yeah Chromebooks returned end of the year. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I at my school. We had a laptop program We had to think pads, kids did the worst stuff to their laptops. Why would you do this? a child This isn't your property. So in fairness, though, it's kind of a vibe. I Kind of like it Halloween who needs a H key when you have Halloween key Yeah, they're like legitimately using it to learn a for Apple. What else we got here. There's more pictures, too Oh, yeah, right. Let's see if there's I study pimp ology I'll Thunder to your grandmother. I'll Thunder to your grandmother That's not that that one's pretty tasteful, yeah, I like this one. Yeah Chromebook definitely Chromebook It's done with like a watercolor paint. Yeah, like they did this an art class. There's pretty tasteful You know what else is tasteful is the back of the origin laptops with the next talking point. Such a good Okay, fine, okay fine. We'll talk about origins UV printing there This was done in a tasteful way as well. With the eon 16x and the 15 SL You can add your choice of HD UV prints or laser etching to make them unique And while they're not gonna be able to fix what we just saw if you do have any issues You can always call their support line for a helping hand. Okay user spilt coffee on his laptop. Oh No, and put it in the oven. No Oh Think pad too. oh There's so much wrong with that sentence and that is a fraction of how dead everything inside it is No, the best part is think pads have drainage holes in them. Usually so your liquid will flow through it That is true. That is some think pad laptops. Not all of them Yeah, but still with coffee you probably want to take it apart to get some of the gunk out because it's not just water This is black coffee. Maybe you're okay, but Still have something in there, right? Yeah, but not the oven. That's the TLDR The nipple is fine though. You can still use that laptop. fireproof nipple. Yeah, you lost the F key entirely You can't pay any respects to this at all. F Person mistook LED polarizing film for protective plastic and peeled it off. Oh, yes. I'm actually impressed that they were able to get that much of it off. I hope you didn't want to close any programs ever again I think we have an old video on this where you can actually take that film and like make glasses out of it So you can have like a private screen. Yeah, it's also a super fun science project, by the way Yeah, your kids to do that. It's super super cool. I mean like don't use a good laptop the eon 16x is way overkill for what we're doing today but it's got a sleek and compact design and manages to pack in an Intel core i9 14900 HX an RTX 4090 mobile GPU Wi-Fi 6E, 64 gigs of RAM and 3 terabytes of total system storage on Samsung 990 Pro NVMe drives. moving on. Hospital server. Oh, yeah, don't go to this hospital. You're gonna die. A battery backup though That's a big one. So that's something a UPS ain't saving you Like one pair of scissors who knows who's dying? Yeah, like holy Wonder what this bracket is from. Hey, they made sure they didn't lose the screws though. They're right there. It's for the UPS Top comments probably like I know which cable or something found a wall. Don't click on that. What is click on the link? Oh There's a guy there's a guy go back to the picture. No shot top middle Yeah, he's right there Think I might know that guy Jerry Man, the guy that noticed that is wild User dropped it walking to the car. It came in the day after the Super Bowl You are so full of s*** User that is not from being dropped. That's a I lost my bet. Or do you spike it in victory? Maybe? Depends on how he came in that day. Was he upset or happy? There's no way that's a drop. Oh, no, I can totally see what happened here Literally, you can see the bend. Yeah dropped it while walking to the car Yeah, I dropped it while walking to the car and then I drove over it seven times Customer came in with his iPhone his glass cracked He thought he could peel off the glass so he wouldn't notice the crack anymore. Well, I mean mission accomplished I mean, yeah, I don't see the crack much. I Can still see the crack How do you even go that far it would have broken about halfway like why'd you keep committing to it? It's like some real methhead energy or something. I don't know Why did you keep going. gouge that out of it Didn't you reach a point where you were like, maybe I should stop and he missed some glass here. There's still glass here Yeah, he left some of the crack. Yeah, that's the problem with this Jordan Hey, yeah, oh my god fair enough I need somewhere to set this candle. Yeah, not there Oh, they put it on top of a computer It dripped through the top grill It's like someone barked Pepto-Bismol into the case. The two capacitors in the bottom right make it look like Kirby Kirby has consumed this server. No, I know what it is. It's got to be like a cable box Mmm, that would also explain why somebody has a candle on it. It looks like there's like RCA jacks. Yeah I think this is a cable box. Oh Gross. is wax conductive? I don't think so Cuz like I'd be curious on if this PC as long as it didn't get in anything major. Maybe it still works. It'd be warm Cleaning out a PC belonging to a cutting stone shop. Oh god Well, you're gonna want a mask for that It doesn't stop there's a learnable here There's a reason those computers that are passively cooled like the industrial computer. Yeah, there's a reason they exist Bros, probably gonna have like asbestos poisoning after whatever he's blown out of there cuz that's nuts. What is the top comment? Anyway You need to be using a passive computer a sealed one. Yeah for this. Yeah, we have one in our shop for that reason Yeah, well, hang on folks. We've got another quick word from origin pc here It's all about their Aeon 15 SL If you need something a little smaller with a little less horsepower at a lower price the 15 SL might be for you It's still got a 240 Hertz 2560 by 1600 display along with most of the same IO we saw earlier It's a great option for anyone gaming on the go. Now this. oh my good my space heater stopped working I think a lot more probably stopped. How do you even do? That's straight up so dangerous. It's terrifying. Don't plug a space heater into a power bar And if you do don't plug in anything else, no, just don't. yes But if you do. just don't even says on the cable, I know yeah, but they also they compounded the error Jake They compounded it, this is a compound error. It was next to the heater. Oh So do you think this is, how does it get that far? And look that's a good point to yeah, like how do you get to this point and nothing failed beforehand? This is every level of scary. Yeah. When it wasn't a phone holder after all No, oh I've seen this one. oh my god when it wasn't a phone holder Oh Wait, wait, wait, wait now you can just lift this screen up and hold it up with a drink for yeah. Yeah. Yeah Yeah, no, no, just peel it peel off the glass parts. Oh, that's the part under it is flexible. You could do both Is that for like ventilation? That's what? I don't know. What is that for? I don't know. Yeah, you can't even access it It's not very big. What is that for? It's not a phone holder though. Someone's gonna know let us know in the comments I have no idea Tragedy. Customer put toilet paper between CPU and the cooler because he read online. It was almost as good. Uh The worst part is this looks like it was running for a while It looks burnt like it's got dust and stuff built up kind of where it would be in such Zoom in. Are you serious? It looks almost like it's kind of like just turned into powder. And the thing is that with a processor from this era The computer would probably work a fair bit. It would just thermal throttle to hell and back Mm-hmm, and the performance would suck. What article would that have been? AI? You know what? When was this post made? Let's close out of the just hit the X and top right? Yeah Yeah, no, it's not as good as thermal paste please use thermal paste. Don't do that yeah, or PTM 7950 LTTstore.com There you go. Bend it except My god This is nothing compared to the time we had the editors build their own workstations and one of them, Dennis. One of them, Dennis screwed the motherboard into the motherboard backplate without a standoff when the rest of the board was secured with standoffs Yeah, was it Dennis? And then proceeded to edit on that machine for several years. It was definitely Dennis. I believe it was Dennis. Okay end-user had a heater next to the PC was randomly shutting off She thought she smelled burning a couple of times. It was literally screaming. Yeah It's probably fine, yeah, but like oh At my old job. I've 100% saw this Yeah But they had a heater by their feet and the computer was under the desk Yeah, so it kept shutting the computer off. So I this is probably more common then we would ever like to admit. it's seem that is just the bezel at least too. It's not like the cases And yeah, as long as there's no longevity of heat damage to any of the components, right? All right May I know what happened. here, I'll be I'll be Amazon. You'd be Amazon. All right, may I know what happened? Yes, I connected this SSD to my computer. I tried both slots and the motherboard did not detect it I have another SSD and it works perfectly in both slots Thank you for the information if I may ask do you have your internal SSD right now? The Western Digital one that I bought from Amazon. Yes, perfect Can you please try to remove the RAM and then put it back a bit of a twist? Okay It is a Karen. Oh, it's his Karen customer To ours. All right in my computer. I'm using like to talk to you. Yes, please so polite The RAM has seen us correctly. I can assure you of that. Also if I did that I would have to end this call I do understand that this might be weird, but I'll assure you that this will work. Try to preheat your oven. Oh my god He just goes with it how much is that in Celsius The bot recommends them because they have a broken m.2 SSD to pull the RAM out of their system Preheat their oven to bake the RAM Did they say to put it on tinfoil to? wrap the RAM tightly in tinfoil. So bake the RAM bake the RAM. That is a wild I mean. Look reflowing things in an oven can work as a temporary measure to maybe Pull data off of it. If if a solder joint has has failed. Don't try to justify anything from baking ram.I mean Data recovery. We had to freeze the hard drive. So the opposite direction of heating. Okay it's fair. And you especially shouldn't put your RAM in the oven if you have a broken SSD and leave the power cable connected while you're baking It all right on to the next one. So this is why we don't run a 50-foot budget HDMI cable. Yes. Yeah You've been there. Oh, yeah, usually this is more than we usually get. This is long pretty good for a super long cable They're lucky. They've got anything. Do you remember 16k gaming and the hell we went through with the cables on that? I do Yeah, that's how I found infinite cables. That makes sense. Yeah, they were the only ones that had a decent quality Long display port. In Canada that could ship quick. Dude. We bought so many cables for that stupid video Yeah, like I think probably four or five different sets. I mean the right side of the screen is okay Just keep your discord on the right side I Hope you all had as much fun as we did I just want to take another moment to once again Thank our sponsor origin PC. Whether you need a balls-to-the-wall Maxed out eon 16x or something a little more modest like the eon 15 SL origins got you covered You can check them out using the link down below. If you guys enjoyed this video Maybe check out the one where we roasted our colleagues gaming setups