Dad, drink some water. Come Tianzong You can practice sword. You can't just chop down our wall every time. Why don't you try to break it against the wall of your house? Aunt I got inspired That's why I damaged your wall. I promise I will never hack a wall again. On a whim How many times have you been in a rush? When your father was here The wall of our house It collapses every two or three days. It collapses every two or three days. Your father passed away. Not even a few years yet Fork, it's your turn to grow up and chop the wall Sword practice is OK Don't hack the wall. The wall collapsed and needs to be repaired. Every time you repair a wall How much time do you have to spend? How much dust do you eat? Aunt I have a stomach ache I'm going to the toilet I'm back Don't go, I haven't finished talking yet. Thank you, sir. Take care. plz follow me This person is the Miss Guo from Emei, right? Yan Song, a senior official In the court, he can cover the sky with one hand without saying anything The power in the underworld has spread all over the world This person has a wolfish ambition Must be prevented yes Master, is there any news? Hold on It's not a good place to stay for long. Please go back. My uncle's generous help to my Emei Thanks here Come and help me. Don't look at My wine I said you Can I ask you for a favor? Your letter will not If you talk again, it will break Say it again Don't let me see you again. See you again I smashed all your letters. Tear Bad luck Ask Mei I am the descendant of the female hero Guo Xiang. In the past, the heroine Guo sacrificed her life to defend Xiangyang The country is in trouble and we should lend a helping hand I heard that the Japanese pirates and my general Zhang Jing and Zhu Wan There will be a fierce battle in Zhapu Mr. Zhang Jing and Mr. Zhu Wan Highly respected They are all capable ministers who guard the frontiers and the land. Emei should give full support Live up to our ancestors brother Excuse me, is this Yangjia Village? It's Yangjia Village. Is there a young man named Yang Tianzong here? I am Yang Tianzong So you are Young Master Yang I am Young Master Yang has been looking for you for a long time. You're welcome. You're welcome. If you have anything to say, please speak slowly. Please, please save my master quickly. Who is your master? Why should I save him? That's it You'll understand once you've seen this Stop for me The dishevelled hair wrapped in rags Holding a broken gourd The thief who stole my purse Look where I'm talking about. A thief is a thief. If you want to know Give me back my purse My wallet To run or not to run? If you don't run, you won't have a chance. Can you catch up if you run? Chase me Want to chase me mine mine Follow me Come in, it's here. Not Big Brother This this Small place Sit down Visit casually I thought there was something hanging. Why are you standing there drinking? I said you can't Thousands of times I said you wouldn't Sit down and have a drink Fun, huh? Stop what are you doing I found something More fun than anything in your house. etc. You can play with everything in this room. Only the sword won't work. Only the sword won't work. Cheapskate We don't want that wine, brother. Let's go, let's go. It's just a broken sword. Why don't you let me play? I'm lucky I didn't send you back to your Beggars' Sect. Broken Sword Say it again Broken Sword liquor Put it down for me Don't waste food Drink slowly Leave me a bite Still fighting? I'm afraid of you I guess you can't even walk steadily now It's not comfortable Dissatisfied Clothes Speak well Convinced so What if you accept it? Just close your eyes If you don't agree You just keep staring at me It closed pretty fast. Get up Get up and stop pretending You're being too harsh. This is what happens when you touch my sword I can't tell. Your martial arts skills are really better than mine. I'll take you as my teacher. I'll take you as my teacher. stand up I see you and I are about the same age. Even if I become your disciple You can make a vow You can make a vow Really? real Come and make peace Listen I am twenty-five years old What about you? I am twenty-six Several Several There are three Then you call me big brother How about I call you crazy brother? OK Crazy Brother Big Brother Crazy Brother Big Brother Finish drinking. Take you to a fun place Okay, okay. Just have fun quick quick Quick quick Please hurry up. Hurry up! Hurry up! Keep up, keep up fast Just follow me and take it. Have you got all your things? Okay, okay, let's go. Hold on, hold on, hurry up, hurry up Hurry up, hurry up Hurry up! Catch up, catch up quickly Wait, I'm quick. Come on, come on, hurry up. Over here, over here Okay, okay, hurry up Hurry up! Hurry up! You hold it steady! Hurry up! You wait for me, wait for me girl What happened? The Japanese pirates are coming! Run! Run, run! Brother, there are Japanese pirates It's fun The Japanese pirates are coming I mean that, too. no Lord Zhang Zhu is in imminent danger We must rush to the capital. Don't waste time Otherwise Let's go in and kill the hundred or so Japanese pirates first. Just a few sticks of incense. Crazy brother, let's see who is faster. What a big bustle! Wait for me Wait, I'll stop. stop Let me go open Are you all right? Take the child away quickly. Thank you, Master. Thank you, Master hurry up Thank you, Master, please hurry up Thank you, Master, please leave quickly. Amitabha Let's see Folks, Folks Stop, don't come over here. Don't come over yet. What are you doing, monk? You're the one who defeated all my people. I ask the general to release these people. See you didn't kill my men. This general will give you a way out Get out of here! So the people don't leave This poor monk will not leave Amitabha We are ready What are you Young man, you cannot kill What's going on? They want to kill you. I'm saving you, you know? Young Hero stop Young Hero Young Hero Which eye of yours saw me kill someone? They killed themselves If you want to see me kill someone, I'll kill you. You can't chase me anymore. No more killing master These people are all heinous murderers. If you don't kill them They will kill more of our Ming people. Excuse me Stopping the killing depends on education When will this killing end? Kill them so that they dare not attack our Ming Dynasty again Naturally, it will kill the end. Iceberg is right You have to kill all these pirates So that they can no longer come here to kill people Look at these people. Their relatives and parents and the children They were all killed by these pirates. Ask them whether these Japanese pirates should be killed or not. Deserve to die He who deserves death deserves death. Release the two adults Let them go quickly! They are honest officials. They are good people They are wronged. Release the two adults They are wronged Release the two adults Mr. Xu seems to be in a bad mood Lord Yan is feeling very happy. Eliminate harm for the country Of course joy It is to eliminate harm for the country Why don't the people seem as happy as Lord Yan? They are all ignorant people Are they happy or not What harm does it do to the overall situation? What is this old dog Yan talking about? I can't hear a word. Miss Guo Laowu Look at those people Isn't this the guy who used poison in Tongxian Town? Have you seen him? This person is Yan Ze's subordinate. This old thief is really cunning. He actually sent his men to hide among the people in disguise. I heard that Zhang Jing and Zhu Wan The young master and his daughter have also arrived in the capital. They will definitely show up Keep an eye on them Don't let them get hurt. Mr. Zhang, Mr. Zhu I am incapable of saving the two adults. Adult Xu You don't have to blame yourself If we can use our blood Clear the obstacles before the emperor's eyes We'll die a worthy death. Mr. Zhang is right. Anti-Japanese War Please ask Lord Xu to report this to the Emperor. Jiangsu and Zhejiang Coastal Area If there were no such a man of strategy and courage as Mr. Zhang, I'm afraid that fighting against the Japanese is just empty talk. Adult Xu I will remember what the two adults said. The time has come to kill Visitors Open Cut It's not a beheading. The killing has already begun. It will be too late if we don't take action now. Wait a minute What are you waiting for? See what tricks there are. Please don't kill innocent people. These people are not innocent. Damn people. Old Five Old Five Don't tell me I can't guarantee it. Please ask Lord Xu to ask the Emperor Quickly invite Qi Jiguang, the lieutenant general of Shandong Taizhou to prepare for the Japanese invasion Enter Zhejiang to fight against the Japanese pirates besides Governor-General of Jiangsu and Zhejiang and Governor of Zhejiang We must send virtuous people to take up the post. Adult Xu Mr. Xu, please remember this. If not The Japanese pirates will be rampant In a few years It will endanger the capital, Master Xu. Mr. Zhang, Mr. Zhu Don't worry, I'll take care of everything. Mr. Xu, please Mr. Xu, please Dad, are you okay? Why are you here? Don't worry about your life Don't worry, we are here to rescue you. Capture them Adult Xu Enjoy the show The best is yet to come Why are you doing this? Brother, please take my dad and Uncle Zhu away. Let's go together No one wants to leave Wakatomo Hands-on Go fast Thank you sister for saving me Who are they? Stop asking so many questions and take the two adults away quickly. Ruoxian, follow Tieqiao and go quickly Leave us alone I don't want to go with you Your crazy grandpa has brought you gifts. Quick retreat Crazy Five is coming Xianer You are harming your father. Dad, stop talking. If you don't leave now, you will be beheaded. Thank you for saving us twice. But we are the emperor's subjects. Although the emperor did not treat us as state officials But we must treat them as our countrymen. right Lord Zhang and I are blessed by the Emperor's grace The fate has long been the Ming Emperor's. Today the king lets his subjects die We dare not not die. My two adults, please stop being stubborn. Come with us now father We appreciate the girl's kindness, but We will never leave right Sister, what are you doing? I'm saving them. Don't worry, Mr. Xu. They can't leave Quick enough Do you think my clothes are not torn enough? I think you didn't bleed enough. This is pretty nice. Are you looking for death? Take a look The whip is nice. Lend it to me. Really beautiful Lock it up well, lock it up well It smells so good How much powder do you apply? I'll kill you, you stinky beggar. Dead Madman If you're serious, I'm just kidding. Come down to me stop Bold Maniac How dare you hold the current emperor hostage? Where are the archers? Trivial Skills Those archers can't hurt me at all Aren't you afraid of hurting your emperor? Let them put down their bows and arrows. Put down your bow and arrow! Put down all the arrows! Wang Gong, you are crazy Wang Gong Do you dare to murder the emperor in front of the world? Rebel Put down the emperor Do you want to rebel? rebellion I am a wanderer I don't have such big ambitions. I just don't want to wrongly accuse good people. So I'll borrow your emperor's money today. The two adults and my friend were released immediately. otherwise Please spare my life, good man. I asked them to put down the arrows You put the arrow down Let them go Let them go Brother, why don't you leave? You go first I'll be there soon Walk quick Quick, quick, quick Walk Caught Help me, you bunch of rubbish! What should adults do? What else can I do? Come on, someone save the emperor first Save me This strict party will not be eliminated The Ming Dynasty is in danger Young Master Yang got it right The Japanese pirates will definitely disperse once they enter the city. yes This way we have a chance to kill them Young Master Yang, how do you think we should fight? We will act in teams of two. But don't alarm the snake So that they don't get together Make the Japanese pirates unable to detect the real situation Can't find us Yes, and you remember Don't get entangled with the Japanese pirates in one place Such a large county town I just don't believe it Their large forces can gather together I I want to be in a group with my brother. good Then Master Xiang Xin, you and Ruo Xian No need for me to be in a group with Ruoxian Senior We will follow Brother Yang's arrangements. Ask Sister Mei if you are good at martial arts and you are in the same group with her I don't have to do it alone. Master Xiang Xin, let's go. You should go with Miss Guo. Ruoxian, you should still be in the same group with Tieqiao Otherwise he will be unhappy. Then you all should pay more attention to safety good Then you and Master Xiang Xin Do you want me to follow Master Xiang Xin? Take care of Miss Zhang and Mr. Zhu Don't stay too far away from them knew Go to Master Xin careful You also be careful Don't look at it, bro. Good to go Brothers, hurry up Get rich, brothers. What's the meaning Where are you in such a hurry to go? Big Brother How many did you kill? Eight How many did you kill? Count it yourself Do you know numbers? Gone withdraw Don't move Senior Wakatomo Go quickly Ruoxian, I will protect you, please leave quickly No Brother, let's die together. Wakatomo good Let's die together No one left alive I have abolished their martial arts There is no need to kill anymore. Walk Quick, quick, quick Brothers Bring these pirates' bodies inside. yes Our people have been here According to the deployment, we are the first team to arrive. Report to the general that all the blows were fatal The moves are crisp and clear Suspected to be a martial arts master It's them Some Japanese pirates were also hit by acupuncture points Suspected fake death Report General, the Japanese pirates have entered the silver vault in the east. Good walk Brothers, hurry up and grab the silver vault! quick Hurry up! quick hurry up Young Master Yang and his men must have been discovered by the Japanese pirates. Perhaps they were dressed as civilians and soldiers. Anyway, let's go and see Walk Quick, quick, quick Quick, quick, quick Quick You are Qi Jiguang Yes, I am Qi Jiguang It turns out that he is the General Qi Jiguang that my father asked me to find. You didn't run This is my Ming land. It's you band of robbers who should run away. I stayed here to tell you My Ming territory How can we allow you Japanese pirates to trample on us? You know I know In your Ming Dynasty I can capture cities and territories at will Unhindered travel That's because my Central Plains has thousands of years of culture. We advocate peace and never bully other countries. Unlike you Japanese pirates, who burn, kill, and rob everywhere As long as I give the order You will die without a burial place I won't kill all of you Japanese pirates. I, Qi Jiguang, will never leave even a step Qi Jiguang Why are you doing this? I have determined to defend my country Put life and death aside You are a good guy I like a good guy like you If you surrender to me You will become the deputy commander of 40,000 warriors. A mob of robbers What commander? At best, he is just a bandit leader. Compared to me, the deputy lieutenant general You are a thief General Qi is right. This is a little thief. General Qi, I had many misunderstandings before. Offended Please forgive me, General Qi. What's wrong with jointly fighting against the Japanese invaders and defending our country? In your words, General Qi This is our Ming land. People who should get out It should be you, the Japanese pirates. My brother is right. Wait a minute, I'm crazy. Kill you all one by one You killed all those Japanese pirates just now. No way I've killed hundreds of people before you know. You are dumber than me General Qi My little brother never speaks without restraint. Don't take it to heart This crazy hero speaks fast I like it too late Stop talking so much. This city is full of my people You can't escape even if you have wings I think it's you who should look around. This is our Ming land. You are surrounded by people of the Ming Dynasty. You are surrounded by the Ming Dynasty I advise you to get out now. Lest you die without a burial place You people of the Ming Dynasty They are all cowards Don't talk nonsense to him, bro. Look, I won't kill him with one slap. Today I will settle all the old and new accounts with you The one you want You little thief, come down if you can. Look at how I deal with your grandpa. You are such an unlearned grandson. court death Kill them all for me Yang Zhuangshi Let me take care of this Japanese pirate. You guys go first, my brother and I will be there soon. Young Master Yang's martial arts are indeed unique I don't know if the Dharma King Can you handle the next few moves? He couldn't even block half of the sword. His Holiness This sword technique is used to defeat the enemy. Not for blowing That's right This sword technique is used when the opponent thinks he has the upper hand. When I feel secretly happy To achieve the greatest effect This strange monk's martial arts is really powerful If this sword technique is used on him I'm afraid it won't have any effect. Beautiful girl, we meet again Who wants to meet you to see the knife? Ichiro Hihara The Ming army has arrived, evacuate quickly Otherwise, the whole army will be wiped out. Let me kill him first. You said your martial arts skills are not as good as mine People can't escape from my palm What's the point of fighting back and forth? Let me go I said it all You are not as good as me in martial arts People can't escape from my palm Stop fighting This is the only trick you use to fight If you have the ability, try another trick Won't Fairy, send a signal quickly I'll let you go. withdraw quick Don't chase me anymore, brother. Hurry up and meet up with Brother Ma Yes Go up Are you okay, brother? Don't miss the important thing. I will take revenge. Stop chasing and join the team. Go well Is everyone okay? Where is Hero Yang? Here it is Monk It's okay. It's okay. Go for a walk Good walk Kill me Chase stop slow Listen to me Lay down your weapons and you will be spared. You all surrender. General Qi did not kill prisoners Japanese samurai would rather die than surrender Death and immortality all depend on the mind Master means Let their bodies die It's better to let their hearts die Amitabha The visitor is Take the body away and bury it yes quick Thank you, Generals. Fortunately you arrived in time General Qi, are you okay? I'm fine This time it's a closed door beating However, there are still some scattered Japanese pirates in the city. To be eliminated as soon as possible General Qi, you are worrying too much. When General Ma and I arrived The remaining Japanese pirates are trapped in a jar. In a few hours, they will all be captured. Thank you, Generals. These are Adult If there were no heroes today I'm afraid even a hundred Qi Jiguangs are gone. Young Hero Yang Let me introduce you This is General Yu Dayou, the commander-in-chief of Zhejiang. This is General Ma Tianke, the Lieutenant General of the Yong Family. I have long admired the names of these two generals. I am so lucky to see you today.