- [Colin] 1970 Superbird. - [Chris] Numbers matching Sitting in someone's - It does have some things, that detract from the value. This is probably the least you could get in one of these. Are you ready for some bad news? As nice as it is, I'm not at your number. (cheerful upbeat music) Turn your driving dreams into the world's most trusted since 1954. Hemmings offers live online auctions and tens of thousands of collector cars, trucks, and bikes daily. (country music) (upbeat music) Hey, how you doing? - Good, how are you? - Colin. - Nice to meet you, Chris. - Chris, thanks for bringing out your car. - Absolutely. - [Colin] Winged warrior. - [Chris] Yeah. - [Colin] How did I get so lucky - [Chris] Something - [Colin] There is, there is, it beside the fact of needing - [Chris] Yes, exactly. A little longer than normal. - [Colin] A little length to them. - [Chris] Yes. - So yeah, so tell me a with this Superbird. - Yeah, I've had this Superbird, I think I bought it in 2016. - [Colin] Okay. - A good friend of mine, actually acquired the car. - Sitting in someone's and I went to his shop on another car and seen - [Colin] Yeah. - And I had to have it. - [Colin] Okay, so you're a Mopar guy? - [Chris] I'm a Mopar guy. - [Colin] You're wearing Mopar hoodie, so that kind of gave it away. - Yes. - I mean you're, you did cut your hair, a little shorter in the for a Mopar guy, but that's okay. - Yes. - Other than the little is it numbers matching? - Yes, numbers matching - [Colin] Okay. - [Chris] Four barrel and - [Colin] Okay. - [Chris] And all numbers matching car. - All right, awesome. You know the general - Yes. - You've, you know, somehow - Yep. - So what we're gonna do is - Okay. - [Colin] And I'm gonna check it out. - Okay. - [Colin] And pull you back in here. - All right. - We'll have a little conversation and see if we can still be friends or not. - All right, let's do it. - All right, we'll come and - Appreciate it. - Thank you very much. - Thank you. (upbeat music) So I've done my inspection Now we're not gonna get of the Winged Warriors for Mopar, but obviously 1969 was the Dodge Daytona. 1970 was the Superbird. They made a lot more Superbirds Now, for years everybody said That number is kind of in flux. The commonly accepted but some people say they so we'll leave that part alone. But needless to say, they are a rare vehicle, especially today. And they're also an with this added on nose cone and the huge rear wing and all that. So you never mistake a That being said, again, I've It's an FY1 high impact color, which is called top banana on it's called lemon twist. Whatever you call it, it's This car was restored by Julius. Julius has been around forever. Restorations by Julius in the world of Mopar. He knows how to restore and he's done it for years. And it's a brand. So if you say you have a people know the car's This car is pretty damn good. Now I can go around and These were kind of a rush they had to put on this nose cone, you know extend this front So fit and finish on a regular was not good, it didn't get It was obviously restored not to be, you know gold level concourse car. Like it has a reproduction windshield, so it doesn't have the correct markings, on some of the glass. The paint is nice and flat. The top fits really nice. You know, originally from the factory, they had some pretty It looks like it was smoothed The distinctive wing, everybody goes right It's all there. Everything's nice. The chrome is extremely nice. The decals are all correct. Again, I can't really fault this car, on its overall condition. It's as nice as you would expect a car, that gets driven to be. Underneath the car, it's factory spec. It has a little light undercoating, like they would've done from new. The suspension's all detailed, All the nuts and bolts are right, has correct Polyglass tires. The original Mopar rally wheels. It just presents as what it is. A really, really good Superbird. So let's look under the hood. Now Superbird, were available, with three engine configurations. This is the base engine. It's a 440 super commando. It's 440 cubic inches, single It's backed by an automatic transmission. So in the world of desirability, this is probably the least you could get in one of these. The good news is it's still a Superbird. If you went to the next engine option up, you could get a 446 pack, and then of course you'd have the Hemi. So 426 Hemi is in kind when it comes to value. But we're not here saying what something, could be worth of it was different. What we're looking at today with an automatic. It is the original engine. I have verified the VIN The date code and engine are all correct. The carburetor is correct. The ignition coil has the The radiator is a correct numbered unit. It has the original fender tag and the fender tag is really on a Mopar, this tells A lot of these got lost or replaced. This is an original It's the original tag for the car. If that were missing, that But it's here. It calls out the color. It's the correct lemon twist like all Superbirds, black All makes sense. Most B-bodies have a what stamped in the core support. However, it should be right in I don't feel it from the backside, but it is not uncommon wouldn't have the secondary VIN here. I did feel underneath the trunk lid lip and did feel the imprint of a VIN, so I do think it has a So all that is good. (cheerful music) So let's take a look at the inside. (cheerful upbeat music) Now, if you're familiar with you'll feel right at home in here. Mopar did not do anything It's all standard B body fair, which is to say it's not super fancy, it's not over the top. You have the little beep And this car has obviously tach, clock, gauges. Again, it's simple and clean. These are meant to be of a NASCAR high banked oval warrior. So this is what you get. We have the keys. So let's fire it up and see (engine fires) It lights right up, the tach works. The clock is working. All the gauges are up. (car honks) The beep beep horn works. Just for the heck of it, let's try those concealed Now these headlights are vacuum operated, so they can be lazy. All right, so the vacuum all the gauges work, bucket the console's very nice. These are tricky to get right, get all the pot metal chrome right. Top-notch restoration, very nice inside, nothing to fault here. (door slams) Snag the key and we'll look in the trunk. All right so one thing is they had to limit how on a Superbird, 'cause otherwise you would with wing interference. So if you're planning or let your wife take it or whatever the case may be, just remember you're not gonna and egress as you would Now back here is where the secondary VIN. It should be right in this location and I can kind of feel where But I'm not gonna pull and ruin Chris's glue on This car's very nice and clean. I don't see any pitting The quarter panels all look really nice. They're so nice. I can't tell if they've Obviously, again, when who knows what he is doing, they know how to put 'em in. So if it had quarter panels, and they did it all the So I'm impressed with the (door slams) (cheerful music) So I've done my appraisal While it has a lot of it does have some things Chris has said he has no which although it's not the it would be really nice to or some ownership history, something like that that It's not the middle or It's a U code 440 Super commando, which was the base engine. So despite some deficiencies, we do have a really nice number So I know what I think it's worth. We're gonna go pull Chris and see if my number lines up (cheerful music) Hey Chris. - How you doing? - Well, I'm more worried about you. Are you ready for some bad news? - Ah, I don't think we'll have bad news. - Obviously, I've done I have a number in my head. But first, what's your number? You bought it, you own it, you know what they, I mean no as my dad always said. So what do you think it's worth? - I think it's in the - Right, that too, that too. - But I think the market this nice the way it's done, would be anywhere between 225 to 250,000. - I agree, the car's very nice. It's a solid number two car. Julius is a good restorer. You've got all the right stuff. It's number's matching, you know would be great yes, you know, a window but you know, Mopars are I'm not at your number. - Okay. - You know, there's been some recent sales and obviously we know that, you know, a six pack or a four speed or if it was a Hemi be in the stratosphere. But my number today, as nice as it is, again I hope we can still be friends, but. - Sure. - I think it's around 200. - 200. - So there's been a and you know like you and all that stuff but you know, as an appraiser you look at recent sales and the recent sales are you know, high 100s, low 200s number. And I think you're kind of squarely, in the middle of that at 200, so. - Well, it's not a bad day, when you get 200 for a Superbird, right? - Right, 200 for a Mopar, with a funny wing on the - That wouldn't sell back in 70. - Yeah, no. It's a cool car. I mean these Winged Warriors, are certainly a a special group. - [Chris] Yes. - And I'm glad you're not doing a Bo Duke and sliding across the hood But you have an awesome car. I know you have a collection - [Chris] Yes. - And really appreciate - Yeah, no. - Let me take a look. - Thank you for taking the time. - Yeah, thank you so much. - Thank you. (engine roars) I think it's fair. I mean, maybe a tad low, but I mean he's appraising I think if someone were to and look at it, it's a number two maybe it's a 1.5, but hard to find it in this condition. (engine revs)