- There's always a couple of guys that don't care about the cold, right? They're like, &quot;What is &quot;That's nothing, I went golfing. &quot;I'm wearing shorts 'cause I'm a dick.&quot; (audience laughs) (upbeat music) Fall people love fall. &quot;It's my favorite season.&quot; It's not a competition. &quot;My favorite season, &quot;that I'm voting for on America's (audience laughs) People that love fall they They're like, (gasps) &quot;The foliage! &quot;Let's drive by the foliage. &quot;It's so beautiful the (audience laughs) &quot;They're so pretty right before There's pressure to enjoy summer, right? I'm from the Midwest, it's almost a panic. (audience laughs) Go out there, have fun. Winter's coming to kill us. (audience laughs) Go, get skin cancer now! 'Cause there's an expectation In winter, we discuss In January you'd think we were that passed away. Remember summer? I miss summer. I have photos of summer. That's when we're a happy family. (audience laughs) Last summer we did our Well, I should clarify, we went to Disney. Now, if you haven't been just imagine you're and that's it. Actually, it was Orlando in July, so it was kind of like standing in line on the surface of the sun. Why would we do this to ourselves? (audience laughs) Remember when you were a you'd be like, &quot;Why is (audience laughs) Now I understand. How can I spend an be uncomfortable, and listen to my children (audience laughs) Disney. Oh good. My three-year-old's now four. I also have a nine-year-old and a two-year-old and a one-year-old. I have five kids. I used to have more, but I ate them. (audience laughs) Five kids. I love it, but I don't know what happened. 10 years ago I couldn't get a date. And now my apartment's (audience laughs) It's like I left peanut (audience laughs) Strangers, for some reason, think I'm unaware that it's a lot of kids, &quot;Five kids, that's a lot of kids.&quot; Oh, you think so? Thanks for the heads up. Do you mind if I stab you on the head? The best is when I'm and inevitably struggling, and some stranger will &quot;It looks like you got your hands full.&quot; Why would you say that? It's like going up to &quot;Looks like you don't (audience laughs) Looks like you got your hands full. Yeah, I can still punch you. Try and be a good dad. I sat the older three down, and I explained to them that the new baby does not mean I love them any less, but I will have to let one of them go. (audience laughs) So if anyone knows of a toddler rescue. Maybe we could get Sarah (audience laughs) I will remember I love that commercial. Even the dogs in that commercial are like, &quot;This is a little heavy handed, Sarah.&quot; (audience laughs) &quot;We are just dogs after all. &quot;There are still kids I don't like that joke at all. Why would he put that My wife had the baby at home. We had all our babies at home, just to make you feel uncomfortable. (audience laughs) People don't want to They're like, &quot;Oh, you &quot;Yeah, we were gonna do that &quot;but we wanted our baby to live.&quot; (audience laughs) People always assume there (audience laughs) &quot;You didn't want to go to the hospital?&quot; It was far. I didn't feel like putting on pants. (audience laughs) We had our baby at home, not in a field. &quot;At home? &quot;Well, why wouldn't you have it &quot;in that germ infested building&quot; &quot;where sick people congregate? &quot;Didn't your wife want &quot;Someone died in yesterday?&quot; (audience laughs) It's just the truth. Home birth is crazy, huh? It was all my wife's idea. I don't even like cooking And it's wild, you know? There was so much screaming at one point, I actually woke up. What, did someone score touchdown? Oh, you're having another baby. (audience laughs) Can you keep it down? I'm trying to get a tight 12 hours in. I love our holiday traditions, like the Christmas tree, where we go out and we chop down a tree and we put it in our living room. Kind of sounds like the (audience laughs) Some woman wakes up, &quot;Honey, why is there a pine &quot;I like it! &quot;We're gonna decorate it for Jesus.&quot; (audience laughs) (audience applauds) &quot;And then I'm gonna hang my &quot;Fill them with candy. &quot;Maybe I'll tie some leaves to the ceiling &quot;and see if I can get some action. &quot;But now I got to puke on that couch. &quot;Merry Christmas.&quot; (audience laughs) Some people get so into Christmas It seems completely backwards. All right, chop down that Take all these lights, put them out there. Ooh, I really got to get a job. (audience laughs) He's anti-Christmas. Easter, that's a weird tradition. Easter, the day Jesus rose from the dead, what should we do? How 'bout eggs? What does that have to do with Jesus? All right, we'll hide them. (audience laughs) I don't follow your logic. Don't worry, there's a bunny. (audience laughs) It's ridiculous. (audience laughs) Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving, it's like we didn't even try to come up with a tradition. The tradition is we overeat. Hey, how 'bout at Thanksgiving We do that every day. (audience laughs) What if we eat a lot with people who annoy the hell out of us? Oh, he's anti-family. Thanksgiving, that is I mean, one of the main dishes Stuffing, what names did they turn down? Cram it in? Eat until you can't breathe? (audience laughs) Am I the only one that with the fact stuffing is Shove a loaf of bread (audience laughs) Kind of a humiliating way &quot;You're gonna kill me?&quot; Oh, it's going to get a lot worse. (audience laughs) You do not wanna know. (audience laughs) But really we're a I mean, think about it, once a week on the news there's Then we show a big guy walking and they'll block out his face, but that guy knows it's him. (audience laughs) &quot;That shirt looks familiar. &quot;Oh crap! &quot;Can't wear that shirt again.&quot; Poor guy gets to work, &quot;Hey, Bill, saw your fat on the news.&quot; &quot;Oh, I know.&quot; And we're never satisfied You know what would be A ham sandwich. Instead of a bun, let's use two donuts. (audience laughs) That way we can have it for breakfast. Look out, McGriddle, here (audience laughs) You guys laugh, but you know there's someone &quot;That's not a bad idea.&quot; &quot;Maybe we can have the &quot;'cause we need variety.&quot; I reference McDonald's a lot I love the silence that Like I just admitted to support How could you? McDonald's? It's fun telling people They always give you that look like, &quot;Oh, I didn't know I was better than you.&quot; (audience laughs) No one admits to going to McDonald's. You ever been at McDonald's for a second you're like, oh crap! (audience laughs) Eventually, you're like, And they're just like, &quot;I'm &quot;What are you doing here, Jim?&quot; (audience laughs) I'm just meeting a hooker. Certainly not eating Yeah, he should be here by now. (audience laughs) Some fast food places they It's like a keg. They give you the paper shot glass. I always like to hang around there and try and meet the ladies. Here I'll pump for you. You come to this Wendy's often? My roommate and I we've got Here's an extra shot for your cute friend. (audience laughs) How many shots of ketchup do you get? I usually get like three, I'll get five. The upside down bottle of Do you think it's a little embarrassing how long it took us to come up It was only like six months ago. Some guy was like, &quot;You know, &quot;we only use it like this. &quot;Why don't we just put (audience laughs) Have people been complaining ketchup is hard to get out of the bottle? For like a hundred years. I'll talk to our gravity experts. We lie to ourselves when We go, &quot;Oh, they're so thin. &quot;They couldn't be fattening.&quot; You ever too many McDonald's fries? Of course not. There's never enough of 'em. There's always that moment when you're eating McDonald's &quot;What happened? &quot;Where'd they go?&quot; Then you start scrounging You're like. Oh, that's just a piece (audience laughs) But it was touching the fries, so. (audience laughs) Sometimes there's a loose fry in the bag. You know, the bonus fry? It's like, Jesus is up in &quot;He'll pay it forward.&quot; But Domino's is all carbs, right? They got the breadsticks Why don't we get a pizza and as an appetizer we can have bread? And for dessert, how about this, bread? (audience laughs) Maybe I'll open a nice bottle of bread. We can rub bread on a each other. Bleh. I think Domino's is trying to kill us. I can't figure out those Domino's deals. You can get one large pizza for 15.99, or two large pizzas for nickel. (audience laughs) If we get them so fat they then they have to call us again. (audience laughs) It's called the Domino's effect. (audience laughs) So simple. 'Cause you can't say the words, ice cream, in front of a four-year-old. They hear a commitment. &quot;Yeah, I'll have ice cream.&quot; Daddy was just saying the words ice cream. &quot;I'll have it right now. &quot;Chocolate.&quot; Went to a birthday party That was awkward. Probably because I wasn't invited. (audience laughs) Cake came out. I love how we serve ice cream with cake. You know what would be Some frozen sugar milk. (audience laughs) Let's give it to the four-year-old, (audience laughs) Oh, they're going crazy. Definitely helps if it This ham sandwich doesn't But ribs, you know, there's 'cause they're ribs. It's amazing how casually we order. I will have the baby back ribs, and can you wheel it out in a stroller? (audience laughs) I'm gonna start with and an all baby meal. &quot;Hey, buddy, I used to be a baby.&quot; I like meat, I do. But you know who seems seems to be really obsessed with meat? Are vegetarians. For people that don't like meat, they seem to eat a lot of and shaped to look like meat. (audience laughs) &quot;I find meat repulsive. &quot;I'll have a veggie &quot;And can you serve it to &quot;I don't like meat, &quot;I just to call me late &quot;Let's drive by meat's house. &quot;Does meat ever ask about me? &quot;I don't care.&quot; I ain't missin' you at all Missin' you (audience applauds) Never see that the other way. &quot;I will have the steak, and can (audience laughs)