- This TV antenna claims 1,900 miles away, and there's tons of similar scamtenna Clearly, these scammers because if they did, they So let's dissect the (techno music) Hey, everyone, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. My name is Krazy Ken. And one of my most successful was about the TVfix. But that product dealt with to help you get free TV. These antennas, on the other and they are made for over - Television, television. - But they are festering and misleading claims. So to debunk this garbage, I but two scam antenna products. And we'll start with the AN3026-994R. Catchy name. This antenna's listing for TV antenna. Newest digital TV antenna TV antenna for smart TV/older TV. Support 8K, 4K. Okay, you know what? We'll just call you What the (duck quacks) There. Looks great. Ship it. Anyway, Scamtenna 1 claims you Say goodbye to the bill. It also claims it can and support 8K resolution. And it has built-in powerful sheet. And this long range lets you Not sure what they're trying to say here. And you can access a selection in various channels And this antenna is so advanced that outdoor conditions but don't use your hair dryer near it. That might affect the reception. It also claims it can receive So it's saying that it's a 360-degree Yeah, I'm starting to see and maybe some of you are too, but I wonder if they have a video. Oh, they do. The video reiterates on the claims, but it shows people new TV experience with a Then the video shows even with this antenna, and of reception, which is inconsistent with the Amazon description. Nice job. Then it shows the parts gives examples of where and ends with a Bzoxauy logo. I don't know how the it's pronounced. Hmm, someone had fun with Before I break down this shady product, let's take a look at the much more insane Scamtenna number two. Model SW218-HD005. This antenna claims to have or is it 1,800? 1,600? Well, whichever it is, with your lighthouse. What is it with scam You can enjoy resolutions up to 4K or is it 1080p? I don't know anymore. The claims are really inconsistent. Oh, but don't worry, you can get free channels Uh-huh. Sure... Anyway, what I find interesting is that scam ten two is way chunkier and three times more expensive Yet this thing can't get 8K, but this can? Pathetic. I bet they spent the whole And this claim I didn't but it's actually on the box. It says it can receive a 360 degrees just like Scamtenna 1. Now why don't I believe you? So these are the two and Detective Brainiac Brent and I are going to test them to see how well they live up to the claims. But before that, let's and actually talk about the problems. We'll start with the positives. Scamtenna 1 claims you can and say goodbye to the bill. And this is completely fine. Many stations broadcast over the air, so as long as you have the tuner is likely You can receive those channels for free, but that's where the good news ends. Pretty much every The glaring problem with 880 plus miles is impossible for a digital over-the-air TV antenna. If you ever see a TV antenna advertising a high number range, avoid it. It is not real. Real TV antennas have a range Different products will and the science behind this and we'll get to that in a moment. The second problem is the 8K claim. I can't find a way to because eight K is far from mainstream in terms of TV broadcasting. Many stations don't even The cost is just too crazy and the equipment and the juice is just not worth the squeeze, yet. Another fake feature is the This isn't an over the where you have instant of content like Netflix or Hulu. It's over-the-air digital TV. So your selection is dictated by the channels you can and the programming schedule. I suppose you could if you have a DVR with a giant hard drive and you have a lot of But aside from that this claim is impossible. Another huge problem is the The scammers say you can get but this is simply not true. In the real world, not every channel is Many require a cable subscription. Some examples they advertise they're production studios. And only a fraction of these with this antenna like ABC and NBC. And my last beef with this Antennas aren't magically Some antennas may fare better than others, but weather will always For example, clouds and and scatter radio waves because much like how in the visible spectrum like what we see when we moisture affects radio Another example, if a warm a temperature inversion occurs, the colder air is now of warmer air creating a This creates a duct in the or an elevated duct. This is usually referred because it occurs in the layer to the earth's surface In this duct, radio waves which carries them greater distances and they may travel hundreds of miles further than originally intended. These waves may intersect other waves of the same frequency in other regions and cause interference. And regarding the 360-degree claim, this intent is design is not I'll describe that in about this chunky square thing and just some general if you're looking at a product and the specs they're advertising are inconsistent, run away. In this listing, the specs but it also says 850 and 820. More inconsistencies Now let's break down Scamtenna 2. Scamtenna 2 has a big monolith type shape because the larger surface In fact, it is much And again, the big issue is the range. This thing claims 1,900 miles, 880 was already absurd, but 1900? It just can't happen. And that brings us to There are antennas which are built to receive a signal from every direction. These are omnidirectional antennas, but their designs are or disc-shaped. This giant monolith looking So I have a problem with that claim, but we'll give it a fair shot and test it and see if it works. And I just gotta say, I absolutely hate this 4K on the listing. The quality difference is not For what it's worth here, between 4K and 1080p. There's a noticeable quality difference, but it's not that intense. So here we are, two scamtennas. I made some pretty solid but nothing is better than actually trying them out for real. But first, I should address something that affects your health. In fact, it affects everyone's And to tell you all about here is a fake British guy. - [Jony] At Laifen, we always should apply to the And while our design is it's the most attractive Our goal was to keep it instantly familiar and we achieved this goal - Thank you fake British person I'll talk more about the but I just wanna talk about Just look at that. I love how pretty it is. I love how it's inspired to the fricking packaging. Heck, it even has motion activated lights with pulsating rhythms. It's just a really attractive toothbrush. I never thought that'd be a sentence that came outta my mouth. Wave's proprietary servo without hurting your gums. And it's driven by a 6.1-watt and many other toothbrush motors. And the bristles oscillate 60 degrees. Much more than 13 to 18 degrees like you get on other brushes. And the brush vibrates which is about double what And the icing on the So go ahead and check the to get your own Laifen Wave. And another cool feature, replacement heads are So go ahead and click the to get your own Laifen Wave. And when you do that, you're also supporting the Computer Clan. So thank you very much. All right, let's get up to the surface and test these antennas. (rock music) Miami. Chicago. It's the showdown Well, not really because they're just finding out about it now. Krazy Ken and Brainiac Brent are going to build a test course and pit two scam antenna To do this, I set us up in surrounded by plenty of transmitters and TV channels to choose from. And of course, deep dish Oh, how did this picture Okay, let's just pretend Oh God. So here's the plan. We'll select a TV station as a test target, then we'll and the two scamtennas. We selected WTVK and One in Ottawa, Illinois, about 79.2 miles away from our test site and one in Chicago on about 1.9 miles away. Our antennas will pick because it's much closer. To test the 360 degree claim, we pointed the two scam antennas and the control in the Each antenna was tested separately, and this is where we ran into some issues because Brent and I were trying to position the antennas but for some reason, - [Brent] My compass is backwards now. - Yeah, mine's now like all backwards too, but I think it was 186 in the notes. I didn't know this at the time, but apparently the Congress Plaza Hotel, which is where we were conducting I don't believe in that stuff, but I thought it was weird that our compasses were And some parts of this hotel Yeah, so we didn't do anything different. Just with a little bit of patience, the compass has started working again. No idea. So now that the antennas it's time to pit them against each other. Round one, fight. We tuned into the station with the control and boom, the signal quality and the picture looks good. This control antenna is an RCA unit, and it's rated for up to 80 miles and it's multi-directional. So the fact that we were able and still get a good It shows that an antenna from the station we were testing, and it also shows that the Now, let's test Scamtenna 1. I taped that sucker to the window and we tuned into WTVK again, and nothing. Absolutely nothing. Well, our tuner activity so it's trying to receive something, but other than that, nothing. Keep in mind, we're only 1.9 miles away, so that's not very far Yes, we were pointed in but this thing claims so that shouldn't be an issue, right? Now let's bust out the monolith. Scamtenna 2. We recreated the setup, same same station, and hey, we The quality is coming in as the control, but way Despite the percentage difference, the picture quality looks So the winner of round one is the control and the sore loser is Scamtenna 1 So we're eliminating because clearly, it can't do Jack. I'm fresh out of participation trophies. Sorry about that, but or something around here Oh, hey, look. Bucky sticker. You like that, right? For what it's worth, under normal circumstances. We tuned into several stations and watched programming for several hours, and it worked fine until Human bodies can reflect so that's why if you walk near an antenna, the signal might go out for a little bit. That's why in a normal to have the antenna mounted So now we need to shake And some of you may be thinking, &quot;Ken, why don't you just tune into to really test the claims?&quot; Well, that's where things get complicated because the answer is, we can't. Radio waves just don't work that way. And here's why. Radio waves, like all waves in travel at the speed of light Because the earth is curved, these waves can only before they travel too high for reception. Like we discussed before, ducks can help waves travel further, but this is dependent on the weather. Now, let's pretend the earth is flat. It's not, but let's pretend it is. The waves could but you still have obstructions hills, and buildings. And let's pretend even further. Let's say the earth is flat and all obstructions You still have the problem Many electronic devices for communication, like with and those frequencies need to be allocated for those devices aside so there's no interference. Agencies like the Federal and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration designate these allocations So if you're trying to tune at a certain frequency, odds with another transmitter and your tuner will only be able to tune into whichever It's like if someone is 50 feet towards your eyes, you'll see it. But if someone shines only one foot in front of your eyes, that's the light you'll focus on. So due to the physics of how waves travel and how tuners decode the signal, we can't just magically pick any station at any distance to tune into. We have to stick to more On the consumer side of to learn from all this to tune into a specific station, specifically if you're that's really far away, the results are mostly You can try mounting you can try different amplifier settings, or you can possibly try an But at the end of the day, the transmitter and sometimes, the weather, dictates how far the signal travels. The distance depends on the and the power it broadcast at, and there's only so much and receive that signal. Now it's time for round two, for this test, distance We move to an undisclosed from our new target station, WYIN, who has only one transmitter When we were in Chicago, Scamtenna 2 picked up on the station, which was about 38 miles away at the time, and the signal was weak. The control could not pick up WYIN at all. So if the control couldn't I think it's highly unlikely 100 miles away. That's my hypothesis. As for Scamtenna 2, well, if the advertising claims are true, it won't have a problem We pointed the control antenna We're not doing any and it couldn't receive it. That checks out because and it's only an 80-mile antenna. So now let's test out Scamtenna 2 with its magical 1,900-mile range. Can this 1,900-mile scamtenna Whoa, it worked? This thing actually worked? (duck quacks) Nope, just kidding. It didn't work at all. Laws of physics have a pretty good track You're telling me our 1,900 a station only 100 miles away? I'm gonna cry. But in the famous words, of the late Steve Jobs, Why is the scam happening My theory is this scam is and it's for people who And there's two reasons One, this scam is easy to fabricate. These antennas aren't complex They're usually just plastic housings, which hold thin metal structures. Our Scamtenna 2 has a large PCB, which uses traces as an antenna. Some antennas may have and others use an external But that's it. Simply put, they're cheap to acquire and they're easy to lie about. A scammer can just of these on standby and then or some other website and and then sell them at a ridiculous markup. 'Cause 150 bucks for this thing just doesn't a 5,000 mile antenna on AliExpress for a fraction of the cost. Yeah, those are fake too. And reason two, OTT streaming and cable prices are really high and consumers want an alternative. The scammers can dangle the word free in front of the consumer's face and sucker them into buying Less tech savvy consumers and/or younger consumers with analog television and they're more susceptible to scams. But don't worry, that's why I step in and I'm here to help you, and so is Tyler. Look, if you need a TV antenna, there's plenty of legitimate The only big thing I say to be cautious of are the range claims. If it's claiming above 80 miles, and do your homework. Antenna or no antenna, you can continue to watch So feel free to subscribe and stay tuned for my Until then, catch the (techno music) Where are the rabbit ears on this thing? I'm just trying to watch my stories. MAARRRTTHAAAAAAAAAAA!