I made a video about a gigantic circuit with light-second long wires that connect up to a light bulb, which is just one meter away and I asked you, after how long will it take for us to get light from that light bulb? And my answer was 1/c seconds. - And his answer is wrong. - We would be able to communicate faster than the speed of light. - That violates causality - This is actually a bit misleading. - Misleading. - Misleading in a way. - Extremely unconvinced. - Naughty Mr. Veritasium has - Clearly I did not do a what was really going So I wanna clear up any So behind me, we have a scaled It is only 10 meters in Obviously that's a lot but for the first 30 nanoseconds, this model should be and Caltech has very fast scopes, so we'll be able to see I got a ton of help on who works on LIGO, the Over here, we are going which is gonna be the stand and we're going to measure it with what is the time delay on the other side, basically for us to get a voltage And the magnitude of that A lot of people thought - The amount of energy supplied - A tiny, tiny effect, right? - The amount of power you're getting to the lamp over here, it's nuff-all - He meant the light turns on at any current level immediately. - That is not what I meant. - Well, actually, with that assumption, Derek's answer is wrong. The light never turns off no matter the state of the switch. Some electrons will jump the small continuous leakage current. - Let me be clear about Okay, it is my claim and current through the of magnitude greater than leakage current, an amount of power that would actually produce visible light if you put it through and we will see that power there in roughly the time it takes the light to cross the one meter gap, but to understand why this happens, we first have to clear that I saw in responses. Misconception number one carry the energy from Let's say we have a simple operating at steady state. If you zoom in on the light bulb filament, you'd see a lattice of positively the nucleus and lowest surrounded by a sea of negative electrons, which are free to move around the lattice. The actual speed of these around a million meters per second, but all in random directions. The average drift velocity of an electron is less than 0.1 millimeters per second. Now frequently, an electron and transfer some or all to the lattice. The electron slows down starts wiggling more. It heats up. And ultimately this is to glow and emit light. So a lot of people will the electron carried the energy where it dissipated its but consider, where did the from before the collision? It didn't carry that In fact, if the circuit has that electron hasn't been So how was it accelerated The answer is, it was by an The electron repeatedly and loses energy. And after each collision, it is again accelerated So although it is the to the lattice, the energy So where does that Well, a lot of animations make push each other through the circuit via their mutual repulsion. So you might think the electric field comes from the electron behind it. There is the analogy of or marbles in a tube. This is misconception two, push each other through the circuit. That is not how electrons The truth is if you you find the charge density everywhere inside a conductor is zero. The negative charge of of atoms perfectly cancel out. So for each repulsive there is an equal and opposite next to it. These forces cancel out. So mobile electrons cannot push So where does the Misconception number entirely from the battery. This makes intuitive sense, since the battery is the it has a positive side So it has an electric field, but this is not the electric within the wire experience. Consider that the electric field of the battery is much So if its field were really what's pushing the electrons around, then if you brought the light then the bulb would glow much brighter. And it doesn't. The truth is that the comes both from the on the surface of the As you go along the wire of the battery to the positive end, there is a gradient of charge starting with an excess of electrons, through to roughly no as we'll see the steepest across the load to a the exposed positive cores of the positive end of the wire. All these charges and the create the electric field They also create an electric field in the space around the wires. These surface charges were when the battery was You might think you'd a significant distance to but that is not the case. Even a slight expansion or with electrons moving on can establish the surface charges you see. So the time for the charges to move is completely negligible. The speed of the setup process is limited only by the speed of light. Once that surface charge the battery does continuous by moving electrons through the battery against the Coulomb force. In the load, the electric field created by all the surface which dissipate their energy So the battery is putting which electrons take out An electrical engineer Ben Watson, came up with a good analogy. The battery is like a shepherd. The surface charges are the sheep dogs responding to his orders. And the mobile electrons are the sheep, guided by those barking dogs. The surface charge description is omitted from most textbooks, but there is a great treatment of it in Matter and Interactions They also have a VPython the positive surface charge in red, and negative surface charge in blue. You can see how this creates a net electric field everywhere in and around the circuit, everywhere inside the wire, the electric field has the same magnitude and its direction is along the wire. This is really showing in the center of the wire, but so you can see it. In this circuit, all the conductors are but the segment at the bottom has a much narrower cross section. So it represents a resistor. Since the cross sectional area is smaller, the electron drift velocity has to be higher so that it as everywhere else in the circuit. Now, drift velocity is to electric field. So the electric field must be And this is achieved by of surface charges here. You can also see the contribution from the battery in magenta, and the contribution from Far from the battery, most of the electric field whereas close to the battery, and the field due to surface charges is actually in the opposite direction to the field from the battery. So to sum up, electrons from battery to bulb, nor do they push each They are pushed along which is created by and charges on the surface of the wires. With this view of circuits, things that might have make a lot more sense. Like if electrons leave a and with the same drift how do they carry energy from the battery? The answer is they don't. They are accelerated by the electric field before each collision with the lattice. At a junction, how do the go down each path? Well, they're guided which extends everywhere The fields are the main actors, extending everywhere and the electrons are just their pawns. So how does this apply to the big circuit? When the battery is even with the switch open, On the negative side of the battery, there is an excess of electrons on the surface of the On the positive side, there So positive charges built up The charges rearrange themselves is zero everywhere inside the conductor. This electric field is due and the charges on the battery. There is an electric due to these charges, but We now have the full potential difference of the battery across the switch. And no current is full flowing, which I'll assume is negligible. When we close the switch, the surface charges on neutralize each other on contact. And at that instant, the electric field inside the and current starts flowing Simultaneously, the new electric field from the modified surface charges radiates outwards at And when it reaches the bulb, the electric field inside So current starts to flow here too. This is why I said the bulb because the bulb was one and the change in the at the speed of light. As some of you pointed out, the answer should have been And I apologize for the If you were to move the switch, then the bulb would take a different amount of time to emit light, which just depends on the distance between the switch and the bulb. In response to my original video, Ben Watson simulated using software from Ansys called HFSS. It provides a complete in three dimensions. Now have worked with Ben and Ansys to make these simulations. When the switch is closed, you can see the electric and as it hits the far The electric field is to the right. So the electrons flow to the left. This simulation shows the which falls off pretty But then a magnetic field and this magnetic field is created by the current in that wire. To me, this suggests that it and not the changing magnetic field that creates the current through the load. Some commenters on the original video claimed my answer of violates causality. I guess they were thinking that the bulb would only go on if the And it wouldn't if the which could be up to So it seemed like I was saying, we could get information about the status of the whole circuit, even in just nanosecond seconds. But that is not what I was saying. What I should have stated explicitly, is that the bulb goes on regardless of whether the The current flows through the load due to the electric field it experiences. To illustrate this, Ben added that is completely disconnected from it. You can see is that its response to the changing electric to that of the top wire, at least up until the and reflects back. This is why my answer At least initially, connected behave exactly the same. Using this software, you can also simulate the Poynting vector that is the cross product of In the last video, I showed indicates the direction of energy flow. And after the switch is closed, the Poynting vector across the gap to the other because energy is carried it can go straight across the gap. So you might ask, why Well, we don't, I mean, charge without wires connecting them to a stream of electrons, and researchers have using the energy from WiFi signals. Wires are more efficient and hence the energy from source to load. Here's another angle And you can see once there the fields around it carry Now, of course, the parallel to the first wire, carrying the energy around the circuit as most people would expect. But again, note how the energy not in the wires. Now admittedly, thinking is complicated. And since nobody wants to in three dimensions just to scientists and engineers For example, Ohm's law, voltage equals current times resistance, is just the macroscopic result their electric fields bumping into zillions of metal ions. You can simplify all that physics into a single circuit element, a resistor, and the basic quantities This is called the lumped element model, lump all the spread-out interactions into a few And we use this technique every time we draw a circuit diagram. So our original diagram of because fields between the wires are important to the problem, but there are no circuit elements to indicate these interactions. To fix it, we need to add These capture the effect have on the other. If there are negative of the bottom wire, for example, they'll induce positive charges on the surface of the top wire. Also, since these wires are long, they're gonna create around them, which resist So we model this with inductors We could also add resistors, making what electrical as the distributed element But we're assuming that these So this is how we could model a super conducting transmission line. This diagram offers another why current flows through When you first apply a current flows as opposite charge builds up on the two plates. In the short time limit, a It acts just like an ordinary wire. Once it's charged up, but by this point, the next And then the next one, And so we have a loop of at roughly the speed of light. This is of course, just about the effect the electric field that the bottom wire has on the top wire. One reason it's useful to is because you can use and capacitance to calculate of the transmission lines. You can think of this as the resistance to alternating current when sending a signal down the wires. The characteristic impedance of inductance divided by capacitance. And for our circuit, I measured the capacitance and - 11.85, call it, micro Henry's. - So we got a characteristic To maximize the power we want its resistance to impedances in the circuit. So that's why we picked Now, I hope you're convinced as soon as the electric The question is, how much? Are we gonna see an appreciable voltage even with these lines a meter apart? That's what it seemed like a in the last video. So that's really what we Okay, so now we're - Yep. Well looky, looky, Derek. - So what do we got - Got a fraction of the And then- - So it looks to me that we're getting is about- - Five volts per division. So it looks like about five volts, roughly four or five volts. - The green curve rising is the source voltage. And the yellow line is the So after just a few nanoseconds, this voltage rises to around four volts. Since the resistor was a kilo-Ohm, that means four milliamps of current are flowing in the resistor, before the signal goes all So we were transferring This is what 14 milliwatts So, yeah, it's not a fully on bulb, but it is visible light and from just leakage current. Now, some of you may argue, it's unfair to use a little and car battery in the original video, but those items were for The clue that this is is the two light-seconds that stretch out into space. This is not an engineering to wire up a light bulb in your bedroom. The question was intentionally vague. And if you want to such that the bulb never goes on, you are welcome to do that and I support your conclusion. Just to me, the most interesting way to approach this problem is to ask, how could you make the I was worried that those all the radio waves passing through, and we wouldn't even be able to see the signal for that noise, but you can see clearly on the graph that the signal is way Alpha Phoenix set up a kilometer of wire and got a very similar result. - So the light bulb turns on a little bit, and then after one light-speed delay, the light bulb turns - YouTuber, ZY, simulated the and found that even with he transferred 12 milliwatts - Derek is actually more correct than we give him credit for. So, I believe that he's And the question is neither deceptive or requires like technicalities. - So everyone agrees that a steady, small, but way-bigger-than-leakage-current signal flows through the load in the first second after the switch is closed. Is it enough to emit light? Yes, if you use an LED. But the point of the thought experiment was to reveal something by the way that we think about You know, we use voltage and because they're more convenient than working with Maxwell's equations, but we shouldn't forget are actually the fields. They are what carry the energy, and you don't have to take my word for it. This is Rick Hartley, a veteran printed circuit board designer. - I used to think in terms And I used to think that was in the voltage and The energy in the The most important thing you need to know is that when you route a trace, you better define the other because if you don't, those and they're gonna leave - I think one of the things about the circuit's video I saw by so many people, especially people with in electrical engineering than me. I really enjoyed watching those videos. So I feel like my circuits a mistake on my part in certain ways that I didn't delve deep enough into this part of the problem. I honestly didn't think that this was the focus of the video, but clearly everyone who but by making that mistake, and by not going deep into my explanation, I invited seemingly a to make explanations, And some people like the challenge and set up his So, frankly, I'm just really even though I do acknowledge in the first place. Like I should have done but by not doing so, you know, there are a lot of great And that's what I love. So I'm gonna recommend a whole bunch of electrical engineering YouTubers to you in case you wanna check those out because they're a lot of great channels, and you should really see how and how they explain this circuit. Hey, this video was the website and app that about concepts in math, Brilliant is sponsoring a because they know someone of a Veritasium video is who would love to learn with Brilliant. And they have a great course which methodically steps to E&amp;M with questions, simulations, I really think this is because the sequence of The difficulty builds gradually. And by asking you questions, you are forced to check your If you need help, there's always a useful You know what sets Brilliant You can learn calculus or machine learning or computer science fundamentals all in this very active way. So I encourage you to go over and just take a look at their courses. I will put that link And if you click through right now, Brilliant are offering 20% off an annual premium subscription to the first 200 people to sign up. So I want to thank Brilliant And I wanna thank you for watching.