Embarrassment, that are way too familiar with. You start sweating, in your seat as your What's that all about? Why do we get embarrassed? Let's find out on Colossal Questions. We have all kinds of when we're embarrassed. Maybe our face feels hot Others might just smile at all costs. But it's all the same There's lots of different unwanted attention, failing hurting someone else's feelings, to name a few. Whatever the cause, it's all I think it's safe to have a pretty good idea what it about something. But why? What causes us to And more importantly, why do in the first place? Well, no one can say for certain But experts have a Some believe that embarrassment that we know we messed up. Other experts have why we get embarrassed into four basic types of Faux pas, which are socially like spilling juice mistakes, like a poorly to perform a duty like getting caught in a lie. So that's why we get How does it actually Well, the feeling all comes from a small deep inside the front called the pregenual This part of your lots of your automatic like breathing, sweating, making important stuff. But that part of the brain also and decision-making too. So people who have a slightly cingulate cortex tend It seems the smaller gets, the less embarrassment So what does that mean? Well, it means you react in it really just going on inside your So if you happen to be embarrassed by can't seem to be embarrassed by It's all in your head. We've all been there. Something embarrassing happens and you blush, turning But what causes us to blush Let's find out on Colossal Questions. Your blushing by something called your which is basically the when you panic and choosing to blush. When you get is released into your body, and increases blood and oxygen allowing more blood to flow This causes your cheeks because of all the extra blood But this special to the veins in why you don't blush all over. OK, so that's how we blush. But why do we do it? Well, that question seems to be absolutely. But they do have a theory. Many researchers believe of admitting we feel guilty and automatically According to the theory, to forgive you and if you blush after or doing something embarrassing. Think about it. You're trying to and it accidentally spills walk in the room and your face Before you can flush face is your body's way it was an accident. Everybody loves to laugh, in the school will giggle [laughs] Fart. But that begs the question, laughing? And why do we love Let's find out on Colossal Questions. Let's start at the beginning. When did humans start Well, experts may have evolved at two in human history. The first type of laughter million years ago, before and before we were This is the type of laughter genuinely fun or funny. [laughing] It evolved out of make while roughhousing. Like monkeys, humans started was low, basic needs were met, to have some fun. It's also the kind of laugh For example, it's we use after a particularly We laugh in a way that Fast forward, a couple 100,000 of laughter emerged in humans. It's the kind of do most of the time that with something being funny. As humans started we learned how to use and abuse This is the type use to hurt someone's feelings Fast forward another couple and we still use both The first type of A friend tells you a joke. A teacher reaps their pants, [laughing] The second type is more That's the type when we're nervous, laugh at something that So why do we laugh? Because it makes us feel safe. It makes us feel better, know that it's OK to It doesn't matter how big Everybody cries sometimes. But have you ever stopped and when we weep? Let's find out on Colossal Questions. The instinct to cry generally comes from one of or an emotional reaction. A physical reaction that would be something like or cutting up onions. If you want to know more about cause you to cry, check out her But the kind of crying is emotional crying. So why do we cry tears In order to understand to know how our tears work. Think of them like a wash Each time you blink, a little covers your eye to keep it After each blink, the corners of our eyes called a tear duct that That's why we blink so much. Each blink replenishes which drains over and over. Now sometimes our faster than our tear That causes the tears to like an overflowing bathtub. And just like People can cry after any You might cry tears of joy puppy or tears of sadness if OK, so that's why we cry, but to make a ton of extra tears? Well, experts still But they have a few theories. Some believe we cry as a way that something is really wrong. Others believe it might help you from your body when But whatever the reason, Everybody cries. Everyone freaks out from time But why? What causes anger? And why does it cause us Let's find out on Colossal Questions. Anger might seem like but it's a perfectly In general, we tend to get violation of expectations A blockage of goals gets in the way of something like if you wait in line they're sold out. And a violation of whenever we detect a disturbance we expect things someone breaks the like cutting in line. Anger isn't just mental. There are physical effects, too. Getting mad releases adrenaline, rise, your face and causes your muscles Almost instantly, we try how badly it hurts, and what And maybe most to understand why they did to see if it's For instance, if a hurts you while playing a game, But what if they did then you're much more likely though the pain was the same. Inside your brain, is the part that will start to react within and start freaking out. But another part of into action too, the controls logic and reason. That part of the brain the emotional amygdala angry reaction. So while anger might seem like and often times it quite a complicated to try and react the right way The whole entire in less than two seconds. That's why the age been one of the simplest When you get mad, just before you let yourself react. [exhales] See? Isn't that better? [music playing]