This should work, right? generator I bought a while ago from AliExpress. though I now got solar power on all of my for my home during the day, it does not go so But you know what I got here during wind and one time even so much that my So even though this wind generator didn't get I wanted to give it another shot. could have been the given wind controller also of course because this thing was not cheap So in this video let's set this thing up and hopefully find out whether such small they are worth it? This video is sponsored by Keysight's sadly right now all I can share are these look intriguing I would say. But if you want launch event using the link below. It comes you will be one of the first to see the Now let's start off with answering the question And in case you are wondering a generator is of energy into electrical energy; in our case So by soldering an LED between all the 3 phases as soon as we turn the rotor meaning we thus we got a generator on our hand. LEDs didn't light up at the same The reason can be seen when we hook As you can see we are dealing with obviously is not yet compatible with a 12V But don't worry because we can quickly looks something like this as a schematic. then we basically create a DC positive AC voltage into a more suitable DC voltage. we firstly have to properly For this purpose the generator came be mounted it to it using nuts and bolts. through which we can insert a pipe that And at first I was happy to find out that the hole comes with a diameter of 25mm fitting pipe in my local home improvement store. 29mm, meaning we should not trust this product its information since I made my initial video. is also pretty much impossible meaning I But anyway; next I of course could get a 29mm like the idea of pouring some concrete for this Luckily for me though my girlfriend dryer for a while now which gets secured There exists a plastic and a metal plastic one because the pipes length can So I determined a suitable spot, started got a 30 by 30 cm square with a depth of 40cm. compacted that down and started After pouring it in, I inserted pushed that contraption into the concrete and Afterwards I mixed up more concrete, poured it After 2 days everything was hard enough and probably every pipe with a 50mm diameter which is Now as you would expect this thing But luckily for me I got this welding machine it should be able to do stick welding. flange and got to work which was I feel like the result truly looks like it. nicely meaning it was time to drill a hole into hook that up to the generator wires, finally position this whole construction in the ground. testing which I didn't have to later I got speeds of around 3m/s. and as expected didn't have any Well, not really because next we need a power AC voltage and convert it into a suitable DC And no; my sechpulsbruckenschaltung alone converts AC to DC, leaving us with a pretty Instead we need something like boost or lower the generators voltage While doing that it also needs to Because if we would for example draw to much AC to DC converter output, then the wind stop and thus produce pretty much no power. between max current and no current which gives power point tracker or MPPT tracker. one online which does 12V and 400W. similar to my old wind controller. and wind generator and put a current clamp And it seems like this wind speed was not enough But luckily for me, later the wind picked up to speed chart is a moderate breeze and I would say But sadly once again pretty much no current rectified voltage of my generator reached peaks of So to find out what was going on, I hooked supply and immediately realized that it in does not overload my power supply here. best with voltages above 15V which my for a longer time period at my location. the air is not possible because Another solution though that came to my mind was creates a higher output voltage just like I But before starting such a tedious task; I myself another wind generator which this pretty promising all put together wind controller back which states And after testing; it seems to also work time even some lower ones between 8 and 12V. MPPT tracking integrated meaning with low wind power which is pretty much useless. ride with this new generator and overall I mean at wind speeds of around 3m/s slightly higher voltage than the generator before. this thing reached peaks of up to my battery with peaks of up to 100mA. 1.5W of power which is once again pretty So all in all these wind generator tests were such speeds would create some useful power. definitely made for higher speeds which try modifying them or even come up with And to end this video I can now pretty the cases using a wind generator is not worth it wind speed to get any decent output power. you enjoyed this video. share, subscribe and hit the notification bell.