Do you think that at present there are countries like Castro's, like Cuba? There is already a struggle, it's not talked about here, It exists in Venezuela, and perhaps there are other countries You talk about Venezuela and Guatemala, but is Cuba helping the revolutionaries Only morally, we consider that these struggles are just, but only to a certain point. April 15th, 1964. With a smile on his lips, Ernesto Che Guevara dreams in Venezuela or Guatemala. He was the embodiment and an inspiration He wanted to change the world. Yet, on October 10th, 1967, his world ended as the Bolivian army a sordid and undignified mass This pitiful display of triumph, however, The Bolivian army November 3rd, 1966. La Paz Airport in Bolivia. Passengers descend from a plane. Among them Alfredo Mena Gonzalez. He presents his passport. A fake passport. The man's real commerce is revolution. Who could suspect that the balding, masks one Ernesto Guevara de la Serna? Son of a wealthy bourgeois family, infected with the virus of revolt. It would prove to be incurable He would be known as Che. In 1958, he was operating at the heart alongside Fidel Castro Their moment of glory However, this was not the end. The guerrillero became a tireless traveler He took part but the operation was a dismal failure. On returning to Havana, he sought an arena for his Second Crusade and decided on Latin America. In November 1966, Apart from Castro and a few apparatchiks, Internationally he was completely transformed The top of his head was shaved, and false teeth His shoe heels were hollowed out The beard was trimmed. He became a banal nonentity but driven by an obsession, He had already conceived his plan. He explained that we were going to Bolivia He said that a selected handful would have to be sacrificed Che was intending to lead a vast operation aimed at fomenting rebellion Solidly planting the seeds of Marxist revolution His choice of terrain stunned many, and yet Bolivia Success here in the heart of South America could lead to a veritable nightmare forming a strategic base and hub for further development A continent where Bolivia and poverty has forever been The country was controlled President Rene Barrientos. With American backing, he had come to power a coup d'etat in 1954. The regime would ultimately be legitimized This is an important element. If we refer to Che's book he clearly says that armed struggle where there have been elections, as there is a way of attaining revolution El Che should perhaps as the remaining chapters At dawn on November 5th, he left LaPaz by jeep for Nancahuazu an isolated forest area in the southeast, He arrived on the night For the moment, only by his codename, Ramon. All the time I was with him, He was introduced to me I was very impressed. He had a quite remarkable presence. He was very different from the others. Not because he imposed himself, He had been hoping but on arriving, As he waited he began setting up the main camp, to hide equipment, documents, It was a zone with oil fields There were no animals and no agriculture. There was no means of communication. There was nothing. You see the panorama here. There's little vegetation If we made a fire, and any soldier with binoculars Two weeks before Che arrived, You can't prepare There were no political contacts, Nobody had been on a scouting mission. Che thought he had one trump card. As he left Cuba had Castro not guaranteed the support The party was supposed to organize food and enlist new combatants from the ranks but the Bolivian communists Did they receive instructions From who? From Big Brother, the Soviet Union, at the time totally opposed The two superpowers It was a time for peaceful coexistence. The Kremlin had another problem, too, For years, a hardline revolutionary The elimination of which the most obvious example The definitive advent of communism, a society without class, At a meeting with Castro, Castro replied: &quot;Almost perfect.&quot; The other man said: &quot;How's that?&quot; Castro said: &quot;He lacks cunning.&quot; Che was not cunning enough. He was incapable of subterfuge. His forthright nature led him On February 24th, 1965, Ernesto Guevara on par with the United States. He spat in the eye It was a declaration of war. The Russians accused Che but above all of Trotskyism, a sin at the time graver than any other. He was crucified. He was finished. Fidel and the others met him when he returned from Algiers. They holed up for talks After this meeting, to release Cuba from any responsibility. However, today, we know that Che Guevara What was said during those 40 hours? Did Che pay the price Nothing has ever emerged, but perhaps as they discussed their friendship dissolved. One thing is clear, after his talk with Castro, a political suicide. He wrote a farewell letter saying he intended to leave Cuba Castro publicized the letter two years almost day for day, He was eliminated. Castro eliminated Che on October 13th His execution was only a matter of time. In Bolivia, Che thought but he would soon become a desperado. His Soviet big brother had gone, and there was no support He found himself lost in the middle of the forest. Rebels who, apart from a few Cubans, did not even know Officially, he was merely Ramon. On the morning of January 1st, He told us we would have no support, that no one would come On top of that, we were stuck there. Not only because our papers were fake, We thought he was exaggerating, but in fact, he understood On February 1st, 1967, Che chose 25 men in the Rio Grande region. They attempted to enlist recruits but met only a handful of peasants, The escapade lasted over a month The group suffered its first victims Three guerrilleros drowned On March 19th, exhausted, Che and his men They discovered nearly a dozen recruits, a pro-Castro intellectual, a painter and militant communist. I saw Ramon talking he spoke to Danton, the Frenchman, Regis Debray, like the others, and to the bald man, I said to myself: &quot;What on Earth We're fighting against the rich, and now he brings them Che had another problem, he learned The time for betrayal had now come, condemning Che's revolutionary intentions [Spanish spoken audio] The desertion of Pastor and Rocabado They had seen the Cuban presence that they were clandestine and that everything was illegal. On top of that, there was a German woman, a French man, It was too much. The first chance they had, they escaped and went to Laconia. They told me everything. They went into the army They thought that with the reward The army took them back by plane so that they could show The information reached Barrientos immediately although he too was unaware that Ernesto Guevara They told us we were to carry out because the country We set off very early It was a two-hour flight. In the plane, we sang the national anthem, but the secret services When we arrived on the scene, They had all gone. The Bolivian Army It was March 23rd at 10:00 the morning. The army began We could see them climbing slowly. There was a whole company. At that moment, &quot;The army is coming, we need to be ready!&quot; Well, I didn't really know what to do. Comrades were trying to load the mortar, I told them to try and turn the handle They said: &quot;Oh, yes? I said: &quot;Well, I'm trying There were only eight of us and we managed to cause havoc We took a lot of prisoners. We captured most of the officers On March 25th, Che called a meeting. He congratulated the comrades However, we had lost some crates of milk and Che declared He told us to leave That never happened. We weren't entitled and couldn't use the same weapons as them. It created a lot of tension. Che thought we were just that he had known in Cuba. It was: &quot;I say this, Whenever somebody made a suggestion, &quot;Shut up!&quot; Looking back, that was a mistake. Che's outbursts, however, did not prevent the guerrilleros but their triumph was short-lived. Just a few days later, Once again, the stab in the back Che entrusted the Frenchman, Regis Debray, with a mission To do this, he had to leave the group, However, on April 20th, Debray and Bustos Not only had Che lost his chance but the Bolivian authorities that behind the codename of Ramon Someone had talked. Che Guevara but his Judas had been designated He drew us and it was with his drawings They knew everything, what we looked like, how we talked, How does the man defined as being live with that burden of accusation? We found him in Sweden, I feel I have to reveal the way Otherwise, I would be an accomplice That's my motivation. Personally, it's of no importance to me. My life is coming to an end. I've lived all these years with this lie, but perhaps my experience Almost 40 years have passed, but Ciro Bustos is still marked No doubt the reason why, he agreed These are the drawings that were the basis My drawings were more I did them in pencil and on a paper pad. They created an unbelievable euphoria It was as if they had won a battle. They thought I had cracked They thought I had identified I'm proud of what I did the drawings constituted My main aim was to defend My duty was towards them, The guerrilla could defend itself. I didn't even know where they were but the army knew. I stopped knowing anything I was incapable of saying if they had gone this way, I said that my chief in Argentina Rutman had given me fake ID papers, and Ruteman had done that They told me to draw him and so I did, Didn't they ask you anything about El Che? They had asked me if I had seen El Che, but it was clear Not only because of the two deserters I realized this during the interrogations. Debray's mother was allowed under the surveillance of an officer. Bustos, the Argentinian had his room He got the daily newspaper and his wife came Debray wasn't even entitled to a paper. I'm not making this up. Everyone knows it's true. It's an outrageous lie. It's exactly the opposite. His mother told everyone I was a CIA agent and that her son and blah, blah, blah, and that's how What and who can be believed? Even if what Ciro Bustos says is true, it is hard not to feel looking at the sketches he has drawn. Was his talent as an artist to provide nothing more or less than identity portraits If for the past 40 years, Ciro Bustos who betrayed El Che, how did the Bolivian authorities discover his presence There was another troubling incident too. On April 15th, 1967, five days the Cubans organized where they presented an article calling for armed action in Latin America. The article was accompanied by a series The CIA now disposed Moreover, for the first time, Bolivia was mentioned All Uncle Sam and the Bolivian authorities The vital question With the Cubans' publication Debray's very presence in Bolivia Che himself said in his diary in April with the publication &quot;There can be no longer any doubt We were certain who was being held in Muyupampa. During the initial questioning, he had said he was there and that he had obtained it. That confirmed for us that it was really El Che Washington, May 11th, at the White House, a memo from security advisor Walt Rostow The first credible report that Che Guevara is alive The net around Che is tightening. President Barrientos The two superpowers become involved. On June 26th, the Soviet Prime Minister Moscow attempts to pressure Castro but Castro is thought to have refused, intending to support liberation movements For the US, however, there could be no question of allowing to South America. The idea of this camp is to teach the Bolivians to defeat without the need for American troops. However, that was the idea At the end of April, the United States sent military advisers to oversee the training a crack unit entrusted The following months would be an endless, aimless trek, in appalling conditions. We spent the year going around in circles, and this enabled the army to surround us. There was no way out. We sometimes went We weren't psychologically prepared If we went to peasants they would betray us. We had to take a thousand precautions just to be able to approach them The guerrilla was like a cancer patient We knew his days were numbered. We didn't know when it would come but we were constantly expecting What could still have saved El Che? Paradoxically, once he had been betrayed, perhaps the very fact had been revealed the announcement The hunted beast and not merely a dead man walking. The best strategic card we had but nobody played that card. Neither the guerilla nor Che himself. Debray, aware that the army knew chose to keep Che may be alive The yankee journalists say It's possible, I don't know. We've already mourned I think that if one day if he's still alive, Why did Regis Debray if this could have helped the guerrilla? Historian Humberto Vasquez has a document signed This is a letter I gave my word not to reveal For me, that was Debray's sin. If he had talked, as at that time, It was the word of the revolution. A lot of people not only here in Bolivia, Argentinians, Brazilians, would have said: and perhaps Regis Debray would finally be freed He had been sentenced to 30 years Could his revelations have in any way who was probably In that month of July, Asthmatic since childhood, and he had run out of medication. His asthma attacks continued day and night. Whenever we stopped, he would press his thorax to compress his lungs and try to breathe. On July 6th, his men attacked the town of Samaipata, The operation failed. They held the town, but the local pharmacy Once again, Che and his companions, they too plagued headed back into the forest. The last petty victory of a Che We were there with Che, who was sick, whose head was like that. I mean, his head He had a lot of problems. He even lost consciousness sometimes. Once we had to carry him on a stretcher while we were being pursued by the army. We insisted that he rest up, but every time He said he had to be Che decided to keep heading north to break through and avoid further hostilities, but the army reinforced the pressure. Regular skirmishes One by one, In early September, Twenty-two exhausted wretches no longer taking precautions, They arrived two at a time. We were so scared. Why were you scared? It was because we didn't know them That made us afraid. Also, people here were saying that they killed old women We heard all kinds of things about them. Some people were so frightened and hid them in the mountains. Did they run away? Yes, they came in here There, in that collapsed house, They paid for it. Some of them were there in that house. What did you ask them We asked them: &quot;Why are you fighting?&quot; They said they were fighting so that we El Che said: &quot;That's why I'm fighting &quot;and that's all.&quot; My brother came out and told them because we thought the army but they didn't listen to us. They passed by La Higuera If they'd gone on the high road, He'd still be alive. On September 26th, It was the day he walked The guerilleros were coming They had sent an advance party before heading for Pukara but the army was waiting in ambush which acted as a barricade, and the guerrilleros didn't see them. They were taken by surprise. The ambush where Julio and Coco fell was the beginning The group fell back, On October 6th, The series of betrayals continued, We're in Virgilia Cabrita's house. Che met the dwarf. We lived here. They treated her very well but when the army came, she betrayed them. That's how the military El Che made his last strategic error. He decided to head The locals cursed the place, saying the mountain It was in this desolate bowl that El Che's woeful military adventure The guerilla had been more With two or 3,000 men on its trail. They were under constant persecution. There was no let-up. Ernesto Guevara soon realized his mistake. After a long day's march, the weary guerrilleros at the bottom of the ravine. On October 8th, the small group of warriors fought their last fight. Che had just a few hours left to live. About 11:00 in the morning, I gave the order to commence operations. The first shots were fired at us Two soldiers fell. That's when the battle started. The army arrived from that way The first attack took place on this side. One of the guerrilleros At the same time, We can still see the bullet marks. One, two, three. El Comandante Guevara He was spotted He pulled out his pistol, He was also wounded in one leg. One soldier aimed at him Willie The Cuban stepped forward and said: That's when the soldiers called me in. I must have been ten or 12 meters away. They told me they'd taken some prisoners. I went up and was able to identify As night fell, the Bolivian army Che Guevara had been captured. The soldiers dragged him to La Higuera Wounded in one leg, this was where he spent his final hours. At dawn on October 9th, subjected him to the humiliation beside his delighted captors. Pitiful hunters their decrepit guerrillero prey. It would be the last shot of Che alive. During the morning, the Army sent a radio message to La Paz At eleven o'clock, It wasn't Barrientos who gave the order. It was the CIA. I was able to talk with the soldiers As I was a colleague It wasn't Barrientos who gave the order. They just came in, took one look, A CIA report to President Johnson After a short interrogation General Ovando, ordered him shot. I regard this as stupid, Che's capture that the government International pressure for a country as weak as Bolivia. They said: On October 9th, 1967, Sergeant Mario Teran He went into the schoolhouse alone, his bullets should not damage the face. The official version should be A few seconds later, I got to Vallegrande at about 9:30 in the morning. Then events Well, I took a whole lot of pictures During the morning, a lot of bodies but late in the afternoon, a helicopter came in with a much, and that was obviously, Che Guevara. I didn't know for certain but we guessed They went off toward which became a morgue. There is Che's corpse. It's not at all the corpse He'd only been dead, well, by then, for probably about His body was completely subtle. I remember I had to get up onto the table, and I've got very flat feet. I'm not terribly nimble so I had to somehow scramble up I remember I slipped. I just had a pair of ordinary I slipped initially and I thought: &quot;Oh my God, am I going to slip Luckily, it didn't happen, I got up above Che's corpse and then I just took I took what I think and these moccasins I mean, they were homemade moccasins. Probably some campesino woman his two pairs of socks, and his bullet-ridden legs. My first impression was that It wasn't Jesus Christ I thought, I don't know why. He looked biblical. He looked beautiful, even though he was covered in blood Now because there was such they decided they'd pick the body up and sit it up in front of the audience I felt something radiating out at me Without a single doubt, You were sort of transfixed To me, I guess he was a hero. The day after Che's death on October 10th, apparently delighted Had not an immense victory Che's body was put on display in the hospital laundry room. Then the Bolivian army to view his remains for 24 hours as the news of Che's death It was the end of a dream, A road that we will not see again. This is the kind of situation you could shoot yourself in the head. It's sad, During the weeks that followed, of the circumstances The official version Unfortunately, one man I took the key and went into the school. There was a terrible smell There were bits of flesh, hair, The floor was covered with flies, I just felt disgusted &quot;The world has to know&quot; &quot;that he was assassinated I made the decision and I fled to France The truth would emerge to the indignation Meanwhile, They buried it at night along with six of his companeros. The operation took place His tomb should not have become The Bolivians were able until October 1997. Che's remains were exhumed Che now has two mausoleums, one in Bolivia, and the other in Havana. Here, for the occasion, detested pomp and circumstance. Fidel Castro organized a funeral