Christopher Lee is most familiar to the world and a towering presence. In ten hammer Studios films he became the of Count von Dracula with a sinister charm. Then, breaking the mould, he went on to play history. Yet, who would have known that the great character and Nazi hunter who had been witness to unspeakable In this week's Biographics we pierce the Lee. Early Life May 27th, 1922 in Belgravia, London. His father, Geoffrey, was a hero of the First at the Battle of the Somme. At the time of his son's birth he was a Corps. Geoffrey was married to an Italian countess Blessed with great beauty, Estelle's heritage As a result, the Lee household was frequently nobility, and the young Christopher came into people. Christopher was the Lee's second child, 1917. However, the marriage was not a happy one his parents separated. For the next two years, the children lived their father remained in the Belgravia house. After two years the marriage was officially While in Switzerland, Estelle enrolled her Academy, which was located in Territet. It was here that Christopher was given his in the play Rumpelstiltskin. In 1928, Estelle and the children returned Christopher was put into Wagner's private In 1929, Estelle married a banker by the name Lee's step-father happened to be the uncle who would go on to create, not only James or The Man With the Golden Gun, who Lee would Following the marriage, the family moved to At the age of nine Christopher was enrolled Lee enjoyed his time at Summer Fields. He made friends quickly and proved himself Among his closest friends at Summer fields career as an actor and find fame as secret MacNee both enjoyed acting and appeared together Summer Fields was a feeding school to Eton scholarship exam and was interviewed by the However, his maths ability let him down and If he was to attend Eton, his family would Despite his mother's urgings, his step-father up at Wellington College in Berkshire. It was at Wellington that Lee proved himself He mastered French, Spanish, Italian and German Greek and Russian. Yet, despite his academic prowess, he chafed out at the school. He hated the regular parades and weapons training of war became more frequent in political circles. So, it was with some relief that he had to bankrupt in 1939. Making a Living He was now expected to make his own way in But he entered the job market just as the no prospects. After a month of fruitless job hunting he holiday on the French Riviera. While there, Lee heard news that the last in Paris. Along with thousands of others he took the From Paris, he travelled to Menton in southern There he stayed with an exiled Russian princely He enjoyed his time there and wanted to stay, it was decided that he would be better off For a short time, he worked as a clerk in When war broke out in September, 1939, Lee Too young to join up in the regular army, to Finland with plans to fight aside the Finns The British teens may have had a lot of fighting which rendered them virtually useless in the They were politely thanked for their assistance England. Back in London, Lee resumed his work as an In 1940, aged 18, he joined the Home Guard. It was around this time that his father, Geoffrey, Though he had great respect for his father's to follow his footsteps into the regular army. Knowing that conscription was not far away, his terms. Consequently, he volunteered to the Royal The War Years Wing at Paignton, Lee was stationed to Southern On the brink of his first solo flying mission He was diagnosed with a failed optic nerve For a number of months, he was transferred nothing meaningful to do. Then, out of frustration, he applied to the Gaining entry to the service, he was posted From there he was moved to the Suez Canal gathering activities. During the North African Campaign, he was RAF, nearly losing his life when an airfield Throughout 1943 and '44 he was constantly to Carthage for treatment. In the winter of 1943, Lee was part of an army. He spent the next year serving with the Gurkhas He saw action in the Battle of Monte Cassino, on take-off. Towards the end of 1944, Lee was promoted HQ. When the end of hostilities finally came in Central Registry of War Criminals of Security He now became a Nazi hunter. The work was top secret and we have few specifics In a later interview however he did say this "We were given dossiers of what they'd as much as we could and hand them over to concentration camps. Some had been cleaned up. Some had not." A New Career Beckons After what he had experienced over the previous to working in an office. He had the opportunity to teach classics at either. Unsure what to make of his post-military life, at the Italian Embassy in London with his Nicolo Carandini. Out of the blue, Carandini looked at Lee and actor?' Taken a little off guard, Lee replied, 'No, Carandini then replied, 'Perhaps, when you Think about he did. He decided that he quite liked the idea and The countess, however, was vehemently opposed. A career in acting was beneath their status he was too tall, he was too foreign looking But the more she railed against the acting make a success of it. Towards the end of 1946, he joined the Rank For the next few years he busied himself learning He swept the theatre stage, held prompt cards tiny parts himself. Then came small roles in films. His height did, indeed work against him, with for him. However, the roles did come. Directors managed to find creative ways to his scenes. Some of his roles in these early years were room floor, but they all added to the skills came his way. Hammer Horror for his biggest part yet. He was to play the monster created by Baron his good friend Peter Cushing. The movie, called The Curse of Frankenstein, horror, who clamoured for more. Hammer decided to satisfy the demand with Dracula, with Lee in the lead role. The movie, released in 1958, was a huge hit, the fanged count forever embedding itself Dracula was the movie that turned the struggling He later recalled, 'It brought me a name, of which I was grateful.' The Dracula role was both a blessing and a It inevitably type cast him - and it tied each one worse than the last. When he tried to bring the series to an end by Hammer executives, who would remind him if the next movie was not made. Lee played the part of Dracula ten times, that it cast over his career. It took eight years for the second Dracula had made a tremendous impact all over the Yet, when Lee was handed the script for the things that his character was asked to do, given. As a result, he refused to do the lines, which Dracula: Prince of Darkness. Lee was also getting further and further away from what book. Serious Acting career as a serious actor started when he of Two Cities in 1958. This was, in fact, his 43rd movie. Other serious roles followed, but he was unable appearing in a slew of largely forgettable and other production companies. In 1962, Lee auditioned for a role in the It is ironic that, despite his distinguished war, he was turned down because it was felt military type. From 1965 until 1969, Lee, despite his obvious in which he played the villainous oriental His skill as an actor, along with long hours life into the role of the criminal mastermind. In 1970, Lee picked up a single day's work De Sade entitled Eugenie. It was only when the movie was released that porn film, loaded with sex scenes that were He was embarrassed and angry, but he could Lee credits his role as Sherlock Holmes' The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes as the from being typecast as the 'horror' guy. Three years later he played Lord Summerisle made, The Wicker Man. Lee was so taken with the book Ritual upon services free of charge. The film has become a cult classic and is ever made. In the mid-70's, Lee appeared as Comte de sequel The Four Musketeers. During a fight scene he received a knee injury, life. Back in the early '60's, Lee's step-cousin had offered him the role of the villainous his James Bond novel, Dr. No. Lee accepted on the spot. However, Fleming hadn't cleared Lee with their man. A dozen years later, Lee finally got his chance in the tenth Bond flick, The Man With The Lee breathed life into the character, who guy lacking real depth. The writer was delighted with the portrayal, counterpart to James Bond. Coming to America as a fine actor who could take on any role Still, he was concerned that, if he remained into the dark tunnel of horror movies. Avoiding that fate was the prime motivation His first American role was a departure from disaster Airport '77. The following year he went even further beyond host on the NBC live comedy Saturday Night He remembered the experience as the most terrifying That night he impressed many people, including signed him up for his next project, the period Lee had the chance to follow up with another But he turned the role down and it went to Lee would refer to this decision as 'a big Through the 80's and '90's, Lee appeared to comedies and even musicals. He also made regular appearances on the small In 1998, Lee was controversially cast as Muhammad movie Jinnah. It was to be his most demanding role, and For ten weeks, he acted the part of the father of locals scrutinized his every move. The vast majority of them were won over by with his ability to 'become' Jinnah. The movie was hugely important to Lee but A Lifelong Dream Fulfilled Tolkien Lord of the Rings series of books, He had once actually met Tolkien and for decades of Gandalf. What he was offered, and immediately accepted, directed by New Zealand director Peter Jackson. The role brought him to a new generation of performance. Those who were privileged to work with him Lee aura. In one scene, Saruman was to be stabbed in to scream as the blade entered his body. Lee turned to Jackson and asked him if he'd back. Jackson admitted that he hadn't, to which to do.' He went on to explain that such a wound would from screaming. At best they would let out a quiet groan. With this revelation, the set went quiet. All present knew that they were in the presence they could only imagine. The success of the Lord of Rings movies led where he played the evil Count Dooku. Throughout the 2000's he also appeared in Hollow and Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber The Waning Years in his first Hammer film in 35 years, The While filming in Mexico, he suffered a back As a result, he was unable to play a leading Man, entitled The Wicker Tree. However, he was determined to appear in the of the character he was meant to play. Although in his late 80's, Lee was insistent acting. He often said that making movies had never gave him meaning and purpose. With respiratory problems and a dodgy heart times. Still he kept busy with voice-over and narration year. His final movie was an independent production Christopher Lee died on June 27th, 2015, at The official cause of death was heart failure. In the tributes that flowed he was recognized else in history. Those myriad roles allow him to live on, enabling experience the presence of a true giant of the cinema.