When Batman: Arkham Asylum released over a video games as we know it. Now that we're getting two new DC Comics and Suicide Squad, we here at Suggestive Gaming look back at the story of the Batman Arkham comics and animated films as well. Because this is going to be a larger undertaking, show: Twitch Streamer Kreestin. Do note that while we will be covering the couple things we're going to skip: two mobile are no longer available, the Arkham Knight arcs that we'll avoid for various reasons, is questionably canon and not very important out too. We hope this doesn't take too much away Also note that from what we've seen of the to match up quite right with what we'll up in the future. Now, without further ado, this is What You Our story begins as most Batman stories do: Martha Wayne are leaving the Monarch Theatre As they walk through Crime Alley, they are Joe Chill. When Thomas tries to protect his family, he Martha as well. He then walks over to deliver a warning to you try to be a hero." Years later, we find Bruce Wayne, studying master Kirigi. From Kirigi, Bruce learns the ways of the theatrics, and fear to take down his adversaries. After proving himself by defeating Kirigi's respect and masters their techniques. The next year we find Bruce Wayne, returned the "Batman", using the resources provided Industries" to fashion a suit and various taking control of the city. With the help of his trusted life-long butler, Mahaffey, an underboss working for crime lord Bruce uses his intimidation and fear tactics that Sionis plans to take control of the Gotham efforts. Bruce and Alfred then use the newly built members of the GCPD's higher ranks: Commissioner Detective Arnold Flass. Despite making several rookie mistakes, Bruce, corrupt dealings with another crime lord: and with the help of an unknown hacker speaking and Cobblepot are working together to try get the corrupt Commissioner Loeb elected. Batman heads to the Beacon Hotel and disrupts who is secretly working in the criminal underworld Afterwards, Penguin escapes to a house, and Team, who plan to deliver a hostage, sister the Penguin to create a spectacle for the Batman swarms in and prevents this plan, saving Penguin and Black Mask to escape. The next day, however, Dent postpones the of the events, including the potential connection In the Batcave, Batman and Alfred discuss was unable to take the criminals down himself, out of the criminals' control. He then accepts his new duty to keep it that Later that year, on Christmas Eve, Bruce overhears Commissioner Loeb to the local Blackgate Prison, Bruce suits up and heads there, finding Black reptile-like Waylon Jones, aka "Killer Croc". The pair release another criminal, a date-obsessed previously helped capture) from a gas chamber Black Mast states that he plans to set up in the chamber instead, killing him before Batman follows them out, but Black Mask is Croc behind to fight Batman. While Batman emerges victorious, Killer Croc bounty on the Bat's head, with 8 of the prize by the end of the night. The GCPD arrive, with Captain James Gordon witnessing Batman for the first time with Batwing. Bruce arrives back at the Batcave and analyzes he learns of the identities of the assassins Deathstroke, pyromaniac Firefly, venomous with shocking abilities Electrocutioner, chemically than Bruce's former fellow-pupil Lady Shiva. Batman determines that the drone belonged of his men to determine the crime lord's On his way, he encounters the riddle-loving Edward Nigma (an alias for the former head called "The Riddler". The Riddler is revealed to be working for the city to distract Batman and give his assassins' Batman eventually tracks Penguin down to his Offer", where he is forced to fight through finding and interrogating the Penguin, who one of Black Mask's safehouses: Lacey Tower. Suddenly, Batman is ambushed by Deathstroke, However, the distraction allows Penguin to head out to investigate the murders at Lacey On his way out, Batman is stopped by a transmission to take matters into his own hands to stop Batman learns that the police have IDed the Tiffany Ambrose, Roman Sionis' girlfriend, However, upon investigating the crime scene, days ago, leading him to conclude the body that night), but it is meant to appear to Batman learns through his investigation that Joker", connecting that figure to the murder. Obtaining DNA evidence from the scene, Batman compare the samples against the Police Department's There, Batman overhears Captain James Gordon whether or not Batman is a hero or a menace, father thinks he should be operating within Batman incapacitates the guards inside the There, he finds Barbara, who helps Batman database from his Batcomputer. Batman sets off to find the telecom wires Gordon on the way. While Batman pleads with Gordon to trust that and Batman is forced to escape from arriving Batman enters the sewers and follows the telecom he finds Black Mask's men. After dispatching them, he is able to connect planning to kill Black Mask, but Sionis used Sionis to get the jump on them and attack. The Joker emerged victorious however, and aflame. Batman determines the Joker's next step at the mob owned Gotham Merchants Bank. After making his way to the bank, Batman finds He responds by revealing a hostage: Roman the Black Mask all night was none other than After loading an ambulance full of money, true face: that of a demented clown. Ending the pair's first introduction, the and she dies of some sort of uncontrollable and his men escape the bank with Roman Sionis. Batman tracks Joker down to the Black Mask's inside. After freeing him from captivity, Batman is a toxin that gives him hallucinations, but Alfred, who synthesizes and delivers an antidote, effects of the poison, and defeat Copperhead, meet with the remaining assassins. Batman tracks them to the Royal Hotel, and During the meeting, the Joker kills Electrocutioner He then sends the others off to kill the bat, now come for the Joker, so he might as well This turns out to be a wise move, as Batman Bane makes short work of the Bat, manhandling Batman tries to attack the Joker, but Bane The pair then proceed to fight, with Bane to overpower his body to gain the upper hand. Alfred looks to even the odds by calling in to flee, but not before Batman plans a tracking Joker is then blasted off the Hotel's roof, saves him from the fall , much to the surprise Batman goes to detain the Joker, but the SWAT Batman slips away using the Batwing, and Joker In Blackgate Prison, the Joker is psychoanalyzed into his own mind. He relives the moment that turned him into while disguised as a figure called "The During the break-in, he was discovered by of chemicals, dying his skin white and hair his "one bad day" that pushed him over the edge. As he realizes his connection to Batman, Dr affectionately refers to her as "Harley". Batman arrives back at the Batcave, and has trauma that led to him taking on the mantle. Although Alfred snaps him out of it and tries Joker is behind bars, he refuses, knowing rest. Batman overhears police communication that and Batman heads off to the GCPD morgue to When he reaches the morgue, Batman learns user. However just then, the tracker that he planted follows it. At its location, Batman finds a hideout, but He finds evidence that Bane had been tracking and famous billionaire Bruce Wayne are one Batman destroys this evidence and leaves, as Wayne Manor is not safe. On his way, Batman learns that Firefly has him out, and he's forced to head there to Batman is able to distract Firefly with the bridge to meet with Jim Gordon. Gordon blames Batman for ultimately causing Firefly rigging the bridge with explosives keep them out of harm's way. Batman defuses all of the bombs, save for He is then forced to fight Firefly to distract the last bomb. Batman defeats Firefly, and leaves him strung Afterwards, Batman and Gordon share a quick have more to gain if they work together in to return to the Batcave. On his way, he calls Alfred, but the call has infiltrated the Batcave. Batman arrives to find the Batcave ablaze Batman is able to use the Electrocutioner's heart, narrowly saving his life. Now realizing that his crime fighting has one as well, Bruce decides that he's made Alfred has a change of heart and reaffirms his allies to help him, he can succeed. The pair then overhear that the Joker has that the police need him, to which he replies: Inside the prison, Batman finds Joker and to force Batman to break his moral code by Through an elaborate electric-chair tied to stops, or the electric chair kills Joker. Batman refuses, and Joker forces his hand as well. Batman is able to outsmart the clown, however, gloves, disabling the chair and allowing Gordon Joker to escape as well. Batman then resuscitates Bane, who injects similar to Venom but far more powerful. This transforms him into an even more giant defeat. Luckily, the TN-1 influence causes Bane to and afterwards, Batman heads out to find the On the way, Batman is captured by Killer Croc, to flee. The pair then rescue Blackgate warden Martin nearby chapel. Batman reveals to Joker that Bane is still to kill. Joker then tries again by goading Batman into beating the clown instead, leaving him incapacitated. Gordon arrives and states that although his still required to take him in along with the When Gordon receives a call on his radio, Afterwards, the police detain the Joker and that Batman is giving the city something to Later, politician Quincy Sharp speaks with the city's historic Elizabeth Arkham Asylum this new breed of super-criminals, while Deathstroke Waller, who recruits him for a task force Less than a week later, now New Year's Eve, commemorating Ferris Boyle, the CEO of research However, during the celebration, an explosion a large suit arrives and begins to encapsulate ray. The man demands that Ferris Boyle be brought to try to keep Boyle safe. When Alfred doesn't answer, Bruce goes looking villains' henchmen. Bruce saves Alfred and they head off to reach this new attacker. On their way, the pair find a group of guests, in one of the rooms, and Bruce leaves Alfred cellar to use a secret entrance to the Batcave. Bruce dons his suit and re-enters Wayne Manor henchmen. He loses communication with Alfred, who is the guests. Batman then finds and rescues Alfred and the Soon after, Batman finds Ferris Boyle, but place by the ray-gun wielding villain, revealed the two seemingly know each other. Freeze takes Boyle as he leaves, and Batman before taking out a group of henchmen. Batman interrogates one of the henchmen and Penguin has been providing the weapons for in south Gotham. Batman finds and questions the dealer, who to provide weapons from GothCorp for Penguin's Believing GothCorp to be a humanitarian company to the company's building to investigate. There, Batman finds Penguin holding Boyle weapons he was promised. When Batman tries to step in, Freeze uses in ice before grabbing Boyle. He then separates himself from Batman with Afterwards, Batman questions a partially frozen Boyle because he has the codes to some kind to. Penguin informs Batman that the only way to is with a special cryo-drill his men are currently Batman travels to their location, picking on his way. Batman then retrieves the drill from Penguin's it requires a fluid fuel source that is currently by Victor Fries (Mr. Freeze's original name). Batman reaches Fries' lab and learns that create prototype cryogenic weapons in exchange for his wife Nora's Huntington's Chorea, However, Fries later learned that Boyle never Fries instead abandons his duties to try to Angered, Boyle moved Nora to a different area his prototype weapon to fire, altering Fries' state. Fries was then forced to build a suit to maintain Boyle and gain access to the area his wife Batman returns to GothCorp and gets past the On the other side, Batman finds Freeze and Batman tries to reason with Freeze that he'll done, and that hurting Boyle would only disappoint Freeze is unaffected by these words, capturing to Nora and explaining that the accident removed Batman is then forced to disable three cryogenic distracting Freeze. Batman is then able to ambush Freeze, who During their fight, Boyle escapes and freezes Believing him to be dead, Boyle realizes that to force him to watch his wife die before Batman breaks free of his ice captivity and He then restores Nora's cryo-containment effectively saving both of them, leaving Freeze reunited. Afterwards, it is reported that Gotham Mayor for the still-vacant Police Commissioner position Vicki Vale then reports on Boyle's arrest, in the arrest as well as saving her and the Three months later, Batman witnesses a cat "Catwoman") stealing something from a He apprehends her to take her to Blackgate Department of Extranormal Operations who assume In the confusion, Catwoman escapes, and Batman agents before chasing down Catwoman. After apprehending her, he leaves her for and take to Blackgate Prison. Two weeks later, Captain James Gordon makes meet him near Blackgate. When Batman arrives, the two muse that they before Gordon explains why he called the vigilante a riot with the prisoners taking hostages guards. Batman enters the prison and finds Catwoman, attacked by fellow prisoners. She informs Batman that the Joker, Penguin, a section of the prison. Batman learns that he must restore power in codes from Joker's section, then finally Wing, to free the hostages. Catwoman then makes a deal with Batman to her a shorter prison sentence in a lower-security As Batman and Catwoman speak, they are surveilled man, Rick Flag, who seemingly have some kind Batman soon comes across the Penguin, holding There, Penguin forces a reluctant prisoner After Batman emerges victorious, Bronze Tiger holding them off to allow Batman to chase, Batman also comes across the Joker, who is hostage in his office which has been rigged Batman attempts to rescue him, but is attacked by all three crime bosses to take out Batman. Batman is able to defeat the marksman, and Shortly after, he is able to confront and for the Arkham Wing. Finally, Batman rushes to stop Black Mask On his way, he encounters the monstrous and outsmart the brute and defeat him in battle. Afterwards, Batman finds Black Mask, incapacitates When Batman finally takes the codes to the finds a weakened, Venom-less Bane. Catwoman then reveals that she had been using unnamed employer. She then attempts to escape with Bane, but When he asks her who her employer is, a group Flag reveals that they were able to capture prison before leaving with Catwoman. Afterwards, Joker is able to kill a group one of their uniforms to escape. Penguin is released by a corrupt guard on umbrella for not minding his manners). Finally, Black Mask takes a Blackgate guard a pipe to explode in his face as he flees. Later, Amanda Waller and Rick Flag are leaving that they were the ones attempting to secure Waller ordered them to release Catwoman, and forced to return Bane to captivity in Blackgate. Flag considers the mission a failure, but the prison led them to picking up Deadshot into her Suicide Squad. By the next year, Batman has gained a reputation supernatural force. To combat this ideology, the city's officials armor and gear to the public. However, as they do so, the event is sabotaged Moth, who captures Commissioner Gordon with His daughter, Barbara, who accompanied him Suit and stops the Killer Moth, calling herself The pair fight, and eventually Moth tries Gordon to the ground below. She dives after him and saves him, and the Moth for good. Afterwards, Batgirl talks to Batman in private, She brushes this aside, however, stating that During this year, Batman meets a fellow orphan, his young ward, giving him the name "Robin". Around two years later, we find Barbara Gordon denouncing her copycat tactics and growing situations her crusading puts her in. At the newly reopened Arkham Asylum, Dr. Harleen before the board to ask for The Joker to transfer The warden, Quincy Sharp, declines this request, care, fearing his manipulation tactics are She meets him back at his cell and the two and Harleen offers to take Joker's place break out. He accepts this proposal, and gives her the Later, in Gotham Square, Barbara Gordon is Quinn, now donned in an appropriate costume, Batgirl suits up to take on this new foe. During their fight, Batgirl warns Harley about prevents her death-by-hippo like her hero from the circus. Later, Batman meets with Batgirl to discuss that she's come to the realization that same symbol of hope for the city that he does. Back at the Asylum, Joker continues to manipulate him while he plans to continue to use her Later that year we find The Riddler in an who reveals that she had been tracing his Suddenly, a group of her soldiers burst in However, Batman quickly cuts the lights, takes himself. This prompts Waller to assemble her Suicide composed of villains Killer Frost, King Shark, Deadshot, and finally Harley Quinn. Later on, the group wake up together unsure Boomerang, and Deadshot, who reveal that they've Waller then arrives and explains that she a covert ops group, and warns them that if device in their neck will detonate a nano-bomb, KGBeast doubts this, and Waller dares him is proven as his head explodes after his first Deadshot then asks what she wants them to is to break into Arkham Asylum to obtain the drive containing all of the information on hacked and is threatening to leak onto the Waller then knocks the team out again, and a plane being transported to Gotham to meet their mission. When they airdrop in, they take the sewers, contact, The Penguin, at his club: The Iceberg Penguin then hands over plans to sneak into Harley, due to her association with the Joker. The team then spend the night blowing off call from Waller about an assignment, and The next night, Harley destroys a doll store him information about a bomb the Joker has Harley, who has "broken up" with the Joker, The police then arrive, and Batman hands over Deadshot intercepts and poses as the officer EMT dropping off a dead patient, who turns allows her to pose as deceased. Meanwhile, Black Spider poses as an orderly However, the staff quickly catch on to both raise red flags. Meanwhile, Harley is reunited with the Joker, He taunts her about their recent breakup, start firing at the clown. The bulletproof glass of his cell protects Harley fights them off and is able to fire misses each shot. Using the distraction, Deadshot is able to the facility's network and allowing Boomerang opposition, allowing them and Killer Frost Harley reveals to Joker that Deadshot is "her Deadshot to carry her away. Black Spider causes an explosion in the kitchen up near a sewer grate which they open to allow After suiting up, the Suicide Squad enter hub. Harley then loops the previous day's security and they make their way to the intensive treatment On their way, they are faced with some opposition together to take them out. Back in Gotham, serial killer Victor Zsasz free her. As he enters his Batmobile, Alfred calls and that night. Batman checks surveillance at Arkham just notices that the footage is of the previous Now knowing something is wrong, Batman speeds Meanwhile, the Squad have made their way to the property room to be locked. Luckily, Harley is able to use her knowledge there to unlock the door. Inside, they look for the cane, where Harley cane, and Killer Frost finds Mr. Freeze's After a short battle with the Suicide Squad, utility belt as a trophy. However, when Deadshot opens the cane's to be missing, soon after, they notice Killer Frost arrives at the Riddler's cell, and him to set an example, but Riddler reveals his neck, but learned how to defuse it, prompting In his own cell, Joker finds that Harley's wall, which he is able to reach into to find cell-doors, allowing his escape. Waller calls Deadshot, who doesn't reveal exclaims that a disturbance has been called The Squad head there and find Killer Frost to obtain the tools to defuse their nano-bombs. The group work together again to reach the the guard's pistols on the way. Inside the medical center, the Riddler defuses shock, save for Black Spider, who decides Waller finally realizes they're up to something squad. While the majority of them remain alive, King theorizes was due to his thick skin preventing Meanwhile, the Joker finds Batman in a hall Curiously, the Bat's own head explodes on trigger. Back in the medical center, the Squad look that Batman has been posing as the criminal Riddler pulls his pistol, but Batman throws up the voltage of the electro-shock machine. Batman interrogates Deadshot, who reveals This leaves the detective confused, but he as the Joker arrives soon after, shooting He also throws some small explosive devices machine and allowing the Suicide Squad to the way out. Joker is able to chase Batman away with bullets, Harley tries to reconcile with the Joker to to settle with Deadshot. Deadshot distracts him, causing the Joker In the laundry room, Joker opens Harley's been searching for. Elsewhere, the Squad attempt to escape, but Deadshot tells Batman they disappeared with be where the bomb is. Right on cue, Joker begins to broadcast a To provide a distraction to detonate the bomb, including former District Attorney turned due to the disfigurement that drove him mad), creating "Scarecrow" Dr. Jonathan Crane, Isley (known better as Poison Ivy), among Batman leaves to find Joker to stop the bomb, plan to hijack a nearby helicopter to escape Their partnership is short-lived, however, own to reach the chopper first. They fight their way through the escaped inmates, where Deadshot is able to escape on his own. Batman arrives outside just in time to protect his Venom supply and throwing him into the Batman then calls his Batwing and enters to Inside the helicopter, the Joker reveals himself pulls a pistol on Deadshot. He attacks the clown before he can shoot, Harley picks up the Joker's gun and contemplates take the helicopter's controls to prevent Batman arrives and uses his grappling hook the mallet and jumping out of the helicopter, which he and Harley also land inside. She attempts to attack him, while Joker and up. Batman knocks out Harley and gets the bomb fight, pinning Joker to the helicopter and Batman is then able to diffuse the bomb just the ground, with Joker caught in the blast Sometime later, Batman arrives at Waller's plan while chastising her allowing Riddler Batman threatens to shut down her operation, power over the federal Government. She then states that he has his own issues was never found. He leaves her with one final warning before Waller turns around to notice the red dot We then see Deadshot, reunited with his daughter, turning the tide and now holding Waller's Throughout this same year, Batman's extended Dick Grayson leaves the Robin mantle behind on the new persona of "Nightwing". Later, Batman discovers a troubled youngster, The next year, Jason Todd takes up the mantle to protect Gotham. However, towards the end of the year he is in a location unknown to Batman. A few months later, Batman meets another young skills to determine the caped crusader and This impresses Batman, who (despite still allows Drake to become the new Robin. Shortly after, Batman receives a video recording Todd's face with a "J" before shooting has killed his friend. The next year, The Joker captures Commissioner Park, prompting Batgirl to go there, calling to kill Gordon if Batman shows up. The pair fight their way through Joker's Police Officers and prevent several of Joker's clown prince of crime himself. The pair fight off a horde of Joker's henchmen, the Joker himself. Batgirl is then able to free Gordon, but Joker closer (knowing Batgirl, following in Batman's hands). He then fires at Robin (who Batgirl pushes away from him and jumping off the pier, pulling Batgirl heads off to chase him, but Robin now that they've rescued Gordon and the Gordon then turns to have Harley Quinn taken pair have disappeared into the shadows, a Later that year, the Joker finds Barbara at so her father can come home and find her. She survives the gunshot, but is left paralyzed Still wanting to help out the Bat family, using her brilliance and technological expertise inside Gotham's clocktower. Two years later, Batman begins to receive Following these tips, he is able to capture The next tip leads him to a test tube containing by Scarecrow, but far more powerful; this Arkham as well. Finally, the third tip leads Batman to the Batman thwarts this plan and starts to drive Warden Sharp then begins a speech directed escape again. With them preoccupied, Harley Quinn (disguised to administer him with an unknown green chemical. As Batman pulls up to the Asylum, he gets has been up to this point combined with the to Arkham after a fire at Blackgate Prison, When Batman arrives, he hands over the Joker clown to a standing cart to bring him to the Batman decides to follow to make sure the On their way, they come across Killer Croc, leaves Batman with a sinister warning. When they reach the Intensive Treatment Center, shares his fears about the Joker planning to stay behind as they take the Joker into Once out of Batman's reach, the Joker breaks security to allow Joker's escape into the of his thugs. Of course, Batman makes quick work of them, they've seemingly fallen into. With Oracle's help, Batman heads into the He quickly stumbles across Zsasz, threatening take him out for the rescue. Shortly after, Batman receives a video message Warden Sharp, and refers to the night's with Batman being the guest of honor. When she hangs up, Batman gets more bad news, him that the Joker claims to have hidden bombs anybody else arrives on Arkham Island, leaving Batman continues on and finds the Joker, but a hulking, mutated Blackgate prisoner, which Afterwards, the beast falls to the ground, Joker then offers Batman a chance to end the off the suspended cage he's standing on, so he refuses, much to the clown's delight, behind. Shortly after, however, Batman receives a Officer Frank Boles is secretly working for now en route to Harley. Joker then warns Batman that if he tries to Batman is able to use his detective tools down Gordon, however, on his way he is met to prevent Batman's progress. This only slightly deters Batman, who is able end: the corpse of Officer Boles, double crossed At this same time, Batman's communications leaves Batman with the challenge of finding Batman makes his way out to the open area that the Batmobile is currently under attack. He returns to it and fends off the group of trail of tobacco left by Gordon to follow Batman finds Harley and Gordon, but is blocked He sets off to find another way to their location, which he frees, along with a former GCPD officer One of the Doctors, Penelope Young, has sparked and his men. Because of this, Cash escorts her to the Arkham continues to search for Gordon in the morgue Entering the morgue, Batman witnesses a group before catching a glimpse of Scarecrow. As he continues into the morgue, he finally killed, with his dead body slouched against He tries to call Barbara to give her the news, As he goes deeper into the morgue to search of body bags to find the reanimated corpses them. When he opens a third bag, Scarecrow emerges, landscape where he is forced to evade the a spotlight on him and escape. Now back in the morgue unaffected by Scarecrow's not Gordon's, but an Arkham guard, leading and he finds him and Harley in a locked room Batman breaks into the room from above, taking Batman frees Gordon, who warns Batman that has in store for them below. The pair then find Joker's surprise: Bane, Joker then injects him with a more powerful Bane is able to break free of his confinement The pair battle until the ceiling begins to to grapple to a sewer grate above and escape. Outside, he meets up with Gordon, who he decides possible. Soon after, Bane bursts through a nearby wall Batmobile to crash into Bane, driving him Batman and Gordon then head to the docks, an Arkham guard and sets off to return to Batman then makes his way to a secret Batcave and using the Batcomputer there to obtain He discovers that she had been researching create a more powerful version of it called to use for his big plan. Believing the Joker will be looking for Young to find her. There, Batman finds and rescues Aaron Cash office. Batman notices that Young had already retrieved of her fingerprints to the nearby library He proceeds to destroy the notes so Joker that Joker had sent his men to capture Dr. While Batman heads off to find Young, he is to relive the death of his parents before shine the spotlight on the figure to emerge Afterwards, Batman finds Zsasz holding Dr. He is able to stealthily use one of his Batarangs doctor. She then reveals that Joker has obtained gallons with her formula for Titan. She then goes to open the Warden's safe in the nearby gardens, but instead finds one Batman tries to protect her from the blast, by the blast, which also renders Batman unconscious. As he comes to, he sees Harley Quinn with taken away. Batman wakes up and takes out Harley's men tracks. On his way, he encounters Poison Ivy, who the plants on the Island. He shrugs this off and reaches the control He spots a security camera feed and sees Harley and sets her free. Batman frees the Warden and gets his security once again. He fights through a large horde of her goons subdued and apprehended by the Bat. He then learns from her that Joker's production to create a Titan-fueled army is in the Botanical off. Inside the Gardens, Batman finds the Joker's forcing Batman to fight more Titan-powered Afterwards, Batman learns that they're somehow and finds Ivy, who he questions, knowing that without her knowing. Ivy then informs Batman that there is a plant but it can only be found deep within the island: When Batman emerges back out onto the island, island, and Joker delivers a message that serum, causing her to grow far more powerful. Batman finds Aaron Cash, and asks him where He informs him of a "special cell" underneath returns to that building. However when he does, he- Batman is poisoned by the Scarecrow once again, up in Arkham by the Joker and Harley Quinn. He is able to once again use his willpower onto Scarecrow. Back in the real world, Scarecrow runs off to spread it into Gotham. Before he can, however, he is attacked by of the sewer, causing him to drop his bag Batman heads into the depths of the sewers avoiding an angered Killer Croc along the As he leaves, the giant beast emerges and a blast that sends Croc to the depths below. Batman returns to the Batcave and uses the to take down Ivy before her plants destroy On his way, Batman learns that the Joker also his Titan chemical. Batman is able to thwart this plan by destroying With that distraction out of the way, Batman There, she explains that while she thought they had actually been making them evolve She uses these powerful plants to attack Batman, plants to retreat down into the ground, with Outside, Joker informs Batman that it's to the Visitor Center to finally learn what Inside, Batman finds the Joker, who greets in his wake. When Batman follows, he finds his nemesis a sinister puppet carved by an Arkham inmate known as "The Ventriloquist") to kill. Joker throws Scarface to the ground and sends Batman is forced to incapacitate. After the battle, Joker reveals another surprise: captured during his attempt to leave the island. Joker pulls out a pistol containing Titan-filled However, Batman is able to dive in front of him instead, starting to transform him nearly Batman is able to fight the transformation, Angered by Batman ruining his big plans for a Titan dart. As news choppers begin to arrive, Joker, now Batman to the rooftop and hooks Gordon up Joker continues to taunt Batman, telling him Titan was the only way he could take down Batman disagrees, and injects himself with Batman is then forced to fight the overpowered After pulling down the Joker with his grappling through the electrified roof, weakening him. When he climbs back up to face the Bat, he delivers an explosive punch to the Joker, Afterwards, the super criminals are taken of the asylum once again. The venom-induced inmates begin to seemingly Joker. Gordon calls Barbara to tell her about the speak to him. Gordon tells Batman to get some rest, but about Two-Face robbing a Gotham bank, and disappeared on him, and as he looks up, the to continue his night of crime fighting. As he flies off, though, a crate of Titan the villains Batman left in the water grabs After he's taken back into custody in Arkham, of the Titan formula. Harley Quinn learns of this from her own cell Joker before his time comes. In the wake of the Arkham riots, Warden Quincy a reputation he is able to turn into a successful with the help of his psychiatrist. In a televised interview with Jack Ryder and from the Asylum that shows Sharp is not the for most of the night of Joker's attack. This doesn't shake Sharp, who brushes the masked "super villains". At the Gotham Police Department, Gordon and that Batman hasn't gotten the credit he Joker. Gordon then tells Batman about a pair of Titan who have been wreaking havoc since Joker's Batman then heads off their known associate, its way from Arkham to Gotham. Batman finds the former District Attorney Two-Face informs him that the Trasks were of Titan washed up along the shores of Gotham, immense power, and when they grew powerful, in an attempted hostile takeover of the gang, He then tells Batman that the pair have been big, which Batman determines to be the dedication During the ceremony, the Trasks take out the stage while Mayor Sharp gives his speech. Batman stops them with his explosive gel lined a tranquilizer dart. The siblings then make a call to an unknown asks them to "do what must be done for our blast, with Batman barely escaping. This destruction causes Mayor Sharp to lobby a piece of the city to be policed by a privatized This section of the city, called "Arkham think it was Sharp's idea alone. This leaves him wondering who's the mastermind them. Sometime later, Vincent Garrett, a highly Hugo Strange about an offer from the Mayor called Tyger. Strange proceeds to give Garrett a psychological with an unknown serum. Afterwards, Strange begins to play a series Garrett into Tyger's ideals: total control He then leaves him with a final message to obsess over before Strange injects him with With the "interview" now over, Strange telling him to forget everything about their As the man exits his office, Strange smashes the time is right, his Tyger guards will obey control of Gotham City. Later that year, Arkham City is about to open, Sharp appears on television with Ryder and Arkham City will be strong enough to contain to live in a society again. That night, Batman, still believing there's mansion to look for information. There, he finds that Sharp has been keeping "Enemy X". Just when he finds the plans for Arkham City, Suddenly, a turret appears and starts shooting to fill the room as well. Batman realizes these defenses were not to so he shuts down the building's network In Arkham Asylum, Aaron Cash is reluctantly One inmate he doesn't mind sending, however, While the Joker is being transferred, however, room, tie him to a standing stretcher, and their partners during the Arkham riots. Just as one prepares to kill him, another off their disguise to reveal it's an escaped guards and takes Joker to the docks nearby Batman gets an alert that his security systems he heads to stop whoever it is, learning on When Batman reaches Joker and Harley's boat, pair return the favor with their own RPG. Batman returns fire, destroying their boat When they emerge, the two find themselves the Sionis Industries building where they Mayoress of Arkham City". Sometime later, Jenna Duffy, known as The enters, looking for her. She leaves, and goes to break into an ATM her. Batman catches her in the act, and chases She gets out with some power tools to take two have a discussion afterward. Batman helps Jenna by providing her with a condition she leaves her van and tools behind She agrees, and sets off, while Tyger continues to white collar criminals. Later, we find street criminal Lester Kurtz in Arkham City to try to secure a "job" After passing a few of the Joker's "tests", Not satisfied with his limitations working of the other criminal trying to take early The Penguin immediately allows Kurtz to work of weapons before it reaches the security Kurtz is able to use his unique skills to truck, but the Joker's men soon arrive to Having no other choice, Kurtz throws a grenade, but destroying the guns in the process. When they return to Penguin, he's predictably is sent to his quarters with half pay. On his way, Kurtz attacks the guards accompanying before escaping the Iceberg Lounge, now having masterminds are operating inside Arkham City. Batman muses about how he still doesn't Arkham City. Elsewhere, that same mastermind is observing but submitting to playing it through. In Arkham Asylum, The Riddler is met by an to build him a new hideout. He then also pays Poison Ivy to help him break After he does, he picks up his signature outfit ready to create his new gang and place his While trying to figure out his way into the into an explosive trap. He is "welcomed" into the city by the City's defenses planning for Batman's The battle with Tyger is soon interrupted none other than Catwoman, whose help Batman Catwoman reveals she went there to pick up of Gotham's current crisis, but she reveals guns that Penguin and Joker were fighting She then used the weapons to help Poison Ivy an ally moving forward. Catwoman then left Ivy at the Central Gardens, Batman leaves Catwoman with a warning to be ejecting from the vehicle and leaving her Meanwhile, Joker finds a doctor to examine The doctor confirms that Joker's exposure body, negatively affecting his vital organs. Joker has the doctor isolate a sample of the the clown with a vial of the poison before in the facility's incinerator. Elsewhere in Arkham City, Batman then gets to provide the name of the real mastermind Though the guard initially says the name Quincy the true name he's been looking for: Hugo Batman then returns to the Batcave to share They look up Strange on the Batcomputer to he was a mad psychologist with delusions of Alfred then points out a nearby news report, to the public, putting Strange in the spotlight Batman then decides that he can no longer can. The next day, Mayor Sharp holds a press conference from the reveal of his partner. Bruce Wayne arrives to present the files of he simply responds by claiming he was a fall He then turns the tables by asking why a billionaire over a doctor he doesn't know. Wayne tries to retort, but Strange shuts him and his attempts to slander the professor He later secretly congratulates himself on Victor Zsasz, as well as his delight in secretly each other. He then comes to the conclusion that Bruce next meeting in Arkham City. Meanwhile, Robin secures his own way into He heads inside to scope it out, and finds attempting to steal medication from some other Robin intervenes and breaks up this attempt There, Bruce reveals to Tim that he was aware him to continue. Inside Arkham City, Bane, who had since been with Batman, had found his former Venom stash There, he encounters his first Titan-enhanced Bane is able to defeat this foe due to Titan's seen it's danger, he sets forth with a new formula. One day in Arkham City, one of Joker's henchmen him. He is elated at it's return, but Harley into a pit of molten steel, later telling However, much to her dismay, one of Joker's the sentient doll now holds a grudge against Later, Mr. Freeze discovers that Hugo Strange Despite being chased by Batman, Freeze reaches Freeze demands his wife's release, but the there to propose a partnership between the Strange offers Freeze a fully stocked laboratory for his help with producing a series of serums Freeze takes this offer and leaves shortly There, he finds the two men gone, but notices wake. Sometime afterwards, Two-Face sends his men valuable. Catwoman arrives, taking them out before opening a map of a building inside the city's Park However, she is soon met by Two-Face, who the spot. Meanwhile, Bruce Wayne holds a press conference a campaign to close it down. Tyger forces arrive, knock him out, and capture Now tied to a chair, Bruce is met by Hugo double-identity as Batman. Strange states that he is about to initiate him, he will reveal his secret to the world. Bruce meets with a fellow political prisoner: their "initiation" before Bruce is knocked Cobblepot expresses his anger that the Wayne and attempts to beat down Bruce as revenge. Bruce breaks the Penguin's hand and proves them all out before reaching a nearby roof Alfred airdrops in some gear for Bruce, who for answers on this "Protocol 10". After using an encryption key he stole from to learn that Catwoman is being held by Two-Face Batman then heads there to find her to stop about Arkham City. Inside the Courthouse, Batman finds Two-Face crimes, planning to execute her. Batman intervenes and takes out Two-Faces him. He walks over to Catwoman and attempts to before Batman is able to string him up above with. Catwoman then takes her phone and the memory He asks her about Protocol 10, but she's She instead informs Batman that she's heard for Batman, which may be what he's looking Just then, Joker tries to snipe at Catwoman just in time. Batman follows the trajectory of the bullet he finds Harley Quinn. She attempts to attack him, but he swiftly Her men hold civilians hostage to stop Batman Joker isn't available for a meeting before Batman takes out the men to free the hostages, Joker's gun was being controlled remotely. Joker then contacts him via video message the room Batman is standing in. Batman escapes before the blast, but is able the rifle. Batman follows the signal to the Steelworks She locks him out of the Joker's office, by Harley who was forced to treat Joker's Afterwards, Batman is able to force his way opposition, including a giant, hammer wielding After fighting through this opposition, Batman Joker flatlines, leaving Harley extremely As Batman goes over to examine the now lifeless Joker, who holds a mask over his face, forcing Quinn knocks him out with her baseball bat. Meanwhile, Catwoman heads off to find Poison the map she found on the memory card to infiltrate inside. Catwoman finds Ivy, but she immediately attacks Catwoman forgot to water her flowers. Ivy then forces Catwoman to fight several spores. Catwoman defeats them, but Ivy captures her her there. Back at the Steelmill, Batman awakens to find Joker stops her. Batman initially believes that Joker had been Joker quickly reveals his new, ghastly figure, the same blood that he has transfused into Joker then reveals that he also shipped out over the city to further force Batman into Batman assumes this is Protocol 10, but Joker He then kicks Batman out a window, and after search out Mr. Freeze to find the cure. Batman tracks Freeze down to an old Gotham There, Batman learns that Freeze had been After interrogating one of them, he further Natural History Museum. Batman makes his way to Penguin, discovering Inside, Batman learns that Commissioner Gordon to work undercover in Penguin's gang. Batman goes to look for them but instead finds revealing he has all of the others hostage, Sickle. Before long, Penguin reveals a henchman empowered as Cobblepot walks off. Batman makes his way through the museum, freeing After a fight with Sickle, Batman releases the cure to this "Joker disease". Unable to finish the cure without his suit, it for his help. Batman finds Freeze's suit and takes a security He then finds Penguin, wielding Freeze's said override chip. Batman then takes out Penguin, but he creates below. There, Batman encounters Solomon Grundy once After Batman emerges victorious, Penguin decides is dispatched quickly as well. Batman takes Penguin back to Mr. Freeze, who Batman presses Freeze about the cure, and volatility. Freeze requires some kind of regenerative for decades. Batman reveals that he knows a man exposed old assassin named Ra's al Ghul. Freeze asks him to retrieve a sample of al by a nearby assassin who was also in one of The assassin, a member of Ra's al Ghul's Batman determines the assassin to be a member guard. He follows her trail but is soon ambushed Robin arrives and helps, scaring them off. Batman gives Robin a sample of his blood, local hospitals tested for the disease that's Following the assassin's trail, Batman finds City", where he begins to feel the effects There, Batman finds several of al Ghul's to use one of the assassin's swords to open As he travels through, his vitals begin to of his parents asking him to walk into the He fights this off, and continues on to find Talia initially slaps Batman, mentioning his in Metropolis. He asks her where her father is, but she only When she pulls up his mask to kiss him, however, of his illness. Batman reveals to her that he finally intends her army together as her father intended. She takes him to complete "The Demon Trials", the disembodied spirit of Ra's al Ghul, of the Demon", the drink that has allowed This helps to heal Batman enough to successfully end to find al Ghul in the flesh. Ra's reveals the final test to take his place killing him. Batman refuses, angering Talia, who had been Ra's offers Batman what he's looking for: that he spills it all in a fight to the death. He then jumps into a nearby "Lazarus Pit" his eternal youth), which restores his body Ra's takes Batman to a dreamscape where the assassin, despite his supernatural abilities Back in the real world, Ra's takes Talia kills him first. Batman is able to avoid this, however, by Afterwards, Batman takes a sample of his foe's Batman to kill him so he could take his place he can't continue to live forever, having his body and mind to handle. Batman leaves him with a warning to stop his Batman begins to head back to Freeze with Sharp has been brought into Arkham City, with Batman finds Sharp, rescuing him from a group Batman interrogates Sharp, who reveals that for mayor through his "powerful friends", the Doctor's experiments. Batman tries to learn who these "powerful leaving him now useless to Strange, and Batman. Batman then returns to the forensics lab to to Mr. Freeze, who uses it to complete the Freeze creates two vials, locking one up in second. Freeze then forces Batman to return his wife, up vial. The two then proceed to fight, with Batman from the effects of the disease once more. Batman leaves Freeze and opens the safe, finding the other side and stolen the antidote. Freeze, still wanting to get back at Joker, Batman promises to find Nora before leaving However, Joker shoots down reporter Vicki save her, providing Harley with enough time Batman enters the mill and receives bad news of the spread of illegal firearms (which he by Gotham City High Council to initiate Protocol Batman reaches the Joker, who reveals himself He then initiates a battle including himself, clown, before Batman defeats them all and Before he can reach him, however, the ceiling Out of the shadows emerges Talia al Ghul, return she will provide him with the secret Joker prepares to leave with her, and Talia telling him to "follow your heart" as the battle. Meanwhile, Catwoman is still being held captive her flowers is being kept alive in Strange's to let her free and help her get into the and stealing the flower back. Ivy reluctantly agrees, letting her go and her vines. Catwoman takes out the vault's security On her way, she learns that Batman is in the action of Protocol 10, which commences moments Catwoman finds Ivy's plant... and destroys She then retrieves two cases with the valuables that they have gotten Batman. Catwoman heads to the vault's exit, and screen. She fights with herself on whether to take friend-slash-foe. Ultimately she chooses to take the money and and Tyger, causing the death of Commissioner Just kidding, she heads off to the Steel Mill, Catwoman reaches Batman before Tyger does, favor from earlier in the night. Catwoman leaves, and Batman exits the Mill to eliminate all of the inmates, criminal from Wonder Tower. Batman orders Oracle to shut down the tower and Alfred convince him to instead go to the to save all of the lives inside Arkham City. Batman is able to make his way into Wonder events at hand, claiming that without him 10 would have never been necessary. Batman fights his way up the tower to reach knocks him down before allowing Oracle to the missile strikes. Afterwards, Batman pushes Strange up to the he's caused. Strange maintains his sick sense of pride, will allow his work to continue. Before he can continue his speech, he is suddenly than Ra's al Ghul. Ra's reveals himself to be the true mastermind Ra's reveals that after Strange learned Batman's which prompted Ra's to give Hugo a chance at the throne of the League of Assassins, Knowing now that Hugo failed, he sees no reason Ra's looks out at the wreckage of Arkham to wipe out the criminals of the world. Batman refuses, claiming that Ra's has finally Interrupting their conversation, Strange lets Protocol 11. Pass-code: Wayne" Suddenly, a countdown engages and Batman tackles self-destructs in a giant blast. Batman lands safely, but Ra's falls on a Joker contacts Batman through a video message, Batman heads to the nearby Monarch Movie theater mysteriously asks Batman to give him the cure, In the confusion, Talia is able to break free him. She then reveals that she had stolen the cure it to Joker. Batman begins to think back on the inconsistencies then realizes that somehow there are two Jokers, by the real Joker, who reveals himself to As Batman lays Talia's body down, his dead to reveal himself to be Clayface, a former shape his appearance however he sees fit. The pair engage in a gruelling fight in the emerging victorious over the hulking creature. This prompts Joker to create an explosion, down below to a secret room with a Lazarus Batman uses Talia's blade to defeat clayface cure, keeping the rest to use to replicate Joker. Joker then attempts to jump into the Lazarus the sword into a nearby generator, which knocks mass with the chemicals, creating an explosive out Batman. When he wakes up, Joker taunts Batman that Batman loved and poisoned Gotham, Batman will Batman looks at the cure and knows that if to take lives and wreak havoc, but before Batman, causing him to drop, and destroy the Batman admits that even with everything he's This gives the Joker his last laugh, as the Batman then exits the theater holding the his men, Harley Quinn, and Catwoman look on. Commissioner Gordon and the GCPD arrive, and away without a word. After Joker's death, Catwoman returns home, an explosive that knocks her out. Afterwards, Two-Face's men arrive, who she Noticing her things are missing, she interrogates at the museum. Catwoman heads there and works her way around boss alone. He reveals that he gave away half of her loot him out before leaving, where she is met with Catwoman then heads off to find the rest of his work in Arkham City. Throughout the rest of the night, Batman provides helping Bane destroy Titan containers to prevent securing Nora Fries' frozen body for Mr. who claims Batman is part of an ancient prophecy Deadshot, dealing with and capturing the delusional, Jervis Tetch), tracking down and capturing solving a string of murders and mutilations who turns out to be Bruce's childhood friend: and plans to transform himself into Bruce As Batman goes to leave Arkham City, he is out of the sky, falling to the ground to discover his apprentice who has taken up the mantle. Batman is able to use the weaponry he got down before leaving him to be picked up by However, after he leaves, an unknown figure Electrocutioner's head. He states that Batman's greatest power is the trigger, killing the Electrocutioner and how meaningless these criminals' lives really The next day, Bruce Wayne awakens inside Wayne and Aaron Cash have begun cleaning up Arkham Alfred has a talk with Bruce about using his but Bruce holds steady in his stance that At the morgue, a pair of doctors perform an They discover a flap of artificial skin, which As they open it, a plume of green gas fills their faces in a twisted smile. Elsewhere, a group of GCPD officers are lured out and captured by Detective Harvey Bullock, At GCPD, she's met by her temporary psychiatrist, Harley then easily removes her handcuffs and from lockup on her way. Her and the remains of Joker's gang then at the Steel Mill. At the Steel Mill, Gordon orders his men to him. He orders Gordon to protect the perimeter, GCPD officers. After fighting several of Quinn's men and to confront Batman. She shoots at one of the officers, but he on the ground, unconscious. The goons try to take his utility belt, but drop it to the ground. They then drag Batman away to take him captive. Two days later, Oracle becomes worried about the tracking beacon on his utility belt to Arriving at the Steel Mill, Robin takes out locating the tracking beacon on the discarded Robin continues to fight his way deeper into trapped in a giant Joker monument. Robin then heads off to find the security herself, who he steals the key from before When he returns to the Joker monument, he's men, before using the key to free Batman. Now released, Batman gets his belt from Robin she stole. Batman sends Robin to rescue the remaining bombs. Batman is able to disable the bombs before Guardians stolen from Wonder City to fight After Batman destroys the robot army, Harley the Joker monument, and threatens to detonate takes her down, stealing the detonator. He soon discovers, however, that the detonator on a countdown, about to blow. Outside, Gordon approaches the facility, but and Harley emerging from it safely. Gordon reveals that Robin never made it out, how it feels to lose someone he loves. She then goes after him with a knife, but by Robin, alive after all with the rescued Seeing his partner safe, Batman then leaves Several nights later, Batman is out on patrol City, including cousins Tweedledee and Tweedledum the night to rest up for a business meeting Batman reluctantly agrees and at the meeting Gotham along with Wayne Enterprises President After a ten hour meeting, Bruce and Lucius helping him develop his technology) head home, Batman returns to the Batcave, where suddenly Batcomputer, where he reveals before he died, network towers, which allows him to broadcast The Penguin watches this message from his and Sickle. Penguin has brought them together to execute to bring the Cobblepot family to the top of He starts with sending them to go find Scarecrow Joker's video includes a bounty of a million Harley Quinn, as well as a warning to Batman Asylum set to explode that night. Batman remembers a room under the asylum, solitary confinement while he rid his skin look for the bombs. He doesn't find the explosives, but instead, of every person he's ever killed. Afterwards, he hears another message from sees the final name: "Batman". Joker's message reveals the room Batman by a pressure sensitive plate under the book. Outside the Asylum is the armored figure that Joker's plan to kill Batman, as well as abandoned asylum. The figure tries to prevent the explosion Jokers, but the bomb goes off, taking down The armored figure finds only Batman's tattered Dieary, which he takes with him as he escapes Detective Bullock arrives on scene at Arkham Batmobile, and the tattered suit. He calls Gordon to tell him the bad news, he's currently keeping Joker's body, and Meanwhile, Jonathan Crane is seen plotting As he repairs his Scarecrow mask, he vows while fear will "tear Gotham to Shreds". At the Gotham docks, Batman washes up on shore thug, borrowing some clothes from him afterwards. Bruce finds a payphone and calls Commissioner to request a gear drop. After suiting back up, Batman meets Gordon Jim hands over the flash drive to Batman before destroying the Joker and hopefully bringing As Batman returns to the Batcave, he uploads and Alfred examines it to discover it contains In the video, Joker tells his "origin story", land on Earth where he killed his two wealthy He rambles on with this ridiculous tale, eventually something more subtle: a bomb without the After he finishes, Batman gets a frantic call somehow, Joker has infected him with his "Joker Gordon tries to kill himself before falling Lieutenant, stops him just as Batman bursts Meanwhile, in New Blackgate prison (constructed during the Arkham Asylum riots), Harleen Quinzel arrives and blasts a hole in the wall, breaking Batman takes them to Joker's old hideout in the Batwing while taking Harley inside. Batman demands that Harley hand over a cure a sudden change of heart and tells him he Batman heads down there and finds the cure, hired by Harley to wait there to kill Batman Croc attacks Batman and pins him to the ground him helpless. Elsewhere, Penguin is met by Mr. Hammer, who where Scarecrow is hiding out. He also reveals that Harley Quinn has arrived Cash arrives at the Steel Mill to watch over with Croc. Batman tells Cash to bring Gordon down to before Croc destroys it, and Cash agrees, hand to the beast years prior. Batman and Killer Croc continue their battle him long enough for Batman to fetch his ice Batman and Cash then force feed the cure to effects from him immediately. At Penguin's hideout, Harley arrives to She claims that Batman and the Commissioner well as the Joker, gone, Gotham city will She then offers a new partnership with him on his lips. In Gotham City, a pair of Harley's thugs along with his wife and daughter. The armored figure arrives once again, and he scoffs off. He then rips a page out of the Joker's Dieary, lights it aflame, rescuing the family, but Later, Bruce Wayne presents his plan to reinvent Arkham City gates. It's well received, but suddenly gunfire One of the assailants captures Bruce and puts free and take out the attackers single-handedly Suddenly, Harley Quinn's men arrive and with a little unexpected help from Lucius. Afterwards, Lucius gets in his car and begins through his driver-side window with a blade, Later, Harley returns to the Penguin. Although he's upset that Harley failed to which she had taken from Lucius, that they network. Penguin is angered that the tablet is locked she has the solution: Lucius Fox's disembodied In Gotham's Chinatown, the brothers Hammer strange, Batman-like Scarecrow, knowing their its conclusion. Later, Batman visits Lucius at the hospital. Lucius isn't worried about the tablet, as wipe if it ever went 15 minutes without him won't be able to type as well anymore. Batman leaves and calls Oracle. He asks her to track the tablet and the pair open position of Gotham City's Mayor. Back in Chinatown, the two brothers search uses his fear toxin to make them envision captive. Batman returns to the Batcave and meets with Germany with Lucius to find a company that Batman deletes the Joker training program Sometime later, Bruce and Lucius land in Germany, Zimmer to produce the new Batmobile, one with The next morning, the pair fly back to Gotham. Meanwhile, in the Iceberg Lounge, Mr. Hammer twin brother, who is now filled with straw, Sometime later, Penguin and Harley discuss get into it. They are able to get in for a mere second, location for an unknown event, one he finds He then sends Harley to find the Tweedle cousins In Gotham, Batman battles with Kid Shark, father died as part of the Suicide Squad. Gordon arrives and the pair eventually take retirement from the force, which Batman recommends In the abandoned Arkham City hospital, Penguin and Sickle, and the Tweedle cousins arrive Penguin offers them the job, then presents "third wheel". The Tweedles then head off and attach cables trailer to take it away. Meanwhile, Bruce and Lucius are waiting for improved Batmobile. However, they soon get a call about the truck Batcave to suit up. As the Tweedles go to escape, Batman arrives He jumps on to the suspended trailer to retrieve a genetically engineered giant third cousin Batman eventually outsmarts the brute, dodging below as Batman enters the trailer and drives He then grapples back up to the helicraft As Batman goes to leave, two Gotham City Police Tweedles alive. Batman, confused, asks them what they mean. They then tell him the word around the street several others. This angers Batman as he speeds off in his Hours later, at the Gotham Central Holding again with his shotgun, and kills the three Sometime later, Bruce Wayne meets with Jim Barbara and Bruce present the idea of Jim financially. Gordon initially refuses, but the pair push exploratory committee. As Barbara leaves on her own, she's attacked quick work of him and takes him out, putting That night, Batman learns of new activity and he heads there to find what Penguin is When he gets there, however, he finds it booby He escapes and suddenly sees the Bat Signal that tells Batman he's needed). He then speeds off to answer the call. Elsewhere, Penguin and Harley watch the surveillance old Iceberg Lounge, and eagerly await his On his way to Gordon, Batman gets sidetracked Arkham City. Archie tells Batman that he believes in him, When two thugs arrive to rob Archie, Batman and take them out, claiming the building is returning. The two then share a cup of coffee as Archie Around this time, The Riddler starts to get up the mantle left behind by the Joker. He begins by taking over Wonder City, stealing Mill to use in his greatest challenge for Shortly after, a package containing a flash Naturally, Gordon gives this package to Batman, Oracle remotely examines it. Stored on it is a program with a countdown They soon find out that when this countdown Deadshot, as they soon discover). Thus begins Batman and Robin's quest to They soon find that they are forced to work the puzzle. Batman fights through various super criminals Killer Croc, Mad Hatter, and Mr. Freeze, while mental challenges below ground. After they solve the initial set of puzzles, his contract killings for Riddler, while Robin robotic suit made out of the mechanical guardians. However, during his puzzles, Robin was forced that give Riddler control over his body while Robin emerges into Gotham, with Riddler forcing weaponry. Batman runs in to solve the final puzzle to GCPD to fire on them to prevent casualties. Batman is able to prevent Robin's destruction, him from the suit. At this point, Riddler frees his control of them on their success, as well as thanking It's then that Batman realizes Riddler is a giant message to the criminal underworld Months later, Tim Drake is with his classmates by some low-level gangsters looking to steal there. Tim dons his Robin costume and takes them This whole ordeal is then revealed to have to test Batman's ward to determine his threat Sometime later, as Killer Croc is being transported Captain Boomerang, who welcome him into the This new Suicide Squad (including fourth member by Penguin to hunt down and kill Bruce Wayne. As the Suicide Squad tracks Bruce Wayne, so Batman's secret identity.. The Suicide Squad tries to attack Bruce Wayne, begin to battle with him, with Deadshot killing Elsewhere, Amanda Waller surveys the situation, Squad as well, trying to get information on Gordon is called in from his duties with his likewise, Alfred calls Nightwing to help deal Harley escapes and returns to Penguin to let attempt. Penguin isn't deterred by this, and claims a warm-up for a bigger task for the Suicide nearby Stagg Industries building. Meanwhile, Killer Croc has gone rogue, and down together. After they force him back into the sewers, he is working for the government again, and out what Penguin is up to as well. The pair make their way into Stagg Industries Batman comes across giant tanks marked "Project: A scientist arrives with some heavy weaponry one of the tanks, causing some kind of gaseous Batman protects the scientist, and the figure The scientist reveals that the project is mud to create a part-human organic creature, source. Batman and Deadshot then head down the hole Bruce then gets a call from Nightwing, who However, he is soon attacked and halted by Batman and Deadshot continue to look for the capturing Batman and draining his life from Batman asks Deadshot to shoot it off of him, in and stops him. Batman is able to escape from the Metamorph's into it, causing it to explode. Afterwards, Deadshot and Batman explain the arrest for his prior crimes. At the police station, Waller bursts in to promptly leaving. On the roof, Batman arrives and drops off assassins. This Batman, of course, is a decoy, and returns who dons his Nightwing suit right after. Meanwhile, the armored figure plots at his the software from Nightwing's motorcycle (which he calls a "Cobra"). The tank was also built by the same German revealing this armored figure is aware of Elsewhere, another figure from Batman's kill the vigilante. One that is very imminent. A few days later, Tim and Barbara begin to date. Elsewhere, Batman is looking for Calendar on Labor Day. He eventually finds him at the courthouse, electric gauntlets from someone he states Calendar Man then unleashes Solomon Grundy, to leave their date as Tim suits up and looks Grundy fights Batman for days, causing his him. Also surprised at his going missing is the indicating some sort of partnership between He then goes to Central America to check on recruited hundreds and acquired an arsenal After his days of torture, Calandar Man gives been poisoned. He tells Batman he has 24 hours to save them, Robin picks up Batman and then learns of the He, along with Batman's many shaky allies begin to warn the poisoned citizens, bringing Alfred nurses Bruce back to health, and meanwhile, He injects him with the fear toxin, and reveals Batman's greatest weapon, fear, against He takes Calendar Man to the top of a bridge, arrives in time for the save. Calendar Man expresses anger at Scarecrow former doctor expresses that that day will Man is there when it does. Sometime later, Firefly reappears in Gotham, him out and steals the money Firefly was trying He goes back to his hideout to reveal he has big plan for both of them to get revenge on They intend to use the stolen money to pay him on the same night. As they talk, Scarecrow injects the figure his greatest fears as well as his secret origins. When the figure wakes up, Scarecrow reveals his worst fears so he is prepared when they The figure states that he has killed his past, well. He grapples off as he and Scarecrow prepare In Bludhaven, Poison Ivy uses her plants arrested. Harley Quinn travels there, with Penguin's plan. After fighting her way through the Bludhaven basement, but she is met by Nightwing. She is able to fend off his attack, and Ivy's Harley then convinces Ivy to leave with her. Sometime later, Batman finds a group of Riddler's, Batman to believe that the three bosses must Just then Harley Quinn bursts in, and the Meanwhile, the armored figure watches Jim that Gordon should enjoy what little peace against Batman. Later, Alfred asks Bruce to meet him in the Alfred reveals that he has lost contact with Batman then checks Nightwing's tracker, Batman heads to the tracker's location and by a much stronger foe that obviously understood Using his detective skills, he learns that men. Batman heads to the Iceberg Lounge to find after taking out his men, he is able to interrogate He reveals that his man was there by chance, Nightwing before he was mysteriously killed Batman then heads to the morgue to see if victims. By examining the corpses, he determines the there, and thankfully finds Robin, trapped Even more troubling is that Killer Croc is Batman is able to hold off Killer Croc by releases Robin, Croc uses the opportunity Batman isn't able to do anything but watch. Suddenly, Batman finds himself in an elevator Treatment facility. He makes his way to a trio of cells, where the Joker. Batman turns and finds himself in Joker's He then is forced to relive his friends' that it was him who killed Nightwing and led finally taking control of his body. As the walls of the cell begin to close in and sees his reflection: the Joker, telling last". He lets out a chilling laugh before it's of Batman's greatest fear. At some point, Batman calls Gordon to his movie studio. There, Batman reveals to Gordon that when of Gotham, four patients were treated with those patients have begun to develop Joker-like Batman has gathered those patients and is the blood's effects. One patient, Henry Adams, has been infected immune to Joker's blood, leading Batman the cure. Batman then reveals a fifth cell, intending in his own veins starts to take over. On the night before Halloween, Scarecrow finally fear toxin in a diner, then threatening to Nearly the entire city of Gotham evacuates and not-so-super, behind to enjoy the chaos. Naturally, Batman and Commissioner Gordon meet together to speak about it. Gordon gets off the phone with Barbara, who Gordon has no leads on Scarecrow, however, investigation. He starts by calling Oracle, revealing she He soon finds Poison Ivy, being held by one Scarecrow releases his fear toxin into the As the henchman gets overwhelmed by fear, him out. She then leaves the cell and fills Batman Scarecrow called a meeting with all of the to take down Batman to gain control of Gotham Ivy didn't agree with the plan, and as such, Batman then takes her in his custody, but military force, equipped with their Cobra Batman uses the new Batmobile to neutralize before taking her to the Gotham City Police Afterwards, Batman meets with Oracle to try the fear toxin. This leads him to Ace Chemicals, where a group When he gets there, the armored figure finally However, before he can shoot missiles at the his weaponry, telling him to be patient. The figure flies off, leaving Batman to instead Oracle researches the militia and discovers Batman had just seen, who goes by the name: Batman fights through the militia and finds reveal that Scarecrow is manufacturing a massive fear toxin. As he goes to leave he is stopped by the Arkham details about Batman and his armor. He then delivers a warning that he intends Batman is able to rescue the workers and make There, Scarecrow initially surrenders, but go, he'll kill Barbara Gordon, who the Arkham Scarecrow then escapes during this distraction, blast radius of the fear bomb. However, during his attempts, he is exposed remains of the Joker's mutated blood pumping him to have hallucinogenic visions of his come true. Batman is able to escape Ace Chemicals as radius to prevent the toxin from escaping Batman then meets with Gordon to reveal that to the Commissioner's surprise. The pair head to the clock tower to find that blame himself for Scarecrow targeting Barbara. However, Batman then reveals to Jim that Barbara Batman, regretting ever trusting him in the Batman then finds Catwoman, who is being held forcing the bat to once again solve his trademark his robotic mechanical guardians to distract Afterwards, Batman finds a site where Barbara's he locates a flash card she hid for him to He then calls Lucius Fox to help him decrypt Arkham Knight's position. He follows this lead to an underground tunnel, who again shows his knowledge of Batman's a bullet directly into it. He then leaves, again warning Batman that Growing desperate, Batman hunts down one of his head under the Batmobile's tire before the Penguin's hideout. As Batman heads there, he is met by Nightwing, Barbara's capture. The pair interrogate Penguin to learn that airship to meet with the CEO of Stagg Enterprises, Batman sends Nightwing to search for Penguin's to the airship to search for Stagg. Batman eventually finds the CEO and learns called "the Cloudburst". Before Batman can learn what it is, Stagg is unable to reveal any more information. Batman is then ambushed by Scarecrow, who he's forced to fight within his own mind. Scarecrow escapes with this "Cloudburst", is in the safehouse he previously found Poison He quickly heads there to find her, also affected She then grabs a nearby gun and tries to shoot through the bullet proof glass. Panicked, in her last resort she shoots herself Batman blames himself for Barbara's death, is some kind of device that can disperse the Batman then heads to Poison Ivy, hoping to to create a spore they can use to protect He takes her to find a large, extremely old she can use it to create and disperse the Batman goes to the movie studio to check on Joker infection, deciding to forgo telling on the issue at hand. Batman then leaves to take out some of the he returns, he finds that Harley Quinn has over the studio, releasing the victims throughout can live free. Batman rounds up the Joker victims, bringing During this event, he begins to have visions fighting his guilt for both his second Robin When Batman and Robin return with the final they surprisingly find all of the other patients The only survivor is Henry Adams; finally Henry reveals that he killed the other Jokers strongest Joker survived. He then looks to Batman and realizes he would in the head, leaving Batman as the sole survivor Robin decides that with Batman potentially lock him in the cell and let Robin handle Remembering his last Robin's death, however, out into Gotham to continue his hunt for Scarecrow Batman goes to Ivy, but when he gets to her, filling the entire city with Scarecrow's The gas disables the Batmobile, forcing Batman a power cell to power it. When he installs the power cell in the Batmobile, fear toxin again, allowing the Joker to awaken Using the Batmobile, Batman is able to unblock it to fight the toxin. He then heads off to destroy the Cloudburst, the Arkham Knight from the blast, who escapes another vision of Joker. Batman calls Ivy but receives no response. He goes to her, and finds that she was successfully to save the city, but is overwhelmed by the within Batman's arms. Her spores then fill Gotham, replacing the It's at this point that Batman takes care Firefly reappears, and Batman stops him from him to GCPD lockup; Mister Freeze arrives fails, causing her to unfreeze and forcing Unfortunately this ends with Freeze losing and the two leave Gotham to spend the rest Batman also comes across an extremely weak but only barely, and is near death due to Batman finds a sample of the Lazarus chemical, Nyssa Raatko, who is leading a group of rebel At this point, Batman can either save Ra's killing his daughter, or he can destroy the man die naturally. Either way, the League of Assassins finally Azrael also reappears and trains to become been brainwashed by "the Order" to kill Azrael can then attempt to kill Batman, or Batman also saves Jack Ryder from the "Cult as well as Warden Ranken from a mutated Killer Two-Face and Penguin are also stopped from and arrested. Hush also reappears, taking Lucius Fox hostage he is Bruce Wayne to his former friend, distracting knock him out. The Mad Hatter also reappears, taking Batman Batman escapes and captures him. A strange scientist named Professor Pyg also "Dollotrons", but Batman stops and captures Batman also finds a strange, bat-like creature human form: Dr. Kirk Langstrom, who mixed to go mad and accidentally kill his wife, Finally, Batman is able to solve all of Riddler's Later, Batman learns that Gordon has found for his daughter's death. Batman goes to follow him, but is chased by destroys the Batmobile, forcing Batman to and tied to a chair. The Arkham Knight arrives once again and finally former partner and protege, who had survived Deathstroke. Jason spent the years growing more and more for him, and instead leaving him for dead. He aims his pistol at Batman, but he punches shadows. Jason then throws his Arkham Knight helmet a metallic red hood. After the ensuing battle, Batman is able to him once more. When Batman calls Alfred to tell him that a trace. Batman then goes to Gordon, and the pair share Gordon reveals that Jason revealed Batman's forgot consoling a young Bruce Wayne the night The pair make their way to the roof of the Suddenly, Jim points his gun at Batman, and whole time (her death merely being a fear a deal with Scarecrow to turn over Batman Jim then shoots Batman, who falls off the Scarecrow goes back on his deal, capturing Batman swoops in and catches her, calling for safety. Batman is then forced to fight the Arkham at the GCPD, and after a very arduous battle, the hideout at the movie studios. He rushes there to find Robin missing, and has him captive. He then tells Batman to go to a nearby storage himself publicly or else Scarecrow will kill Batman enters a storage truck and is pumped reliving his parents' death one more time The truck drives to the abandoned remains on a standing stretcher. Scarecrow then forces Gordon to remove Batman's to all of the news stations in Gotham. Jim removes his mask, and the world learns Bruce Waye, taking even Scarecrow by surprise. Scarecrow then injects Bruce directly with in front of the public, but this only causes of Bruce's mind. As Scarecrow tries to break Bruce, he grows taunts him. He delivers another heavy dose of the toxin, Batman forces the Joker to face his own greatest Batman then regains control, and locks Joker Back in the real world, Scarecrow continues extreme resilience to fear. Scarecrow then claims that "without fear, on Bruce. Before he can fire, however, Jason arrives He then frees Bruce, who turns Scarecrow's before Gordon knocks him out. Batman then leaves, taking Scarecrow to GCPD He then calls Alfred to tell him to prepare it with the code phrase: "Martha". Batman then takes out and arrests Deathstroke, before returning to GCPD. Batman heads to the Bat-Signal Gordon used it there to begin the Knightfall Protocol. He heads home to Wayne Manor and enters with As they enter, however, the entire mansion both, as well as "the Batman", for good. Sometime later, Gordon is elected Mayor of In an alley behind a theater, a family is On a rooftop nearby, a caped figure stands The thugs aren't scared, knowing Batman However, the figure erupts into a fiery display in check in Gotham. After Batman's disappearance, his various various criminals remaining in Gotham. Catwoman begins by getting her revenge on shutting it down and stealing all of his money at GCPD. A month after the Knightfall Protocol, Jason focusing again on vigilante justice, but breaking He eventually finds Black Mask, and kicks the crime lord fall to his death before leaving. Seeing as Robin and Oracle are off on their Penguin and his men from staging a breakout With Lucius Fox's help, he is successful, Unfortunately for Tim and Barbara, they are and return to Gotham to stop Two-Face after Oracle provides support as Tim works his way find the man. Two-Face initially gets the upper hand in Robin takes him out and calls in GCPD, telling is over". This is the last moment we see in the Batman But as we all know, while Bruce Wayne may Hey everybody, thank you so much for watching, in the production of this video, including work in mapping out the timeline of the Arkhamverse, you should go follow on Twitch right now. Also a huge thanks goes out to my lovely Patrons the main reason this video was even possible. Their names are on screen now, and yours can If not, that's cool too, I'm honestly right here. Also I have a twitter, @SuggestiveGames, so discord to chat and suggest other franchises Links also in the description. Thanks again everybody, be safe out there!