About 10 years ago, I went through So I decided to go see a therapist. I had been seeing her for a few months, &quot;Who actually raised you Seemed like a weird question. And she said, &quot;I don't think because if it were, we'd be dealing with things that are It sounded like the setup to a joke, Because when I first started seeing her, I was trying to be And I would try and crack these jokes, and whenever I tried to make a joke, &quot;That is actually really sad.&quot; (Laughter) It's terrible. So I knew I had to be serious, who had actually raised me And to my surprise, they said my primary caregiver had been I had called her my auntie. I remember my auntie so clearly, it felt like she had been part of my life I remember the thick, straight hair, and how it would come around when she bent to pick me up; her soft, southern Thai accent; the way I would cling to her, even if she just wanted to go or get something to eat. I loved her, but [with] the ferocity before she understands that love But my clearest and sharpest is also one of my first I remember her being beaten and slapped I remember screaming hysterically as I did every single time it happened, for things as minor as wanting or being a little late. I became so hysterical over her treatment, that eventually, she was just Things got so bad for her As an adult, I learned later that she had been just 19 to the States to care for me, She wound up working before eventually returning to Thailand, which is where I ran into her again, I clung to her again, as I had and I let go, and then I never did, though. Because I was afraid if I said that I owed perhaps the best parts and that the words &quot;I'm sorry&quot; to bail out all the guilt over everything she had endured I thought if I said those words to her, Because she had saved me. And I had not saved her. I'm a journalist, and I've been writing for the past eight years or so, and even so, I never put together with my professional life I think this profound disconnect most of our understanding Because human trafficking is far more than most of us realize. I spent time in jails and brothels, interviewed hundreds of survivors And when I think about what we've done I am hugely disappointed. Partly because we don't even talk When I say &quot;human trafficking,&quot; most of you probably don't think You probably think who's been brutally forced That is real suffering, That story makes me angry for far more than just the reality As a journalist, I really care about how and the way we tell that story, the salacious aspects -- I call that We use that story to convince ourselves that human trafficking is a bad man That story lets us off the hook. It takes away all the societal context for the structural inequality, or the barriers to migration. We let ourselves think that human trafficking is only when in reality, human trafficking is embedded Let me show you what I mean. Forced prostitution accounts for Ten percent is in state- but a whopping 68 percent and delivering the services in sectors like agricultural work, That is food and care and shelter. And somehow, these most essential workers are also among the world's most underpaid Human trafficking is the use to compel another person's labor. And it's found in cotton fields, and even car washes in Norway and England. It's found in U.S. military It's found in Thailand's fishing industry. That country has become the largest But what are the circumstances behind all that cheap Thai military were caught selling onto fishing boats. Those fishing boats were taken out, and they were thrown overboard or trying to resist their treatment. Those fish were then used to feed shrimp, The shrimp were then sold Costco, Tesco, Walmart and Carrefour. Human trafficking is found and in places you would Traffickers have forced young people or to sing in touring boys' choirs. Trafficking has even been found The scheme in that case was incredible. The traffickers found young families and they told these families that a fine education in the United States.&quot; They then located winners and they told them, &quot;We'll help you out. We'll get you a plane ticket. All you have to do is take say that she's your sister or your spouse. Once everyone arrived in New Jersey, and put to work for 14-hour days, seven days a week, for five years. They made their traffickers This is a huge problem. So what have we done about it? We've mostly turned But keep in mind, most victims of human They're migrants, people of color. Sometimes they're in the sex trade. And for populations like these, the criminal justice system is rather than the solution. In study after study, in countries ranging between 20 and 60 percent of the people said that they had been raped or assaulted People in prostitution, including people regularly receive multiple Having that criminal record makes it to leave poverty, leave abuse, if that person so desires. Workers outside of the sex sector -- if they try and resist their treatment, In case after case I've studied, calling on law enforcement their striking trafficked workers. If those workers run away, they risk becoming part of the great mass who are also subject to the whims Law enforcement is supposed to identify But out of an estimated 21 million victims they have helped and identified That's like comparing the population of the world proportionally speaking. As for convictions, out of an estimated fewer than 500 were for labor trafficking. Keep in mind that labor trafficking accounts for 68 percent but fewer than 10 percent I've heard one expert say that trafficking I'd like to add one more element to that. Trafficking happens in sectors where and denied the right to organize. Trafficking doesn't happen in a vacuum. It happens in systematically You might be thinking, oh, she's talking about failed states, I'm actually talking Let me tell you what that looks like. I spent many months researching involving hundreds of Thai farm workers. They were sent all over the States, and Washington apple orchards, They were promised three years So they made a calculated risk. They sold their land, they sold to make thousands in recruitment fees But once they were brought over, their passports were confiscated. Some of the men were beaten They worked so hard This case hit me so hard. After I came back home, I was wandering through the grocery store, I was remembering the over-the-top meals would make for me every time They finished one meal with this plate and as they handed them to me, they said, &quot;Aren't these the kind of strawberries in the States? And don't they taste so much better when you know the people As I stood in that grocery store weeks of who to thank for this plenty, and no idea of how So, like the journalist I am, I started And I found there are too many fields, I found multiple layers between grower and distributor The Global Horizons survivors had been on a temporary guest worker program. That guest worker program to his or her employer, and denies that worker Mind you, none of what I am describing or the guest worker program It is merely what we find And I would argue this is And all of this had been hidden to me, I wasn't the only person Pierre Omidyar, founder of eBay, is one of the biggest anti-trafficking And even he wound up accidentally in the pineapple plantation cited in that Global Horizons case. When he found out, he and his wife and they wound up writing saying that it was up to all of us about the labor and supply chains I totally agree. What would happen that we are no longer going if they don't eliminate exploitation If we demanded laws calling for the same? If all the CEOs out there decided that they were going to go through If we ended recruitment fees If we decided that guest workers without fear of retaliation? These would be decisions heard This isn't a matter of buying and calling it a day, buying That's not how it works. This is the decision to change and that we have unwittingly but willingly allowed ourselves to profit from We often dwell on human trafficking But that is not my experience of them. Over all the years that I've they have taught me that we are Each one of us is more Especially trafficking survivors. These people were the most resourceful in their communities. They were the people that you You'd say, I'm gong to sell my rings, to send you off to a better future. They were the emissaries of hope. These survivors don't need saving. They need solidarity, some of the most exciting The nannies and housekeepers and their employers' families -- their activism got us on domestic workers' rights. The Nepali women who were trafficked they came together, and they decided that they were going to make the world's actually headed and run These Indian shipyard workers to do post-Hurricane Katrina They were threatened with deportation, and they marched from New Orleans to protest labor exploitation. They cofounded an organization called and through this organization, bring to light exploitation in Walmart and Hershey's factories. And although the Department a team of civil rights lawyers won this February, and got These survivors are fighting other workers, and for the possibility This is our chance to do the same. This is our chance to make the decision that tells us who we are, that our prosperity is no as long as it is pinned that our lives are and that we have the power I was so reluctant to share Before I started this TED process I had told literally a handful because, like many a journalist, I am far more interested in learning than sharing much, I also haven't done my journalistic I haven't issued my mountains and interviewed everyone and their mother, and I haven't found my auntie yet. I don't know her story The story as I've told it to you But I think it mirrors the messy when it comes to human trafficking. We are all implicated in this problem. But that means we are all Figuring out how to build a more and our story to tell. So let us tell it the way from the very beginning. Let us tell this story together. Thank you so much. (Applause)