- [Narrator] Let's say you wanted to buy this Primark T-shirt. If you're shopping on Primark's website, you'll quickly discover that you can't. (buzzer dings) Over the past 10 years, e-commerce sales have more than doubled. But last year, European fast fashion retailer in sales revenue without a single penny from online shopping. - We made a very clear choice and our clear choice is bricks and mortar. - [Narrator] This comes for struggling clothing retailers. Retailers like Forever 21, JC Penney, and Neiman Marcus have closed stores and filed for bankruptcy. And while a UBS report shows will close in the next five years, Primark plans to expand to 60 - [Speaker] Is driving to Buffalo to shop at Primark worth it? Heck yes, I used to - So how is Primark expanding This is the economics of Primark. - Fashion retail is more so than ever. There's not many players, that are making fat margins. Pretty much the thinking everywhere is that you have to have - [Narrator] But online shopping is actually incredibly - You have to have a logistical hub from which you would dispatch the goods and then you'd probably have from which you have to Each step of that just is it just eats away at the margin at which in fashion is very, very slim for e-commerce is somebody on the internet is far more than somebody who goes into a store. - [Narrator] Returns are one of the biggest profit On average, processing of merchandise bought online For years, online retailers Only now are more of them deciding to pass the - Primark have just stayed we don't think we can make We're not even gonna try. We're gonna focus all our resources on the physical store - [Narrator] And that wasn't an issue for the retailer until. - Now Primark is expected to close all 189 of its UK stores tonight and it doesn't have an online - E-commerce was a lifeline during the pandemic. They couldn't open their to make some sales on the internet. - [Narrator] But Primark didn't budge, even as consumers urged for it to offer online shopping and even after its revenue dropped - And I think their of having no digital sales was probably shaken by the pandemic. Who knows what would've happened if it had gone on for longer? I think the closures to really tip the scales and force them to fundamentally - [Narrator] Instead of in 2022, Primark launched Click and Collect in select UK stores. Customers can select then pick up their orders in store. So Primark still has some but it's cheaper than - So Primark makes a sale, of the logistical costs in packing it up and then - [Narrator] And there's Since the customer has to go inside to collect their purchase, and maybe even buy more. - They make the sale online, but then they have a good chance of making some extra sales - [Narrator] Consumer psychologists call this shopping momentum. Essentially, once you've already it's easier to justify - It always feels just overwhelmingly busy with people who are in - [Narrator] And it's not just clothing. Primark lures consumers with beauty, home, and travel products similar - What we like to say about that we're all treasure without the hunt. - [Narrator] So customers may go in for a new t-shirt and - [Speaker] Primark that I to fly to is a dream because to what I can buy and bring home. - [Narrator] To carry this Primark finds large retail spaces because it relies on selling a lot. It's one of the largest by volume and one of the Last year, Primark made about in part by selling a lot of And it does this by sourcing a lot of its clothing from Asia. Combined with not this enables Primark at lower prices, even lower than many other - Where they do have with the digital only players they are often even cheaper than Primark. - [Narrator] But according to The National Retail Federation, 80% of shopping still happens in store, giving Primark an edge over its digital only its in-store shopping model got off to a rocky start in the US. Primark opened its first US Although it was already popular in the UK, its US expansion started slowly. Over four years, it opened nine stores. After years of experimentation, Primark learned it would have to change to succeed in the US. - When we first opened, we took a similar store size - [Narrator] But when across the northeast, it struggled to find - What they found in so much more competitive. There's a lot more retail than there is in the UK, for example. So you just can't support a massive store. It's just not possible to get - To support its large store sizes, it needed a lot of foot traffic. But unlike the UK stores in constantly busy areas, US where during the week, - We learned that actually, of retail selling space is - They didn't face the commercial pressure that a publicly owned to suddenly open 100 stores and get really big really quickly and then possibly risk disaster because they hadn't thought it through. - The culture of Primark has always been to take our time and to test and learn. And we've done that in every country where we've introduced the brand. This wasn't about growing - [Narrator] And the overall Online shopping hit a peak growth is beginning to slow - And I think that's as it is since we came outta Covid. I think there has been of being in malls, being and I think as a business that took the decision a long time ago to have that as our core strategy, has continued to allow (upbeat music)