There is a DJ setting the The servers are relaxed and informal. And the menu is 30 courses of meat. Shut up and take my money. Join me and find out as we head It's morning in London. We pack the car and hit the road. For a good 5 hour drive. Which gives me time to learn The restaurant is inside Snowdonia National Park. It's the largest national park in But a lot more come to visit each year. More than 4 million people come here to explore It's a place steeped in and where Welsh language can be heard every day. I love tradition, and it sounds like The restaurant is called Ynyshir. It was recommended to me, but From the website, they tell us A DJ playing music and the theatre Expect fire, intense world flavours and the They tell us it's not the best place for a but perfect for that exciting second one! They don't cater for diet We must arrive for dinner at 5pm. and allow 4 to 5 hours for the dining experience. Sounds confident! Who is the chef behind this? His name is Gareth Ward. He was born and raised in Durham, England, His CV includes Michelin star restaurants like Hambleton Hall and Restaurant Sat After just one year, he got his own Michelin star, but In 2016, he created a totally new concept. A restaurant that would be ingredient led, With a dream to be a food destination that In 2022, Ynyshir became the first restaurant And in 2023 was named Britain's best Arriving at the gates, Our taxi driver seems to think Lucky for us we don't listen to him. RSBP stands for Royal Society We find our way to the restaurant. The vibe here definitely says "man cave" An open fire roaring outside. And inside lots of dark wood, and of course, tunes pumping. We can also see some history. This was first built as a Although it was renovated many times, it Our waiter arrives and gets which is split into two parts. First, fish and seafood. Starting with Japanese influence, then more full-bodied dishes, Then it's onto meat. Going from light to heavy with poultry It's a total of 30 courses for 450 euro. They don't do wine pairing here, but most of the I see some nice stuff here. Not a lot of heavy hitters, but Next, I check out my room, complete There are 7 rooms in the house like In the garden there are a few newly One of those will set you back 800 euro. Our dinner starts here. With a look at what's to come. Our first appetiser is mixed in front It's called Not French Onion. It's a take on the classic including nori seaweed and miso broth Interesting combination and Then we move. The tunes are really rocking now, and The resident DJ tells us he puts together a custom I wish you could hear The It's totally setting a party mood. Already, I'm having fun. Right in front of the kitchen. It feels like the chef's table. The first bite is seabream. Japanese inspiration is there but they are not faking Japan. For drinks I start with old faithful. Krug Grand Cuvee 171. Sometime, I just don't need surprises. Up next is yellowtail tuna with toasted It's really good with this Leclerc This is a vintage champagne made from disgorged in 2021 and submerged in the ocean It was brought up from the depths Whether you buy into the idea this champagne is excellent Next we have tuna belly with teriyaki sauce. The fish is beautifully buttery and the This is a bluefin tuna with Lots going on here, and the This had some spice to it that stayed with I mean, the rock. Next, another bluefin, this one Just look at all that fat. It melts into an amazing umami flavor on contact. Delicious. It's time to move on to the The first is Spanish prawn with wild garlic. Really nice smoky flavor with a sweetness to it. The sauce is gorgeous with Next is Orkney scallop. Almost raw, just lightly grilled on one side. The sauce is made from It's sweet, creamy but needs Still it's a really good one. Atlantic black cod served in a pork Three bold players all fighting for attention. Interesting and creative dish. With it I enjoy an Austrian This one is the Fass Severin On the way to the washroom I find myself in a Football and snacks. Proving you can take the man out of Newcastle, but you can't take Newcastle out of the man. Next dish is Thai green curry. Made with shrimp caught in the Powerful. Pop your eyes out acidity. I really enjoy this one. Next, lobster tail. It's served raw with a coriander The sauce has lots of punch with So far, there have been Some longer wait times for things here. A wet napkin there. but what they lack in experiece, they make I'm sure, it's hard to find highly trained I'm not too worried about these little mistakes. This atmosphere, the music, makes me and I'm too busy having a good time. Next is lobster claw in satay sauce. It's served with peanut The lobster is firm but tender, and the For wine we try something interesting. This wine is from French producer Dopff. It's an aromatic wine that And it's perfectly matched for our last This is Singapore chili crab served The crab is good with nice acidity Very good. As we go from seafood to meat, This shaved ice made from pickled ginger juice. It's really nice and it works like a charm. Do you like what you see so far? If you do please make sure you hit subscribe. So you never miss the boat on a future episode. Our first meat dish is deep fried veal sweet This was excellent. Big flavors thanks to lots of fat. This is duck liver ice cream. It's served with apple in syrup and fresh form along with puffed spelt and a spelt biscuit. Grated over the top is smoked veal. It's salty, it's sweet and With this we try Brannland's Apple Ice 21 vintage. This is a still ice cider but As you may have noticed by now, the menu has been As much as I like a nice cut of meat, a few vegetables would be But I'm not going to hold my breath. This is pigeon in a cheriaki sauce with chocolate. Cheriyaki is a teriyaki This one is really interesting. I still remember the amazing flavor combination. Very tender, exploding with flavor, I just wish it was pre-sliced What did not distract me from this dish was wine. I didn't have any. Our next dish is duck made Chinese style. Cooked for 24 hours and then On the side a classic garnish And over the top is a traditional For wine we go with a 2017 California Pinot Noir. Traditional Thai salad with duck and pigeon This is lamb spare rib cooked Then seared and charred over birch wood. and brushed with a mint soy glaze. Topped with shallots and fresh mint. It tastes as good as it looks We have to get our hands dirty, Outstanding. Next is sirloin with shiitake Over the top is a duck liver custard. Super rich, super flavorful. Nicely executed dish. At this point, the DJ has shifted gears. Gone are the likes of Iggy Now we are into high-octane dance This next one is a bit strange First they put this down in front of us. This is like McDonald's with a Michelin twist. The one-bite burger is A5 The dessert is ice cream with caviar and syrup. I liked both of them but the Next we have desserts. This is yorkshire rhubarb with duck The light tart rhubarb and the rich, heavy and move quite well together. Finally a date cake with vanilla made with Japanese soy beans. It's not as sweet as it The ice cream is excellent quality. Then, just as we are finishing. This happens. I thought something had caught fire for a second. Then I saw this and now ALL of the lights are going. Amazing. It totally fits the personality of this place. What a way to finish. When it's time to go, we pick up the bill. As we pre-paid for our meals and Which comes to just over 1200 euro. I had an absolute blast here. The DJ and the house party atmosphere My front row seat was the perfect The chef cooks with freedom. However I missed the vegetables and the freshness, and felt the menu was too one-sided. That said, they delivered on what was promised. On the service side, I see room for improvement. At times, the wait was a bit much, and But they are enthusiastic. And that's the beauty of it. They are just doing what they love. Chef Ward told me that he wants to have a With the fire, the protein, the party, and even When I told him I was going to be honest, and mention the small mistakes in this video, Chef Ward told me: "I'm glad you were here, but I'm I'm not sure if I'll watch it. Say what you have to say." He was smiling and he added: &quot;I don't give a f***&quot; I love this man and his honesty. Chef, in case you're watching, I hope you like it. On New Year's Eve in Dubai, I had a We were talking about what and Bjorn shared his number one. A restaurant should be fun. Ynyshir was fun indeed. This fun place full of honest people? Absolutely. I for one, am going to miss them. And that does it for this episode Thank you for joining me, if you like this video, hit subscribe! See you next time.