Hey, it's Marie Forleo and you are watching and life you love. Today you are in for such a treat because time on the show. Cheryl Strayed is the author of the number Things, Brave Enough, and Torch. Her books have been translated into 40 languages. Wild was the first selection for Oprah's film. Cheryl's essays have been published in The The Washington Post Magazine, Vogue, Salon, She's the co-host of the Dear Sugar radio Cheryl, thank you so much for being here. Thank you for having me, I'm thrilled. Yes. So when we met at Super Soul Sessions, I was Oprah introduced us. Yes, which is a big deal. Yeah, it's a nice start for us. And I knew having you on MarieTV was going So let's take it back, way back. You didn't grow up in a household of writers. No, I didn't. How early did you know that you wanted to Very early. I mean, soon after I learned how to read, I... you know, I fell in love with books, I read this one book, it was a chapbook of There were watercolor pictures. It was the 70s and so everyone was into these And each little poem described one aspect And I remember very distinctly it was the so struck, so pierced, truly, by the beauty on the page. You know, I appreciated those pictures, but And, you know, it was one of those very early I certainly at that point didn't think, "This But as I grew up and became a writer I very aware of this thing that I can only describe Did you ever think to yourself, like in your another career? Or was something in your heart always writer? You know, what I thought is that I absolutely When I was growing up, I didn't have any idea writing books and I don't know exactly how I loved literature, I felt that the people so distant from who I was. Many of them, you know, many of those books you, you know, they were by dead white men, They were created somewhere in a land, in And so I never imagined that I would grow It was always the thing I would do because about doing it. And then I would earn my living in some other And I remember when I was in high school I know, I subscribed to Ms. magazine. And I remember at one point reading this story so struck by it because I was like, wow, there's writing books. I'd never heard of Joyce Carol Oates, but And it was the first glimmer of an idea that And then when I went to college and started were teachers and authors and, you know, and Isn't that interesting? That I think for all of us and for so many do it. Absolutely. Modeling, right? I mean, I think that's why, you know, it president. We suddenly all became aware of, you know, what that would mean to children of color And, you know, I think the same thing with I think that those things are really powerful I mean, you know, I'm not being hyperbolic I couldn't imagine what was possible until Let's talk about the realities of making So many people in our audience are creatives, Whether it is writing books or painting or Take me back. How did you earn a living in the early days? What were you doing? I did a bunch of different things. So I... really when I graduated from college writing, and women's studies. And I knew that I wanted to dedicate myself I knew that this was going to be a years long It wasn't something... I never bought into this false notion that, spend the next 6 months writing a book and I knew that it was going to be a long slog. And so I decided to try to find work that contradict those goals. And for me that was becoming a waitress, because work, and do honest work, but not take it You know? And I knew that I feared that if I got a job, like I'd also worked as a newspaper reporter And I was writing and, you know, so I was the real work that I wanted to do. So I avoided sort of that work in my field, of a decade. And then, you know, I tired of waiting tables. It made me feel diminished and sad. But, you know, it was a great way to earn And I would write when I wasn't waiting But then I thought, you know, I need to do And I did a number of different things. I started, you know, teaching writing because I started also writing pieces for magazines to feel like I was a real writer to get published. One of the early decisions I made was to not focus on my craft, which I think was a very But there did come a time that it was time I think that that's such an important distinction. So many people are in such a rush to monetize passionate about, that they feel is their And I don't think that I've ever heard anyone back and wanted to work on my craft. And how did that feel for you? Was it exciting to be able to just say I'm into the world? Well, you know, so much about creative work the way you survive is by, you know, running It's not going to be because somebody from Like, it really... writing is very much generated from within. I think any kind of art making or any kind doing it because you feel driven to do it, You... you're engaged with something that feels And certainly in the arts what I can say is exterior validation, you're just not gonna... You're not gonna last long. And so, you know, that decision was about with my vision or my dream or my work. And then, you know, once that became like on to compel me every day forward through meant something to someone else, you know, then when I did go into the world and people it was beautiful, but it wasn't the thing And I think, you know, you're so right about I teach writing sometimes, or I certainly forth. How do I write a book? You know, what's your advice? And the advice is always kind of depressing I really truly have for somebody who wants Write. And keep writing, and keep writing and see It's not about, like, go to this party or And those things come up along the way. Like, I do think at a certain point it's tribe, meet people who are doing what you're I think the most important thing is to learn doing, because then you have something to You know, a lot of people want to make that Yeah. Let's talk about your rituals because I'm kind of art, but especially writers. Do you and had you developed a practice of I've also read you binge write. I'm a binge writer. I'm not an every day writer. Not an every... ok, so this is all so fascinating. There's a book that I love called The War books. And some people that I know and they're they write every day. So I'm curious, yeah. Tell me about your binge writing. Yeah. It's really interesting because for a long I'm a bad writer. I'm not a real writer because I'm not this is the advice that writers are given. Yeah. If you don't write every day or most days, And that's... if that's true, I'm not You know? And what I can say to you is what's to me keeping the faith, which to me is connected To say what really is meaningful for me, the And so I'm gonna find a way to do it. And for some people that... what works for them is every day. Yeah. Very... there are certain stretches of my I did. You know, there were many times for 3 months But there are also many times for 3 months And what I've found is when, like, I make at each day. I look at the calendar ahead. And it's been really helpful for me actually I can look sometimes at my calendar and say, month," or, "I just gave birth to a child," this other project because that's important And then I just put the writing aside and it, I'm not gonna get into some sort of I tell myself you're not going to write And then what I do is I make good on that That's the other piece of it. This isn't about being, you know, using It's not using this methodology in order It's actually the opposite. It's saying this is when I work best or One of the most moving experiences I had, usually about Wild or Tiny Beautiful Things so often people, the response they have to their own losses or their own struggles or But I will say, one of the most moving comments the Q&amp;A afterwards. Somebody had asked me what my writing process Yeah. And I said, you know, I don't write every And this woman came up to me afterwards and you so much." She said, "I have always felt like I wasn't I'm a single mom, I have 4 kids, and I can kids. And I think you're the first person who writer even though I only write once a month." And I just grabbed her and I was like, "You Because if you write once a month, guess what You've written 12 days. And I know you can do a lot of beauty in 12 Because I've done it too." It's a relief for me. I'm one of those people, my audience knows on myself, and that is the writing every day You can start to hear, I can hear the voices Like, you're not really one. Or I've even beat myself up over this one. I wrote a book years ago but I haven't written show and I can sometimes hear the voices in because I'm not writing books like everyone So I will echo that woman's thank you for And I know there are thousands of people watching that. You know, it's interesting to me, this idea Like, that voice that you just talked about shame. Yeah. That's about... do you work well from a Absolutely not. I don't think anyone does. But what about, you know, I think sometimes with a kind of slack or kind of letting you Yes. And actually what I've found is only just really let go and do the work. To say, ok, it's been hard to sit down at I'm gonna forgive myself and move forward And it's not about shame, it's about forgiveness, I think that's really important when you And that goes back to this idea I said about your own dreams, if you are the only one who's in those ways. Because you are. Like, nobody's going to come to you and please make a song or do a dance for us, or Nobody's... especially at the beginning. You know, nobody for years did that for either Right. Right? And so you have to find, you know, you have And so maybe in some ways what I sort of subconsciously the gift of that? And one thing I realized early on is I have Like, I cannot make shame part of my writing So powerful. So you've said, which is a perfect way to is hard for every last one of us, straight Coal mining is harder. Do you think miners stand around all day talking They do not. They simply dig." That's right. So much of writing, I mean, I love... the I think of writing, the word I use all the And it feels like a literal excavating to screen or the empty page and we are creating You know, even if you're writing nonfiction, something that happened or something you know out of nothing. And almost always that process entails then, were going to write, and then beneath it again. And then you show it to somebody to read and and then you have to dig. When I teach writing I make this... I put on this butcher paper in front of the And it's like, you know, up here is the, And then... so you're looking at it, a lasagna sideways, bottom layer to really do your work. So speaking of your teaching, I noticed there your writing students, and I think that these creatives. Would you like me to read them? Yes. Ok, great. So what's the question at the core of your for others? Yeah, that's right. Because I think especially... this is true in fiction too, but it's literally life or your own experiences is that, you that place like that thing that we're seeking Yeah. And when you write memoir, when people talk always that they say it's the form of narcissists. Like, who would be interested in you? Who would be interested in my childhood? And the answer to that is, kind of, nobody. And the artist's job is to make it interesting. And the ways that we make that interesting see your own in it, even if it's totally You know, even if you came from a different know, inhabit a very different reality. And I think that that's what I'm always I say, you know, what is that personal question translate to the culture? And, you know, just an example I can give it's about my hike on the Pacific Crest But it's also very deeply about my grief. I went to hike that trail because I honestly I really felt I couldn't live without my mother. And I think that all those years later when I was like I was still wondering, how do I How do I live without my mother? Asking that over and over again. And what I realized in the course of writing Wild, is by examining that question in my is how is it that we live with our losses? How do we bear the unbearable? How do we endure our suffering? Because, you know, one thing I know about You know, and so right there that translation is a very particular and individual thing, it. But what I hope to tell, what I hope to tell larger, you know, universal struggle that bear our losses. And I also want to thank you for this because I'm gonna totally cry. You're making my cry looking at you. I just love her so much and your work has for the time I have with her, so thank you Yeah. That's one of my favorite things, people parents say, "You know, I finished your you." And let me tell you, there's also an entire moms. They either don't have them because they died them to drug addiction or mental illness or And those people come to me and feel recognized You know, that has meant more to me than, that have happened in response to that book. And I think that's the beauty of art and the beauty of vulnerability and sharing what So thank you for that. Thank you. The power, too. Yeah. I mean, beauty and power. When we... when we say that art has power, that's what We mean your tears right now. Yeah. I wanna talk about something that you mentioned pressure that we can often put on ourselves Right. Especially when it comes to writing or our And how there was that time when you were do it. Yeah. You'd said... I was paralyzed by my own dream! Yes. Can you talk to that? Yeah. It's really... so much of the interesting stuff in life I inherent. On one hand I want to say, you know, dream You know, aim high. I'm an incredibly ambitious person and I You know, I was the person, I said in that I'm going to be the first woman president. You know, I'm gonna just, like, always go I'm gonna reach really, really hard and But there came... which I think is wonderful. I mean, it is in part what brought me here, It's how I got here with you today. Right? That ambition. It also was the thing that I had to turn away periodically to turn away from it. I'm in a different moment of my life that That I also have to turn away from this ambitious And that is to say, you know, when I was sitting in Massachusetts trying to write my first And what that was about is realizing I can't What I can sit here and do is write one page And I don't really know what those pages are they'll be nothing. And for me today to have to surrender this novelist was painful, but it's the thing You know? It was... I realized I had to set aside those big dreams internalized and be humble and to just say I don't know if anyone will like it and it's I mean, it's just like I'll do my best world." You know, take it or not. And that's what we always are doing. I mean, we think... we like to think otherwise. That's about like, you know, thinking that but we don't really know. You know? When I was writing Wild, I had no idea that I wouldn't have written it any differently. You know? I wrote the same book I would have written home. Ok? And so I think that's a really important And when I said earlier about how I'm kind Yes. Here I am for the first time writing a book You know? When I wrote Wild I had published a novel, like there was some great clamor like, "When's You know? And now I do have that, that feeling of people And I've had to just let it go. I've had to say I don't know if this next I don't know if people are gonna love it. But the only thing I can do is write page One of my favorite quotes by Margaret Atwood, after a word after a word after a word is And I always try to remember that. That my work, my job in trying to create power, after another word. I want to shift to the after-Wild success. And I want to talk about something that I they may not have seen your follow-up interview just come out, filmed the interview with Oprah. So many people have this idea or this notion television show, they have you on and all and everything is ok, but that wasn't the Tell us about what your life was like in that. Yeah. It was... it was really one of the strangest The entire process of what happened with Wild, right out of the gate the first week it was bestseller list. And I distinctly remember getting the call York Times bestseller list. And I just thought this is the mountaintop. You know? Like, I have reached... I had not even really dared to imagine that. You know? I wanted that but I was like I'm not going of success. I'm going to define success in other ways. This is all true. I believe this sincerely. But it's also true that that was a really And I thought that it was the peak of what But of course what happened is things kept I went on the Oprah show and, you know, the all of those great things. But you're right, you know, that what happened is that my life changed. I went from being this, you know, essentially kids, my husband is a documentary filmmaker And during that transition time when I was, public success, I was also home and broke. The month that Wild came out and was on that And my husband texted me, I was on my book rent check bounced. Why did it bounce? And I texted him back because we don't have And we were so sad and alone because, I mean, He called me then, I remember that we were us. And part of that... and, I mean, that's Yes. Because part of that, you know, we have... as a culture. You know, we flaunt wealth, but we don't speak you know, especially in a, you know, the creative It's like what does it... what do you expect? You know, what's realistic? It's like this big secret that we want to to talk honestly about money. And so I think it's important to just, you There was this time that I looked really successful still struggling financially. And one of the most interesting things happened Another writer who's very successful, I want to be outed, who I'd never met got shared any of this stuff with her. She just saw that Wild was a success. And she said, "Let me guess. Everywhere you go with all of your friends they've all decided you're rich. But you don't have any money. Your credit cards are maxed out." And I was like I love you forever and ever. Because I could sort of talk to her about And so there was this real collision between, that moment and what was really happening And you've also shared, you know, the writing That's right. And that no matter how many successes, and still comes. Yeah. Well, and I mean, I think this is always true. I've never... I've met so many successful people. I'm friends with so many successful people. And you know, one thing really pretty much are for your success, how astonished you are always something that you want that you didn't Some award you were passed over for, some your success that was a failure or rejected You know, it's really... it isn't a straight line. I mean, not just in the creative arts. I mean, I think in all of life that's true. And I think that's actually a positive thing Can you imagine how awful we'd be at the an upward trajectory? It'd get so boring and we would never grow. That's right. I mean, so much of growth... really, this is the other thing. Having met so many successful people, especially about their stories, their origin stories. And really what they tell you about along the lessons they learned the hard way. And those things really deeply contribute I believe that absolutely. There's no way around that because they They are the things that give us the opportunity You know, I think that that humility is such really runs contrary to, I think, the American success? You're this arrogant blowhard, I won't And that's, you know, you're the boss. You own the room. Or even as we say, you're the man. You know? Which is, you know, I think a really false I agree with you 100%. I'm shifting us to, you know, I love all Thank you. So many I have clearly marked. I want to read you one, but this is one that it as well. "Nobody's going to do your life for you. You have to do it for yourself. Whether you're rich or poor, out of money fortune or terrible injustice. And you have to do it, no matter what is true, unjust, sad, sucky things have befallen you. Self-pity is a dead end road. You make the choice to drive down it. It's up to you to decide to stay parked That's right. That's right. And I think it's ok to drive down those What's not ok is getting stuck there. You know, I think that because the only person of self pity is yourself. You know. There's absolutely, you know, we are responsible I mean, I'll just, like, paraphrase the Yeah. And I think I learned that in so many different How... why does that quote resonate for you? I think because I've always grown up feeling And there is a beautiful side to that, which And I think the underbelly of it, for me at to ask for help. But there's something about that just really And I think it's a good message for all by our bootstraps and make things happen. I also wanted to shift into, you know, as of questions. And it's part of what we do here on MarieTV. We have thousands of questions that people One of the themes that we notice that people wrong decision, whether it's in their careers So much of what you've talked about you've Can you speak to that, the power of not worrying decision? Right. You know, I think most of us, we want to stay this is why we stay in jobs that we don't Because it's like, oh, this is the reasonable Or we stay in relationships that aren't Or maybe never were. We stay in friendships or relationships with You know, and it's... and I think that the to experience that kind of pain or discomfort you end that relationship, you quit that job. And everyone around you is saying, "Why He seemed like a great guy. Well, what are you gonna do for a living now? How are you gonna pay the rent?" All of those questions that you get in those up. You know, I think many of us sort of innately And what I've learned is, you know, basically The other option is to stay in the thing that Yes. And then what happens? Then you... then you look up and it's like, a life of I wish I would have done this 10 I can't tell you how many middle aged and say to me I always wanted to be a writer. I always wanted to be a writer, but I... but it wasn't... it didn't make sense. And they never... it haunted them all their lives. And then they're finally in my workshop All those years they could've been doing And, you know, this, it's also true that, I've spent most of my adult life really pay that next bill. Until, you know, recent times, that's been So I don't say this from a position of, like, Just go be a painter and you can, you know, That's not what i'm advocating. It's a very fine point. When I say you have to make your own life, of my Dear Sugar columns, you have to pay You have to figure those things out. You know, there are practical ways that you know, nurturing your creative soul while also I'm not just speaking from that place of I think one of the other things that's so is how you've managed to embrace these extremely and advice, so to speak. It just walks this line of duality that two Something can be extraordinarily annihilating forward. Absolutely. I think almost always two things are true Right? You know, I mean, I think about all of the thing in my life is also incredibly hard. You know? It's incredible. I mean, being a mother, being a wife, being You know, all of those things, they entail You know, there's... it's not all, like, Yeah. And so I think about that too, you know, like and live out that vision that you have for money doing it. And also, oh, you've got to earn money. You know, that it's not one or the other. I think really when we try to find, like, hands, that's almost always when I think I've been thinking lately about, like, what You know, what is the definition of happiness And for me it's really very much that my... is very close to who I really am inside. You know, the joining of, like, that I'm That I can say, you know, what really makes and that I'm somebody who does write. You know, it's... it's such a tragedy in the class, "Oh, I wanted to write for And they look at me with such loss in their Or that marriage or that job, whatever it pretend rather than live out who they are I think that that is a far deeper suffering felt when we make that leap. So I want to go to a quote that you have that narrative, something that I feel like I need And I think all of us maybe perhaps. "Don't surrender all of your joy for an isn't true anymore." Have you been examining your own narrative? I can only imagine that you have with how Yeah. It's an absolute ongoing process. And what a difficult and humbling one. The biggest one for me is most definitely, who leapt into the world and the answer was Everything. I wanted to do everything. I wanted to take every opportunity that came And it was really a part of, you know, part like, always grab every rope that swings by. Grab it and climb up it and see what happens And what happened with Wild, and I think this the success of Wild. It's also partially because of where I am You know, I'm 48 and I know that so many this phase in their lives at this age where I'm not going to say yes to everything. Because part of saying yes to everything was can't be the answer, and that is making getting my validation from outside. You know, the thing about yes is when you you, but there did reach a point... there but I'm not happy with myself. That I need to learn that word no. And this seems like a really small thing. It's been a real shock of the last few years for me. I mean, it's really difficult. It's like epically... it's a struggle am and I am trying to learn how to do it. I'm not... I've made some progress and I'm not, like, You know? And so I think that that's, you know, when about, like, who I am in the world? Part of it, I'm trying to in some ways embrace so that I can protect myself more. And that's just incredibly hard for me. No is... it's a word that for me comes up... I have this little phrase that we teach our and I talk to them about getting a first class Because I remember for myself, yes to everything. And it is part of, especially in the beginning, and start to put yourself in the way of amazing But then there does come a certain point where And I think also for me, there's a dimension of success. More isn't better, bigger isn't better. Right. And so I am with you in that constant reevaluation And the no has to come up and it is, it's And part of it for me is I want to support to help. I've always... all of those things for me. And so... and then there's that part of ungrateful? You know, am I being ungenerous? And all those things. So I just think this is a great conversation are also feeling that same way, trying to to the world so they can say yes to themselves. Absolutely. And, you know, one thing I always sort of I take comfort in is I think that people who themselves, "Am I being ungrateful?" That's right. You know what I mean? Like, just the fact that you're asking that And that's because you have consciousness You have consciousness about helping others And I absolutely feel like one of the greatest all of these people along with me and helping voices or, you know, all of that stuff. Like, I'm... sign me up. You know. But what I realize is I can't do it all. Because in so many ways, what it will keep here in the first place. You know? Writing those books. Yes. And writing does entail saying no to everything Yeah. And I do wanna point out, because I researched is very different. And, you know, writing when we're in our and mortgages and pets and husbands and kids, to the Marriott. That's right. Down the street. The local... like, I'll go on hotels.com, like what's my house and just check into a hotel and spend Because I am a binge writer. I write best when I can write in, like, 14 And so I do that. You know, I'll also escape sometimes, I it's like an hour from my house, escape You know, and those are really important things. Silence, it's never become more difficult of the internet and so forth. But I think it's really a valuable thing Yeah. And I actually think, if I can make a prediction, going to start seeing a lot more places that Yeah, I think you're right. Little havens for folks to go and just disconnect Yeah, it's kinda like when real butter went Margaine. Yeah, and now it's back. It's back. It's really back. Ok, two more things before we wrap up. Future dreams. Any future dreams for you? Yes. Well, there are books I want to write. You know, when I think about my professional me. And, you know, I'm working on a book right book after that. And I had to set it aside so I could work And they both live within me. They're like these kind of phantom children And I really am very deeply invested in carrying And with each book I think, like any writer, a deeper, bigger, more important story about And so I'm, you know, always endeavoring All of my dreams, when it comes to my creative but it's really like writing those books Time in the cabin. Yeah. It's really just that I want to go stay Room service! That's right. Let's wrap with one of your favorite quotes, Putting yourself in the way of beauty. Right. For anyone watching, if they find themselves, in frustration or maybe they're in the midst them some comfort? Right. Well, what that quote means is, you know, who often had reasons to feel stressed out say to me and my brother and sister when we this is on you." Life will always present us with challenges. Life will always be difficult. Life will... things will always disappoint don't have to stay in that feeling. That every day the world at large gives you put yourself in the way of it. Put yourself in the way of beauty. There's always a sunrise, there's always You get to choose to be there for it or not. And that's been a really important way of it isn't saying that life is easy. It's not... I don't like the quotes that are all about beautiful and so let us never sully that. I love beauty that's grounded in struggle. And that's what my mother meant about putting That life will always be hard and life will You know, I think about... I was just last night with a friend whose son, and we were talking about, you know, you feel like every day you can't keep living? I mean, I really... that's what that loss And I already knew the answer. I don't even need to ask it. Because every day something also is beautiful. And it's right there alongside all of our ugliness. And so we... that's the piece of life that we can control. We can't control whether your kid dies when Right? But we can control what we do with our days, Cheryl, you are a national treasure. Thank you. Thank you so much for being here. Thank you for your body of work. You're an incredible human and I adore you. I love you. I look forward to all of the rest of the work Thank you. It was so lovely to be here. Thank you for having me. Now Cheryl and I would love to hear from you. We talked about a lot of amazing things today. What's the single biggest insight that you're Leave a comment below and let us know. Now, as always, the best conversations happen so go there and leave a comment now. Once you're there, be sure to subscribe You'll get instant access to an audio I and you'll also get some exclusive content, me that I just don't share anywhere else. Stay on your game and keep going for your gift that only you have. Thank you so much for watching and I'll I could've said things to make you cry so Oh my God, you're such a sweet... I scaled it back there. You're a skilled woman.