'There are some things money For everything else, there's With that slogan, Mastercard most recognizable brands. It is the second largest accounting for more than a volume using a payment card Internationally, nearly a billion spent using a made using a MasterCard. Mastercard is a huge In fact, they're the most terms of the number of As the world transitions to MasterCard's value has As of May 2023, the company $360 billion. Shares of the company have the past five years. Post-financial crisis, p earnings at a ten year CAGR That's extraordinary. For context, earnings the market overall is like But pressure is mounting as competition and stricter When you have a large MasterCard, perhaps the business model is So how is MasterCard able to how does it set itself Mastercard was founded in Association as a direct which would later become Mastercard's original license and was denied, and MasterCard, and it reeled to do so. And then obviously went overseas and ever since and continually model. Together, Visa and payment network industry. The two companies account based on purchase volume in Visa and MasterCard have the original ones in a market first mover advantage and a effect, because once you once you have the card the two sided network, it's that scale if you're a market. Internationally, Visa and of market shares based on a payment card. They essentially set the would just go to groups of say, 'Hey, we've got these We've got all of this that works for this. Why Why would you ever create a And so they very the world as a result, over Like Visa, MasterCard does Instead, they function more facilitate the transfer of Their network involves four merchant, acquirer and When a consumer swipes purchase from a merchant, communicates back and forth merchant's bank and the the consumer's cards to the payment. Mastercard and Visa do not They're not lenders. processors. But that's a Even just getting a small that pie continues to grow continues to be a sizable and towards digital payment Mastercard made over 64% of generated from their 2022. Mastercard's main revenue that come from card And they have different volumes that go over their They can be domestic transactions. The way I would think about average about $0.30 on transaction that's cards. But because of the the tremendous sums of processing, this can be a model. The rest of the revenue refers to as 'value added The biggest categories of really in two buckets. One bucket is all related data. So as you can extraordinary amounts of spending. So literally with banks and then we'll consumer packaged goods in many cases to apply that helping build their large portion of value cybersecurity and advanced It's a very important part It also is very mutually underlying base business. It reinforces the base work hand in glove. Despite their success, behind Visa in company They're just over 3 billion compared to Visa's 4.1 Mastercard reported a net 2022, compared to Visa's year. Worldwide, Mastercard quarter of market share transactions, while Visa a third. The reason is really simply The market shares amongst budge. They move like a If anything, globally, gained share over the last, But they barely move you know, incumbency bias you're using one type of typically switch it. Yet MasterCard stock has past five years. Experts say MasterCard that would entice an It has faster top line It has that acquisitive premium. And there's the margin expansion that's growth overall. It can grow more. Since people do believe one day margin that Visa is and partners away. One edge that MasterCard has the international market. A lot of that has had to do Visa did not use to own It was brand Visa, but it Back in 2016, 2017, Visa and they have gone through Visa's operations in But in the meantime, advantage of that sort of significantly in Europe. And that's obviously a as well. So it's kind of a revenue when you have more particular. Besides Visa, MasterCard companies like American account for 13% of the But they're also combining threats, especially in the They're sort of frenemies like Visa and like American card ecosystem competes payment like account to digital wallet style direct something like that. There usually their country these alternative forms of cards, that's really the In recent years, MasterCard and investments to focus to business payments. Mastercard estimates B2B industry. One would be expense MasterCard is actually a big companies can give travel expenses. There's also the issue of picture that maybe you're have supplies delivered and company and that can be MasterCard. B2B payments are a gigantic crack into. That has not really paid But these are investments years to really see them One of MasterCard's several competition in the payment I would think of it as, Brother competitor that day. American Express is competitor that they're up But perhaps the more them to compete against is thousand cuts competitors of small competitors in 200 that are all just trying to their business. That's like It's like fighting on all But rising competition could opportunity. While there are a lot of payment providers, they market share, really strong found is that the partner with MasterCard out. And so as Mastercard tentacles across the globe, even, I would argue, a positioning than before the The payment network industry regulated markets in the As a result, MasterCard has and legal challenges over Most recently, the US antitrust investigation program. Mastercard this documentary, but said the Department of Justice. They currently are not outcomes. When you have a large MasterCard, perhaps the business model is I think a lot of the to the fact that very big, important global I mean, these are companies every day, whether we think daily transactions. So I think probably lot of scrutiny there. The Credit Card Competition introduced to the Senate impact on MasterCard's The bill aims to enhance card networks, which could dominance enjoyed by Visa If the Credit Card I think it would have a and the whole credit card I don't think it's going to would be a really big deal. It would basically cause to be rewritten because it Visa or MasterCard anymore. Every card would have to that merchants could choose be Visa and MasterCard. Regardless, experts say that lies in relying on what it valuable service to its We step back and think about relevant in their space. We think it's by expanding merchants. It's making sure customer wants to be, when they can pay the way the That is the critical factor relevant. They're doing a don't expect that to change