The United States and the West continue cautious and slow in their aid to Ukraine. but not nearly enough to attempt something name of avoiding escalation. although it was not from an expected source. fight against the Ukrainian army. Has anyone Let's find out about this and other important BATTLEFIELD negative trend for the Ukrainian army persists. they advance; in others, they are stopped, their offensive momentum. In early October, the withdraw in order to avoid the encirclement. This including defeating several previous Russian the soldiers of the 72nd Brigade, by now, they and lacking in firepower and drones to stop the Vuhledar are not too solid. On October 26, Novoukrainka and Bohoyavlenka. The questions fortifications in this area and, in the absence progress. The Ukrainian situation here looks very North is the Sukhi Yaly river. Elsewhere, on the Brigade and other units captured Levadne conducting a localized assault on October 12. sector as well. Although the Russian progress a walk in the park. According to open-source 1020 infantry fighting vehicles and dozens of guns, in the battles in the Pokrovsk Raion. the Russian advance since they feel like they can that they intend to attack Pokrovsk from the M30 highway in the South. They have advanced in completed the capture of Hrodivka, Krasny Yar, of Myrnohrad, which is the last major settlement Russian progress has been more impressive. On Selydove fell, and Vyshneve was captured soon Russians have occupied Tsukuryne, Izmailivka, It is notable that according to open source building defensive lines beyond Pokrovsk in should have sufficient time to complete solid Pokrovsk yet, and urban battles in this town will biggest criticisms of the Ukrainian command haphazard state of these defensive lines. of Pokrovsk if Ukrainians do not suddenly After months of heavy battles, the in Chasiv Yar. After capturing hills west of the town limits through the forest, capturing they also captured the Novyi district and made managing to cross the Siverskyi Donets canal. ground inside Chasiv Yar, but their situation East of the Oskil river, the Russian their forces reached the highway between they have essentially cut the Ukrainian forces they captured Stelmakhivka. On October 18, defeated the Ukrainian bridgehead east of the doorstep of Kupiansk, and if the trend they will most likely capture the Ukrainian But Ukraine's situation has improved in Toretsk. grinding their way through, but then Ukraine the majority of Toretsk back under their control does not mean that Ukraine has won this battle, strategic initiative on the battlefield, the Russians will likely bring in more reserves to The Kursk Front remains the most curious warfare. The situation is still fluid, with entrenched. On October 11, the Russian 155th Naval from Korenevo. Ukraine's western flank in Kursk allowing the Russians to advance 10 km deep and Leonidovo and Novoivanivka. At one point, they enter their rear and engage in a firefight with recovering from the Russian assault, Ukrainians Olgovka and Matveevka and from the south, pushing regaining almost half of what they had lost. the Ukrainians to withdraw from their positions gains east of Sudzha and have pushed out the NORTH KOREA JOINS THE WAR to the Kursk oblast, and at least some of according to the Ukrainian commander-in-chief to send North Koreans to Kursk to bolster their the Ukrainian army there. Initially, there were the Russian army in the use of their missiles, But at first, the South Korean news agency Yonhap to fight for Russia in Ukraine. Then Zelenskyi suggesting that the first 2600 of them would undergoing training in the Russian Far East. After general Rutte confirmed these claims. We have not these reports demonstrate that this development this war has been to avoid escalation at all or intensity of the conflict. Involving another of escalation. It will be curious to see how the but we should not be surprised if the reaction the United States will place no new limits if North Korea indeed joins the war, certainly permission to use American long-range weapons North Korean involvement may be minimal. But, Korea may actually consider sending weapons and Korean involvement, which would be a considerable to South Korea. Remember, back in 2023, it shell deliveries enabled the Ukrainians to go on a active of the two. According to Bloomberg, since artillery shells to Russia, which constitutes then. North Korea has also reportedly delivered and Bulsae-4 anti-tank weapons. They are doing it technologies. We have already reported about and the supply of dual-use technology from China, Now, according to Bloomberg, India their exports of dual-use technologies to Russia lot of Indian rupees gained from oil sales to options for spending rupees, so they use them FOREIGN AID TO UKRAINE for Ukraine is gradually decreasing. In October, package worth 425 million dollars, which included HIMARS ammunition, artillery shells, Javelin when the American media signals that the so-called new heights. There are reports that both lower the mobilization age to 18. So far, the as the demographic crisis in Ukraine makes battlefield for the future of the country. behind this stance: "People often fail to see the age group numbered just over a million. Some have what's left, we risk losing an entire generation. With Donald Trump winning the presidential Senate majority, it is possible that the US decrease or stop completely. Trump also promised one". It yet to happen, but we need to watch our Economist quoted an American source saying, serious risks in other places." Other places are both are a higher priority for the United States. missile defense system, which would have helped but the Americans have instead chosen to also reportedly not impressed with Zelensky's increase of military aid and guarantees reluctant to give either. The New York Times non-nuclear deterrence package, which included A senior US official called this "a totally an administration that spent years debating the ranges reacted to this request. Evidently, significant weapons package to not only fight them from attacking Ukraine ever again. The This may prompt Ukraine to look for from attacking it. According to media Zelenskyi told the Republican nominee that or developing a nuclear weapon. He reportedly None, apart from Ukraine. Which country gave up And who is fighting today? Ukraine". German Bild claim that a Ukrainian official told them that "We have materials, we have knowledge. If there get our first bomb". Zelensky's administration has something to keep an eye on, particularly if situation on the battlefield is more desperate. to Kyiv. On October 6, the Dutch defense minister from the Netherlands, with 24 more jets to be deliver 6 additional F-16s in the same timespan. to send up to 20 Mirage 2000-5F fourth-generation to Ukrainian defense minister Umerov, Britain Kyiv in 2024. The German chancellor Scholtz howitzers, drones and artillery ammunition worth like the Australian government has finally managed old M1A1 Abrams tanks to Ukraine. 49 tanks will Croatia pledged to deliver 30 M-84A4 tanks and Lastly, on October 27, Rheinmetall announced its plant of an unspecified category in Ukraine. Kyiv capacity drastically throughout this war. They are howitzers per month. According to Zelenskyi, the first half of 2024 has had a 25-fold increase drone production is taking place as well. This supply the Ukrainian army on a sufficient still heavily relies on Western military aid and ARE WE GETTING CLOSER TO NEGOTIATIONS? something Ukraine can rely on in the long run and the battlefield, we are hearing more and more media sources like the Financial Times and Der are considering their options right now. One of the occupied territories without recognizing NATO membership or equivalent security guarantees a persistent negative trend for Ukraine, the may see this as a reasonable conclusion. given their rhetoric about Odesa, Kharkiv and On the one hand Russia has occupied at least 478 since March 2022. On the other hand, Russia is unspecified senior Pentagon official, Russia has the war. Previously, American sources claimed 315k In May 2024, the British ministry of defense per day. That must be a worrying trend for Russia, sustainable is only known in the Kremlin. For feasibility of stopping attacks on each other's step towards negotiations. Finally, let's look at parties as of October 30, brought to you by the 8057 vehicles, 293 command posts and communication 435 multiple rocket launchers, 130 has lost at least 964 tanks, 3190 vehicles, 673 artillery systems and vehicles, 79 multiple Further updates on the War in Ukraine are on make sure you are subscribed and have pressed subscribing, commenting, and sharing - it releasing weekly patron and YouTube member ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals