Somewhere in Baghdad in Iraq, this prisoner of the Iraqi Army He's a violent man. He rejects everyone Before his arrest, he was a leader. He managed a terrorist cell. He has been sentenced to death. He awaits the application -Have you killed people? -Many? I killed in 2006, 2007, and up until 2010. I liked doing it. I was gifted at it. I could walk beside someone, laugh with him, I was an artist. The real thing. This terrorist spent ten years He knows Daesh was born both inside The majority of its leaders In prison, and a training program in war strategy. I'm telling you the truth. I'm sentenced to death, and nobody is going to come What's Daesh's strategy? Propagate. To spread the ideology That was decided well before the creation Even before its creation, In 2006, this jihadist behind the bars of another Iraqi prison, which at that time was in the hands According to this condemned man, this is the birthplace of what would become the biggest terrorist organization Abu Ghraib is a symbol for the jihadists. It closed its doors in 2013. Today, the jihadists want to destroy it. -Is this the way to the cells' entrance? In fear of reprisals, the current managers of the prison side I was asked to come alone. Since the prison's closing, this is the first time that a camera Remember the images of the Iraqi prisoners That took place here. Humiliated, Inside, nothing has changed. Dilapidated walls. Two thousand and four hundred prisoners Their only way to pass the time The only reading aloud was the Qur'an, A little further along in a corridor, A decapitated head A prophetic illustration. According to this condemned man, the Islamic State According to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the Islamic State when he declared himself Where can we find the truth? The creation of the Islamic State These men have a history, a strategy, My investigation The Islamic State spent weeks Faced with the resistance they never succeeded. At what price? Six hundred dead people, and a city in ruins. Mustafa is a Syrian Kurd. Before the war, he was a student. He survived the military assault When I walk through these streets, I'm sad. The walls aren't important. The most important things and children living here that were lost. All because of terrorism. Mustafa chose to fight by helping journalists on the ground. The goal of my trip to Syria is to discover Alongside Mustafa, I am going to cover My goal is to meet the Free Syrian Army. They are the first witnesses to the -Hi, comrade. -We're going to the front line. -We're going to the front line. Does this road lead to Raqqa? Yes, it leads to Raqqa, and along the way, there are zones still held by Daesh. I have taken this road before in 2011. I wanted to film the demonstrations At that time, they were peaceful. [Arabic spoken audio] Revolutionaries! Faced with state repression, an armed force was born Their name is the Free Syrian Army. In combat, The Free Syrian Army could explain how the radicals of an area the size of Great Britain [Arabic spoken audio] To meet them, I have to cross a city that was held Here, 30% of the population I'm going to show you the cage where, Daesh locked up They threw people into this cage They padlocked the door. They terrorized them. They humiliated them in this cage. -How do you feel standing inside it? I really don't feel good. Can you imagine being here Who deserves to be punished so savagely? This young woman, Irene, For a whole year, she only saw life If Daesh were still here, they would've chopped off your hand Today, she relishes her freedom. She walks with her head held high People are scared. You have seen They lived under terror, they're still scared. They're terrorized. This is the roundabout of death. This is where Daesh slit people's throats. After decapitating someone, they hung the head here. They forced the families The children are still imbued They have surely changed. Daesh have created The road to the Free Syrian Army You have to cross a territory Without their escort, nobody can enter. The villages are deserted, that were hidden at night by the jihadists I arrive in Emesa, a small city. There's not a single person Up until just a few weeks ago, I decide to stop there. Perhaps this ghost town the organization of the jihadists. Are there still traces The color black Mustafa watches the scene, hesitating to approach that an armed jihadist If the door is closed, that the place -Is that a cage? -Do you think they threw people here? Behind these bars, They threw everyone in, even children. Like a museum of horror, every step here is a reminder Behind this door is the seat of power. Since they fled, it has lost its splendor. This is their symbol. It's a voucher to get food or bread. That's the same. Don't touch anything. Even between those books, We really don't know. -That's why you're afraid? I feel as though the jihadists It looks like the office of the leader. It's the office Look, a poster from Daesh. It shows how to impose Islam, their vision of Islam, on the population. Come on, we need to get going. The Syrian Army Time is short. The road is not safe, and a curfew In the distance, Here, it is women To get through, Look, the comrade has seen us. Armed women are a challenge for men who believe These combat units which is considered by the European Union used to be seen as unacceptable, but these days, they are armed and trained Come on, follow me. We're going towards the exit. Well-publicized in the media, these women all dream We shut this so that Daesh can't see us. The minute that something happens, like an attack, They're really not far away. On this side are our positions, behind the hill, that's where Daesh are. The next day, I finally get to meet Those who have been involved in conflict On the road, but also hundreds of trucks full of goods. Even in times of war, trade never stops. Turn over here. For the first time, of the Syrian revolution Here is their base. At my arrival, Abu Sayf, their leader, A man has appeared out of nowhere, Hello, I have a favor to ask you. This man has come to ask for permission He wants to go into the zone Are you going back and forth No, I'm not doing that. Here, at the border with the enemy, it's difficult to see the difference It's men like you It's your sympathy for them. I promise I've got nothing to do with it. -Do you like Daesh? Go away. You have to leave now. [Arabic spoken audio] This man doesn't want to admit it, They're people with no education. People who have lost their heads. There are some who want to get married, These are the reasons That guy was a man from Daesh, clueless. The Free Syrian Army Having been applauded by the protesters they have now An army that's surrounded whose voice doesn't make it as far as us. They were the first people to live At that time, They had another name, Jabhat al-Nusra. During the initial combat there was a group Back then, to be honest with you, we fighters found them respectful. For us, Jabhat al-Nusra was just the name of a unit We were never Islamists. We just thought Fighting for democracy What were they like? -Were they organized? It was impressive. In your opinion, why did they succeed? It's because of that. It was well after that when we discovered that Jabhat al-Nusra Jabhat al-Nusra is the armed branch They infiltrated the Syrian revolution At the end of 2012, during one of my film recordings I filmed a peaceful protest where the jihadists Jabhat al-Nusra, may God protect you! Jabhat al-Nusra, may God protect you! Most Syrians were not aware that Jabhat al-Nusra Away from prying eyes, the Jabhat al-Nusra fighters A video filmed on a former It was given to me by someone who knew It's the only known video that shows how jihadists According to him, their salvation can only come Firstly, the West has done nothing for you Secondly, you don't have to accept You've understood. We're here for you. We aren't hurting anybody. If the West wanted to punish us, they would've closed the border They would never have let arms through, and even you would've never made it Listen. The West is mocking you [Arabic spoken audio] These young revolutionaries are perfect targets. Nothing can stop An unexpected strategy Bashar al-Assad, the Syrian president, He concentrates his attacks We're a simple and poor people. Bashar al-Assad has ruled us They managed to make They attracted people It makes me furious these days. The Free Syrian Army collapsed, while Al-Qaeda grew increasingly powerful However, in 2013, a rivalry between two warlords the Islamic State. This happened under the watchful eye Ayman al-Zawahiri, bin Laden's successor. His two lieutenants entered into conflict, the leader of Al-Qaeda in Syria. The second is Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi Mohammad al-Julani. Al-Julani opposed him I, the chief of Jabhat al-Nusra, to the chief of the jihadists, After being disavowed Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi He chose independence and proclaimed himself Assalamu'alaikum, Officially in March 2013, Listen to me, my brothers. Following God's law, only what is written by God Sharia law must be enforced, A new flag is born. It is planted between Iraq and Syria. Who is this Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi who liberated himself To answer this question, This is the only man of the Caliph of the Islamic State. Do you want to know more -Yes, Samarra is his hometown, right? Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi was born in Samarra. His real name That's his real name? His real name Look, there are the mothers of the town. Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi situated 135 kilometers from Baghdad. Here is the first mosque Until now, no camera has been allowed Why is the door closed? I want to pray. [Arabic spoken audio] It's difficult to believe that the man started his career behind this door. He led a group teaching the Qur'an. He taught it to young children. -That was his job? Only a few years ago, who organizes attacks led prayers He would stand there to make his speeches. My guide had known him. He had followed his preaching Did al-Baghdadi already have Not at all! His speech was measured and based on the tenets of Islam, He wasn't violent or encouraged murder. He was an educated man. [Arabic spoken audio] Why did he change? He changed I'm sure When he came out, he had transformed. He had become violent. An extremist who encouraged crime. You know well enough what they're doing What Daesh is doing. Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi's family Nobody here dares to enter their territory This is the neighborhood They're a big tribe. They're one of the seven big families To access their neighborhood, After hours of negotiation, the colonel of the unit of Samarra Tanks and armored cars. An exceptional convoy. All to access the fiefdom Where are you? We should arrive soon. Take your place on the road. In Samarra, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi One thousand seven hundred people Wasn't he able to gain control of his hometown He can't, and if God is willing, Samarra is a difficult place to take. Anyway, we pushed back the jihadists Now we're in the neighborhood At the end of the road, we find the home Put a car at the entrance of the street. Get on the roof. Come on, here we go. The house still belongs to him, but surprisingly, Do you know where you're living? -In Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi's house. -We're refugees from the region. It's because of Daesh. It's because of Daesh, and you've moved into al-Baghdadi's house, Is it compensation for you? He destroyed our houses. Now we live in his house. Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi In an ironic turn of events, the members of his tribe are happy in exchange Before, it was empty, but people have given us Upstairs is a different type It's all very modest. Yes, and that's al-Baghdadi's house. [Arabic spoken audio] A simple imam from this small city has become one of the most dangerous men How can we explain this ascension? [Arabic spoken audio] Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi At the same time, Saddam Hussein In order to restore their power his officers then joined Al-Qaeda. Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi was imprisoned Did they help him To check, the historic fiefdom of Saddam Hussein. I filled up on petrol I managed to convince the most senior leader His men will escort me on the trip. The road is not safe. These days, Iraq is in the hands Saddam banned all Iraqis from going there. -Could you go there? I was scared to come to Tikrit. Coming here would surely end Even today, I'm scared of everyone. The Shiites, Daesh, and the snipers. This road is a total nightmare. At the entry to the city, that the heart of his power Nowadays, some of his former officers They're grouped together These men have not joined the jihadists. They're fighting them. Yazan al-Jabouri, their leader, The son of a senior dignitary he used his inheritance to finance the war Keeping with tradition, this prestigious returned to his native country We leave in a convoy Did you fight against the Americans Yes, all the Sunnis in Iraq were against the American presence. Of course, I was a resistance fighter. I thought that those who supported Whether a soldier or a civilian, Look at my men living in tents. On the front line, Yazan's fighters faced the jihadists one of the longest front lines in Iraq. Here, the chief is respected and feared. Despite constant fire, They saw the dust clouds from our convoy so we're returning fire. [Arabic spoken audio] The jihadists Can you hear them shooting? Nobody is sheltered from the shells. [Arabic spoken audio] Yazan's officers advise him to leave. He decides to set an example and encourage his troops [Arabic spoken audio] Not knowing whether I would see him again, In 2005, did you think I suspected that one day, but I would never have imagined that Al-Qaeda would become the Daesh No, I couldn't have believed that. At that time, Al-Qaeda and you were working hand-in-hand Yes, but the danger of the jihadists today is much greater A colonizer always ends up leaving, Fighting against them [Arabic spoken audio] You're Sunnis, and you're fighting Sunnis All terrorists have to be fought. The jihadists don't belong Okay, we're Sunnis, and they're Sunnis, but we're the ones who have paid Thank you. Brothers who have become enemies. The Islamic State Ten years ago, those who have chosen the other side. At the time, they were all fighting Their target was the American army. We return to 2006. It took a long year of negotiations to agree to talk to me. Like the Islamic State group, they already had the objective These are trucks full of materials Us jihadists are told and we do what we can to destroy them. As you've seen, we got a good catch today. Former officers of Saddam are united in the same combat. There's a checkpoint. Turn around. Non-believers and radicals hand-in-hand. It was a first in the history of jihadism. Assalamu'alaikum. Here is one of their headquarters. A secret place in a house just a few hundred meters as if to challenge the Americans. I was part of Saddam's republican guard right up until the fall of Baghdad. I became a jihadist one month after the arrival They wanted to show me These propaganda videos were also a first In showing these images, their goal was to attract funding in the same way These men all met in prison Upon leaving prison, Give them a hug or make them a cup of tea? If I have the strength I can eliminate We will teach our children to shoot because if we don't win the battle, What are you going to do to the Americans? The transformation into jihadists was up and running. It is what allowed However, why did these former officers In Tikrit, Saddam's fiefdom, but here, I'm meeting the only man The soldiers from his tribe He is a former member A general who is now retired. [Arabic spoken audio] In prison, the extremists They gave them religious lessons They directed their hate When they left prison, The prisons in Bucca and Abu Ghraib Just after proclaiming himself Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi who were still in prison. He even organized a party in their honor [Arabic spoken audio] The Islamic State reunited its troops The black flag set off Today, Baghdad lives to the rhythm Before leaving Iraq, I wanted to know in obtaining so much support What strategy did they use? If you take the Free Syrian Army, for example, The Islamic State and used it The protests were peaceful at first. Bashar al-Assad killed civilians. We made the most of the situation. Do you mean you used the revolution? Yes, we took advantage and turned it into a war, We funded them, Today, we're not going to stop. We're all over the world, even in America. We won't stop Today, the Islamic State hitting the heart of Europe. The true losers are the people and the fighters like Abu Sayf, who had made a pact with jihadists He continues to believe in democracy. -Do you want to come with us to Raqqa? -Is that possible? I hope that soon we'll be able It's hard for civilians You seem depressed. -Do you mean tired? Yes, I'm tired, but not physically. I'm just thinking about my people, the residents of Raqqa, Today, Daesh is all over the world. We started our fight with slingshots for catching birds. If we don't have any ammunition, Abu Sayf hopes that he will once again see the flag of the revolution Let out our flag. The Islamic State is being bombed. It will, without a doubt, be weakened, Today, their ideology has been spread to the point that more are ready to sacrifice themselves