Welcome to the boat cabin. This is my brand new camper. And I am so excited for the first time, but to be taking it I've had this idea for a while now, with the design to make sure that it is and I think I have it dialed in pretty that I can already see So before we get into the specifics I'll give you the big picture. So this is a 16ft aluminum fishing boat. As for the interior We've got the couch And then we've got shelving on the other. And then on top of that, I've got the fun little details We've got the cafe lights, little fake plant, which just adds And then we also have our captain's wheel We've got big openings on the stern those are there for safety, to allow, and out of the boat whenever we need to, I do have screens on there, magnetic strips down the middle. Those were custom made to fit Here we have these windshields And as you can tell by the duct tape, I made them myself. it was a good first idea, with the Velcro on windows And then you can close down our back Again, it has Velcro. And so what this allows us to do is Now, of course, I didn't want to have I wanted to be able to come out obviously do some fishing, That's why I made sure to leave this, bow And then, as you can see, on the front here, and I cannot wait Now, we're going to get out and explore I've actually been here before, watching this channel for a while, But before we do, station. And, we're very grateful for that. All right, so we've got here the Anker It's brand new to us, inside our boat cabin. So it makes the C1000 a great fit for While also still packing a big punch. It offers 1800 watts of power including AC outlets, USB, A and C ports, And this thing has a super fast It only takes about 58 minutes, and Oh yeah, by tethering in an expansion battery It also supports 600W of solar input. And I would love to utilize that sometime So I'm going to be using it in here but we've also got a bug zapper in here I also use it to charge all of my camera I go through battery life like that with And so it's going to be nice to be able to have a lot of power And I also love which is just going to be perfect for just a little bit of quick light So if you would like SOLIX C1000 You can do so by following the link All right, so I've got a jig here, We're in a very deep part of the lake, so, down to the bottom of the lake I'm not a good fisherman. Very, very inexperienced. So bear with me. Well, and, we've been out here for a little bit we might as well head to shore and, Maybe And the mosquitoes are back. Back with a vengeance. Well, I think it's going to be important to do When we take the boat cabin out for Ellie because she just thrives But due to these bugs, It's so nice being out on the water. Hearing the waves lap up against the boat. Staring out our massive windows. It's pretty awesome. We're supposed to get some rain in the next couple hours, and it's supposed to continue So I figure it might be time So we can get off and have a little fire where we're going to tie off My windshields are going to be absolutely disintegrated Man... We're learning the hard way, but this is a trial run. I guess we're here. Well, It's a pretty sweet little island here. this is a nice little campsite. We've got the boat nestled in here. I've got it tied off to that tree, from the downed tree, from the bow. It is a little windy out. but I feel okay having this fire I can easily put it out if, But also, we're about to get a ton of rain figured and enjoy being outside while we can. Wel, the rain is supposed to start any minute. So I think it's time to get in the cabin, Batten down the hatches and, cozy up, and then I can make some dinner. Dear God, thank you for this day, out here on the water. Amen. To call this meal basic and janky would be an understatement, I think it's going to taste really good. I had to buy my groceries at a gas station and, by the time I got up north, And so I had to get what I could. I definitely plan to cook better meals Well, the rain has stopped for now. It's kind of been coming but, Man, it's so peaceful outside. You can just hear all the sounds. You can hear loons and insects, Hypnotic. It's also incredibly All right. Well, as you can hear, it's going to be perfect ambiance I'm going to, get some shut eye and, see you bright Good night. Good morning. It's about 5 a.m.. you know, I just get up early these days, but definitely could keep sleeping. Well, guys, we, we do have some weather that's moving to head back to shore. Get this thing up on the trailer. But, man, I just I love it. All right, guys, that's going to do it for the very first camp I hope it didn't disappoint. for me, you know, Minnesota is known And in fact, And so I just think it's awesome that and, explore these lakes and even be able I just think it's great. A couple quick takeaways, some things Number one, and we're going to replace it with one of those clear vinyl tarps It'll just be so much easier. And, it won't shatter on us. So that's number one. Next, I need to put a floor with some because sleeping with Allie up on the bed And it would just be so much nicer for her while still having water, be able I also need to come up our shelf got pretty, overcrowded there. And, there's got to be a better way all my gear in there without it All in all, though, I had a blast. I hope you guys did too. I want to give a special shout out Thank you so much for that. I think it's time for me to, We'll see you next week.