Stars are some of the most beautiful and Through violent thermonuclear reactions, illuminating the night sky and heating Through mergers and powerful explosions, stars are that make up much of the matter we see around long way toward understanding how starsoperate, it will be before our Sun runs out of fuel we're not just going to talk about the we're going to contemplate stars we've never could hypothetically exist-- including ones I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching the world of exotic stars. Some of these stars which is why they have been the subject of many in the world of physics. In this video, physical theories at the core of these ideas First, we need to lay some groundwork and with the most important star of all: the Sun. you couldn't stand on its surface like you would you down toward the centre. So, why doesn't It turns out that there is a pressure that counterbalances this pull of gravity. The created by fusion reactions in the core--the and heat from the Sun to the Earth. Whether or waves in the electromagnetic field, its of the Sun will cause an outward push in wouldn't be enough to stop you from falling the Sun's own gas (which is relatively This balancing act between inward-pulling feature of pretty much all known types of stars. where that pressure comes from. For our Sun, helium. When the Sun runs out of hydrogen in about whose pressure comes from fusing helium into even out of helium and any other light elements that that point, it will collapse into a small star occurring anymore, white dwarfs are sometimes But if there's no more fusion, where stellar remnants come from? It turns white dwarf inward until it's so dense known as electron degeneracy pressure. This is same effect that's responsible for you not being electrons simply cannot get too close to each But some stellar remnants are so massive that enough to counteract the pull of gravity. it's absolutely impossible to have a stable white Sun. If a star has burned through all its nuclear Chandrasekhar Limit, that core will collapse in stronger type of quantum pressure emerges, known may have guessed - prevents neutrons from getting state is called a neutron star, the smallest So now you might be wondering--is there a maximum being supported by neutron degeneracy pressure? mass of the Sun. Any heavier than that, and the influence of its own gravity, until... well, neutron degeneracy pressure is the strongest so there's nothing left to prevent a collapsing in on itself forever. This is massive stars we've observed in the universe. these stars would get so dense that all we'd be started to wonder--what would happen to a If exotic forms of matter could pressures than neutron degeneracy pressure, You might think that we could just continue the stars could get even smaller and as long as they were supported by some even only limit on how small these stars could they would turn into black holes. That point than its own Schwarzschild Radius. This Physicist Hans Adolf Buchdahl showed in 1959 that with positive energy density and pressure, can't Radius. It might not sound like a big difference, star has to be noticeably larger than a black That's when physicists began asking less realistic. For example, what if a star to be negative in some regions and positive in and that star could be less than 9/8 it could be arbitrarily close to the size of a theoretical stars like these that could mimic a nuisance for astrophysicists, since now thought was a black hole, they couldn't they had to qualify that it's either a black a black hole, even though in their hearts most of But to the main point--what would these exotic The answer turns out to be even weirder than and Volkov derived an equation in pressure of a stable star changes as you it's just called the TOV equation for short. negative pressure, which would exert some the TOV equation says that this star can only if its pressure does something really wonky. infinity somewhere in the star. Then, it has outwards from there until it reaches zero The more negative the central pressure of On the other hand, the less negative the central surface gets pushed. It turns out that there's finite right up until the very edge of the star. is exactly equal and opposite to the star's the TOV equations say that the pressure and opposite throughout the entire volume If you've seen some of our other episodes, this energy density, paired with a constant like any star we've seen before, but it's component of our universe: Dark Energy. in a gravastar are equal in magnitude, those are the exact properties of vacuum came to be known as a "gravitational Inside of a gravastar, there is because the positive energy and negative pull and push that cancel each other out. And there is no pressure gradient to exert any either. This means that if you found yourself in nor pushed out: you could float freely, Another curious feature of stars with negative special limit of a gravastar,which if you gets pushed out to the edge of the star, black hole with the same mass. This raises two of attention from physicists: First, how objects astronomers have observed in large galaxies are black holes or just exotic if gravastars are real and scattered throughout energy that's been making the universe To answer the first question, physicists rely other compact objects: the existence of an event hole is that nothing that falls inside or even back out. On the other hand, if an exotic star Radius, it would not have an event horizon, and outwards in the form of light. Not only that, different signatures in their gravitational wave merger. This would allow us to tell them apart waves (using observatories like LIGO). But even sufficiently small and dense stars can still be the best we can do is to say that the radius universe is at least approximately equal to their rough estimate, but in others, we've calculated As for the second question about dark energy, 2023, an analysis led by physicists at the observations of supermassive black holes showed the same rate that dark energy would be expected universe. They came to the inevitable conclusion and that they are really more like gravastars singularities at their centers. This conclusion arguing that the analysis of the observational physicists came out arguing that the expansion the growth of black holes in any case. So while of gravastars sounds exciting, it looks like the unless it's simultaneously supported by better But where do you fall in this debate? If it walks should we just call it a black hole? Or black holes could really be secret your thoughts and questions in the comments below. Today's video has been in paid partnership with on this channel but I've never delved into how it was starting another different company starting bringing a lot of stress so it's no surprise that from some Professional Therapy however he found unavailable or expensive when about one in four decided this was a problem that needed something co-founder created an online therapy platform those that needed them when you start using better your needs and then you are match to a therapist you can text or call as well as video chat and you find yourself not clicking with your therapist so if you think therapy might benefit you why not for/ Astrum in the description below using go on give it a try thank you for watching if this playlist a big thanks to my patrons and name added to the end of every Astrum video check