Hey Amy! A little thirsty there, are we? Oh man, do you mind if I got a sip of that? I"m so thirsty! While these friends' thirst may be the same, their difference in height makes items appear smaller or larger than they really are. Here's to another round of exploring short vs tall! Snacks? Laughs? Must be movie night! You guys won't believe it! Our team won! Huh? Wow, Amy! Let's get a closer look at that trophy! You should've seen me! I was slam-dunking left and right! Check this baby out! Aw, nothing like supportive friends to make a win feel even better! Your turn, Sophia! Ooh! Can't quite reach up there, can you? Okay Amy, think you can modify that high-five for your favorite shorty? There ya go! Alright, time to suds up and get ready for the day. See ya later, bathrobe! If you're Sophia's height, you probably never think about whether or not you'll fit in a shower. See? Her hair gets wet in record time! And when it comes time to lather up, things are a piece of cake. Hey, that stuff smells amazing? Is that mango? Yum! Amy's showers, however, look a little different. Can't this thing go any higher? C'mon! Move it on up! Gah! Looks like Amy's doing another round of shower squats this morning. Yep, and down we go. When you're as tall as Amy, showering becomes more of a delicate dance than a cleaning sesh. It's all about getting under the shower head at just the right angles. Ouch! That kind of hurt! That's it, I'm saving up for a bathroom remodel, starting today! Grr... By the time you're done with your shower, you're exhausted! And you thought showers were supposed to be relaxing? Whatever. Another Friday night, another lame party. Hey, Amy! Wanna dance? What about you, Sophia? Wanna dance with me? Yikes, this party is going downhill, fast. Wait, I know exactly what to do to liven this Who wants to play a fun game of limbo?! Yes! I LOVE this game! I'll hold this end and Bella can go first. Show us what you got, girl! Woohoo! While limbo can be a super fun party game, it can come a little easier to some than others. And unfortunately, it has a lot to do with height. Ooh! Watch your nose! Yikes! You really went hard there, Amy! Let's see if Sophia can be a little more graceful during her turn under the limbo stick. Don't worry guys, I totally got this. Alright, Sophia! Show us what you got. What?! She doesn't even have to bend back at all! Boom, baby! I told you I was the limbo master. Strolling through a local museum is always a nice way to spend the afternoon. Woah, look at this guy. I wonder who he was. Um, is it just me or does this guy have a bit of a stank face? See what I mean?! Woah! Check out this classic painting! It really makes you feel like you're on the English countryside, does't it? Wow, I can almost smell the flowers. It's really something. Ugh, what do you think you're doing? I'm not your support beam! Sorry! It's just so convenient! You're just the right height! Aw, you're so cute when you get huffy. It's okay Sophia. Us shorties know exactly how you feel. Woah! How many legs are on that thing? Gross! Oh hey, Amy! Way to show up...you're 20 minutes late to class! Looks like your lab partner doesn't mind. Super model alert! Lookin' good! Hey, thanks for saving me a seat, dude. What's up? Wow, did you do all those equations on your own? You are so smart! I can't believe it! Yeah, chemistry's kind of my jam. Well, looks like these lab partners are a match made in heaven! Hey what's in this guy? Careful, it's really hot. Oh! Whoops! Wow, do these guys have chemistry or what? Oh yeah, that's the look of love, alright. Hey, class is almost over, want to go get an ice cream or something? But before you go off on your date, you may want to make sure you two are on the same level... Tall girl struggles, am I right? You look a lot shorter sitting down. And you looked taller sitting at your desk. And just like that, you lost a potential boyfriend. Aw, sorry, Amy. One of the great things about having a best friend is hanging out after school. And even better? They let you have free reign over their wardrobe. Wow, Amy's stuff is so cute! I wonder if she has anything I could borrow for the party Saturday night. Ooh! These denim shorts are super adorable. Just remember though, your much taller friend's clothes may look a little different on you than they do on them. But they're just jean shorts? How different could they be? I'm gonna give 'em a try. Hey, Amy? Would you mind if i borrowed these jean shorts? I think I could totally rock them on Saturday. Pretty please? Sure, I don't see why not. Really? Yes! I'm gonna be the hit of the party! Well, if you say so, Sophia. Uh, is it just me or did these things look a lot smaller on the hanger? Yep, Sophia definitely didn't take her and Amy's drastic height difference into account. Geez, I could fit two of me in here. Well, Amy, at least you don't have to worry about Sophia stealing any of your clothes! Yes! Art class, the best period of the day. Seriously? Why are these desks so darn small?! Unfortunately for tall girls like Amy, these school desks never seem to have enough leg room. See? I can barely even cross them! Ugh, it's no use. Well, I guess it'll just sit here uncomfortably for an hour. Actually, no! I'm not going to stand for this nonsense any longer! I'm using my long legs to break free from these teeny tiny desks! It looks like you really have to pee. Laugh it up, Sophia. I'm serious! Careful, Amy, you're gonna hurt yourself! Man, look at those things go! Oh no! Your pencils! Oops! Well, at least I got some more leg room! Problem solved. Could you relate better to Amy or Sophia? Either way, be sure to share this hilarious video with your friends! And remember, subscribe to our Youtube cannel 123Go! if you haven't already-- you wouldn't want to miss out on any more videos, would you?