Why critical mass is not about the mass. The concept of the critical mass in you have a stable configuration, or an Some scientists were hard at work, in while others were hard at work to try and stop it. But today I'll explore why the I'm going to visualize this, with the help of be able to understand the important physics Nuclear fission and critical mass and why does the concept only kind of make sense? as an example. Here on this table of nuclei, we if the nucleon is stable or what kind of decay it If we zoom in on uranium 235 you can Going one step horizontally on the chart changing isotopes. Going one step vertically changing elements. For nuclei above a certain some and only some of them, will have the Uranium 235 can undergo induced fission. free Neutron the uranium becomes unstable nuclei - Krypton and Barium. And free neutrons, in the process. and of course The Isotopes in the reaction can be seen here on daughter nucleon and a Crypton daugher nucleon and can strike other uranium nuclei multiplying This exponential power is crazy, become nine neutrons become 27 neutrons have 2 million billion billion neutrons uranium would have been split, However during the chain reaction it's also surface of the uranium chunk without hitting any of mass to get the chain reaction started. If we assume a normal pressure, a spherical calculate a theoretical critical mass just the mass, that comes into play, Building the simulation and To better illustrate what's going on, I'll switch used before, and instead of showing fission uranium nucleon as just dark blue. We will Upon induced fission I'll change the color to represent two new daughter nuclei that should of the nucleon as having potential to fission and experiment. Let's surround a neutron with lots I think this simulation illustrates the Instead of the term critical mass, we can K&quot;. It tells us something about It is defined as the number of one divided by the number of neutrons If K is equal to one it means that neon will on average so we have constant power. An ideal scenario If K is below one, it means on average it does not produce a new We call it subcritical. Employees at control rods, in order to eat neutrons, If K is above one it means each neutrons is called super-critical. And we want to maximize before, I can calculate the K Factor. Let's X axis is the time and on the therefore these are the First the system is super-critical, but it's never stable at k equals 1. Later Let's see what we can do to influence even without chancing the total mass. Factors of criticality. Purity So far in the simulation we have This would be weapons grad-uranium. But will be of the isotope uranium 235, and the You must refine and enrich the material, with use in a fission process. The presence of can absorb neutrons or simply decrease the Here, you can see a failed attempt of a For a power plant low enrich uranium is used this power plant. The aim of course is to keep Let's try that in the simulation. First I'll Let's add control rods, depicted as made of elements with high Neutron capture Boron has this property. These rods can Secondly, let's introduce the feature let's use these two new features to run keep it enriched around 5% purity. I'll of neutrons to 40. When there are It's actually very hard to keep constant because as soon as we're tipping you'll have an exponential increasing I'll have to use these two methods that some in check: that is first the reactor grade low Shape Another thing we can do, to influence the Depending on the geometry, the criticality is is a terrible configuration for chain volume causes two too many neutrons to Atomic devices normally uses a sphere. A fissile material for super-criticality, because Shape, is what the atomic device little boy the shape is engineered, such that, two uranium stray neutron in both chunks would quickly But, after triggering, firing the two chunks shape will be in a super-critical state, and Density I can put these nuclei more neatly packed, This is the absolute best way to Of course, this is just me playing pretending uranium nuclei are circles. This Anyways let's try the simulation You can see we had a much, much, more violent super-critical state. This is such as the so called &quot;the gadget&quot; used in the This device has the fissile core surrounded the fissile core is sub-critical but after high density means stray neutrons will This is a especially a smart move in atomic bombs, fragments increases the pressure, destroying I can simulate that, if I add this scattering will transfer some momentum. The same Let's run a chain reaction again, with Clump disintegrates. In the animation, some and we had wasted potential. If too much fissle lower yield. This failed explosion is called like &quot;the gadget&quot; did, I can crush the core via and also an inwards inertia force, combating Bonus tricks affecting the criticality There are other tricks used in minimum require mass and enhance the criticality. The first thing we can do, is to use a that have the property to burst out a lot Secondly we can use a strong called a tamper this tamper tries to withhold to allow even more neutrons to undergo fission. If you can hold the core together just effectively double the yield. and allowing a few hits of uranium Finally we can add a neutron reflector, system again. An example material could be painted this Neutron reflector in yellow. bombs but hopefully nobody would ever putting all of the tricks used in the Trinity test. The &quot;Now I've become death, the destroyer of worlds&quot;. I tried my best to keep the many distractions. But for - cross-section absorption the concept of - secondary neutrons, secondary fission products But now you know that the term critical I've demonstrated that nuclear reactions are not a range of factors, that determine Thanks for watching. In the outro here I'm showing you very very now declassified l - a set of lectures given to