(quirky orchestral music) - Okay. Let's get started. (groaning) I literally need a man. I need a man, help! All right, I'm gonna get Okay. Let's get started. (&quot;Silent Night&quot;) I love my king. This is not really the most not really my 2020 vibe. But it does proportionize Nyew, nyew, nyew. All right, no one thinks Okay, look, this video is about canceling, also known as cancel culture, formerly known as call-out culture. And I know you kids know all about this but before I dive in, I have to explain the basics to my fellow boomers. So listen up oldies, in the lingo of these young avocado-guzzling who killed Applebee's, vilifying and ostracizing of a community by other Like so much internet slang, this use of the word canceling started where a few years ago would tweet &quot;cancel R. You know, it started out for bringing justice and accountability to powerful people who to any consequences for their actions. For example, the Me Too movement promised to use social media shaming to topple sexually abusive men in power who couldn't be held The promise of canceling to give power back to people who had none, and bring justice to prominent abusers. It's, in a way, the 21st century version of the guillotine, the bringer of justice, the people's avenger. But, also like the guillotine, it can become a sadistic And I wanna make the case that we do have, well, a teensy bit of a Reign of Terror situation Now there's a version of this conversation that's already been had to On the one side are a who constantly bitch about of control, you can't joke without these Millennial jackals trying to get you in trouble. And the other side is mostly who argue that there's no it's just that powerful people are finally being held and they can't f*cking handle it so they go around bitching Now unfortunately, neither is quite as correct as So, it's a good thing I'm He didn't know I was transgender. Story time, emotional, not click bait. Let's start with an example. The most high-profile YouTube canceling of 2019 was the canceling And again, I know you kids remember this, but (sigh) I have to for the elders. Put the kettle on, Karen. So James Charles is a which means, boomers, who make YouTube videos It's worth checking out to start up Internet Explorer. I certainly can't. t's pretty bomb, it's it's fab, it's far out, man, it's a gas, I fully dig it. Free love, give peace a So back in May of this and... mother figure? Fellow Tati Westbrook, uploaded a of endorsing a brand of hair vitamins that she, wait, that was a competitor of her brand of hair vitamins. An enthralling plot line, I know. And this was huge, this was And while Tati was at it, to the hair vitamin dispute, of being a sexual predator. Now I actually went back and checked Tati's original deleted video. And she actually never uses It's funny, I remember because that became the story on Twitter. But what she actually said was, &quot;James had tried to trick straight men &quot;into thinking they're gay.&quot; - Oh my god, you tried into thinking he's gay, yet again. - Which is pretty different from calling him a sexual predator. But see, this is what cancel culture does, it takes one story and transforms it into a significantly different story. You know, the headline I would write about the James and Tati story might read Tati Westbrook accuses James Charles of trying to trick straight But cancel culture transforms that story into the headline James Charles is a sexual predator. Interesting, now, I wanna make it clear that my intention here is really not to defend James Charles. I'm not a James Charles stan. I'm a biological female in my 30s. Close to death, I know, please That said, I do think the statement, &quot;James Charles is a sexual predator&quot;, is a stretch, to say the least. At least, based on the information So, let's analyze how this kind Cancel culture trope one, and you should be because this will be on the test. Cancel culture trope one, There's a traditional to which, before you you hear the accuser's side of the story and the accused's side of the story. You allow both sides to present evidence and only after everyone to make their case, do you pass sentence and punish the convict. (moaning) Punish me, king. Drinking this is punishment enough. Am I uncanceled yet, please. (laughs) You know in the United We legally have the But canceling does not abide by the law. Canceling is a form of And a lot of times, an Now, that's basically the point of the progressive slogan, &quot;Believe victims.&quot; It's a norm that was put into because out in the world at large, people generally don't believe victims. But I think it's pretty is a norm that's easy to abuse. Was Tati really James's victim? No, she's not some a prominent man in her industry. She's on top of the industry and she wasn't victimized by James at all. I see this case more as she weaponized cancel culture Anyway, before James had even had a chance to respond to Tati's accusation, from &quot;Tati Westbrook accuses James Charles of trying to trick straight to trick straight men,&quot; and from there, it was generalized into, &quot;James Charles is toxic and manipulative,&quot; which brings us to cancel culture trope two, abstraction. Abstraction replaces the of a claim with a more generic statement. In the transition from &quot;Tati of trying to trick straight men,&quot; to &quot;James Charles is we've lost not only the sense of this being an unverified accusation, but we've also lost all &quot;James Charles is toxic and manipulative&quot; is an incredibly vague statement and may as well be &quot;James Charles is bad.&quot; But even without the presumption of guilt, if someone tells me of toxic and manipulative behavior, I'm gonna think oh, And I'm gonna start speculating And whatever my imagination comes up with is likely going to be worse than whatever he's actually accused of. Also, the specific to trick straight men is self-evidently kind of questionable. How do you trick straight men If you find out, let me know. It's bad, I'm bad, I'm super bad. This is not a problem that straight men usually seem to have. At the very least, it It's the kind of story that sounds like it has more than one side. So I'm immediately gonna of the accusation, and I'm also gonna side eye Tati Westbrook because this accusation is setting off my homophobia detection alarm. (siren blaring) Leave the gays alone! But I'm not gonna have an opportunity to pick up on the potential homophobia and be skeptical of it, the situation is James Charles's And I also want to point that's happening here. When the claim was James Charles tried to trick straight men, the verbs in the sentence were &quot;try&quot; and &quot;trick.&quot; So what we're criticizing we're criticizing things trying to trick straight men. But once the claim is toxic and manipulative,&quot; the verb in the sentence is &quot;is&quot;, &quot;to are characteristics of James, and it's now not his but his personality, his This is what I'll call cancel culture Essentialism is when a person's actions to criticizing We're not just saying they did bad things, we're saying they're a bad person. And that's what takes us to trick straight men,&quot; to &quot;James So here, we're targeting James himself, not just his actions, but A sexual predator. And we've also really Because I don't know about you guys, but when I hear the the image that comes a child molester, maybe an abusive boss, not a teenage twink hung up on wanting to date straight guys. I mean, not that a person a sexual predator, but that he's a sexual predator is a fair summary of the accusation. So this seems to me like a pretty nasty and dishonest twisting of the story, and it happened It totally dominated the conversation in a community of millions of James had lost millions of subscribers and who knows what effect Not that anyone's seems to care. In fact, most people seemed He was a teenage millionaire, Easy to envy, easy to hard to sympathize with. What was the point of Did we want to teach him a lesson? Did we want him to learn from his mistakes and grow as a person? Imagine actually wanting someone to learn, imagine actually caring. My hunch is that the was not sincerely outraged and that James Charles was a sexual predator. In other words, this was not this was a controversy a handful of seemingly I honestly think that is a sexual predator&quot; crowd just wanted to bring him down a peg. Cancel culture trope four, pseudo-moralism or pseudo-intellectualism. If you look at the world we live in, would you say that people by a sense of moral integrity No, maybe not. Let's be real America, we are a bunch of morally impotent meatbags, constantly sh*tting ourselves For Tati, calling out it was about the hair vitamins, right? I think sis was super salty who she had supported and helped, had betrayed her by And accusing him of trying to a twist of the knife. But moralism or intellectualism provide a phony pretext for the call-out. You can pretend you just want an apology, you can pretend you're just the person to improve. You can pretend you're when what you're really doing is attacking a person's career and envy, revenge, I mean, it Twitter viewed James spoiled little brat, the smile off his smug face, It's schadenfreude, right, this kind of petty sadism. Maybe not the internet's the most shameful either. And that's not to say that everyone canceling But there's a world of difference and &quot;cancel James Charles.&quot; And I'm interested to know to look the same. When James was being canceled, of transfixed by the sight of his life and career falling from black smoke spewing out. A lot of my YouTube friends were like, &quot;Lol, did you see James &quot;L-O-L-O-L-O-L-O-L.&quot; But I looked up at that's gonna be me someday. Stay strong sister, don't let Let's switch over to White these are fun, a little more They didn't even have these I'm not even wearing makeup. I don't need make-up to serve (laughing) Keep drinking, people, we're gonna make it through this together. So I was doing a little I was looking into the James bunch of tweets referencing &quot;Y'all forgiving James Charles? &quot;He's still a transphobe. &quot;Y'all are acting like &quot;has receipts, he's no longer &quot;James Charles is racist, &quot;and a sexual predator. &quot;A white woman, y'all are &quot;and he's uncanceled.&quot; So according to Twitter, a sexual predator, he's also a racist and a transphobe. That sounds pretty serious. Let's investigate. We'll start with the Cat girls of the jury, exhibit A. - So you're not even full gay? - I mean, no, there have that I thought were really beautiful. There's also been trans that I would really really - And I oop. As they say on Twitter, &quot;yikes.&quot; &quot;This ain't it chief.&quot; &quot;Friendly reminder that &quot;Maybe don't be transphobic? Disappointing.&quot; So James did f*ck up here. The problem is he's suggesting to trans men makes him less gay, which implies that trans which is at odds with the way trans men understand themselves. So this does deserve However, what I see when I is not a dyed-in-the-wool I see a very young person on understanding his own to figure out where his attraction to trans men fits into that. And it seems to me that to that situation is for and explain to him, &quot;Look, &quot;is hurtful to trans men and &quot;to avoid saying that kind You know, ignorance is not Not understanding someone is not the same as wanting them dead. Of course, there are a waste of time to engage with, but sometimes just talking to and understanding is all it takes. But that's not what cancel we have to immediately to the highest possible level of conflict. So by abstraction, we get &quot;James Charles made And by essentialism, we get, We don't give him a chance to reflect, we don't give him an opportunity to learn, we go straight to branding him a bigot. Nonetheless, that same week, to his Insta story saying, &quot;Regardless of whatever &quot;that came across as me &quot;because I have been with a trans man &quot;and that is absolutely, &quot;like, that doesn't make me not fully gay, &quot;but that stereotype and implication &quot;is really, really dangerous &quot;If you are a trans man, you are a man. &quot;If you're a trans girl, you are a woman, &quot;you are valid in your identity.&quot; Could you ask for a better apology? Like he not only but he also demonstrates of why it was wrong. So does that mean people stopped Of course not. cancel culture trope five, no forgiveness. Cancelers will often dismiss no matter how convincingly And of course, an insincere of what a machiavellian Now sometimes, a good for a while, but the next the original accusation as if you never apologized. And that's what happened to James during the Tati scandal when a transphobic sexual predator. And that's to say nothing of this racism I've been hearing about. Here are the receipts, exhibit B. In February, 2017, when than he is now, he tweeted, &quot;I can't believe we're &quot;O-M-G, what if we get Ebola? &quot;James we're fine, we could have gotten &quot;it at Chipotle last year.&quot; Okay, well that's a it's not really something And fear of disease associated I can see how it's in the as certain racist tropes, but clearly, this was intended as a joke about his friend mistaking And anyway, he did apologize saying, &quot;As a white cis male, I &quot;and would never want to &quot;But I f*cked up. &quot;I feel awful for posting what I said. &quot;I understand why what I said And James hasn't made a that ever since, so is this that he apologized for on for us to justify labeling him a racist? Well, according to cancel Abstraction takes us from, &quot;Two years ago, &quot;James Charles made a joke &quot;of getting Ebola in Africa,&quot; &quot;a racist joke.&quot; And then essentialism takes us (sighs) Look, I want to pause to in social justice, at least as much as trash like me believes in anything. And believe me, I am irony and even complaints are often used by bigots The Southern Poverty Law about how far-right and mockery of SJWs as a way to camouflage their hateful beliefs and make them more palatable So I'm coming at this from for anti-racism and anti-transphobia, as well as an awareness of the fact that cancel culture is often just a conservative red herring and all complaints about But I've also become very disillusioned with the way these so frivolously on social media. By the way they're used instead of promote understanding. And by the way they're to destroy people who have made mistakes but who really don't Now, maybe you're thinking, destroyed? What do you mean destroyed? James is a 20 year old to owning his own makeup empire. And you are completely correct. If you're James Charles, then being canceled most The cancelers blend into of haters and they can set you back a few million subscribers and but in the long run, they can't But here's the thing, what What if you're a small creator? What if you can't afford What if you belong to a and you rely on that Well in that case, it's (muffled techno music) Let's Irish up this coffee. (glugging) (ice sloshing) Shaken, not stirred. Spilled it all over my p*ssy. (groans) Mmm, that's good. Booze and coffee is a good combination. I am feeling amped right So this is the part in the that I'm not just a casual observer here. At the time I'm making this video, sweaty, I'm super canceled. I try to make videos that are both informative So in this video the to learn about cancel is you get to watch a worm (tongue pops) Let's get started. Forgive me father, for I have God, I never wanted to be the kind of YouTuber who would resort to making videos about my own drama but things have gotten to a point, I feel like I can not I spill some tea. So let's get started. Okay first, a little backstory, I've never talked about so this is a super f*cking but I am, in fact, a transgender woman, which may come as a big shock to many of you since I'm 100% real fish. (tapping) I get comments all the time like, &quot;Guys, I'm pretty sure this is a dude.&quot; Okay, you're a detective, You're doing very good, But yes, as one of YouTube's I am a prime target for cancellation and I have been canceled many, many times. And we're gonna talk about some of the things I've been the things I've been criticized for and the difference between because yes, there is a difference. As we go along, I will admit because despite how I look, and I will apologize where However, where I believe is excessive or unwarranted, because here at ContraPoints Industries, we are not in the business So, the reason for my current that in my last video Opulence, I cast transsexual p*rn star Buck Angel in the role of John Waters. And yes, it's a much better story than the hair vitamin debacle. So notify the drama channels, because sweetie, I'm not I'm here to win. So basically I'm canceled with Buck Angel and a lot of trans people think Buck And so my collaboration with Buck Angel is evidence that I too Cancel culture trope six, the transitive property of cancellation. Cancellation is infectious. If you associate with a canceled person, the cancellation rubs off. It's like gonorrhea, except doxycycline won't Look, this whole incident on whether Buck Angel is So who is Buck Angel? Well, he's a trans man of He grew up in a world where like the visibility and about transition we have today, and where there is a strict in place for people who In fact, Buck was the first female to male patient his In the 2000s, he rose to his gimmick at the time But he also became an activist. He wanted to create more within the p*rn world, and from there, he became a more general educator and advocate for trans people. I first heard about him I was doing some googling I was having myself, to remain a female. And Buck was one of the I'd ever heard about. And he made an impact on me in part because you take one look at him and you think honey, that's a man. But he was born a woman. (ominous music) You can do that? So it's not that he inspired me to transition or anything, of many moments along my So I had positive feelings about Tranpa, that's what he calls and then a few months ago and miserable and I was being canceled by trans Twitter, we'll get to that one from Buck on Instagram. &quot;Dear beautiful human &quot;It is okay that you lash out at me. &quot;You do this because I am you &quot;and you are reflecting &quot;I am strong and will be here &quot;for you forever and no matter what. &quot;This is my intention as a &quot;Love, Buck Angel.&quot; And then the caption, &quot;the trans community &quot;I am very aware of the hate towards me &quot;by some in the community. &quot;They hate on me and others And those were exactly the words I needed to hear at that moment and then Buck DMed me and And I was like senpai noticed me, and so I said I love you back. Then when I was working on Opulence, I needed a voice actor to do a And it was my co-director, Theryn, who suggested, &quot;Don't you &quot;of like John Waters?&quot; And I said, &quot;Well, he &quot;let's see if he wants to do it.&quot; And I just loved the as John Waters in the video credits. Like a trans icon playing a gay icon. In my head it was just so, well, iconic. So I got in touch with Buck about the line and he was like yeah, I'd love to do it. So here it is, the 10 that ruined a month of my life. - &quot;One must remember, &quot;as good bad taste and bad bad taste. &quot;to understand bad taste, one - That's it, children, Now I was aware at the time that trans Twitter hated Buck Angel. But my thinking was of hates every trans celebrity so I wasn't gonna let that stop me. Little did I know quite how vicious things were about to get. Now, so far, I've been telling this story from my point to give a fair and balanced account. So I want to pause and contextualize why some trans people hate Buck Angel so much, they're willing to cancel anyone who Basically, it all goes the trans community known as truscum versus transtrenders. So truscum are trans people who distinguish between true trans people and fake trans people who Usually truscum think that what it is to be trans is to have a to pursue a medical and surgery, and to socially re-assimilate into your target binary Anyone who is not that, must either be a confused teenager, someone just trying to get attention, someone mistaking their for being trans, in a word, a trender. So that's a vish of transness that usually excludes non-binary people as well as people who don't want to medically transition and for that reason, this view is sometimes also called trans medicalism, truscum obviously being the derogatory term for these people. So truscum are very hated by a lot of trans people because their viewpoint is that not all trans identities are valid. And Buck Angel is widely So the next question is Buck Angel, in fact, truscum? Now my honest answer to that He certainly said some things that sound like things truscum A point he likes to make a lot is that he's transsexual not transgender. And the difference between those terms is sometimes defined that you want to pursue so hormones and surgery, and And people associate this, &quot;I'm transsexual, &quot;not transgender&quot; thing with truscum because truscum often call and say that anyone who isn't a transsexual isn't really trans. And often those people will be very mean to people they call trenders, especially certain like Vanessa LeBlanc and 2CuteSmasher9000. (laughs) 2CuteSmasher9000. Roast me back, Calvin, I dare you. (laughing) (dinging) But I think it's important to keep in mind that the term truscum is a and trying to apply it to trans people of an older generation can Like when Buck Angel transitioned, the word transsexual was just and he still identifies that way. So when younger trans people tell him it's wrong to use the word transsexual, he feels like these ungrateful Millennials are invalidating his identity. And I do understand where but I also understand why a lot of non-binary people are Like he says again and &quot;not transgender, like don't And that eagerness to separate himself from transgender people, it Like I don't think he's ever actually said that non-binary people aren't valid but I personally don't like to distance himself from them. And that's my disagreement with Buck, it's not that he invalidates because I don't really see him doing that, and if he was doing that, because for the last two months a lot of people have been doing nothing but sending me problematic But as someone who cares a and who loves the non-binary it does upset me when he and I hope he listens to this it would be cool if he Of course, Buck is technically right that there are different And I agree it's those distinctions and talk about the differences when they're relevant. But I also think that as a community, trans people benefit Like if you have an employer who discriminates against trans people, they're not gonna care transgender, non-binary They're gonna discriminate So we're all in this together and there's a lot of disagreements among so well, but politically I as much as possible instead of splitting into little factions because we share most of the same interests to do that is to build bridges And that's why I'm willing to work with people like Buck Angel who I have some disagreements with. It creates a connection, you know. And to communication and build understanding. Also I need all the I am very lonely. It's not a joke, it's true. Now I get that some people have views that are so harmful that giving them a platform is potentially dangerous. But in any case, I didn't even give Buck a platform to share his opinions, I gave him a platform to be A bunch of people on my sub-Reddit were like why couldn't to do those lines? Well first of all, I but I just have a feeling as some kind of (beep) millennial SJW. Like why is Buck Angel Well, because trans Twitter and let's try to keep it that way. I actually mentioned this to a friend of mine who knows John and John have actually watched So plot twist. Okay, so trans Twitter I condemn Buck Angel as for ever working with him. But I'm not going to do that because I don't think it would be the right thing to do, and doing it just to get myself uncanceled I'm happy to tell you with Buck's divisive rhetoric about transsexual versus transgender. I wish he would be an ally to the whole transgender to distance himself from the rest. And I'm happy to hear at the perspective of non-binary people who don't trust him because I totally got and I think that's valid. But I also respect the decades of good activism Buck Angel and I am grateful to him for that. And in light of that, I'm of the doubt about where his heart is and express my criticism than just attacking who But Twitter needs to establish that he's a horrible person because this is the strategy they've chosen to establish that I am a horrible person. And if the truscum allegation to prove it, oh, they have other pieces of evidence to fall back on For example, here's a tweet claiming, &quot;Natalie's trying so f*cking &quot;the only thing Buck &quot;a few iffy tweets, and that's just &quot;so f*cking far from the truth. &quot;Dude launched a targeted &quot;outing a trans woman against her will, &quot;with a specific intent &quot;emotional and professional harm. &quot;The shorter way of saying that is &quot;that he wanted to make her suffer &quot;and she very well Yikes, this ain't it chief. Friendly reminder that Maybe don't try to get trans It sounds pretty serious, let's investigate. Here's what I've managed Scene one, the year is 2003, Los Angeles, where the movie world, the p*rn world and the BDSM scene come together betrayal and transsexualism, La La Land. Dramatis personae, Buck Ilsa Strix, dominatrix Lana Wachowski, wildly successful at the time, not yet out The synopsis is that Ilsa Strix and Buck Angel's marriage ended after Ilsa had an affair with Lana Wachowski who was not yet out as trans. So Buck was understandably in what seems like a petty act of revenge, told a series of magazines that this celebrity director Wachowski was a cross dresser who had I guess, was the information So is that outing a trans Well, in retrospect it that may not be what he thought But to really get to the bottom of this, we have to do some digging. We have to trawl through the dirty details of trans people's personal is one of the Internet's So I actually went on eBay and I purchased Rolling Stone and I'm finally able to reveal (drum rolling and intense music) that the seller canceled the order. Goddammit. But I was finally able to track down and translate a Spanish version of the Rolling Stone article and I'm finally able to expose the truth. Stop, freeze exactly where you are. Take a look at yourself and what all of us have been doing Who does this behavior remind you of? If your answer is social for trans equality, you are incorrect. If your answer is creepy (bell ringing) I am very suspicious of anyone who's online behavior prompts me to dig through articles full of dead names and sordid scandals involving trans people from almost two decades ago. This is very similar to techniques by internet fascists. So I'm pretty suspicious of anyone pushing this kind of investigation. How can you tell the difference between a trans-anarcho socialist and a Nazi pretending to be with an anime avatar? Well, you can't. Anonymous is anonymous is anonymous, whether it's on 4chan or Twitter. So unless Buck Angel, Ilsa in touch with me and lets me know that for some unimaginable reason they want me to publicly dig up their this is none of my f*cking business. And it's none of yours either. So shut up and go back to (pleasant ballroom music) (slurping) Let's Irish up this tea. Doesn't work as well with tea. So setting aside any tabloid drama that may have happened during (laughing) I'm saying this and they deserve it. They f*cking deserve the cuntiness. I'm spilling whiskey tea all I'm a lady. she's a woman. (coughs) The main argument against a collage of Buck Angel's And this is supposed to that he is a horrible that I am a horrible person Well, here's the thing though, a collage of problematic tweets And I'm very used to being So I know how unfair it can be. Before I ever collaborated a lot of people on Twitter were that's been going on And any time my name comes up on Twitter, a bunch of people respond &quot;Natalie's a trans medicalist, &quot;Natalie hates non-binary people &quot;and you should really think what kind &quot;of message you're sending to your trans &quot;and non-binary followers And if the person defends me they, &quot;say I can't believe you're ignoring &quot;the valid concerns of marginalized people.&quot; You know, they're weaponizing as trans people to isolate and And sometimes this stuff I start asking myself wait, Do I really believe all these awful things they say I believe? But the answer is no, I just don't. These things they're saying You know, &quot;believe marginalized people&quot; is a norm that has encouraged for good reason, much like &quot;believe victims&quot; or &quot;believe women.&quot; And these norms were established to counterbalance the is not to listen to marginalize people or to victims or to women. and the blunt fact of the matter is sometimes marginalized Sometimes people calling are obscuring a more And it's even happened, once or twice, that a woman has lied. And the accusation that I'm I mean first of all, I don't even think of my own transgenderism much less everyone else's. I have of course collaborated But I will not have my artistry reduced to mere medicine. Second, this accusation that is just no. Non, non. My thinking about trans identity by non-binary people. I used to identify as I medically transitioned, and some of the closest people to me in my life today are non-binary trans people, some of whom are also transsexuals, incidentally, (laughs) it's complicated. I've also made at least five for the validity of going back more than three years. So that's five out of around 50 videos, or 10% of the content is about non-binary identity. A few months ago I even made a 30-minute video called Transtrenders, which uses character dialogue the shortcomings of transmedicalism. But there's still hundreds that I'm truscum who And their main piece a collage of my problematic tweets. So let's take a look at that. Here's the three tweets that I usually see scrap-booked that I hate non-binary people. This is the first one Notice how it's taken out so you can't even see &quot;I'm sure this is not the NB means non-binary people. &quot;I leave it to them to articulate &quot;what NB existence looks &quot;I do not and I can not speak for them. &quot;But surely&quot;, god, I used &quot;But surely an account &quot;with, I'm not a man &quot;as one, is pretty weak.&quot; Okay, when I wrote the Twitter thread that that tweet has been clipped out of, I was defending myself from accusations that my most recent video, at the time, The Aesthetic, was anti non-binary. In that video there's a character a version of the performativity And basically I made this I was feeling about the pressures of transitioning in the public eye. This was a very one-year-on-hormones moment for me and I've already moved on in my thinking. At that time I was very... My behavior must be perfectly feminine at all times or else I'm not really a woman, my self-esteem is with heterosexual men (buzzing) And anyone who knows anything about trans women knows that most of us go through a stage And some YouTubers never But personally, I mean these days, it doesn't matter what I wear, it's when I dream these dreams... (laughs) Dragging &quot;The Danish Girl&quot;. Well f*ck the Danish, I could never abide that sort of person. We all know what I'm talking about. You can tell the whisky is getting to me because I'm being These things come out, you know? (cups clinking) When, you get honest, you get real when you get a little bit of the Irish in your system. Did I just f*cking put lipstick outside the f*cking lip liner? This is all Lily's fault. Lili Elbe, f*ck her dreams. The point is when I was I wasn't even thinking And people will say that the I make references non-binary As I've, said about one in 10 of my videos is about non-binary identity and I feel entitled to make some videos that are just about trans women. But still some people that the character Justine And because she maybe wins the video, I Natalie Wynn, am Here's the thing though, of gender, the one that is conceptually as far as it is possible to be. Transmedicalism says that it's neurological, it's hormonal, its diagnosable and treatable, whereas performativity says it's expression, it's performance, Phenomenon, phenomenon, Performativity makes no or to any kind of medical concept at all. So whereas transmedicalism performativity is a kind So these are exact opposite Are you following along class? I'm not. (laughs) I'm ready to drink But some trans people felt invalidated by things Justine says in that video. And transmedicalism is another thing that makes them feel invalidated. So they decided that and therefore that I And this is literally just Like, it's a failure to that some people did find And so much of the negative response to that video is just pure emotion. I always hear, &quot;I don't &quot;trans people were hurt by that video. &quot;You hurt trans people.&quot; But here's the thing, by content I made, doesn't or that I'm victimizing you in some way. I'll give an example. I did a stream a couple years ago with a BDSM and kink activist. We were talking about various kinks and we got to DDLG which basically when consenting and the power dynamic And me and this kink activists what DDLG is, what it isn't, the chat was starting They were typing in all caps to justify raping me, why I can't believe you'd betray me like this. Please stop taking my abuser's side, please stop, I'm begging you. This was actually really f*cking upsetting to me because this person They were having a panic attack because they were having to this conversation. And I kept telling them and take care of themselves So I had to block them and and make sure they were okay. Now was there pain very real? Yes. Was it triggered by the Yes. But does that mean I did anything wrong? No. Is it wrong to talk about it's clear you're going No. But when you produce to be viewed by thousands there's always some people to be hurt by it. So if you want to argue that a tweet or a video I made is somehow immoral, I think you need more of an argument than just, &quot;People were hurt.&quot; All right, back to the tweet. To this day, people &quot;But surely an account that begins &quot;and ends with I'm not a &quot;as one is pretty weak.&quot; And they claim this as or that I think people have to prove their identities somehow, which is not at all what I What I was saying is if a skeptic that trans identity is valid, simply saying I'm not a man as one isn't a very good argument. Which it isn't. I mean, no one has ever so far as I'm aware. That said, I do now I had when I tweeted this. Back then I still delusionally believed that it was possible to rationally explain why trans identity is valid. And I was simply looking for than, &quot;This is how I identify, &quot;no further questions.&quot; But I no longer believe there can be any rational justification Which is another reason Transmedicalism tries about why trans identity is valid, and I don't think it succeeds as that, I don't think anything does. My current opinion about &quot;because I don't identify or rather, as bad, an argument as any. You know, some things in life just can't be rationally explained. Like love. Why do you love the person you love? Well, because you love them. You could write a poem about it or some gay sh*t like that, but you can't give any actual arguments. And why am I a woman? (upbeat pop music) That's it. I mean, I can describe my experiences and my feelings to you to but I can't logically prove anything. And I'm super f*ckin that mankind was set That must be super f*cking hard for you. Tell me all about it. (bell rings) Next please. Okay, again we're mid but the tweet says, &quot;Whereas &quot;in full-on boy mode who are like hi, &quot;I'm a trans woman, she-her pronouns.&quot; So I guess by including this is problematic collage, that I don't think it's valid for someone who presents male to identify as a woman and requests she-her pronouns. Well, that's not true. I was surprised when I first experienced this but I think it's valid, next. (bell rings) Okay, mid thread, no context once again. &quot;But now you go into these &quot;and like 20 to 30% identify &quot;most of them are not &quot;That seems to be the future.&quot; Okay well, it's true that are like this. But reading this back, the phrase, &quot;conventional is hitting my ear. I can see how it could imply that non-binary identities which isn't true. There's been non-binary there's been medical So we'll call this a bad tweet. I apologize for tweeting it and I apologize to any non-binary people who felt trivialized by it. (bell rings) Okay, this is the big one. This tweet got its own article You know, I really wish people to the tweets I spend 30 seconds writing, and a little more attention you know, hundreds of hours making. (sighs) Anyway, let's look at the tweet. This is the most scrutinized and it's so mediocre. &quot;This has happened to me &quot;Like it's me and a bunch of cis women &quot;and we all have to go in &quot;because I'm there. &quot;There's this paradox where I can go &quot;to a sports bar in North Carolina &quot;and be miss-ma'amed &quot;But in self-consciously &quot;I have to explain my pronouns &quot;and watch woke people awkwardly correct &quot;themselves every time they say you guys. &quot;I guess it's good for &quot;and want only gender-neutral language, &quot;but it comes at the minor &quot;like me, and that's super So people interpreted this the practice of sharing pronouns, which I'm literally just not. Like I've actually been the pronoun circle many times. The backstory of this tweet is basically that I once got triggered I was with a bunch of to go around saying our pronouns. And like a typical triggered (beep), I tiptoed over to Twitter, But here's the thing, by I had already talked myself away from the initial frustration I was expressing. If you know my videos and my voice, then you know me saying, &quot;It &quot;of semi passible transes, &quot;for us&quot;, is sarcastic. It's a minor expense. It's not actually very hard (sighs) But people on and they don't get sarcasm. So people flipped out over this. I was getting dragged and to try to solve the tweet which 100% of the time is like trying to put out a fire with lighter fluid. So me and my dumb brain trying to clarify what I was saying and defending my right to That didn't make things any and frustration, I tweeted and this time I said including the now-infamous line, &quot;I sometimes feel like the last of &quot;the old-school transsexuals.&quot; I honestly don't know what the f*ck I was even trying to say. &quot;I don't feel like the last of I don't even know what that means. I guess I basically meant that, offline, I don't have any radical aspirations. I want to be inconspicuous, And that's what I meant by &quot;old school,&quot; I want people to assume my pronouns. It's funny because it the way I am online where I'm I'm like sexual confession everybody, sexual confession, I have abnormal urges! (siren blaring) It's 1:00 a.m. My neighbors can definitely hear that. They know I have abnormal urges now. They already knew that. But offline, I'm an inconspicuous p*ssy, like a total coward. So this was a rage thread and (bell chimes) (muffled pop music) (slurping) Let's go back to Buck Angel. (sighs) I'm kind of a to the practice of a collage of their worst but I definitely do Like, I think I'm doing the right thing by not condemning Buck I mean, I could be wrong. What if I am basically sacrificing myself for the sake of a person who really is as bad as Twitter says. Maybe tomorrow he'll tweet and then I'll have f*cked up. (sighs) This whole thing is But I do believe that by in the anti-Buck Angel pile on, I am erring on the morally Because even if he is a little truscummy, excommunicating him is still probably not the In my experience, when but not non-binary trans people, it usually takes like a to win them over to some level And I'll give you a couple examples. The first time I was ever canceled, like totally trashed on when I had not yet medically transitioned, and at the time, I And at VidCon 2017, I met up had made some videos the idea of non-binary people. And I posted a picture of and some other people but and people on Twitter totally dragged me for being a peak liberal boot with transphobic abusers. Christ, these f*cking people, man. This is so f*cking frustrating. And I'm not gonna claim because I don't know what but I did talk to her and she did remove her And I don't have any (slurping) (glass shatters) (man screams) Example two, a couple months a conservative trans what was her name? Sharon, Sharon, was it Sharon? I guess she's just not Anyway, she had made some videos saying that non-binary identities aren't real. But I gave her a chance by being super compassionate By the end of that stream, she was pretty much totally So again, the point is of persuasive genius. If I was a persuasive genius, maybe I could talk myself The point is that sometimes or hateful just need to be given a non-judgmental space to And to just condemn them as hopeless bigots actually prevents that growth from happening. And Sharon, despite her totally turned out to be an Like later on she actually to non-binary people and I and we work together on most of the videos I've made this year. You know, until she ruined a canceled John Waters impersonator. I guess the moral is never talk it will only lead to pain. (gentle acoustic music) I do think there's something like I'm crying three times a day. Oh, and I can't cum in at least three of my holes. It happens like once a month, I honestly only still the pain for a few moments. What I'm trying to say is I really do believe in conversation which means hearing out I don't want my audience to get all their information about and I think it's important So I encourage my audience to go watch some non-binary YouTubers who have criticized me and For example, go check Luxanders's video about Korviday's video about Buck Angel. I think YouTube as a platform is better at producing criticism And I think that's because, making a video forces you to confront the fact that you're a human who can be held accountable But people on Twitter, And I think it's time we take a look at what canceling really is. I've given you enough context now for you to understand what which is what I saw on for nearly a month. All these tweets are from the aftermath of my uploading Opulence, two months ago, when the Buck Angel scandal first broke. And so I'm gonna hold my hands (gong rings) (laughs) &quot;Hey, if any of you still &quot;after her bigging up and collaborating &quot;with notable TERF favorite &quot;you're no friend to gender nonconforming, &quot;non-passing and non-binary trans people. &quot;F*ck her and f*ck her f*cking grift. &quot;I am absolutely furious right now. &quot;Weird how I'm 30 and &quot;to be a truscum, maybe I'm &quot;or maybe ContraPoints is a &quot;who could do with a fully &quot;Since I'm out of Twitter jail for now, &quot;I just want to say f*ck ContraPoints, &quot;her sycophantic stans and &quot;who closed ranks to &quot;the rest of the trans community &quot;Natalie Wynn is a f*cking grifter. &quot;ContraPoints videos are now &quot;so that explains why she &quot;ContraPoints working with truscum &quot;now definitively proves &quot;that pretty much everyone &quot;just hates NBs and are also truscum, &quot;legit gonna start on following peeps &quot;that continue to follow &quot;Do note my wording of &quot;I know there are some that &quot;by this somehow. &quot;So long as you know that &quot;you're safe and cool. &quot;Eat sh*t, Natalie. &quot;For someone who used to &quot;we expected more from you. &quot;But I guess when your heads &quot;this far up your own ass, &quot;ContraPoints, more like disappoints.&quot; Oh, that's a good one. If you're gonna drag &quot;F*ck Buck Angel, f*ck ContraPoints, &quot;f*ck any real transsexual. &quot;F*ck your grift. &quot;Here's what hashtag ContraPoints &quot;If Natalie refuses to accept &quot;to make and continues profiting from it, &quot;it will become our responsibility &quot;to work on de-platforming her, &quot;just like every other racist, sexist, &quot;bigoted content creator. &quot;No one has actually &quot;to actually cancel her, but the longer &quot;this goes on without an apology &quot;and commitment to be better, the stronger &quot;the case becomes for actively So in other words, no one but we should cancel her, great. &quot;Can everyone finally agree &quot;that ContraPoints belongs Here I am, sweetie. &quot;ContraPoints collaborating Angel Buck, thanks for letting us all know that you had no idea who he even was until Twitter notified &quot;ContraPoints collaborating &quot;a transmedicalist who &quot;to try and destroy &quot;because he looks and sounds &quot;a small itty bitty, tipsy &quot;This is a huge deal. &quot;ContraPoints could be literally (bell chimes) We have a Hitler comparison. &quot;Could be literally &quot;and y'all would be like oh well, &quot;she's just a little flawed, you know? &quot;F*ck off.&quot; &quot;Can Natalie Wynn stop being a coward &quot;and commit to being a trans-med, &quot;it's really tiring to watch &quot;Natalie Wynn is a &quot;to take accountability. &quot;Anyone who supports Natalie Wynn &quot;does not support non-binary people. &quot;Natalie Wynn is such a &quot;Every cis and not non-binary person &quot;who thought Natalie win &quot;and every non-binary person $50. &quot;Joe Biden has a better position on &quot;the validity of non-binary &quot;My opinion is that &quot;a lot and I don't like her. &quot;I hate ContraPoints so goddamn &quot;ContraPoints be like let's (laughs) This is a very You're doing very good, sweetie. You're doing very, very good. &quot;Buck Angel is a TERF apologizer, &quot;boot licker and truscum. &quot;Any association with him &quot;to the trans community as a whole, &quot;let alone denial of non-binary existence. &quot;That's the line in the sand, &quot;And here we f*cking are dude, &quot;Buck-f*cking-Angel on ContraPoints. &quot;Eat my entire ass!&quot; What, what? (laughing) &quot;This is Natalie, Natalie &quot;this is Natalie's friend &quot;Natalie and Lindsey are still friends &quot;because Natalie and &quot;Lefttube is a grift.&quot; Oh, and they made me the man. The shade! &quot;Issues that arose with (mumbles) being &quot;in Contra's new video. &quot;Her video on turfs make no sense now. &quot;Her video on transtrenders You know, if your interpretation of why I cast Buck Angel totally I spent hundreds of hours making, do you think maybe your Apparently not. &quot;Her apology is completely void, &quot;sends a message that she &quot;She is reckless with her content. &quot;Positive set arose from Buck Angel being &quot;in Contra's new video, &quot;she has $400,000 this 400,000, this number It is exponentially wrong. $400,000, $400,000 a month. &quot;Odd take, ContraPoints &quot;Personally, I like to characterize her as &quot;the Blair White Wolf in &quot;Reminder that ContraPoints is a piece &quot;of sh*t who still has not apologized &quot;for platforming truscum and &quot;Anyway, if you still &quot;get the hell away from me! &quot;Pee pee, poo poo, I'm ContraPoints &quot;and I can't stop being a transmedicalist &quot;and sh*tting myself Valid criticisms of &quot;F*ck ContraPoints, f*ck truscum. &quot;ContraPoints is a truscum. &quot;ContraPoints is a truscum. &quot;ContraPoints is a truscum. &quot;ContraPoints is a truscum. &quot;ContraPoints is a truscum. You know, when you repeat the same f*cking sentence you don't need to repeat and over again... Actually doesn't get more persuasive, in fact, it might get less persuasive because true things usually (tongue pops) &quot;If you still support ContraPoints, &quot;unfollow me immediately and &quot;In conclusion, f*ck Natalie Wynn &quot;and f*ck everything she has to say.&quot; (sighs) (somber acoustic music) Okay, let's get started. So that was just a sample of hundreds and hundreds of tweets. And all of this, let me remind you, is over a 10-second voice-over clip in a 48 minute video about a How do you work, how do you create, when a decision so trivial can become the main event for weeks of your life? And the tweets are just the beginning. After that there's the Reddit threads and the YouTube comments AND the Medium posts, and the Newsweek article. Opulence is a video me of hours carefully piecing together. I think it's my best video. And to have the response to by one minor casting and infuriating to me. And it's left me with much less But here's the thing, people on Twitter saying is not the worst of it, not even close. Like I'm a politically who publicly transitioned while on a notoriously right-wing Sweaty, I am so used about myself online, most of to imagine how used to it I am. And the way you psychologically is you block the people on and you pay it no mind. But there's some things you can't block. And a big one is you can't block people from going after your And that is exactly what people did to me at the height of the Buck Angel incident. Lindsay Ellis, Olly from Philosophy Tube and Hbomberguy all got that they publicly disown me, a person they've all been In response to demands that she apologize, Lindsay released a &quot;I was not involved in Opulence. &quot;My name was mentioned in it, &quot;but I did not participate &quot;Therefore, with regards to &quot;I have to ask, apologize for what? &quot;There is only one logical answer, &quot;apologize for being And here's a response to her statement. &quot;I don't need to consider &quot;to disagree with beliefs &quot;or allow on your platform. &quot;Same with Contra, it &quot;to allow awful ideas &quot;of financial gain which is fine, &quot;but it makes you a piece of sh*t.&quot; And here's a comment at Hbomberguy. &quot;I doubt that you were gonna read this, &quot;but can you please just &quot;that whole situation so &quot;that you are on our side. &quot;We don't want to have &quot;and cause BreadTube to go into a schism &quot;as a result of this, thank you.&quot; Nice YouTube channel you have there, friend. Would be a shame of someone So f*cking sinister. Olly of Philosophy Tube released his support of non-binary &quot;Sadly I've also been &quot;doxxed, had my private life speculated on &quot;and my loved ones insulted, &quot;in recognizing the feelings &quot;their concerns in a polite way, &quot;I do not wish to legitimize &quot;who use their hurt as a cover &quot;for unacceptable toxic And here are some responses to Olly, &quot;As a non-binary fan of yours, &quot;I'm disappointed in this non-apology.&quot; Again, what exactly is he Ever having associated with me? &quot;Things we are going to criticize &quot;being a sniveling &quot;refusing to listen to trans people, &quot;actively, openly and repeatedly mocking &quot;the trans people he refuses to listen to. &quot;Thanks for the apology, now Now keep in mind that what is demanding that cis a trans woman for loosely associating with another trans person. Does that strike anyone else Even Mia Mulder, a trans woman who has never publicly associated because she tweeted a heart at Olly, you know, after he made the post discussing being And just for that, she &quot;I'm sad to say that Mia is on the list &quot;of people that have stood by ContraPoints &quot;as she had continued to be To which Mia responds, &quot;Stood &quot;No matter what I do, people call me out &quot;and I'm not even related to the video &quot;and I don't even know Natalie!&quot; The chain of guilt by association I can barely even follow it. So they're going after Mia, who tweeted a heart at Olly, for my voice-over casting of Buck Angel, who was retweeted by a TERF. We're only missing a couple of degrees of separation before the planet Earth is canceled And several colleagues of mine, by the way, Lindsay, Harry, Olly, they all took a financial hit over this. They've all lost some Patreon support. One of the Lindsay's former a $38 lifetime refund saying, &quot;Dear Lindsay, I'm sorry for being pushy, &quot;but I really am going &quot;I gave money to your &quot;that you wouldn't do &quot;and supporting &quot;for taking issue with that is, &quot;in my opinion, amoral. &quot;Please respond.&quot; I hope she sent it to them in pennies. So look, I'm very for sticking by me through all this, but I'm also aware that to anyone who associates with me. I have no collaborators in this video. I'm working on this totally of how radioactive I am right now, and I don't want to During the height of this a creator I admire DMd me to let me know, &quot;I cut the shout-out &quot;because I was nervous to draw &quot;who are getting genuinely scary. &quot;But I wouldn't want you to &quot;regardless of how many Jesus Christ. The situation here is that or even associates with me in any way, will be labeled a transphobe. Any binary trans person will be branded an NB-phobe. And any non-binary people will be ostracized from So on the Internet I find I'm isolated by the harassment. And that is ultimately the point, to exile me from my And it's all because I in doing exactly that to Buck Angel. My experiences have with the idea that social to any kind of justice, that I've essentially sworn There's a fairly prominent I could absolutely hashtag-Me-Too, but I'm never gonna do it in the process of call And I'm not saying I'm totally because I think, in some cases, it totally is the brave But in my case, I feel like the dark side of social to participate in it again. You know, I feel like the story would of my control, warped of unpredictable ways. It would end up just haunting both me and the person I'd be honestly, neither of us deserves. So I'm just not willing to take that risk, except maybe in some which this just isn't, it's not worth it. And likewise, when a mob I condemn Buck Angel to save I'm just not gonna do that. I'm a conscientious objector. I'm willing to go to Take me away, boys. (somber piano music) (groans) If there's one thing I can't &quot;Part eight and a half, &quot;the philosophy of being f*cked in the ass.&quot; (groans) I have done this So look, canceling is not criticism. It is not holding someone accountable. It is an attack on a human being. In this video I used or less synonymously with author of the &quot;Bitch And I've linked her essay, Trashing: The Dark Side of It was originally published but it is a perfect description of what goes on on trans Twitter today. &quot;It is not disagreement, &quot;it is not opposition. &quot;These are perfectly &quot;when engaged in mutually, &quot;are necessary to keep an organism &quot;or organization healthy and active. &quot;Trashing is a particularly vicious form &quot;of character assassination which amounts &quot;to psychological rape. &quot;It is manipulative, &quot;It is occasionally &quot;of honest conflict, or &quot;that any disapproval exists at all. &quot;But it is not done to &quot;or resolve differences. &quot;It is done to disparage and destroy. &quot;Whatever methods are &quot;a violation of one's integrity, &quot;a declaration of one's worthlessness, &quot;and an impugning of one's motives. &quot;In effect, what is attacked &quot;or one's ideas but one's self.&quot; And that's what distinguishes trashing, bullying or abuse from criticism Criticism attacks your actions or beliefs. But when people are canceling me, they're not bringing up because they want me to revise my beliefs. No, what they're doing to support the case that I am a horrible The only sense in which I the new Blair White, is that I think I actually have now as the most hated tran on tran Twitter. (laughs) Vanessa, I'm Feud with me, goddamnit. You can't have a one-sided feud. I don't want to be one that just drags other trans people all day and they never respond. That would be really pathetic. The new Laci Green, that's the other one. The newest in a series to treat like supervillains. Maybe reflect on that And supervillain is the right Duh, I'm the enemy. And what do you do with the enemy? Well, you disavow, disown, As that one tweet put &quot;the sand, folks, where do you stand?&quot; If you adequately demonstrate of Natalie Wynn, then, But if you don't you're on the wrong side of the line, sweaty, and Cancel culture trope seven, dualism. Certain ancient religions to understand the cosmos and dark, good and evil. And cancel culture does it It's binary thinking, people And to add to that essentialism, if a person says or does a bad thing, we should interpret that as a momentary glimpse of And anyone who wants to remain to publicly condemn anyone the There really is something you have to be willing to prove your own innocence. &quot;That's the line in the sand, In the most extreme version of this, all bad people are equally bad. So collaborating with as well be a truscum. And, of course, being to being a TERF, and on trans Twitter, it is a known fact that TERFs are Nazis. And this implies that Nazis, TERFs, truscum, people who people who fail to condemn with truscum, people who to people who fail to with truscum, all of them &quot;Deplatform her just &quot;sexist, bigoted content creator. &quot;A fully wound backhand to the mouth.&quot; I recently read a book &quot;Conflict is Not Abuse: Overstating Harm, Community Responsibility Basically Schulman's argument is that, in various contexts from to community infighting the overstatement of harm for cruelty and for escalating conflict. So for example, and this is TERFs fixate on the exaggerated danger that trans women supposedly And in very classic overstatement of harm, they'll describe everything Trans women entering Trans women existing, And then they use that exaggerated harm as a justification to to dox, and harass, and shun. Well the same kind of logic is used to justify abusive behavior The dualistic thinking, the essentialism, the pseudo-moralism. All of this allows people on Twitter to treat me in an obviously abusive way, all the while feeling like because they're attacking the enemy. And I realize that some people will say that I'm the one who's overstating Well look, you've seen the tweets, the furious demands for me to be exiled, the doxxing and threatening and ordering around of my colleagues, the attempts to isolate the attacks not on my actions There's not really anything it's just abuse. But I don't think it feels like abuse to the people who are doing it. They feel like they're punching up because I'm a celebrity with a platform and lots of Twitter followers. And it's true that I do of them individually. But as a collective, they that they don't seem to be As Jon Ronson, author of a great book on public shaming put it, &quot;I suppose that when &quot;like remotely administers &quot;to think about how ferocious &quot;The snowflake never needs &quot;to feel responsible for the avalanche.&quot; And that's how you get these situations where you have hundreds of who's already been knocked to the ground, and feeling all the while You know, there's actually and anonymity and obscurity. And there are many ways that being a public figure makes For example, you're more stalking and harassment on a scale that most people probably You're vulnerable to having your reputation permanently degraded in a way that people who or pseudonymously, are And a lot of the people they're not pausing to self-reflect, they're not holding themselves accountable for the consequences of their actions. They're just venting But in response to these attacks, I, as a powerful person with a platform, I'm not allowed to react I'm not allowed to get angry. I'm not allowed to show pain. I'm not allowed to get defensive, I'm not allowed to lash out. All I'm allowed to do the inside as I try to the ideal public relations response that pays due deference of these poor marginalized people, all the while ignoring the tsunami of verbal abuse that's crashing over me. People on Twitter, they like I'm a human being. They order me around, they they demand that I say exactly what they want me to say, or else. It's extremely objectifying. They don't treat me like a person with my own opinions and feelings. They treat me as this to be consumed or denounced. And this is all terribly ironic because of the conflicting demand that creators be authentic all the time. One thing that always frustrates is there's this demand that And there's this perception is more sincere than a delayed one. But in fact, the opposite is true. It takes longer than a lower your defenses, listen, learn, grow, seriously reflect on or said that was wrong. That can take days or weeks or months. I had to do my October and at the beginning of the stream, I gave my emotional half-formed reaction to the Buck Angel situation. And some traitor on my that part of the stream and just to instigate another You're not allowed a And because supposedly the best thing to do from a PR perspective canceling produces a lot of from people who haven't, And I think most people are aware of that. In fact, I think the demand is often insincere. If you're being canceled, the line in the sand has been drawn. You and all your kin have Apologize to Twitter. At this point, I may as Dear 4chan, I am super f*cking sorry I called you thin-wristed who like looking at I have been trying to educate myself and learn from my mistakes, and I now realize that's only 70% of you. Once you're canceled, you can really do no right. If you apologize, the a manipulative attempt to save face. And in fact, it will be used a Machiavellian psychopath you really are. If you try to explain or defend yourself, I mean, first of all, you will almost certainly But even if you're articulate and correct, you'll still be seen as and as ignoring the hurt And if you just goes silent, you'll be seen as a coward even though there's lots of Maybe you're taking a few to try to cool down and think clearly. Or maybe you're so that you've just shut down. (upbeat trumpet music) Let's do shots. Who wants to do a shot with me? Do you want to do a shot with me? Let's do a shot. (cork popping) The tequila shot is my favorite, I like the whole salt tequila-lime ritual. It's just very satisfying to me. That's the end of that bottle, okay. Let's get started. (slurping) You feel warm right away, where it's like oh, hey, Hey how are you, feeling It's a good moment. You're like oh, this is I can get through this. That's how it starts, you So look, I really don't as a victim. That's not really a narrative But for the purposes of communicating what effect canceling has, I feel like I should say Much of the happiness to come along with success by this constant fury that surrounds me. Try to think about this rationally. I'm a Libra Sun Pisces Moon. Being canceled is hell for me. I want to be liked by everyone. And I'm starting to think I might be in the wrong career for In a way, leftist Twitter what 4chan, Nazis, stalkers and failing to do to me for years. They've made Twitter into a platform so hostile to my existence to leave it forever. And they demoralized me to the point I could barely get out of bed for a month. And I know that sounds really melodramatic to be honest with you about I find I have trouble convincing people of the severity of the pain because I think it's just hard to imagine if you haven't been through it yourself. And I don't know a more it to you than by telling you that, in the last few years I've I've been harassed by TERFs, I've been stalked, I've been I've been sexually assaulted. And the pain of being canceled, of being totally trashed by for years has been more difficult for me to cope with than all Jo Freeman actually than I think I can describe it myself. &quot;I was one of the first in the country, &quot;perhaps the first in Chicago, &quot;to have my character, my commitment, &quot;and my very self attacked in &quot;that it left me torn and little pieces &quot;and unable to function. &quot;It took me years to &quot;the wounds have not entirely healed. &quot;This attack is accomplished &quot;that your very existence &quot;and that nothing can change &quot;These feelings are reinforced &quot;from your friends as &quot;that their association with &quot;to the movement and to themselves. &quot;Any support of you will taint them. &quot;Eventually all your colleagues join in in &quot;a chorus of condemnation &quot;and you are reduced to a mere parody &quot;of your previous self.&quot; Yeah, that just about sums it up. Now, as it happens, I because I have very deliberately built a support network that will of what online trans communities say. And I have very deliberately done that because early in my I relied very heavily on the for all kinds of emotional support. You know, when you're early in transition, You feel like the whole And I talked about this a feeling like a freak show And even if you're lucky enough usually it still is gonna take At first they don't to you like, &quot;Aren't you And like, they struggle with which is understandable, it makes you feel like for who you are. So you need a kind of second family that understands how you're feeling and acts happy about your transition, and validates your gender. And for the first couple I found that in this world of Well that didn't last long two months into my transition when first I did an interview with the and then I agreed to do a So that's a long story but in short, I associated with a string of people that trans Twitter considers the enemy. And trans Twitter tore me apart over this and it completely broke my heart because I was really leaning on, basically, emotional support from strangers online. Which seems really stupid in retrospect. And after they turned that I was never going to rely on this group of people again and, two, that I was going to have to And in retrospect, I think this for me in a roundabout way of the safe space and I And so basically I was of reality and forced to sink or swim. And I don't know if my would be where they are for that trial by fire. Are we swimming through fire The point is I'm more armored I was two years ago. And the reason why is I have of privilege and security and independence from any one community. So that if one community cancels me, I still have somewhere else to go. The people who are most vulnerable to cancel culture are they're not James Charles, they're not me, they are marginalized people who feel like they have nowhere else to go when they're rejected That means struggling trans people with a few hundred Twitter followers, it means a lot of sex workers, it means people who totally for emotional and material support. I'll quote Jo Freeman one more time. &quot;I had survived my youth &quot;or any group the right to judge me. &quot;That right I had reserved to myself. &quot;But the movement had seduced me &quot;by its sweet promise of sisterhood. &quot;It claimed to provide a haven from &quot;the ravages of a sexist society, &quot;a place where one would be understood. &quot;It was my very need for &quot;that made me vulnerable. &quot;I gave the movement the right to judge me &quot;because I trusted it. &quot;And when it judged me worthless, There's a really irritating the Left like to make that goes, &quot;Well, &quot;canceling doesn't really &quot;Canceled people usually get a &quot;so I guess it's not really that bad, huh?&quot; I think people say this to mitigate any sense about how they're treating people. Because it's a really stupid argument. There's lots of things that are still terrible. But also, there's cases where canceling has ended someone's life. On December 5th, 2017, a p*rn star named August by hanging in a public on Twitter over a homophobic tweet. On December 3rd she tweeted, &quot;Whichever lady performer &quot;for Erotica X News, you're shooting with &quot;a guy who has shot gay &quot;BS is all I can say&quot;, shrug. &quot;Do agents really not care &quot;LA Direct, I do my homework for my body.&quot; So I've never worked in p*rn so I can't really tell you what the norms are around women working with But the tweet certainly sounds homophobic to me and that seems to be the consensus of other industry people on Twitter. So Twitter did its thing, people in August's community and lashed out at her. And as always happens, in to throw tomatoes at Over the next few days, August tweeted several the usual stages that you go through when First, she defended herself. She claimed most other women in the industry feel the same as her. Then she said she's bisexual and therefore she couldn't be homophobic. Then she said fine, and not have opinions then. Then she started bemoaning and she got really to choose who she has sex with, and she latched out of And then, in her final tweet, And went to the park that This is all so familiar to me, I feel like I'm able to relive with her each stage of There's that first moment when you realize the outrage is beginning and you get that sinking feeling in your stomach, and then the anger, feeling misunderstood, and then the bargaining, the fear, and finally the shame and the despair. And here's the thing, I that her tweet was bad. Of course she has the right but she publicly expressed But she was still a person And I think there's got to be a better way to deal with these situations than just trashing someone And I know it's never as simple as Twitter made her kill herself, there's always other things But the point I'm making is to marginalized people because have more things going John Watson did an investigative and it goes into how she was abandoned by her father. She was living with a of emotionally detached from. And a few weeks earlier she'd filmed a scene with a guy who and mean and who mistreated her, so she was kind of traumatized by that and so she was kind of on edge and really defensive about who she worked with when she was tweeting. Then the backlash happened and since she had no other support network, she probably felt like had turned against her. And that's a really painful feeling. She must have felt so despised. Which is how I have felt I feel despised and burdensome. And I can imagine how a person who feels that way could have an where they think their I mean, I can more than imagine it because I've been there myself. And I'm still here, I've been with good friends And by friends I do mean Xanax. (laughs) (banging) But I've also survived because there's a lot of people on the internet if I killed myself and I simply refuse to give them the satisfaction. Oh no bitch, I intend to live as long as possible out of sheer spite. I mean, who needs a guardian it through Christmas after Christmas on the fumes of total contempt? What I'm really trying to you goddamn assholes! (&quot;Hark! The Herald Angels Sing&quot;) (crashes) Oh holy night, the stars Meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, I need to get my lesbian pliers out again. (cork pops) (&quot;Silent Night&quot;) Have a super f*cking happy new year, gorg. How am I gonna get this Anyone in Baltimore want a bathtub? Leave a comment if you want a bathtub. All right, I need to take let's be honest, I've got one crack away from attacking my own Twitter I am about one breakdown a rampage and making a Just kidding, I would never do that. Though, on a bad skin day, I've given it serious consideration. Oh, I'll be fine. I've gotta sober up anyway because I'm having more plastic And plastic surgery, that's about the only thing holding me (laughing) YouTubing, this is a healthy Anyone want my job, step right up. All you have to do is make informative and entertaining videos about while of course representing in the LGBTQIAA-plus spectrum and irreverently funny. Well go on, I'm waiting to be entertained. Feed me mother. Oh don't mind me, I'll just sit back and pour another glass of wine. Oh, and I will, of course, be obsessively scrutinizing for any hint of moral transgression, as well as critiquing your look, ya third-rate crossdresser. Zero out of 10, get off my stage. You successfully spilled (bell rings) (sighs) I do still want to talk and the effect that it's having but it looks like there's gonna because I have hit my limit. So why don't we all cut our losses and try again in 2020, hmm? I realize that people on Twitter this video, they're just gonna make fun of the title and how long but they're the ones whose are so numerous and convoluted, it required a feature-length But yeah, they're gonna see the title and they're gonna transcribe and they're gonna say I'm I'm truscum, I'm the new Blaire White, I'm the new Laci Green. I'm a cis bootlicker, I'm I'm a sh*t-Lib, I'm alt-right. I'm a heartless grifter raking in millions of dollars over the bodies &quot;Mask off, yikes, this ain't it chief. &quot;Friendly reminder that &quot;Maybe don't be a cis But they're saying all so I'm inoculated. See, their mistake was they should have left But it's good, it's good, it's good, because basically my survival from here on out hinges on my ability to not care at all what So here's to not giving a f*ck. (Auld Lang Syne) - [Man] Happy new year, everybody! - This is almost a Norma Desmond cosplay. Which is good, because I'm and it's the best to YouTube stars never die. (tongue pops)