*chair breaks* Oh my... Timmy Turner here. In my last video, Michael bought a drawing tablet. Michael didn't know how to use the drawing tablet because Michael couldn't draw. Michael learned to draw. Michael knows how to draw now. Now using the skills of drawing I just learned, I'll be using the drawing tablet, and teaching myself how to animate. This is &quot;Learning How to Animate with No Experience.&quot; Stop wasting time Michael. I will be using Adobe Animate as my program. 1920 x 1080 which is the height and width of the project in pixels. 24 frames per second which means how many frames are shown in a second. And I'll be animating on 2's which basically means I'll be drawing one out of every two frames, cutting our work in half. This is my first time doing any sort of animation so we have to start with the basics. Number 1 - Boiling Text Write some text 3 times on 3 keyframes slightly different from each other. Put it on a loop, and you're done. The less you draw each frame identically, the more your text will boil. Now you got yourself some boiling text. Number 2 - The Bouncing Ball When animating a bouncing ball, you have to keep these principles in mind. Timing, and squash and stretch. The ball accelerates as it falls which means you have to space your frames further apart as it falls towards the ground. Vise versa as the ball bounces up and gradually looses momentum for every next bounce until coming to a stop. You can change the amount of squash and stretch to show how light or heavy the ball is. After 20 minutes and 52 frames drawn later, this is my result. *bouncing ball sound effect* Number 3 - Liquid Text This is a very tedious yet satisfying process. You want to make the full text present so you have an outline to follow. Now make guides for the liquid animation to follow arcs, And using easing to change the tempo. Add little splashes for details. 170 frames later, and you'll get something like this. I'm super happy with this one! Number 4 - Flag Animation Draw each frame of the flag imagining the wind morphing the flag into the shape. Duplicate your line and connect them to complete the shape. You can use less frames to make the wind stronger. And you'll end up with something like this. *flag blowing in the wind sound effect* Number 5 - The Walkcycle There are endless possibilities when it comes to the walkcycle and it seems super overwhelming. Stick with me! The main poses in a walkcycle are the contact and passing poses. This will already look plausible but will look very flat. To make it more fluid, we add two more poses called the up and down pose. This will result in your walkcycle being more fluid because we are mimicking the bobbing that happens naturally while walking. Adding in-between frames will make it even smoother. 1 hour and 30 minutes later, this is my result. *squeaky shoes sound effect* Yo! Michael from the future here! Its actually been several days since I started making this video, and I already upgraded my animation setup. Here it is! *happy upbeat music* Alright. Time for the things I've been wanting to learn. I created this character of myself and I want to bring it to life. How are we going to do that? Through Character Rigging and Lip Syncing. Instead of drawing frame by frame, with character rigging we can each part of the body, turn them into symbols, and move them individually or as a group, just like a puppet. Now take everything I just told you, and throw it out the window! Because we are not doing that! Why? Well why am I narrating this in my car? This has nothing to do with anything. It just looks robotic and I don't like the way it looks honestly. But lip syncing, we will do that one. That looks sick! There is two ways of doing this. Method 1 - Automated Lip Syncing First create all your visemes. A viseme is a facial image that can be used to describe a particular sound. Convert them into symbols. Select the Lip Syncing button and assign your visemes to the correct sound. Import audio. Now sync the audio layer, and holy *beep* that looks like garbage. *elevator music* First import your audio. Second, draw mouth for each, and every, single, last, frame. *smacking head in frustration* And just like that, wow! That only took... 14 hours. But if you followed all the steps and did all the work, it will look something like this. Thank you guys so much for watching, I appreciate each and every one of you guys. Animation was a skill I've always wanted to have, so I'm actually super glad I learned it! With that being said, Discover Curiosity, stay healthy, and I'm out! Peace!