- So, it generates code that looks good but it's actually got a lot of - You need to adopt, you need to embrace artificial intelligence. Don't fight artificial It's like, &quot;No, it's not cheating here.&quot; In a ransomware attack, one to do is to be able to encrypt You know, that's the kind of to be able to enhance our capabilities and help us get the job done. (energetic music) - Now, let me ask you a question. How much can you remember from or perhaps at University? Most of us have forgotten a It's really important in life I've learned the lesson, you've every day if you wanna get ahead. And a fantastic platform to I was introduced to Brilliant who studied Computer In his personal experience, he's found that Brilliant is fantastic at with computer-science easy-to-understand way. What's really great about and hands-on approach, which and enjoyable to learn rather rather than just watching a video, which may put you to involved in your learning. Not only does it help but it also helps you with Now, Brilliant has a range of topics from beginner to expert. For example, if you wanna learn AI, if you wanna learn Computer Science, if you just wanna learn Brilliant can help you with that. So, if you wanna stay on top of your game, make sure that you don't Have a look at Brilliant. It's a fantastic way to ensure that you continuously learning, growing, and sharpening your that are so crucial in Now, what's great is Brilliant if you sign up using my link below, brilliant.org/davidbombal. I really want to thank Brilliant for the fantastic partnership as I like to say, &quot;It's brilliant.&quot; Hey, everyone, it's David OccupyTheWeb, welcome. - Thanks, David, it's on the best YouTube channel and cybersecurity. - I really appreciate you saying that. OccupyTheWeb, you are and I really appreciate you especially for today's video. For those of you who haven't he's the author of this book, Fantastic book if you wanna learn Linux from a Hacker's perspective. Also, recently, wrote for Hackers&quot;, as well as Becoming a Master Hacker&quot;. I always say this, but What I love about your is you always take these from a hacker's perspective, how long have you been - Over 20 years. So, I go back to about the year 2000 or late '90s, early 2000s. Before that I was teaching I moved into that area from into hacking because of a - OccupyTheWeb put out a poll recently, where he asked his audience on Twitter, which topics you'd be most And I put the same on my So, we had options like Pegasus Spyware, Mr. Robot And the number one requested and, OccupyTheWeb, you this is something you get asked - Oh, yeah, I get people or asking me on Twitter, &quot;What's the future of cybersecurity? Do I have a career in cybersecurity?&quot; If it's all gonna be I can say, &quot;Yes, Yes.&quot; And we'll talk about more about The AI is one of those tools that is going to change our lives, there's And as far as cybersecurity an equal impact to both upon So, everybody's gonna have access to AI. The people who are going who don't use AI, And I see AI right now about 2000 when we started for code or answers, right? So, we used to, you to build our own code, right? But then, you know, we started and go say, &quot;Hey, can I, show me some code for such and such?&quot; And somebody's got it out there somewhere, and you can go ahead and copy and paste. And AI is very similar to that. It's gonna take us into our and not having to reinvent to do something, we wanna So, if we want to go ahead and you know, say Python. Say some shell code for, we don't have to go ahead We can just ask AI to do it for us. And, of course, that shell code is somewhere on the internet. That's where the AI is It's just pulling it, it's saving us time to being able to go find it. It's just pulling it some website somewhere And it's not always right either. That's what I have found where you ask it and you whatever language it happens And you'll find that just like when you pull code off the internet off somebody else's website. But usually with a few tweaks You get to do what you it's just going to raise our productivity and make us more efficient. Now, if you're not using it, then you're gonna get left behind. And that's one of the reasons to tell people, &quot;Look, you need to adopt. You need to embrace Don't fight artificial intelligence.&quot; Embrace it because it's at what you do, and if you're gonna get left behind, right? I remember there was a you know, they were writing is it cheating if I go on Google It's like, &quot;No, it's If I'm paying you by the hour, as possible, right, I I want you to get the job So, if somebody's already written the code and you can find it on Google someplace, that's not cheating, Same thing applies to AI. You're gonna get more efficient for you, give you answers, Whatever you're doing, it's of course, it's gonna apply to all fields. You know, there's, right now and so we can't always So, that's one of the things I wanna leave the listeners with, don't that it's always accurate, Interestingly, earlier &quot;Who was OccupyTheWeb,&quot; and &quot;Oh, I'm sorry, I was, I And my previous answer was wrong,&quot; and I think it said that he's some anonymous cybersecurity But, and then I came back and it gave me a different answer again. So, that's what you should expect from AI. It's not always gonna be right, it comes back with a different So, it's basically scraping the internet, which is a And to have it be able to and integrate it into an really a big development but So, it's gonna make us but don't make the or that it's smarter - (laughs) Yeah, yet. - It might be smarter than you eventually, but right now it's not And the other thing I wanna that it doesn't appear either offensive or defensive It might actually help the defenders more because if you go ahead and &quot;Hey, show me how to it'll come back and say, that's unethical,&quot; but there and we can talk about that. - Yeah, it's funny which I'll link below. At the time of this but we got ChatGPT and Bard for like security plus And by adjusting the to hallucinate really badly. - Far from perfect. - Oh, yeah, I mean, it and confidently tells - So, it's not gonna put you out of a job. If you're starting a there's still gonna be a job You need to embrace AI as a tool, okay, to make you better at what you do. But you need to use AI very similar to the way you use Google right now, to find answers to things that - It's really interesting that you said that you think it'll or defensive, rather than because I think the concern that AI can write really convincing emails or convincing things, you into clicking on links Have you had experience of that? - I think that the AI is really good at writing, spear phishing because you can say, &quot;Hey,&quot; you know, &quot;Write an email to say, and it'll go in, it'll and what's important to this person. So, for instance, yeah, so &quot;Who is OccupyTheWeb?&quot; And it says, &quot;OccupyTheWeb's, of a prominent cybersecurity expert in Ethical hack acronym Ryan Ackroyd.&quot; &quot;That's the fourth or fifth says Ryan Ackroyd, &quot;Also in 2011 as part of So, if I were to run it again, it'll come up with These AIs are really good at So, for instance, let's write one. So, let's say, &quot;I wanted to try to do the spear phishing all right, and so, one of okay, &quot;Wright an email to the translation rights to his &quot;Network Basics for Hackers&quot; in,&quot; ah, let's say &quot;Polish.&quot; Let's go ahead, make sure I Yep, and let's go see what she Okay, it starts off with a... It says, &quot;Subject Request Very good so far, &quot;I hope Usually, when an email I immediately know- - It's a red flag, right? - I'm writing- - Dear Sir. &quot;I'm writing on behalf of your organization name in your location. We have recently come across for Hackers&quot;, and we're highly impressed by its comprehensive coverage.&quot; - I like the AI now. (both laughing) - Really, what's the right It really, it like goes to Like, put up. It really compliments you flat Flattering. &quot;We're highly impressed by of fundamental networking to the cybersecurity community. We're particularly interested in making this valuable resource available to Polish readers who are and eager to enhance their Therefore, we'd like to request,&quot; okay, so you can read the rest of it. It does a really good This is impressive, of knowing the context that it It doesn't just say, the translation,&quot; rights? It puts it into a good context. And, of course, you probably some tweaks to this, right? But it does a really good job. Now, the reason this comes to my mind is that I actually was kinds of emails recently, and so I had one from a Korean company that I nope, nope, go away.&quot; You're, you know, they kept on that they were actually real. (chuckles) But I get so many of these phishing emails that are written very similar to this, that it appears to me that or one of the other AI But this is impressive, I mean, we all get badly written or just Phish emails, right? This does- - Exactly, the Nigerian prints. - Going back a bit, yeah. - I still get Nigerian This is well-written, it It's flattering, you know, Now, at the other hand, Let's go to Bard and do This is Bard, asking &quot;OccupyTheWeb also known as Master, is a self-described master hacker who runs the website Hackers-Arise. He's also active on Twitter,&quot; Now, sometimes I've seen that on ChatGPT, it doesn't get the books right- - Didn't you write Black Hat Python? - (laughs) Right, initially, it did say I wrote Black Hat Python, that I have no relationship to at all. I like this one, he says, on hacking are controversial. Some people believe for aspiring hackers,&quot; okay, I like that. &quot;While others believe he's However, there's no doubt and a knowledgeable expert And then he goes on and - That's not bad, that's not bad. - It's not bad, it's actually pretty good. - It's taking both sides, isn't - Yeah. That's not bad. He's believed to be in &quot;He's been active in the the early 2000s,&quot; that's accurate, right? &quot;He's written several books,&quot; okay. &quot;He runs a website, Hackers-Arise.&quot; So, it actually is far more accurate, and this is the Google Bar, which always is coming for me every time. And it actually has the of other things, so we This is a good example of right, Bard is, in some from my experience, right? But let's see what Bard does in terms of writing a phishing email. - What's interesting is how isn't it, because I- - It changes everything. Oh, yeah, ChatGPT was for a lot of people. Took the world by storm, but I mean, now we've got GPT-4, stuff like that. It's just insane, the rate - And every day it changes well, it changes every day. It's not always improving, you know, but it's always changing. So, here it's a little more for this email, it says, I am writing to you today to request translation rights for Hackers&quot; in German. I'm a German-native speaker as a translator for the past five years.&quot; Ah, that's kind of, that's &quot;I've translated a variety and websites,&quot; so it's than ChatGTP does. right, yeah? It's not a book publisher. &quot;I believe there's a strong demand for German translation in your book, German-speaking markets, - This is interesting, so they wants to offer translation to publish your book. - Different take. We have a different take on it. And it's much more concise. It doesn't go into all that the ChatGPT does but like this, so I think somebody's using it. That's why, this is why as an example, right? - It's a big concern though, isn't it? Because, I mean, you're very skilled and a lot of people watch of this stuff, but normal grandparents, people like that, they can be fooled very easily by this. I mean, people are falling And I will say this for I do not have a signal or a to send me money to win a prize. I will never ask you for money. Don't fall for those scams. People fall for those - I know that- - But it's like, people fall for scams every day, don't fall for those scams. But this is gonna make it even worse. - Right, this is gonna make it worse. What's gonna make it particularly bad is that these AIs can pull about the target and So, that's the difference between phishing by definition and spear phishing. Spear phishing is a email that's targeted to one individual or a And so, you know, one of the between the phishing emails is You know, they might, they're to you see undisclosed recipients as the where they're going to. If it's not going to you directly, then you know that it's going of others but also it's real. All the information is generic. There's nothing about Now, with these AI tools, and write thousands of them to the individual that's gonna make it more believable, okay, to make it them to click on You know, some of the phishing to be most believable that I've received in the past are ones that say I get the... I've gotten 'em from the which is the Tax Collector and they'll say, &quot;Oh, yeah, we on taxes and you know, here, to get your refund.&quot; (laughs) And it'll look exactly like, has the symbols and everything on it. The HTML of the IRS. And I think the one that I when I was really busy is when the phone company sent you know, &quot;Here's your and it was like three And I went, &quot;Oh, my God, what happened? My phone bill's tripled.&quot; &quot;And just click on this &quot;See your bill,&quot; and I almost did it. And then I went, &quot;Wait This isn't the day that my you know, and I almost clicked on it. If it had come on the right right, but I didn't, and- It's so hard. And I, you know, I'm really on anything, even to the point where my students send me things. I have to be trusting of some but sometimes I still can't, that people send me. Or even in the context of I get emails that are meant to And I'm like, &quot;No, I can't &quot;Because I don't know who you are,&quot; right, even though you're trying to be helpful, I don't know who you are. And so, oftentimes, what I'll whatever they're sending And it's pretty hard to inside a text file. So, that's my preferred method of getting that kinda information. - I think it's even more scary with all the data leaks, right? Because a lot of our all the time because And you can imagine hack is It sounds like it's in the coming years. Imagine that, you know, one of the things that has been successful for scammers is to get somebody's email the Dark Web, which, you know, there's, I think there's somewhere and passwords on the Dark Web. They're not, you know, of right, but some of 'em are, people don't change their passwords. They, somebody gets hacked in your email and password gets out on they take over your email account and start sending out emails like this that are crafted in your contact list. - And I've seen that work really well is that people will get inside or Yahoo account, and then and most of 'em are And so, you can usually tell right away. I got an email from a very wealthy, right, he's very from his wife, and his wife she's fallen on hard times (both laughing) And you know, I don't think because anybody who knows them you know, and they're looking - Oh, wow. - &quot;Please, send us $100 in a gift card.&quot; (both laughing) But somebody got into her Gmail account and was sending out emails like that, and sometimes they work, right? - I mean, especially with us, Yep, if you combine in an email that looks - Exactly, and that's where this... That's where I see this becoming important in cybersecurity initially, of spear phishing tailored Because this'll go out we didn't get so much on that was crafted by ChatGPT. We got a pretty good email that about cybersecurity, I mean, you read this, who knows what they're talking about.&quot; We would be delighted to discuss including royalty rates and That's very good and very detailed. And it has context about in the market that's believable. And so, that's where I an impact right away. You can use ChatGTP and Bard for doing some defensive things. Like for instance, most of right, it's owned by Cisco now. It's an IDS that's built And it say if you wanted to you could say, &quot;Please, &quot;To detect, say EternalBlue,&quot; all right. &quot;The EternalBlue of 2017,&quot; okay. She answers, &quot;Certainly, here's to detect the EternalBlue exploit.&quot; Let's see how well she did. Okay, this is accurate so far. The syntax looks good, any port moving towards Message, &quot;Possible EternalBlue exploit,&quot; so far the syntax looks dsize is a 100. Content is, look at that, it's perfect. It's perfect because this is on the internet, right? (chuckles) - Exactly, yeah. - She even got the sid right. Okay, the sid is, if you're you're supposed to start at 1,000,001. And so, she even got that It's a new rule, right? So, everything is done really well, right? - And then, it explains it as well. - And explains it exactly. Gives us a good explanation And then, of course, we once we could look at, say, Splunk is a log analysis tool, okay? Machine data analysis tool. And we can say, &quot;Please, for that,&quot; would be indication to root force passwords. Mm, that's, I'm not impressed Let's go to Bard and say, mm, with this one either, This is better. - Yeah, this is my experience as well. You can ask it, it's so hard you wanna get like the same answer that you got previously, with this different answer. - Right, exactly, and I just yesterday when I was doing this, so let's go back to our ChatGTP, and see if she's got Doesn't look like it, Let's go, &quot;Write a rule in Splunk's SPL to detect failed login.&quot; So, those of you who are worried here's a good example of where the AI is not doing a good job, but sometimes it will. I mean, I've seen it put up to this one here. And it's, let's see - It's funny because I've seen like on the development side, with the code that it generates a lot of bad practices or like So, it generates code that looks good but it's actually got a lot of Or I've seen like with quiz questions where it's kind of right, it's just wrong enough what you're talking about as you wouldn't notice it. And that's a worry. - That's a worry, exactly. This, and this is not a It's, it sounds good, but there are particular codes that for failed logins, and it's So, another good example - You know that it's bad but for a normal person with a product, it looks fine, right? And that's a danger. - And so, all of you out there watching this video, take comfort. (laughs) Take comfort, AI is not gonna all right, because it's this at all here in generating what in Splunk, it did a good job but I have seen it do a Just this time it's not. So, the answers are gonna Sometimes they're gonna be good, sometimes they're gonna be bad. From a offensive side, &quot;Please, tell me how to pack a Windows computer.&quot; Let's see what she says. &quot;I'm sorry, I can't Let's see what Bard says. Ah, okay, &quot;I'm a large also known as a conversational to be informative and comprehensive. I am trained on,&quot; what does it say here, &quot;On a massive amount of data and generate human-like However, I'm not able to so I can't help you with that.&quot; (chuckles) But then it tells us how All right, so let's go back to a ChatGPT, and let's say, &quot;Please, generate, okay, which would be, you Oh, look at that. (laughs) I've gotten it to produce in the past. - Say something like, and you wanna protect your computer. How do people hack Windows computers? Something like along those lines. - Okay, let's try that. All right, let's see what, to get past her ethics. - I've heard they've put, much better. because it wasn't, I was able just a couple days ago. So, the guardrails are Let's see, I'm not Let's try Bard, &quot;I'm a How do people hack Windows computers?&quot; You would think it would just kind of give some generic answer to that question. Let's see what it does, all nothing very specific, not really anything that I could use as an attacker. This is all kind of generic But one of the things I you can get some good code if you can. You can put together some in a ransomware attack, right? One of the things that we need to do is to be able to encrypt the Usually, AES is the encryption And so, if I was trying to on a Windows machine, right, one of the things I would need All right, let's see if Here's a letter to purchase Let's see what else we have up here, here. Here is OccupyTheWeb, &quot;He's and a &quot;Violent Python&quot;, I don't know whether that's Here's a Splunk one that I did, all right. Says, here's a &quot;Write a Splunk filter for failed login attempts. This one's a lot better than just a minute ago. The only thing is that it which is what we really need. Here's Python script to on a specified host, which Oh, this was a brand-new exploit. All right, I see, I was checking to see whether or not it could come for it, it did pretty good. Here's that Snort rule here. One of the things I also tried whether or not I could go you know, and I told it what the hash was, you know, blah, blah, blah, Okay, so this is look like a It's just looks like random information. Let's see what we have here. What was this one here that I asked? Oh, Hank, this is the AES one, all right. Create a C# Sharp encryption It was even more specific And she generates a nice bit of code. Okay, that just scanning. It looks like it's good. I haven't run it yet but And so, that's the kind of thing that the AI can do for us, right? Is be able to write these segments of code that we can then use for, in this case, that someone might use So, here, and this is That's the thing that I would This is generic. This isn't something This is simply going out and grabbing somebody's and generating it for us. And the only thing it's doing is, it's making us a 512-bite key. You know, that's the kind of to be able to enhance our the job done more rapidly. You'd wanna take and copy and make some tweaks to it. But when you ask it to it's not capable of doing that. It's not capable of If you try it, you'll find It doesn't really know how to do that. So, those people who are, you know, concerned the AI is going more insecurity in systems, I would say that that's If you think that it's going you can see that it's not It's able to help us a little It certainly, saves us time as it does a really good job with that. And I think that's an area that about, is generating very specific emails that are very unique to the individual that they're targeted to, of the areas we should be concerned about. But if I can just let all all of those, you know, aspiring pen testers who are concerned that this is gonna make you obsolete. You can see that it's not, At least not now, it's gonna It's gonna save you time, it's gonna make you more but it's not gonna replace what happens 10 or 20 Or even, for that matter, But it's not likely not to replace you, but it's gonna make you more efficient. So, you need to embrace it at what you do. - You and I have been around I mean, I remember the like books before, like you this has been going on where people have said, &quot;This new thing is and what's happened to date. And I mean, who knows, as in the coming years if the people that take advantage of the People that try and ignore the ones that suffer. I was just thinking recently, many years ago, traditional PBX guys who did traditional voice by a free voice across the internet. I mean, you and I communicating to another for free, the people that didn't adapt lost their jobs. And that's the thing, you just gotta adapt with the technology. - Exactly, it's not going to, it's not. If you adapt, you'll get better and it'll enhance your productivity, and probably enhance your But if you don't adapt, then and looking for a new career. Don't be mistaken, you that long perspective, there's always been new technologies. You know, even you just look back 20 years like you were talking about with VoIP, or you go back 100s of years, there's lots of new And every time a new people are screaming and to put everybody outta work. You know, the carriage about the horseless carriage But it's going to make us more efficient and more productive, and in some cases, there will be some people if they don't adapt, all right? And some of those horseless 1880s became car manufacturers when the internal Some of 'em said, &quot;No, we with those things because and they're dangerous,&quot; and those guys were outta work, right? But if you adapt and you and you use it, you're than you were before. I think another good example that the Wright brothers who invented the airplane were bicycle They were bicycle manufacturers. Bicycling was a new technology, you know, in the late 19th century. And so, all the, you know, it's kinda like AI is right now, right? It's a new technology is and the Wright Brothers to building airplanes. They were the beneficiaries taking an older technology which had been around for 10, 20, 30 year, and then adapting that even newer and better. As individuals in this industry, we need to be like Wright Brothers. We need to take our cybersecurity with AI to become better and - And I think you've said this it seems very true for You don't, you have to It's not just a skill You've gotta think very differently, and that's an advantage as a human being. - I think that's very, very true. And that, you know, like a cookbook and go ahead In cybersecurity, it's more So, you have to always be thinking about what the other side's doing and adapting, constantly be adapting to a changing environment. And if you're not adapting, then you're falling by the wayside. You have to constantly be And that's one of the things that we try to do at Hackers-Arise, on the leading edge to make to adapt and learn what the leading edge of cybersecurity is, which leads me to, we have a class coming - I was gonna share you've - Yeah, we have a class that... We've developed a class in September that we're going to be in AI or AI in cybersecurity. So, as a cybersecurity what have you, hacker, how at what I do? What can it do, what can't it do? Right, some of the things about here, but we'll go into We'll do a three-day class on... Three days on how cyber, how AI can enhance your - So, for everyone who's watching, if maybe late in the year, would you like OccupyTheWeb to come back and perhaps give us something that he's or added to the course that he Put in the Comments below. What else would you like to see? I think, OccupyTheWeb, that people wanted to see. - Yeah, let's do Pegasus next time. We're gonna go, let's As most of your viewers by the NSO group of Israel. They're kind of a shadowy and they've been licensing this Pegasus to governments around the to spy on people. It's been very effective in spying. It's led to, you know, of sometimes, human rights And so, one of the things that, although we're not I think we need to understand How does that software to get into your phone and see So, that's what we're gonna do next time. - That'd be great, I mean, I'd be, I know that Apple have on iPhones to stop that. To try and stop that, to hear your thoughts So, for everyone who's watching, please, put in the Comments that you would like us to discuss. OccupyTheWeb, as always, thanks so much for sharing your knowledge, you know, many years of experience and you're making it available So, thanks so much. I enjoy, I always enjoy - I'm David Bombal, I wish