Speaker 1: It's great to have Andrew Bustamante CIA officer and also founder of platform. Great to have you back on, Andrew. man. It's been a while since we last a while. We both were a lot younger last time you were on. don't know about some of your experience, give CIA and the sort of things you worked on. Andrew Bustamante. I'm a former CIA intelligence I've served primarily in a clandestine operations role. I left in 2014, started a business. And teaching the same skills I learned at CIA teaching them how to break barriers. skills in a moment. In terms of your work at CIA, or all of the above people then didn't know what about you were what you were doing. Family didn't like, what degree of clandestine are we talking? the clandestine Ops Corps, which is the second operations is essentially a program that's that of the program. Right. And that's where you have attribution of them at all on American records. I the National Clandestine Service or the NCS. My did not know what I did. My siblings did not know an organization that that I was attributed with insurance all came from a completely different worked for, when in reality I was working for CIA. people you just mentioned not they didn't even know you worked at CIA. the National Clandestine Service is And that's how CIA is structured, just Only it's obviously much more interesting. recruitment process where so when you start they know that at the end of the rainbow, there or may not know that right away, but it would I'm interviewing or whatever the term would be, as far as the process that is going on here. because there's so much sensitivity around, these get is a very generic phone call, the invitation it's very much a recruiting type of organization. that type of role, you can apply for a different Yep. So there's a number of different ways that call you and a recruiter will basically speak lines of, hey, we saw your application for XYZ. a different national security role. Would you be that national security role is managed through fund and pay for your travel and, relocation for first interview, they go through a very generic before. They go through a very generic interview the right types of behavioral, tells that you by the end of that first interview, that's where a clandestine role with CIA, or thank you very a different day. Yeah. Once they kind of disclose tell you if you plan to move forward with this telling people this different story. Right. You for various government jobs, or you're coming to, Tennessee, or you're coming to Chicago, Illinois other than the National Clandestine Service. this situation, but it seems to me that there ability or lack of ability to talk about what maybe you receive training or guidance about but I'm guessing that that first time you don't necessarily have the those skills. I Speaker 2: Yeah, absolutely. So what you find you're first being recruited, right. Is that as whole first interview is an assessment. That's is informal, executed by an experienced officer who is a candidate is a suitable candidate. And assessment, then when they introduce the idea of, that's when the next interview is organized and hard hitting, multi-day psychological evaluation. mundane or obscure things that you learn in be surprising to some people, either because it might sound to the everyday person. most interesting things, man, is, is how powerful you know, we all talk about questions and we that you you covered in exhaust, you know, in the interactions between people, questions are the conversation. The person asking the questions answering questions is the person who feels the when you're asking somebody a question, you're if you're asking them questions where they know work, David, because you interview experts all have, they want. And for the most part, they walk good about themselves. That applies everywhere in whether you're talking to a car salesman, whether you're talking to your kids themselves. can answer, they feel good about themselves. they feel like they can trust you. And that over where you take that relationship. so this was relevant in your work insofar as people in all sorts of different situations, and make them feel was relevant to your goals. illegal and this is something that people get. fancy word for spying, is illegal everywhere, that CIA can execute espionage is because there's says that a U.S. citizen working at the direction break this law. You know what I mean? Yes. So when it's illegal everywhere. You never want to tissues. When you're collecting secrets from what's the secret? What's the code to your nuclear for Taiwan? Chinese military general? You some kind of conversation where you elicit those have those conversations is by asking pointed, talk about things they shouldn't talk about. do did, what do you think would be most surprising the sort of things that you were working on? think people don't understand is that secrets kinds of stuff that is truly kept secret, it's not Right? Hypersonic missiles is not a secret. But maintained in the hypersonic missiles chamber for a secret and a very, very well guarded secret we could essentially neutralize or sabotage the But nobody thinks like you can't make a James the pressure ratio inside the combustion engine right? So instead, we believe that secrets are Speaker 1: All right. So this is really good you worked on. So in the five years since we as far as I understand, you're more politically about that and we'll see if that kind of comes out there has been a contingent of the American voting on that has been increasingly hostile to includes FBI prominently. It also applies to catalyzed by the investigation of Donald Trump, by we are publicly aware of you as someone who was generically about American intelligence agencies seen over the last five years? Has your opinion Speaker 2: It's a two fold answer, right? I American intelligence services has always been protect national security interests. But here's the American people. And that's something that the protect individuals. CIA is not there to protect that are set forth by Congress as national of the United States. So I very much believe that CIA of the 2000 was always and remains very security interests as set forth by the Congress. change is in how they go about doing that. It which are many, right. The intelligence community Army has their own service. The NSA is a service. FBI is a service they all have. There's multiple States. What they used to do was was serve in have more and more leaks of people who anonymously have more and more people who are coming out lambasting the administration that they served very similar to the change that you see culturally becoming more politically verbal, more politically majority in the middle is being overlooked. affect the individual at the expense, that the intelligence agencies defend? individual American citizens, we have the freedom government to pursue our own happiness. But that the cost of our neighbor's happiness. That's where legalistic, nature or our structure as a society does not cost David Pac-man's being happy. We have the individual needs to understand that, because we start to, go outside of the boundaries of given in order to share our opinion or, or, like a political challenge when you see CIA that's not their role. That's FBI's role. FBI same thing when you see the constant back and the House, the speaker of the House, like you're like you're seeing here in Congress. Like this to keep the American people safe by protecting sure our society as a whole gets stronger, not that ultimately weekends our societal standing. over intelligence agencies generically, we can. Do you believe that these agencies are the two major political parties right now, or that Speaker 2: The filter is always changing. You are to understand that the the CIA and the FBI and serves at the behest of the executive branch. The is the chief or she is the chief executive. So of their leadership, which means the heads of each partners is always at risk of being replaced or one who is sympathetic towards the the party of rotation, then it filters down and down further run multiple terms, which is until recently that stints where we'd have an eight year conservative over the course of those eight years, multiple intelligence organizations would then change to Speaker 1: There's a sense that within many agencies and large federal governments, there is a they may vote and they may have opinions. Their or related to intelligence gathering in a for political bias in the sense that we might Republicans who have talked about replacing, Traditionally bureaucratic or nonpolitical federal types, for example, it could be the Department of be intelligence agencies based by the standard away from politics and getting towards national such a change. Am I right in that assumption? would be a mistake. To politicize government of government service. Right. Government not a party. And the government is supposed to be of the people. So whether you like or disagree administrative powerhouse. Right. Whatever, you and your job is to serve the government very functioning, effective operational level of IC for those for anybody who lives in Washington that at the first 2 or 3 levels of your career, policy. Right. And review changes to legislation. that keep the government running. It's not until that you start rising up to middle management, must either escalate or evacuate. Really, as you play this very political game where you have to are politically leaning left or right, whether to change the funding source and that's going to worse and worse the higher you get in a in a role. be true, that those who choose to get into tend to be more politically conservative and coworkers the way many people do. And I don't know if you have that sort of relationship even notice the political leanings of really kept out of the work that you did? an example of just how secret these David, the vast majority of people who Speaker 1: Is that. actually progressive, and they're hired between as they gain years of experience dealing dealing with just the the trash and the the the corruption that exists everywhere else by virtue of intensity, it's much less intense to maintain the United States as the world's as they become 30 and 35 and 40 and they become and even right position. But for the most part. obviously. Speaker 1: Eye, this is Andrew's opinion. I it's a claim about what's going on within these but I understand that that's your opinion, left leaning folks who, through cynicism, work, become more centrist or conservative. David. I would say that that you got to keep in are based on ideology. They're based on a future should look like it not based on a current they're called progressive. They always want to That's exactly the kind of person that you want that is trying to stay one step ahead of its conservative leaning audiences, you'd get a bunch who are focused on, well. to go back to some prior era to some degree. are looking backwards, not people who are discovered and what NSA and what NRO and FBI has talent that is progressive liberal in terms they are highly motivated. They are, they are for a very low government pay in the hopes that And then what happens is, over the years, they of understanding of what the world really does it takes for America to protect American freedoms through that transformation, those those people on their their faith and belief in the American Speaker 1: And I'm guessing if they don't, there's like a sort of self-selection Speaker 2: Correct. And I wouldn't even call it self-selection. They choose to pursue a different other career path or some other, maybe government you know, just standard commercial service. I have friends within, Customs and border, bunch of different departments. They report to me see people join, sometimes themselves included be doing in terms of dealing with immigration and I don't know if you would call it through empathy or left from the right. And again, these are just dynamics at play in different agencies, I guess. different mission sets. Right. So somebody who's just like you said, immigration issues versus CIA or DoD would see, which is different from, officers would see. Either way. I think it's a hits on David, is how valuable an empirical survey Yeah, we have an entire government office of Accountability Office. Right. Oh, incredible. that essentially gives the American people a organizations, right. Even if it was just a somewhat left, somewhat right, totally neutral. is representing us in terms of government offices? right. In the few minutes we have left, I want to So I'm curious what you think are the most useful Speaking very honestly, because I've read you know, I'm gonna teach you lockpicking and surveillance and how to booby trap your house I am unclear how much they genuinely apply for the really you think apply most for the average person Speaker 2: You actually, you're totally right, you know, fear tactic marketing that goes into house and whatever else, and it's cells, which most useful set of skills are skills where you have to use that skill. Picking a lock is a engage somebody in a social conversation, for is of interest to you without letting the other a super useful skill, very similar to what we using questions in the Art of questions. Yeah. use perspective. To overcome perception. So if you own point of view. That is our perception, our is green. I think that is yellow. I think this means that you can step out of your point of view what's happening in the overall environment. trapped by their own perception. Do better in better in, in, observing corporate exchanges, everything. You've also got skills like being able handle or reduce your anxiety or your response to something that causes them individual fear. Again, that actually has a high probability of doing see a spider and they get scared. The chances of are very low. There are some spiders who can do respond to fear inputs by calming yourself down productive, all of a sudden you have to think because they respond fearfully to an email. They respond fearfully to a headline news scroll. and manage that fear response, you can dedicate Speaker 1: Are the, techniques for fear and to what, for example, the therapy world may offer, they would be? Or are they radically different? They're still based in clinical science, which have. We get training that's based in the grounded out there. But then we add to that with a layer right. Operational utility. It means, it's nice anxiety and then redirect energy towards what your having a meltdown at work, who then turns off mindfulness, that's great. But then what do they their screen back on, and they get right back into it's more like, let's turn off our screen, and then let's also talk about how do we leave productive way, which might mean going to the call for something that's personally relevant, you learn how to apply these clinical practices Speaker 1: Very, very interesting. We've former covert CIA officer and also founder of great to chat again. I appreciate your time.