On a misty morning in 1661, the cannons of Fort Zeelandia. This marked the beginning of against a determined, disciplined, and numerically year and was characterized by hunger and disease, stakes were high, as Formosa, modern-day Taiwan, Southeast Asia, and Koxinga desperately needed a mainland. This is how modern historiography tells Before we take a deep dive into this War Thunder. War Thunder is the most comprehensive for free on PC and consoles. It puts you helicopters and ships from 10 nations, from state-of-the-art jets and tanks. With its detailed military history fans. You can even customize your decorations. With your favorite historical and breathtaking player-versus-player battles with a sophisticated vehicle damage model against you're more interested in fun than authenticity, offers a simplified arcade mode offers fast-paced War Thunder for PC, PlayStation or Xbox for in the description. New players and those who have massive bonus pack with several premium vehicles, 100,000 Silver Lions and a 7-day premium account! so don't forget to claim it now. In the 17th century, the scramble for Southeast the British Empire, and the Dutch Republic and strategically important locations. The and administered its crown's overseas colonies, 1624. Formosa quickly developed into one of the was soon considered "one of the most beautiful Dutch built Fort Zeelandia on the island bearing Bay of Taiwan. A short time later, they built Shortly after establishing the new base, the Dutch the link between the natives and the Dutch and However, there were repeated disputes and the Dutch. Although this revolt was successfully was particularly suspicious: the governor of Chinese on the island had conspired with the better known as Koxinga. To prevent another he prepared Dutch Formosa for all eventualities. against the Chinese population, which were not India Company. Thinking his fears speculative and However, Coyett was quite right to be concerned. in which the rising Qing dynasty was pushing south until only a narrow strip of territory still held out. The most important of these Koxinga. In 1661, as pressure mounted on he was forced to look for a place to retreat. chose the Insula Formosa as his safe haven. On April 30, 1661, around 400 Chinese junks with had planned the invasion meticulously. He chose his ships could sail effortlessly through Taiwan. The fog was also particularly thick noticed the fleet, it had already passed them. a small fishing village directly opposite the of Chinese immediately joined them, bringing a cavalry regiment dashed south and surrounded slowly followed, banners waving and drums beating. Formosa together to plan the defense. had slipped through their defenses. If he Zeelandia would be completely isolated. To First, they sent three of their largest ships Chinese landing. The larger, more heavily armed fought back fiercely. The battle raged until an the largest Dutch ship, the Hector of Troy, and their mission and withdraw. A second ship, the and attempt to reach Batavia, the Dutch East against the adverse winds of the monsoon season. now only had two oceangoing vessels--not nearly At around the same time, Koxinga sent 2,000 to occupy the sandy Baxemboy Island, from which prevent this, the council sent 240 musketeers led break at the first volley, Pedel attacked the He soon realized his error. The Iron Men were Chinese held their formation and responded so dense it obscured the sun. At the same time, troops to his rear, suddenly emerging from a realized they were surrounded, they tried to Thomas Pedel's recklessness cost the Dutch Finally, Coyett and the Council sent which was now surrounded. But the boats with by Koxinga's troops. These defeats shocked the Koxinga's troops were anything but that. They equipped soldiers who may have looked medieval superior in discipline and experience. was a shortage of supplies. But even this was and plundered its granaries. With fresh strength, Just 140 men defended the fort, equipped and virtually no water because the well in the Jacob Valentin, knew they stood no chance but had the Dutch East India Company with his life. To in the words of the historian Tonio Andrade, he called a meeting." As he had expected, the hopeless. On May 6, 1661, they surrendered Less than a week after his arrival, Koxinga had the Bay of Taiwan, and its surroundings. He was with similar ease. He considered the fort in siege warfare. But this time, it was Koxinga's would give him a hard time for almost a year. It but a modern star fortress with bastions, Chapter 3: The Bastions of Zeelandia architecture, and poetry. But the Italians were they developed a new type of fortress, the the star fortress. This type of fortress had angled bastions that eliminated all blind made it possible to shoot down any attacker. on a small hill and consisted of two parts. The while the lower castle, which had been and had three bastions. The only weak point which was higher than the fort itself. To guns there and shooting down at the fort, a small had been built at the peak of the dune. the fort was almost impregnable. In addition, a siege. The magazines and storerooms contained were in excellent condition, and the soldiers able to improve, mainly due to the mistrust of even with its original 1,100 men, Fort Zeelandia After the capitulation of Provintia, Zeelandia did not surrender immediately, he When the governor ignored this threat and sent advance. They marched south to cross the shallow which was easily done at low tide. When they set they made the acquaintance of Western artillery. Dutch made clear by sending a few bullets zinging move the camp, several junks landed additional buildings. The Dutch put up a brave resistance, buildings alight to prevent them from falling into While the attackers established a base in the town ground, the Dutch repeatedly skirmished against more effectively, mortars. This relatively shrapnel that exploded on impact. This caused were apparently unfamiliar with this technology When his positions were established, Koxinga tried attacks, fire rockets, and mount a barrage every he sent a captured missionary named Antonio did not bring good news. Almost no Dutch were left loyal. To drive a wedge between them, the Chinese hunting down the Dutch. They brutally tortured and as slaves and concubines. While Hambroek was still Coyett that the Chinese were setting up a gun were preparing an attack. At dawn on May 25, the Chinese battery opened fort and, before anyone could react, reduced the out of the ruins unharmed, people considered it hurried onto the walls to assess the situation. Chinese were preparing to take advantage of the had all the cannons loaded with musket balls and while the musketeers took up positions along the their cover to rush the short distance to the iron stopped the attackers in their tracks. Not crossfire from the symmetrical bastions of the Soon, they fled in droves, leaving their flags "nearly the whole field was strewn with dead lesson not to expose themselves so readily." sneaked to the ruined positions, and disabled holes. When Koxinga's men tried to stop them, the apparent once again. A mere handful of Dutch Koxinga was both angry and bewildered. He had not fortress. When Hambroek returned with another anger. According to Tonio Andrade, the war, which go--now became increasingly brutal. On both sides, A few days after the battle, the men in Chinese withdrew. They broke camp, removed their out what was going on, the Dutch captured some could be compelled to reveal any information. motivation was hunger. The food on Formosa was and now his army was starving. Because of this, he Dutch were no longer his primary concern. A small and he didn't expect them to receive any help the siege turned into a blockade. Koxinga's men suffered more than the Dutch. They ran out long before the harvest was ripe. Need plant new fields, leading to conflicts with the of Middag in the north of the island. When they and treated to a sumptuous feast. But after they in the world, the locals attacked and killed hunger became too great, Koxinga abandoned his to plunder their supplies and collect 9/10ths of The Dutch did not fare much better. According Zeelandia, but there was only accommodation for a and plagued by disease and an unbearable diseases such as scurvy or beriberi, which and ultimately leads to heart failure. At the by an unbalanced diet and that dried meat and rice didn't know exactly what. The Dutch began fishing, this was dangerous because it meant leaving the and the fortress, so the gatherers became a target obtaining enough fresh food to stave off disease, the sick and dying had to be taken to the church. Lord for help, they were interrupted by a lewd a bulwark, slapping his naked backside and coming over to get you soon enough!" The man was a A few musket shots caused him to dive for cover, aware of their predicament. Like the Chinese, they The question was who would get them first. At the end of July, the Dutch sentries disappointment, however, it was only a single supplies. The captain's mission was quite But while a messenger read out the corresponding "we shall gain more from Koxinga by love than taking over a flourishing trading post as he had of war. Before the messenger could get back the last hopes of the defenders were crushed. If there was almost no chance that help would arrive. suddenly appeared off Formosa. Against storms and reached Batavia. The vessel by a hair's breadth. When Koxinga saw the men back to Saccam. With them spread across The defenders were in high spirits. At last, brought meat, vegetables, rice, wine--everything there was talk of launching a surprise attack. Because of the numerous sandbanks, larger ships supplies and gunpowder had to be brought ashore this tedious work was interrupted by a heavy waters. When they finally returned, the element of relief fleet, had only 700 men with him--enough for The most valuable support that Caeuw brought was at sea because they significantly improved the Council of Formosa wanted to play this ace the bay to shoot at the Chinese positions in the weather thwarted their plans--a calm set and the others to drift helplessly. Koxinga's men third ship with cannons and a fourth with fire But this did little to help Koxinga. His hungry were defecting to the Dutch, giving away Koxinga's was slowly losing his nerve. His treatment executed them arbitrarily despite the protection and even sent 10 soldiers to Zeelandia with their Dutch paid him back in spades. They used the rack even dismembered a Chinese soldier alive in an both sides to commit unimaginable atrocities. junks sailed through Deer's Ear Gap and brought backside we have already met, returned to deliver see the junks that came today?"... Are you hungry? wine]? I've got plenty right here. Want some?" At the end of September, Koxinga's gunners of the dune of the Redoubt of Utrecht. The barrage because they dared not leave their cover. In the parapet and even damaged the walls. Coyett quickly. After several failed attempts to build he resorted to an unconventional method. from the ruins of an old hospital between the they picked the Chinese from their guns. Koxinga's men seized the opportunity to prepare a bamboo canes where the musketeers had been hiding snipers returned the following day, the Chinese old hospital with a series of explosions. Koxinga this time it failed. The charges went off before the dust settled, they began firing again. This defenses and add a line of field fortifications in In early November, a leaky ship brought new Company ambassadors had convinced the Qing, to join their fight against Koxinga. The ships to coordinate the attack. But his mission to bad weather and a lack of motivation. When was accused of desertion and court-martialed. His soldiers, and supplies but also dashed The men of Fort Zeelandia were now at their wits' and arguments. Eyewitnesses even report that him a critical answer. In addition, the fort was and the toilets were outside the walls, the defenders. Soon, the situation became so The German officer Hans Jurgen Radis had come the few experienced soldiers in the fort, but he a cold December day, he decided to betray his of hunting seabirds on the beach and marching Radis knew his way around European the Chinese built extensive fortifications and complex than the other Chinese works--and much more demi-lune, a type of fortification resembling a Utrecht. Because it was behind the redoubt, fort more troops crossed over to Zeelandia and the decisive battle was about to begin. On the morning of January 25, the dunes seemed and Chinese soldiers stormed toward the their cannons destroyed the redoubt's breastworks roof finally caved in, Koxinga's men launched the defenders drove them back twice. Then, fortress, and by the afternoon, around 2,000 and southern walls. The garrison of the redoubt retreated. But before abandoning their position, large barrels of powder topped with shrapnel. and Koxinga's men, who were pouring But even the bomb couldn't change the but the council members overruled him. With fighting was pointless. After six days of on February 1, 1662. The Dutch had to leave in the fort but were granted safe conduct with journey to Batavia. On February 9, they left Fort With the fall of Zeelandia, Dutch colonial East India Company had lost one of its most "one of its most beautiful pearls." Koxinga and made it his new base in the fight against the as he died of malaria just a few weeks later. this video. Register now via the link in PlayStation or Xbox! New players and least 6 months will receive a massive bonus other goodies! Now for a limited time only. the channel running. If you would like to becoming a channel member. We appreciate