- I wasn't actually gonna that thoroughly, because I was like, &quot;Surely Nicole wouldn't take, that many things from the office.&quot; You haven't even been with us that long. How have you managed to Welcome, it's Intel Extreme That's right, Nicole is one And how do I describe without being rude? Should we just say it? - Well yeah. - She wants to hide from her family. - Yeah. (both laughing) - We're creating Nicole It's gonna have gaming, it's gonna have movie and you basically won't - Yes, that's the plan. - Okay, let's get going. (dramatic upbeat music) It's weird because invading the privacy of my staff, but I haven't gotten into a girl's bedroom other than the one I share with my wife in probably 16, 17 years. (laughing) So this is, yeah, it's very, you got a definitely very I'm like, I see workout Penguin who has made his way back home from your office. - Do you stream? - No, I'm not much of an - Oh why do you have the stream deck and like a sick microphone - Hot keys. - Right, that make sense. - Yeah. (Nicole laughs) - You haven't even been with us that long. How have you managed to - Well, nobody said anything - I don't think I've ever Do you have a prescription. - A little bit. - Oh wow not much. - No, that's mostly but I can see things from afar. That's a really good Santa look. I feel like this is like (both laugh) You got a future. - [Linus] Let's talk gonna change in here. - I'm gonna get an update upgrade, change up, this stuff.(laughs) - Okay, yes, that is what we do. But more specifically. - Well, when I built this. - Yeah. - [Nicole] I thought, or two I'll update the graphics card. - Yeah oh! - And then a year or two came , yeah. - Now, do you use your GPU for Do you do a turn on video editing at home? - Not any more, I try not to at all. Just so that it's like I - Right? So then the new setup will be completely geared towards entertainment and games. - Cool, okay. Oh my God! Am I doing it right? - Yay! Yeah. - Okay ready? - I'm one of those people very unpleasant. - I get like tingles, but in a bad way. - Oh, then they just got to go harder. - No, I really don't think (laughing) By the way, I love your pillow here. Ittstore.com - [Nicole] Yeah. - Yup, yup for sure. You know, I don't know what So does leaping onto your bed, but I just feel like I need to say. - [Nicole] Oh yeah it would - Yeah I learned my lesson. (laughing) Let's go have a look at Well, we found some already. - Yeah, this is gonna be a huge upgrade. - So this is going like in your bedroom? - Yes. - Your bedroom is gonna be - Yeah that's the plan. - Now I have to confess Nicole. I've never taken you for much of a gamer and it's not like a stereotype you've like, you've never like lounge nights or anything like that. Is this a relatively new thing for you Or? - I used to game a lot a lot more badminton. - And now you're injured. - Yes. - How is your... How are you doing? - Oh I have like a nice little party trick where it like pops out. - Oh wait, you're not - No, no, no, if this falls then it comes out and I'll push it back. - Yeah that's really creepy actually. - But it's-- (Nicole laughs) - Okay yeah. - But the knee is like real good now. - [Linus] Okay. - Yeah. - So there you heard it here first folks, the best way to recover from a knee injury is to hurt your shoulder, - Yeah. (Linus laughs) It balances out yeah. - All right, I couldn't help noticing there is one key component missing. - Oh, I'll be reusing my old case. - Okay, cool. Did you build that machine? - [Nicole] Yes. - So then I actually don't have to do pretty much anything today. - Oh okay. - You're gonna build the computer, right? - Yeah, we'll see about that. - Well you've built one. - I watched your videos. - All right, let's go get it. Oh, noticing that your monitor You know, I wasn't actually that thoroughly, because I she's always so smiley Surely Nicole, wouldn't take that many things from the office. I don't think we ever had purple clouds. So I think you're probably I think it's time to dig a - Okay. - Wait a second. - Yeah. - This fridge isn't even on. You're not even using - Yeah, when you guys said it was loud, I didn't think it'd be that loud. - No, no, it's really loud. - Oh my goodness. That's like keeps you awake at night loud. - Why did you keep it? Well, as you can see there's - So well then you thought that doesn't work? (laughing) - Yeah. - This is the fanciest nail clipper I've ever seen in my life. There's a great story behind that. - Uh huh. - So I got one from Amazon - That's the whole story? - Isn't that great? (both laugh) Those are... That's the graveyard. - Well, you sure didn't This has existed since of well before our company was a thing. If you want gamer chops proof, right? All you have to do is look at (Nicole laughs) However, I couldn't help noticing What's up with that? - Oh, I don't know. I think maybe I just When I type I've been - Oh wait, so for games, you're WASD? - Yes for sure. - Oh, but for some reason your W key just doesn't get like - I'm not like the most aggressive player, like a hang back as you can see. (both laugh) - She's a retreater ladies and gentlemen. - [Nicole] Yeah I run. - That is the funniest (Nicole laughs) My W key doesn't get a lot of use. Oh, right we actually Sorry I got totally distracted. - Okay. - Oh oh okay that's just - It's speaking to me. (soft upbeat music) - Now how long ago did - Almost three years ago. - That's a VGA connection. - Oh yeah well, when I got this-- - Nicole you've got a tag (Nicole laughs) Naruto Running won't In Nicole's defense, that was back in the day of a lot where they intentionally They had the tabs in such a - Oooh! - Oh know that it didn't take long. Okay its my fault. - Okay like, should I - Nope. - Okay. (Nicole laughs) - Rude. (Andy laughs) So they intentionally because the idea is that They're for grounding, but they overdo it. So a lot of the time it's to accidentally have the tabs which can actually short out that port, which can obviously cause problems. Now you have got some dusts build up, you know how they say that dust is like, we know whatever - Oh I googled that it's not. - Apparently it's a total myth. - Yeah. - Yeah I can tell you almost for certain that a lot of this is - Oh no! - You managed to get some hair in here. - Oh my God! Why is there so much hair in here? What happened? - That's basically what when I unclogged my wife's sink. Here's another one. - Oh my! Where did they come from? (both laugh) - Can I propose the theory? Okay wait, why am I doing this? Okay yeah. Okay you said you wanted to show me-- - Yeah, yeah, yeah, my special - That is, oh, I think I see I was going to be like, that's an adorable little hammer but, (screwdriver scratching) there's a screwdriver in the handle. - Okay that's actually pretty. - There is another one. (upbeat music) - Oh, that's not what I I thought this was gonna of this one. It's gonna be like a longer shaft and then it would be interchangeable bits. - Yeah. - Are you sure it doesn't Like what's in there? - Right look at this. So you got to like neural things here. It's gotta-- (Nicole exclaims). - It's like one of those-- - Oh my God is there one more screw-- - It's a baby. (Nicole laughs) - Wait, how deep does this go? - No. (both laugh) - It's so cute. Is that a tattoo? - Yes. - How have I never noticed - It's a pup print of my pup and her name. - [Linus] That is so cool. - [Nicole] Thank you. That's my little right pup. She's real cute like real fluffy. - [Linus] Yeah. - Gorgeous little pup hates living things. - Got it. - So we're not going to meet her? - She might bark for the until you leave. - Maybe we'll meet her before I go. - No more skin. - Yay! - It snowing. - You know what? Let's change our story. It's not all skin, it - [Andy] It's snow. - It's snow, it's festive. (all laugh) Festive dust. If your timing is so good because 12th Gen just launched. - Yeah I realized that. - So what'd you go with? - So I went with the intel Core i7-12700k. - [Linus] Yep. - [Nicole] I had the 7700K. - Yep, this is actually a because it's got the same as the top spec, Core i9. And you're just giving Now, if you were doing or like after effects work I might've said, &quot;Hey, you &quot;you need the other course.&quot; But for like just gaming - Yep. - Any particular rationale on - I needed it. (both laugh) And then it also has USB-C. - Don't you feel bad for motherboard manufacturers sometimes. Like it's so hard to market your product when literally the main selling point is works with this thing. You need one. - That doesn't feel right. - You are good don't worry. - Okay. - Quite a lot of force on LJ There you go, nice. Okay, what's next? Now it seems to me that you went 64 gigs around last time around because you were doing and stuff at home. So did you go for speed or did you go for capacity this time? - I went for speed. 3200. 3200, 16 Oh yeah okay - Engine they'll click. - Sometimes you can get the but see that, no matter that last little click isn't going. Don't worry about it. You'll be able to... It is all the way in. If you push it all the way in, it's in all the way in. It's okay to just close - N.2 - Chosen for any particular reason, other than bang for the buck? - That's it? - That's it, yeah that's (both laugh) I don't think anyone chooses a WD Blue for like the sex appeal. - [Nicole] Yeah. - Man! Boards loaded up now CPU, RAM And about 2 SSD. - Yes. - What are we doing next? - I have an AIO so-- - Oh, so what I need is and then I'm just gonna sanity check here. I love the color scheme by the way. - Thank you. - It's fantastic. So we could get a fan in there, but we're not getting a - Okay. - Option two is we put and hope our graphics card is gonna fit. Or we could open up the graphics fan and we could do a quick test fit. - Lets do a test fit. - Okay. Oh man, this is gonna from a 1060... look at then look on her face, she knows. I'm not even sure if that's gonna fit in your case at all. Let alone... - It's radiator in the front. Nicole, are you sure? - [Nicole] Isn't it right? I don't know if it's gonna fit Nicole. - Oh yikes. (Linux laughs) - Everyone is supposed to get at some point in this process. Who was supposed to look at yours? Nobody, nobody looked at it. Okay I'm gonna have to for this project. 'Cause like the first couple And then I thought it got delegated, but apparently it hasn't been. Okay, cool let's go shopping. I feel awkward about this because the whole Extreme is that you're supposed to but you used all your budget to other people if I the company card and so you're buying a case. Okay, cool. I'm just making sure that's all clear. So we're trying to find something your done GPU, Nicole. (Nicole laughs) - Dennis, Dennis inspired me. - Okay, so it all comes down to Dennis. - We want USB-C. - Yes. - And then we need something a dual fan AIO. - Yes. - Okay. - Well there's real big boy. Is this too big of a big boy? - Nope, no, that would work really well. That's a really good case. One of my concerns is be in stock, black, black, but this is the one you have. - The same one. (Linux laughs) - Okay so let's just-- - Let's move along. I mean, hold on a second this is on sale. How can they not have stock of it? Maybe we provide a demo unit. 'Cause it's like 90 - Is this bigger then? - Yes, yeah yeah. - Here considerably bigger. - Ah, oh jeez okay. - You know what I'm just - Yeah, yeah, this would be cool. - Not a bad haul. We ended up with this 'cause in addition to not in her room, Nicole was saying - Yes. - And then we got the and this worked out really well 'cause they gave us 10% off. So for, it was $90 on sale already. So we paid 81. - Yeah. Something like that. $81. And because it's core share, we can take her existing case, rip all those Coursera accessories And we've actually wasted even though you ended up with two cases. Oh, okay. Little case. - Goodbye. - It was nice knowing you. Nothing can defeat us today. We've got a computer store down the road, where conveniently we could get a 6,900 XT for 2300 Canadian dollars. - Wonderful. (Andy laughing) - I couldn't help noticing went with an 850 watt It should be fine. - Okay. - A quality 850 watt power supply, should be fine, but we've run into issues before with ones that might be quality actually. But weren't really designed That would just kind of turn off when power would spike like way above what the card is rated for, Which does happen. So hopefully it's fine. Okay, well I guess - Yeah. Asus speakers? - Yes. - What made you choose those? - Alex, has Mackie speakers too. I edited his upgrade. - Oh, then I have heard of them. Maybe I've just forgotten that. - [Nicole] Yeah. - Cause I was definitely there. So what's the first game you're gonna play with the new upgrade. - I really want to give - Oh, so you figured, &quot;You know what? I've got too much of a life right now. I need to take up an MMO.&quot; - Yes. - Relatable. I haven't looked at your side in a bit, but this side, looks awesome. (Nicole exclaims) Like, it's a stone cold stunner man. - That's amazing. - Okay. Well hold on. (Nicole laughs) (indistinct) It's all right. - [Nicole] Oh. - I accidentally pinned under the CPU back plate. (laughing) At this point, it's pretty unless... - Yeah. Let's call that cable managed. - Out of sight out of mind. (laughing) It's time, to put our GPU RTX 3080 baby. Even in this case, this Yeah. There you go. Let's go do a quick power - Okay. (indistinct) - Well, that's not a good sign, especially cause I'm the one who plugged into the (indistinct)connector. - It's fine.(chuckles) - We never plugged in the 24 pin. - Oh no. Okay. - Remember how it was all like, oh yeah, we'll plug it in at the end. Cause that way it's not in the way. - And now everything else is in the way. - Now everything else is in the way. And that is why you never before doing a quick post test. Any light? Oh, no light. Really? (Nicole exclaims) Now there's light. - Wow. Wow. - Yeah, that looks pretty cool. I actually didn't notice this before, but you've got a new microphone. You picked up the ever popular 8020. - [Nicole] Oh yes. - 20. My favorite feature of my GOXLR, which the mini also has, the swear button. So you press this and it just cuts your audio People have been so impressed. Like every time I use it, the comment section is just like, &quot;What? Is there even producer who's like censoring his language. Is this pre recorded?&quot; Nope. Nope. Its got the swear button. If you got it, you might as well(device beeping) use it. Right? You win. Super balling on your monitor. - Yes. - 170 Hertz IPS, G sync 1440 P. And it's the Gundam Edition. (both laugh) What does that even mean? - It looks pretty. - Okay.(chuckles) What's this monitor worth. - Like $800. - Okay. Final fantasy 14. But what else is your genre? We were talking off camera. You said FPS? Not so much. - Not as much anymore. - What else? - I'd like to see like more just cause I never really had the opportunity to before. - Nicole. - Yeah. - You're gonna have so much monitor for the size of this desk. I can't believe a desk, wasn't in your budget here. Then again, once we put a 55 inch TV on that tiny little TV stand,(laughing) this entire wall is going - All right we can put it on the wall. - Where are you going - I'm gonna lay in bed. - Wait. - No.(laughing) I can. Yeah, like. - Let's get the desk done. And then I'm gonna grab the TV and I'm gonna hold it there. - There is a mount also. Pulls out a little. - Alright. I'll have a look at it. - Okay. - Here's your new mouse. Oh, you went super late. - Yes, I was actually - Yeah. Well, why buy it when you can have someone else buy it? Hey, thanks Intel. - Yay. Thanks Intel. - So you've got a power play, which is a mouse pad that continuously charges So cool. But you have a desk pad. Were you plan to put the mouse pad on top of the desk? - Yes. I like hard, most surfaces. But I like having a soft cushion for my keyboard. - That is a way more than I could have expected. Where's the computer gonna end up? Is it going to be on the floor again? - It's gonna be on this (indistinct) - It'll be... Oh, is this Ikea thing - Yes. This is the thing that I built with the miniature screwdrivers. - Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. - Alex's are so popular. - [Andy] Yeah, I have a couple at home. - I know, we have two of them. Yeah. We've got Alex P, we've got Alex C. - Yeah, all the Alex's are sold out. - That's cause we have them all. Beep! Beep! Beep! Back in the (indistinct). Oh yeah. Gorgeous. Okay. I'm gonna try and make Do you happen to have - We have some extra - Yeah, that might do the trick. - Yeah. - Don't mind me. I'll just sit here. - Okay, I'll be right back. - I can't believe you're going straight from 720P to 4k. - Yeah. - And to OLED, at the same time. And one, two, three. (TV bangs) Don't worry, It's fine. - Okay. - The air cushions it. Show me your plan. - Yeah. Yeah. - So how are you going Like, demo. (upbeat music) And that's comfortable? - Yeah. Cause then it's gonna tilt a little. - I'm not trying to be a are you sure. - Because it ends up being - It ends up being low. - Yeah a little low. - Oh wow. - Cause I wanna be able to watch while I am fully... - Fully reclined. - Yeah. - I see. It's your Intel Extreme Tech Upgrade. So we're gonna do it your way. All right cool. - Now at least it's not - That's true. Oh boy.(machine beeping) Okay. There's one. That's somewhat promising actually. (machine beeping) Oh that's freaking awesome. Okay. Do you have a pencil by any chance? - I have an outfits pencil.(laughing) - Oh no, no. That simply won't do. - Okay, I got no pencil.(laughing) - Whoa. Hold on a second. What is that thing in your right hand? (Nicole laughing) I never wanna see it again. We're not barking the wall with that. - (laughing) I don't have a pencil. But I have pens and there's something I - How can I not make the joke? Okay. Your fill stick cannot You cannot not set me up like that and have me not knock it down. (both laughing) They're hardwood flooring. We do not wanna put it on the wall. (laughing) We're gonna use a pen. (power tool clangouring) Okay that's good. And then keep spinning and pull it out. (power tool clangouring) - Wow. Power of tools. - I know. Right? You got to apply lots of (power tool roars) Okay slip is bad. - Okay. - Let me see. (power tool roar) Okay (indistinct) - Okay. Well that's terrifying. - I'll just support the weight. You move the TV however you want. - [Nicole] Okay. We're in. - Both of them are in? - Yeah. - And you're stuck back there. - It's fine. - How are you doing Nicole? - I'm good. - (chuckles) Okay. There you go. - Wonderful. - She's free. - Yay. - You wanna do the honors? - Yeah. - Big peel. - Big peel. The biggest peel of my life. (nylon gently mellows) - I am inspired right now. I know what the title for this video is. - What is? - This is like, &quot;The You got your gaming PC, you got your TV, you got your snack drawer. You basically never have to leave. - Yes, that's the plan. - Right, that was, that was literally what you Okay. Now there's one - Yeah. - Nicole's really smart. So she like looked at the box a little bit and figured out exactly what But for the rest of you, I'm Essentially what you do, is you take these media adapters and you put one of them And then you plug in with an Then you take the other one and you plug it in up next to your device. So we're gonna plug it into And then you plug in ethernet And what you're doing, is you're into a network cable. So that's going to go right there. And then this guy goes, holy crap. Do you guys not have any The one plugged into the TV is not lit. And what is this over here? - It's plugged into the karaoke machine. - Which obviously needs internet. That's priority number one. Yeah. So the TV can go. It has WIFI. - And it's reception would be great. - Yes. - And then if anyone gets mad at you about the TV WIFI, then you blame me. - Okay. - You like, &quot;Oh sorry Linus And you just like make this face. Wow. That's really good. In something like a game, which is extremely (fingers click) See that 130 to 103. That sucks. - Yeah. - And any time someone else is or anytime when something in it is going to trash your game latency. Now, watch this. Screw this and let's We've got a spike, but So every time it's loading a chunk, we're still getting a spike in latency, but not like on WIFI where we were getting uploads - Wow. - Cool. Right. - That's amazing. - The unintuitive part is that you guys probably noticed, WIFI has lower lows. But it's just when you that's when you get headshot, without even getting a chance to retaliate Because a hundred plus We are done Nicole set up. It's freaking awesome. She's got the Ultimate Gamer Bedroom now with the gaming rig in the corner, everything from voice recordings to gaming to media consumption. It can do it all, and the TV that... While I may not agree is gonna look absolutely And there's basically no So thanks for watching Thank you Intel for sponsoring. If you guys are looking for which one's been your favorite so far. - Dennis' (chuckles) - Okay, go watch Dennis' (indistinct). - (laughing) Yeah.