My name is Vidal Guzman. I was on Rikers when I was 16, and this is how crime works. The nicknames that it Gladiator School, Torture Island, the name speaks for itself. Eighty-five percent of people who are on Rikers Island are just awaiting trial. That means that majority of to be sentenced or I worked for the Close Rikers Campaign. We heard of stories, people When I got locked up, I got I got picked up one morning, it was, like, 5 in the morning, and my family didn't know their rights. They put the cuffs on you, and all you see is this bridge, and you're like, &quot;Where are we going?&quot; They're like, &quot;We going to Rikers. We're going to Gladiator School.&quot; C-74 is on the island itself. The facility that kept the 19-to-24, that age bracket. Everybody was facing hard When we was supposed to or thinking about picking out our suits or picking out what colleges that wasn't it. I never knew that, you know, when I got incarcerated, that Rikers Island At that time in 2007, It was overpopulated with youth. I had to go in there so I can be able to survive. And I learned that my first day when a youth put a spoon in and what the kids told me was, &quot;You were supposed to swing at him.&quot; And I was like, &quot;Yeah?&quot; He's like, &quot;Yeah, man. You don't Next time, I said, &quot;You know what? Let me corner him and If we feel some type of way, we do what we have to do. And I started slowly learning that if I want to live and survive here, then I really gotta lose a piece of myself that I try to hold on, right? The human side of myself. I started learning about &quot;the program.&quot; We always knew what correctional officers were the one that was They could say, &quot;Well, on the youth, so we needed to figure out how to keep them under control.&quot; Basically, it's this power structure on Rikers Island that had people that fight for You know, to not worry about or not worry about He'll get more calls to Because he'll take calls from people. If you're not in that power rank, that means you're not having cereal or you're not even having a muffin. Their commissaries get taken away. Their sneakers get taken away. So I had to come in these areas and be the most violent, right? Grab a TV, try to throw it at people. Attack someone first, right? Get jumped first. Some fights I lost, some fights I won. But No. 1 thing I always as long as you never turn Even when I was 16, the Like, if you want to get in the team or you want the housing So sometimes the CO might fall asleep and not pay attention. &quot;Yo, yo, the CO's sleeping, You go right in the back, and people fight it out. It'd been stuff like that. And in Rikers Island, there was always this little corner from where the cameras at Things like that happen now. There's still fight night on Rikers. They know that this a blind eye, or they might I mean, Rikers is falling apart, so it's easy to make a Breaking a piece of the A lot of times people get razors to shave, and that means somebody got that razor. Weapons are usually never really brung in. They're usually made Correctional officers, they knew, 16-, 17-year-olds, they couldn't put their hands on them. So this fight club was in some way, uphold power, right? You know, I would have black eyes, and correctional officers They'll say, &quot;OK. You OK? Did you win? Did you swing? Did you duck?&quot; Just, like, make fun of you. We knew what correctional We knew what housing complex they favor the most. We knew all that. You know, when people don't the struggle get hard. Tattoos does happen in there. It's dangerous, but people gotta hustle. That's the black market. You know, selling People figure out their way. I remember one time somebody even started a business of selling Shabangs. It's these chips on Rikers This person was buying these chips, created a online account, and sold them for, like, $3 more, because nobody could buy these chips but everybody loved these Shabang chips. You use the money from whoever sent you, or if you're working for $0.12, $0.16, you use whatever you People start tapping that they probably never I remember I used to write, at the time, with my I'll have them design the Like, have some Mickey Mouse or something really cartoony, and I'll pay somebody, like, two soups or three soups to do it. But then you have an into the underground or the black market. From there, they're trying They're boofing. Basically, boofing means you're literally throwing the whole drugs, and ... yeah. So, there's always stories of even correctional Even when Rikers was closed to visitors, how was weapons and drugs I remember when that -- we would call it the red alarm. You would hear it all the &quot;Woo, woo, woo, woo!&quot; Basically the turtles are correctional Their job is to deescalate, Every time I have dealt with the turtles have been them just getting their stick and start hitting anyone. Majority of the correctional officers on Rikers was Black and brown, so I was really expecting a lot of them to understand our struggle and to also advocate for us to not be in a facility, Some of the things that was done on Rikers when I was younger, or even now, was done by correctional officers. Like, they'll put Crips Not every single correctional Like, I had a correctional officer who was actually pretty He was a former, I think When he came into the space, that you're not supposed to have, some comb to comb out your hair, smell good so the dorms smell good. So there were people who was trying to do the inside work. They gave too much oversee for correctional officers that they haven't gave the counselors to be in these spaces. You're hearing stories of people who are correctional officers because of the issues trying to survive on Rikers. And that happens, right? It's stressful. You know, they go home, but I had to go through that same When I was incarcerated at At that time, I was more gang-related. I was a member of the Bloods. I became a part of the Bloods People around me was like friends, close friends of mine, so I didn't feel like I was joining, you know, like, how the Bloods, or, you know, I wasn't joining the Bloods, I was joining my community who was Bloods, right? It's different from the West Coast and the East Coast, right? The Bloods in the East At that time, early '80s, '90s, it was a lot of Latinx gangs and a lot of Blacks who felt A lot of different gangs grew there. The Trinitarios. They call I remember when they was called After they changed their name, they grew from Rikers Island. There are people who turn Blood or part of a gang while and for me it was a lot different, because I was already a part before I came into Rikers Island. It was so much politics. They keep the Crips in a away from us. We don't Maybe there's internal At that time, we had We had the Bloods, the Latin and for me, it was like, yo, man, let's figure out how we so we don't get into any violence. I've been in environments where You'll go up to them and I want your time slot.&quot; And people will fight Always rules that you gotta follow. Make sure you work out every day. Make sure you're intaking your lessons. The brotherhood of Don't mess with someone Don't be a rat. There's always those codes, basically in almost every gang, right? The way that they might say certain things to say something, right? Majority of the letters that are read, so they gotta in coding. So there've always been kites, letters. Let's say they're trying to someone who might be close to them. They'll wrap up the for it to be able to slide between doors. Because I speak Spanish, to relay messages faster and I was able to, if I was able to relay that fast to anyone. But wars can happen between gangs, and it can just change. Like, a letter will go out at what time, and what and everybody gotta move. &quot;Everybody gotta move&quot; basically mean that harm has to happen, and it's a fight throughout I think a lot of people don't really know what is Rikers, right? Like, they think Rikers is a prison, but Rikers is a collective of facilities that are not just on the island itself, but facilities that are close Bronx, Brooklyn, and Queens. I think people don't understand Rikers is close to 160 years that it has been oppressing Richard Riker was a He was a judge who broke by selling Black people back into slavery. In the 1930s, it was built by incarcerated people to extend Rikers. A majority of Rikers When it rains, I mean, you smell this, like, eggy, disgusting smell all the time. You can't drink the water there. You're fighting rats and I never seen collective to get a mouse out of the cell housing complex. You know, we heard of people because of how Rikers Island I remember a lot of times, they would turn a fan on, a regular fan, and let it blow all the way down the tier, and everybody, all of us, on the ground, no shirts, in our boxers to at least feel the coldness of the floor so we can at least cool down. And you're in a cell where you're like, &quot;I can't drink this water. I gotta keep throwing water in my face.&quot; There's dormitories and cell areas. So, in the cell area, it would just be me. So cells only have one individual. It's different from but on Rikers Island, you had like, you know, one per cell. In dormitory, it'll be, like, 50 people. And dormitory would be a little bit scary because the bed would be an arm's length of how close they was. If you want to wake up somebody, you can just reach out your When it talks about the dormitory was one of the The population in 2020 was at 4,000. Now, today, it's at 6,000. The majority of those times when you see a collective is when they're probably going to court or when they're on the visiting floor or maybe for medical. When I was doing my I actually came back to Rikers to try to get my cases They was running wild. Three and a half year for and then a year and a half At that time, my brother was a member of the Trinitarios, and at that time when I there was this beef between and I found out he was but I found out that there was, as they say, &quot;money&quot; on my brother's head to harm him from the Bloods. And I found out they was having a meeting at a lower library, and I was like, &quot;Let me go in there and tell them that's not going to happen.&quot; When I sat down, I said, that y'all talking about They was mad because some tobacco to the Bloods. That was the moment where I was like, I felt that the change came, right? That gangs are, you know, sometimes they put family against family. And I was like, &quot;Nope. and if it does get in a situation, it should be a one-on-one.&quot; One day, you know, I I was in a dormitory. My brother was in the same dorm as me. It was so sad. Not because -- I was It was sad because my in prison. One doing 16, the other one trying to It was that moment in my life where I just kind of &quot;Yo, it gotta be a different life for me.&quot; That meant that I decided Advocates from the city are just tired of hearing stories of how much Rikers has slowly been killing our peoples, spiritually, mentally, and physically. And it hasn't changed. The only thing that changed is that the youth are not on Rikers. Rikers has became more violent. I turn on the TV, like everyone else, and I hear about somebody I tear up just like them, you know? I tear up for their family because I know that I could A lot of people who are are individuals who have who are poor, can't be and are individuals who that are poor, overincarcerated, When you say you survived Because even now, since 2020, close to 30-something deaths. I mean, it's going to keep going up. In 2020, some of the and passed was something Kalief Browder was one of the who experienced Rikers as a youth and started speaking about it. I just got lost with Kalief Browder because I think a lot of times when we think about Kalief Browder and everything that he went through, getting abused by that one hit us the most. The Kalief law really got the population from where it was, 20,000, to the 4,000. But a lot of that right is because of broken-window I think because of the Kalief law, when we went up to Albany, passed the speedy trial, Bail reform, the bail reform issue was you have people in there, they was in there for and their bail will be, like, $5,000. They'll keep pushing his court date back, and they'll use the method on Rikers until you give Or take whatever they're And that's a tactic that also gets used. What we're also seeing is because resources are declining. The resources that were needed to fully provide Rikers Island to the next chapter of I think what sent me to the People don't understand You know, when I was very young, me and my mom, we was homeless. I think for me, I get traumatized knowing that, right? And experiencing that with my moms, and then growing up seeing people around At 8 or 9 years old, I was trying to figure stuff out, and, you know, 14, 15 years old, started getting harassed by police. Even being so young, you from middle school, from elementary, imagine you getting thrown on the wall by this big police 200 pounds, and you're just a kid. My brother was incarcerated. He was incarcerated for 16 years, and my uncle was incarcerated for around 7 1/2 years, but it's not just them, you know? Most of my family been and I grew up to be a man too early. Being tried as an adult meant that the judge that it doesn't matter that he sees me as I think I regret just the violence, right? Like, it's hard, right? Because you leave these spaces; you still gotta look I'm 32. I've been in What I mean, &quot;in the system,&quot; under some type of parole, And I'm 32, so this past two years been my first two years to being free. It feels really good not reporting to anyone or, you know, being able to know I'm done, you know? In 2015 when I came home, basically a food truck that, it hired formerly incarcerated youth. They got involved in a lot of They help people out to also figure out, what do they want to do further in their life? And for them, they noticed that Like, &quot;You need to get So, the campaign is called They're led by a organization and their goal was basically to keep continuing the organizing The city has closed some and facilities that are a part of Rikers, like the Brooklyn facility, C-74. I can't wait till 2027, right next to the bridge