Such a Napoleon recipe, you definitely haven't tried it yet! What a pity that I did not guess about this method earlier? :). Do you love Napoleon? I think there are few among us who do not like this delicious cake. today we are preparing a delicious lazy Napoleon without baking, in just 15 minutes! No fuss with the dough and rolling out the cakes - everything is fast and ingeniously simple, just like you love :). If you love Napoleon, write in the comments: I want Napoleon! In order not to lose the recipe, share it with friends and girlfriends on Social networks. And also if you like to cook and eat deliciously, subscribe to our channel, new videos are released 2 times a week. For the recipe, we need these ingredients. I will also leave the composition in the description under the video. Prepare for health . Let's make the cream first. Honestly, apart from the cream, we don't have to cook anything else :). Pour 200 g of sugar into the pan. I add 70 g of corn starch to sugar. I add 2 bags of vanilla sugar - this is 2 tsp. The cake will turn out to be quite a decent size, so I take more vanilla - then the aroma of the cream is simply divine :). Mix everything well with a whisk. I break 4 eggs. Eggs are medium sized. I mix eggs with sugar and starch. This is how you should get a homogeneous mixture. Gradually pour in milk - 1 liter. I mix. If milk is added gradually, then lumps in the cream do not form. Everything was well mixed. I put the cream on the stove over medium or low heat. And cook the custard for Napoleon until it thickens. During the cooking process, stir constantly with a spoon or whisk. If the cream is not stirred, it may burn, so you will have to spend 5 minutes at the stove. But believe me, this is the most difficult thing in this recipe, friends :). When the cream boils, I let it boil for half a minute, then there will be no starchy taste in the finished cream. The cream is ready. I take the cream off the heat. And immediately pour the cream into a large bowl to cool faster. And in order for the cream to cool even faster: I take another bowl, pour cold water into it (you can also put ice in the water). I put a bowl of cream on a bowl of cold water. And thus - the cream will cool down in 10-15 minutes. In the meantime, the cream is cooling down, we will take care of the cakes for our fast and lazy Napoleon. today I suggest you try the most ingenious cakes)) Instead of cakes, we will have ordinary pita bread! ;). I take a package of pita bread. There are 3 sheets in my package, and the weight is exactly 300 g. I cut each sheet of pita bread in half. You can cut it in half again - it depends on what size you want to cook the finished Napoleon cake. You need to dry the sheets of pita bread a little in the oven. I lay out the pita bread on the grate and let it brown in the oven. Oven temperature 180 degrees. Baking time: 5-7 minutes. Probably, pita bread can not be dried in the oven, but thanks to baking, pita bread acquires a pleasant nutty taste. Lavash has browned a little. I take it out of the oven and leave the cakes to cool. The custard has already cooled down well. It remains to add whipped cream or butter to the cream. I take 200 g of cold cream and whip it into a strong foam. Cream must be well chilled - so they quickly and easily whip. For whipping, take heavy cream (33% fat). Instead of cream, you can add butter to the cream. Leave the butter at room temperature so that it becomes soft, and then beat with a mixer and mix with the cream. We whipped cream. This is the consistency of the whipped cream. Now I add whipped cream to the cream and mix. The cream is ready. Look how gentle, smooth and uniform it turned out. You can already collect the Napoleon cake. I smear the pita cake with cream. I cover with another layer. And so I alternate until I collect the whole cake. If you have some pita cakes that are slightly bent and bent, you can simply press them down with your hand. It's okay if the cake cracks. But it will lie flat, it will be easy to lubricate it with cream and it will quickly and well soak. I made a cake. And so that it turns out to be even and soaked with cream faster, I will put a small load on it. Now the cake needs to be put in the refrigerator for 2 hours, and preferably at night. During this time, the cake will soak well. And while the cake is soaking in the refrigerator, I dried a couple more sheets of pita bread to sprinkle the top of Napoleon. I kept the cakes a little longer in the oven so that they browned well. Now I take an ordinary rolling pin and do it like this :). Look at what a wonderful crumb for sprinkling is obtained :). I take the cake out of the fridge. In order to sprinkle the cake with crumbs - it must be greased with the remaining custard or whipped cream. I sprinkle the sides and top of the cake with crumbs from the cake. Of course, if you are in a hurry, you can let the cake brew in the refrigerator for only 2 hours. But if you have time, then it is better to let it soak during the night - then it will be even more tender and soaked. My napoleon turned out to be 20 x 17 cm in size. I made the cake quite high, so I specially prepared more cream to soak each cake well with cream. Because I love very soaked cakes and I don't like when the cake is dry. Friends, this is just a great lazy and quick Napoleon cake recipe. When you have little time and no time to stand at the stove for half a day and roll out cakes for the classic Napoleon. So be sure to try it. I'm sure you'll like it. Cakes are completely saturated with cream, the taste of pita bread is not felt. Although the consistency is different from real Napoleon cakes, but on the other hand, pita bread saves time. So this recipe is 100% worth your attention. A quick Napoleon according to this recipe will become a lifesaver for you. The incredible taste and aroma of vanilla custard is perfectly felt in this cake. It tastes like ice cream ice cream in waffle cups. Remember this, right? :) So, be sure to prepare this Napoleon. Such a delicious, quick and lazy cake is a must try. Friends, if you like to cook and eat delicious food, then subscribe to the channel and press the bell so as not to miss my new delicious recipes. New videos on the channel are released 2 times a week. And in order not to lose the recipe, share it with your friends and girlfriends on social networks Olesya was with you on the Cooking at Home channel. Bye bye and see you soon! Bon appetit! :)