(gentle chime) - [Falcon] The AA game market is quickly becoming a beacon of hope when AAA games continually fall flat. Hi folks, it's Falcon 20 AA games you won't regret buying. Starting off with number At first glance, this game might look like another middling indie metro thingy, but believe me, it's definitely different. For one, it's made by Red Candle games. We're mostly known for like &quot;Devotion.&quot; It's their follow up and going from making surreal to a side scrolling action game. It may look like maybe a little more but it ain't. What makes this game different is its emphasis on parry It's one of those games that right from the start, and it only gets tougher as it goes along and you are either gonna be It's quality stuff though The combat's snappy, it's responsive. The boss fights are fantastic. If you hate parry mechanics, stay far, far away from this one. But for everybody who is good with it or maybe not even as for everyone who's okay it's one of the best And number 19 is &quot;Still Wakes the Deep.&quot; The first half of 2024 has been pretty good for indies and AAs. We've been swimming in them Every week Valve releases that no human being would possibly find the amount of time to play all we play everything, that's Enjoy Gameranx. Editor use AI to generate but instead of Coca-Cola, You're welcome everyone. Anyway, developed by The Chinese Room. The guy's responsible for &quot;Amnesia: A Machine for Pigs,&quot; and bizarrely now &quot;Vampire: we'll see how that works out. &quot;Still Wakes the Deep&quot; is a game that is much more in It's a first person horror game I'm here for the horror, but it can't be denied just It's easily hitting AAA There's just no room with major publishers for smaller, more cinematic the important thing to know is that it's not alien isolation. It's definitely more of a more of a game than there which are very much walking simulators. There's some mechanics that definitely put it in but maybe not necessarily as heavy as other certain horror games. It is more limited, but and the visuals are astounding. So if you go with the right expectations, this is an impressive game. And number 18 is &quot;Dread Delusion.&quot; This game developed by a looks like an indie, but rather than the usual fair This game wants to be nothing less than a spiritual successor They wanted to make a Bethesda style RPG, and amazingly, they actually succeeded. &quot;Player Agency&quot; is the name of the game. You build the character however you want. You can be a wizard, a who can climb buildings Talk your way at a situations, use lore to uncover ancient there's so much stuff you can do. And it's all set in a freeform environment where you can explore however you want. It's not nearly as huge but the exploration is top-notch. The world which is made is all handcrafted with these carefully designed enemy encounters. And the combat is maybe like you'll understand Understanding it is a Bethesda like, but it does add a necessary to all the questing. Another positive here is that the story is absolutely bizarre. You're an agent of the Inquisition who in this world are god everything's, just crazy, it's It's amazing. It's one of the strangest, most fascinating worlds I've ever seen. The gods are hunted and there If you can get past the there's a ton to like here. And number 17 is &quot;Another another game that looks very indie, but the production and scope make it AA. You've probably seen the memes, it's the crab like a soul style And that might sound but this game is way more than that. What makes this one many other souls games out there is how it's more of an You're gonna be doing a lot and grappling to get around. And it does it well, gives The combat's very good too. As a hermit crab, you'll be able to find any to wear as a shell. Every soda can, every shot glass a shoe, it all has different defensive properties as well as a special ability. It's basically this game's ashes of war. It's a great system in how you engage enemies. It's also surprisingly tough. It's obviously easier but I'd say it is harder than a lot of other souls-likes out there. It's got a big world, lot of bosses. It's surprisingly dark and which for me is a big plus. But if you're a diseased souls-liker, if you are afflicted with this is one you gotta try at least. And number 16 is &quot;Lorelei another indie developer who's Simogo are the guys who made the indie darling They're doing something It's a heavily stylized mood piece, but it takes it a step with the gameplay. It's a puzzle game set in a huge &quot;Resident It's a game with horror elements, but I wouldn't call it a horror game. Vibes are, what I'm gonna nervy, off kilter, weird energy. You wander around solve try to find answers to this really visually And there's laser eyes in there somewhere. It's one of those games that's so, all I'm gonna say is check it out if it looks appealing to you. And number 15 is &quot;Banishers: This is his as AA as of When I think of AA, It's not quite up there with the big boys, but it's playing around in a genre, usually exclusive to major studios in this game's case, basically It's very different in a lot of ways, but the combat exploration and very similar to Santa But I'm not trying to I expected something a lot less ambitious, like maybe another &quot;Vampyr,&quot; But &quot;Banishers&quot; has so Setting the colony of New Eden and the surrounding environment. You play as a Banisher a guy responsible for The ghost cases are the Each investigation is well and a lot of people force you It's up to you to decide It's like a hybrid between because there's so many decisions to make and they can make a huge effect and the characters in it. The combat is a little more divisive. Personally, I like the but some people find it If you're just there for the story though, turn on the combat difficulty, but I will say try to It takes a little getting used to, but I ended up really liking it. And number 14 is &quot;Unicorn Overlord.&quot; It's not the kind of game I but it's not an indie and it's not a &quot;Final So what is it? Vanillaware has been a double AA developer since before the term was even coined. They've always been a doing amazing work. &quot;13 Sentinels: Aegis Rim&quot; might be the game that people but at &quot;Unicorn Overlord&quot; it's probably their best all around game. Combining an open world RPG with a real time strategy type thing. There's things that this game is like, but somehow it's very unique. The biggest draw for where you can mix and match units together to form a single unit Each individual character has their own strengths and weaknesses, so unit building is all and shoring up weak areas. It's a game with a ton of tactical depths, but it's also fairly Battles are fast and you can on the fully explorable world map. They're a side quest in mini games. It's much more than your which usually just a and nothing else. The story pretty basic, no &quot;Final Fantasy&quot; tactics or anything, but everything else is very good. If you like tactics games anyways, then this is one of the best. And number 13 is &quot;Indika.&quot; In a year with &quot;Lorelei this game is somehow the I mean, it's saying Published by 11 Bit Studios who are definitely an indie &quot;Indika&quot; is a game where you play as a nun in the 19th century, which might make you think it's some kind of dower history it's wild as hell. This is another game where but the visuals are really impressive and the story is beyond bizarre It seems like it's gonna but it's so, so much more than that. It's relentlessly linear, so it's definitely a story but it takes some unbelievable terms that you just have to And number 12 is a &quot;Asterigos A game that's been out a couple years, but compared to other more I feel like it's been overlooked rather than your usual dark fantasy. &quot;Asterigos&quot; goes for that instantly makes it stand out. Combat's decent, not the most There's a huge variety of it's got a sprawling and It's the closest game I can think of that actually manages to capture some of those feelings for the first time. The world is huge and interconnected in a lot of surprising There's a ton of different and it's just a joy to explore. That's really the game strong The story is pretty Characters do talk a little bit much. That's a common problem with indies. They love the world they but also sometimes that's It's a great world though, one of the best I've seen And while it could be a the passion the devs put into the project really shines through. And number 11 is &quot;American Arcadia.&quot; Another game that's easy to write off as another indie side scroller, but the presentation than it might initially appear. There's multiple gameplay styles, there's songs written just this whole elaborate backstory. It's bigger and bolder game it initially appears to be. Yes, there is the usual cinematic platform you see in all sorts of indie games, but then there are these where you control the woman They do some really creative stuff cross cutting between the two characters. It's another game where it's without knowing a lot 'cause But check it out, if you have any love for like &quot;Inside,&quot; it will scratch that itch. And number 10 is &quot;Remnant 2.&quot; The first remnant was a souls-like third person sounds like a disaster, but it actually worked and There's a strong undercurrent There's a lot of secrets tucked away in the darkest corners of the world and the random element obviously makes finding The devs really wanted and memorable scenarios. So, no two play throughs One player might while another player gets A very unique approach which is already fairly unusual because the focus on long range combat. (gun shots) It's a game that's fun to play on your own but can be played entirely co-op, and that works very well actually. The production values are impressive. The bosses are often spectacular and there's great replay It's a great game all around. (gun shots) And number nine is &quot;Ghostrunner 2.&quot; It's &quot;Ghostrunner&quot; one more. I don't know if the first but the sequel absolutely is. Huge variety of locations More variety in gameplay better production values. The story is a pretty clear improvement from the original game. I mean, it's not a lot but there's a lot more to it. Like your allies have actual models now there's a motorcycle which allows for some - [Game Character] Aren't - [Game Character 2] about safety regulations. - [Game Character] I - [Game Character 2] - [Falcon] The new combat abilities are maybe a little more divisive. Certain people prefer in the first game, but I Having an actual block If you liked the first game, and with a clearly bigger budget also. It's still the closest thing we have to a first-person &quot;Hotline Miami&quot; and it does it really well. (sword whooshing) And number eight is &quot;Stray.&quot; These sorts of linear used to be exclusively AAA. But now with expectations so there's room for more and do something much &quot;Stray&quot; is one of those. You play as a cat, for many people, that's But what really impressed is the animation. The cat, it doesn't look real, but the way it moves around (puppies squeaking) The story's interesting too. Your cat got separated from their family. You're forced to navigate of this seemingly It's well paced, it's fun. It doesn't get too challenging, but it stays engaging throughout. It's not always completely linear either. Sometimes the game opens and just be a calf for a while. It's not mechanically complex or anything, but it's an experience (ominous music) And number seven is &quot;Solar Ash.&quot; This surprising follow up is part Super Mario 3D World Bowser's Fury and part &quot;Jet Set Radio Future&quot;. Set in an appropriately you explore the world on laser skates, you find collectibles, and you battle giant &quot;Shadow of the (ominous music) It's a whole lot going on at once, but the central movement mechanics are so good that it really works. It's a very gameplay focus sort of thing. There is a story and but the real fun here is figuring out how to using your abilities. If you like a game with a good rail grind, &quot;Solar Ash&quot; is where to go. It's a very fun and very unique game. Completely different from but I'm not saying that in a bad way. And honestly, there's stuff about it that feels right at home with I can't say enough good (epic music) And number six is &quot;A I don't know what else needs It's the ultimate AA. It's France's mid-budget And while the first game was ambitious, the sequels even more so. It's got an impressively long campaign and even more complex stealth mechanics. It's a story game and a stealth game. You gotta avoid the many enemies and her brother Hugo wild I guess semi mystical, diseased rats. - [Game Character 3] Welcome to plague. - [Game Character 4] Protect - [Game Character 5] - [Game Character 3] What you doing? - [Game Character 5] We're making you pay keep going, Hugo. - [Game Character 4] - [Game Character 5] - [Game Character 3] Shut up. Hugo died. (indistinct) - [Falcon] And you're but I'm not gonna say the Sticks pretty close to but that by itself is impressive. It's a style of gameplay a lot of the big devs in because it's hard to feel good, but they pull it off and It's also absolutely gorgeous. It has some incredible set pieces, but it's a downer to say the least. Only play this one when for some high quality cooked - I'm Amicia de Rune. - And I keel to no one. - [Hugo] No! Amicia. - And number five is the sequel to one of the best Got a massive glow up Whether it's better or worse than the original it's up for debate, but that only speaks to the There are a lot of quality of life improvements here though. They pretty much eliminated the puzzles that require careful timing, and the finicky floating There's just less fiddliness which some people think But personally, I'll take (ominous music) - [Game Narrator] Excellent. - [Falcon] The story's interesting too. Bring up complex philosophical themes that are tackled with And hey, if you think there's the &quot;Road To Elysium&quot; expansion. Look at the trailer for that thing. The puzzles look completely insane. And number four is &quot;Galacticare.&quot; Not a genre of game we usually cover here, but there's 20 spots to fill so might as well mix There have been few devs on the classic games of They make stuff like Dungeon Keeper, &quot;Syndicate&quot; and &quot;Theme Hospital.&quot; Nobody quite managed to idiosyncratic design and solid production values Galacticare is really cross with &quot;Startopia,&quot; but it's much more than another copycat. It's a management game where your goal is to build up a hospital with various rooms meant to treat different You hire doctors, you you build specialty rooms to satisfy the preferences It is a management game. (playful music) What makes it so good though the charming animations the dry humor of the mission descriptions and the treatment logs, all Lengthy campaign with a lot of unique that mix up the basic management gameplay in various fun ways. It's maybe a little too easy, but otherwise, it's most polished management games (robots beeping) And number three is &quot;RoboCop: Rogue City.&quot; Most of the time these sort of belated tie Just look at the &quot;Rambo&quot; game For most devs, the first And for anyone else, a game as terrible as &quot;Rambo&quot; But somehow they managed to bounce back with a surprisingly which they then followed up with an even better &quot;RoboCop&quot; game. It's one of those games that can one moment look and in another its AA roots It's far from a perfect game. The shooting's basic and you're mostly gonna in every situation, but it somehow still works (gun shots) They make up for the simplistic shooting by making it as visually Like every major shootout in the game just destroys the environment The little bits of downtime are also fun. Completing little side quests and solving crimes isn't or interesting in a lot of games, but Peter Weller has still got it, even with the script not nearly as sharp as the original movie, he still puts in a pitch perfect beat to your game that doesn't do anything but is way better than (gun shots) And number two is &quot;Evil West.&quot; I'm not gonna stop beating this drum opinions on &quot;Evil West&quot; somewhat divided, but to me, it's a pretty Sort of a mid-level action game. You don't see that often, Now we're seeing maybe like this pop up 'cause people are really that you don't have to spend to make something that's quite good. And the old gaming ways are missed by many in the age of the live service. But this was at the beginning and it was, at the time, (sword whooshing) This action game is set in the Old West. It doesn't have the best story or environments or pacing but what it does have is an It's like &quot;God of War&quot; on steroids. And when you're fully kitted out, things are completely ridiculous. You have so many guns, that it's kind of overwhelming It does take a while to get there and it's a little slow in terms of drip feeding for a while. But after the initial first few levels things get a lot more exciting. Hardly the best game out there. But at a discount I think you (ominous music) And finally at number one is &quot;Sifu&quot; bar none the best hand to The combat in Sifu is visceral, responsive, and lightning fast. No other game makes you feel as much like a kung fu master as this one. It's a game that's extremely difficult, but once you master it, there's It's relatively short, to be fair. It's closer to a beat them But the intense difficulty make it so it's gonna I mean, it would seem, I guess. You never really get through not until you've had hours The game is designed around and it builds its central Every time you die, you The more you die, the more it multiplies. You get too old and you die for real. And you have to start over. The older you get, the but the more damage you dish out. So it's not all bad, just mostly bad. It is pure combat. And the unique mechanics and it never gets boring. It is a great game. Extremely - [Game Character 6] What the... - [Game Character 7] Holy shit! (character grunting) - [Falcon] And that's all for today. Leave us comment, let If you like this video, click like. If you're not subscribed now We upload branding videos Best way to see them first is, of course, a subscription. Don't forget to enable notifications. And as always, thank you very I'm Falcon, you can follow me We'll see you next time