- Hey, what's up. I'm MKBHD here. Welcome to the new Auto Spinoff, separate, brand just for my thoughts on and there's all kinds of things that I wanna talk about in the car world that aren't really fit so I'm gonna make 'em here. And so the fun thing that is I'm gonna be shooting all these videos, at least the plan now to start So I'm shooting this right now on the iPhone 13 pro in not just because I enjoy the so I can focus on the car more, but also because this is part which is people wanna start I keep saying, just use You already have it. So, I'm starting a YouTube channel in 2022 with my smartphone camera. But anyway, here we go, this is the first thing which is this Rivian R1T pickup truck, and it's actually the newest There's a lot of things and a lot of things that I... not that I hate or don't now that I've actually had it for longer. So I've had it for literally over 500 miles and we've already You might have seen my &quot;Why like two years ago, and you might be slightly So the Cybertruck, at least the plan, was that was going to be 'cause it was a fast, silent, and we were gonna get one for that. But then, Rivian loaned me this I reviewed it. I put it on the channel. Not even reviewed it, I just and I put my experience And, within a week of that experience, I was like, actually, this is It's actually better in a lot of ways. So I put in my order for it, fully did not expect I was like, whatever comes it'll happen when it happens, So now that I've had it for a little bit, took delivery, I've had it for much longer than the 48 hours of I've picked up on a lot of little things that I wish I'd known, things that I wish the and this video feels like a good place to put 'em all in one spot. So this is the things about the Rivian R1T. So first thing I'm gonna say I really like the look of this truck. I am a sucker for a nice headlight bar and taillight bar, which this truck has, but also just the shape of it, generally, I've really gotten used to, and I'm starting to really like it. It also has a little bit of at least in here. This tiny piece here is but I'll get to that later. But the tires, the look, this going on right here, I like it. I think it's a good looking truck. Something to note, of all the super cars, sports cars, this one, this one gets the most looks on the road of any other vehicle. You might be into that. But it's people at parking lots, taking pictures of it, on the road. Someone even, I was on the the other day, held their to take a video of the Rivian. It's very recognizable. I think that's the main gist is there's no mistaking and I like that about it. So my one dislike, my one thing is, this is the most car, but other trucks that I've tried typically have a handle some way to open the tailgate like that. There's a button here. You But if I'm closing it, I automatically have to just grab this and that's fine, but now Now I'm gonna get, possibly scratching it, stuff like that. It's just something I've noticed. Okay, I'm inside the car here. I'm gonna just be bouncing but to get the point across, I really like the layout of this interior. You've got the screen behind this separate large diagonal One thing I don't like is how long it takes to load navigation. So all I'm gonna do here is just load up Empire State Typically, if you load what does it take, like And most other cars, this only This will just sit sometimes for 10 seconds, sometimes for a minute straight while you're trying to start your drive, it'll just keep calculating route, and I think that's just of what it's trying to do. It's trying to make sure It's doing a whole bunch of other stuff. But I'd like to go now, but sometimes it does this for a while, so I would hope that they're may be able to update the software Oh, hey, the boys are testing on the top of this rig. But while we're at this, this that I like about this car is that it's another one of the cars that has gotten meaningful Oh my, what are they doing? (laughs) This car has gotten software updates, so one of the things I've noticed is in the different drive modes, where all-purpose mode So I hope this car continues and make things faster. It's already faster than those months ago when I And yeah, not a lot of cars are actually getting meaningful, feature-adding software updates. But actually, so while we're at it, I do have a couple of feature suggestions. Number one, this truck has a You can see that there's one There's some on the front. There's some up on the and they're good for but it should have a dash cam. That could be added as a software update. Tesla actually did the same thing. My first car...(car chirps) We'll get to why it's but yeah, dash cam Tesla added it with a and I think this one just in case you need And then one more camera thing, so you'll see that there's This is a reversing camera, helps you while you're (truck chirps) Why is the truck locking again? Unless... Come on, unlock, I'm still here. Okay, unless you have this tailgate down, in which case it fully It's back there. It's So the truck actually has another camera up here, for the bed. It should be smart to continue to help me park while things are down and It doesn't do that yet, But the one thing that's working super, super well in this truck, well, obviously the but when I get in this truck all it does is go, okay I'm stiffen the suspension, make the accelerator a and turn break region to high, and it has a sort of a Dr. Jekyll, Mr. Hyde of a personality. It somehow makes this 7,000 pound truck actually feel very nimble. I mean, it's 800 horsepower, quad motors, zero to 60 in three seconds, But yes, the difference which is the normal, everyday driving mode and the sport mode is incredible, and that's what's so impressive about the performance of this truck. But anyway, this interior is really nice, and I'm not just saying that, not just the build quality and but the material choices are really nice. I really like this dry This is the black interior, There's some lighting back here. Also, these are and they are particularly They seal super well. The speakers in this They're everywhere, all around the cabin, and they sound excellent, really thick, thumpy And then, you'll also notice these little yellow accents everywhere, and they're all over the car. You'll see them around the wheels. You see them around the exterior too. But just to have that come through to the interior is pretty nice. You can see the stitching is I really like the build, and the material choice I think the one thing I would change is, and this seems to be is they really like doing virtual moving of the vent thing, so there's no actual They just move, well they physically move, but you move them on the screen, and that's just annoying I just wanna grab vent or point it away from my face, have to do all this dance every time just to decide where the vents point. It looks cool, and it's but I actually don't want that. And then here's a nice from people really using this truck, this is the wireless charging spot. It's actually a spot for two So you put your phone here, wireless charging pad number one and number two for your The second you start They end up moving around. All they had to do was add some sort of a little ridged to just keep the phone in place, because the second you go around a turn, it's over here, it's back over here. It's hitting the keys. It's hitting whatever you put in here. This wireless charger, it would be nice if it was actually holding Does it sound like I'm complaining? I've said a lot of suggestions in a row, but I wanna say one more thing. The air conditioner on this (A/C blowing) but I think it's the loudest that I've ever actually heard. So on the inside, it takes but yeah, it's not the when the A/C's actually pumping. Look at those running All right, so something Tesla is this, what I'm holding right here, is one of the keys to the There's also an app, and there's The number one downside is about how far away it should be when it should lock the truck. Sometimes I'm 15 feet away from the truck, and it unlocks, and I I think Teslas have the where I've gotta walk right all the way up to the door handle before and that seems like the most So the Rivian, anytime and I stay within 15 feet It'll unlock again, It's not really sure if I've Of course, it's not gonna do but it does it all the time, and it's sort of a annoying bit. I think this is fixable, but it's just more of a Bluetooth range and a calibration thing for the key. But something Rivian has done really well, which is their app, is organized it, so that it's really simple and clean. I will also say that it is very, very, well, it's low on functionality. All it really does is let cool down the truck if you want, cool. It also shows me the miles range left. It'll show me where the truck is, how to get to it and where chargers are and call roadside support, Now, considering this truck is basically a computer on wheels, I thought it would be easy to beep the horn, open the front crack the windows, close them, It doesn't do any of that. Also, I've noticed I can't change this from Celsius to Fahrenheit, It just showed up as Celsius, and it's been Celsius ever since, so that's just something Okay, last but not least, this also the truck just locked, It won't open anything. That's what I was talking about. Anyway, the tonneau cover, if I can get it to unlock Come on truck, I'm If I press this button here, This is probably gonna be So here I'll open it, oh, Okay, this is how the tonneau cover works. You hit the button, and it starts pushing that It apparently is stacking back (cover whirs and rattles) Not the most confidence-inspiring sound. So this is a really You've probably already and the air compressor in here. I'm a huge fan of having and this is why we got the truck. We've loaded this up with and then gone for our but then, yeah, this is probably gonna be I'm just calling it now. I've It's usually the first I'm gonna take good care of it, but I'll let you know if But that's it, that's the new after a few hundred miles, I really like this thing. Obviously, I've talked and the performance and but there's just all these after you use it for a bit. Anyway, some of you might that we built on a Tesla and are wondering about that. What's going on with that? That is much more high on regular roads with, This one you can just drive and get shots and nobody even bats an eye, so that's pretty sweet, and that's what we're I'll probably use the Tesla on the track. Either way, if you have any leave a comment, I'll hang and make sure you subscribe if you haven't already. There's more car videos coming, more thoughts on this sort of stuff. Okay, that's been it, thanks for watching. Catch you later, peace.