Alright I'm super excited today because we are making a huge change in the workshop. And that's going to be converting these cabinets back here into a miter saw station. Now this conversion is going to take a lot of work, so it'll be a multi part series. And today we'll start by building two 3 drawer cabinets which will be the right side of the miter station. I'm Brad from Fix This Build That and let's get started. You may have seen me make a few cabinets on my channel. But today I'm to make cabinet building go smoothly. I'm using 3/4" baltic birch ply and started pieces. And I think cutting it on the floor And on the floor you can crawl on top of the a lot easier. Turning 3 sheets of plywood into 8 or 9 smaller notes to label everything. Each section of parts from my plan I'll get out of that And when I cut down a piece that's already onto a new sticky and mark it off the original I also use arrows to show which edges are almost always straight and at a right angle This may seem like overkill, but I make my to save on materials. So cutting a part from a whole new sheet of ply to fix it. And I'm tickles all the right spots for me. But now I can go to the tablesaw and with I get really clean parts for the cabinet sides Basically what I'm doing is I always cut the panels a little bit oversized. That factory edge is typically pretty straight, but it's pretty rough. It's not going to work out great when you get into assembly and the connections there. So I cut it a little oversized using that rough factory edge against the fence first Then I'll go down to final size and cut off a little sliver. And I do that so every side of the panel will have a nice clean fresh table saw cut edge on it. And It's going to make joinery a lot easier I grabbed two of the sides and picked the the inside lower corners of each of them so left and a right with the good faces pointing I like using a combination square to mark repeatable. You can do a few setups on the bandsaw and to just knock these out with a jigsaw. And they're just holding the toe kick. I jumped back to the table saw and ripped get the next set of parts We want to make sure the supports are the same size as the bottom. Because if they're not then your cabinet will flair out and your drawers won't fit right. There's two better options, one if you have a stop block on your miter saw and one if you don't. So if you don't have a stop block on your miter saw, you can just set your support down on your piece. And then mark exactly where it lines up. And then you can cut right on that line and not worry about any error on your tape measure The other option is setting up a stop block with your miter saw. The biggest benefit of using a stop block is getting consistent parts every time you cut it. And when I'm cutting 8 of these parts it's nice to know they will all be the same size. I always square the end first to get a fresh board. And even though I didn't show it, off the saw to confirm the stop block is right the cuts. Next up it was time for joinery for the carcass. Foreman on the underside of my Flip Top Cart. my website, but if you want a Foreman head video. Woodcraft has a full lineup of Kreg at one of their 70+ metro stores around the the lineup as well as thousands of other woodworking have a link below to all the tools I used to Woodcraft for being an awesome sponsor of my channel. Alright, we're ready for assembly now and I brought over my outfeed table from my table saw Because it's actually a bit wider than my workbench. So I do plan on making my own assembly table And I would love to know from you, what are the features you love about yours. or wish that you had, because I'm designing my own and would love your input! I jumped into assembly and used my combination bottom. I love this thing and the fact it better. Nothing like a good hand me down family I secured the bottom with 1- 1/4" pocket screws These supports will also be used to secure And if you're having issues getting those way, you can always just flip it up while The back supports get butted up against the These add a place to secure the cabinet to Adding screws into the supports from the top and does a great job keeping it from racking I grabbed the parts for the second cabinet I don't know what to say. No matter how one blunder in every project. But it's kind every project wondering when I'll get to I gonna drop a panel, drill an errant hole, Who knows! Get subscribed if you want to see a little reminder that somebody else out there Next I cut panels for the back to finish the I checked the cabinet for square and the diagonal so I'll call that good. So if you cut all your pieces square and to the right sizes Most of the time you're going to be okay.But this is a great way to check before you go into it Because if somehow you had the pieces messed up you can adjust it now. Before you put the back on And you definitely want to do that before you start installing the drawers Because if it's out of whack it'll be hard to align The back gets attached with glue and some the glue dries. Once the back is secured the resist racking during install. And before taking the carcass off the bench for leveling feet. I'm not sure if I'll the slope of the garage is pretty severe. on so I can raise them up high enough to be But if you need them you can drill holes in and leveling feet on the cabinets. With the carcass complete I moved on to the and sometimes you have to play a game of chicken your camera tripod. Luckily I won this game. I cut the parts to rough width first then edge I'd made. To cut the parts to length I brought in Fred parts like this aren't great for a fixed I did the side parts first because I could Like before, I cut the pieces a little long Then I moved the stop block in to get the finish up the sides. Cutting the sides for drawers is really easy because the are the same length as your slides. But cutting the fronts and backs is tricky because of undersized plywood. Okay, my on screen explanation was not as instead. The drawer fronts and backs follow this formula. then subtract 1" for the thickness of the of two pieces of your drawer material and And the trick I've been using lately is a 32nd of an inch or a millimeter for my metric smoother and avoid binding. After checking my first piece I worked my When those were done I jumped back over to and backs. I kinda felt like they were a bit choose sides in a minute. After they all paired up, I grabbed a set square. I drove in the screws to hold everything tight...then For quick assembly I'm using a glued and from the edges. I put a chamfer on the bottom So putting on the chamfers hides the plywood edge on the bottom. And make sure that those nails are set back from the edge so the chamfer doesn't hit them And I love this glued on bottom, it doesn't rattle and it's nice and strong. I gave all the drawers the same treatment to install the drawer slides. Putting the you're not fighting gravity. I spaced the slides off the bottom using a my plans. If you want to build a set of your all the cut lists, parts diagrams and step link in the description to check them out. bundle you can get that at a discount too. I flipped the cabinet over and used the same to get my matched slide positions With the slides installed we can put in the drawers And just use spacers to space everything out The first ones going right on top of a 1/4&quot; sheet of plywood so let's see how this looks leaving the drawer a 32nd between the slides Gives it just a little wiggle room and it's easier for install And it's gonna slide smoother too While the drawer rested on the plywood I pulled them in two spots before removing the drawer The next two drawers use spacers set on the them mounted in the cabinet. To get the drawer fronts I cut a large piece cabinet with the appropriate reveals around Then I set my saw to the height of the false I love continuous grain fronts on drawers and thats a great way to do it. And I'll stack them up here and try not to let them fall like before but you can see the grain flow through all 3 panels. and having the 1/8&quot; kerf on the blade means I'll have a perfect 1/8&quot; reveal between all the fronts. I sanded the drawer fronts and gave them a the cabinet while they were drying. And a word of caution here, DO NOT extend an extended drawer while the cabinet is on great shop horror story to tell your buddies, After drilling mounting holes in the drawer false drawer fronts. I like drilling them the holes during mounting. Alright, i'm gonna mount the drawer fronts from the bottom up. And I'm going to use this little scrap screwed to the bottom to hold the front. And it's going to make installation a lot easier than trying to clamp everything in place. Putting the fronts on becomes an easy four and get a consistent reveal on each side. holes to attach the front to the drawer box. into the front from the inside in the holes screws from the hardware holes. The technique works great and I first saw I used an 1/8 " spacer between fronts to Then I could come back and drill through the On the second go round I found it much easier of having all three drawers installed. Plus like a pancake. I cleared out the spot for the cabinet to I'm going to use the top from the base cabinets the left side of my miter saw setup is going 13' span with glorious cabinets. And I'll I decided to wait and shim everything together But these deep drawers are great for storing in the miter saw station which we'll continue If you want plans for this build there's a link below in the description. I want to give a huge thank you to the people joining the members and Builders Club. We just launched that on YouTube, so check it out if you want to support the channel and get cool rewards. But we'll catch you guys on the next video in the series.