In 2017, 24-year-old Koo Jeong-hwa accomplished Korea have dreamed of. She sneaked across the Her happiness was short-lived. Soon she barbaric torture and her untimely death. desperate to compel her to risk obscene punishment by the way, was suffering from severe frostbite? happened to Koo Jeong-hwa and her son later. be forgiven for thinking that life Children go to school; folks they cheer at soccer matches and make snowmen this mysterious rotten onion of a country, your North Korea is a country with many faces. they see a carefully orchestrated version of the about how people working in Pyongyang's their $4-a-month wage or factory workers get They certainly don't see the who are at risk of starvation and freezing bleak winters. People who work on These people are told daily they live in the in the daily life of a North Korean is a large they are told, intent on wrecking that great life and the Republic of Korea, want them dead. The so-called "eternal leaders of Korea" a reminder that they should be grateful to a man from a family almost touched by Gods. The people of North Korea start being fed should go to kindergarten and then to a primary they stay from six years of age to nine. They and then possibly go on to a university. All education is state-funded. If you can say standards, it's that according to UNESCO, the You kind of need that, though, when propaganda Some lucky students might go on to study but only if they have excelled Others go to one of the thousands of vocation or mathematics often end up at the University of themselves becoming a leader in hypersonic missile was opened, a special department of hypersonic You might be wondering how all this is young into military service. That is true, at Women may also serve but only until they're 23. and the most academically gifted kids can of the elites who are born into high status. "songbun". This is a status system in credit. Good songbun means more choices if someone is related to a defector, their North Korea states that students must "acquire toward the party and the supreme leader." All Every day that a kid goes to elementary school, he's learning the idolization of the supreme he can be a good revolutionary. Regularly, the Not too long ago, a woman was roundly chastised fire and not saving the pictures of the leaders the neighbor, who ran into the house to save the The State Security Department uses various The secret police is everywhere. People never know knowing who to trust creates an atmosphere of wide-ranging negative effects on mental health. executions happened throughout the country, with Some teens were executed just for and South Korean soap operas. In one case, shot nine times as his school buddies watched even though some kids were close to tears. of the tongue" and criticized the government. They happen behind closed doors. Like are left to rot where they fall, a reminder A defector named Oh Se-hyek explained, like markets and left the bodies there for Another defector in the same report was just 7 he surprised his teachers when he sketched killing locals in a field. This was his reality. in school in North Korea, it can sound the distressing climate of fear these kids have their normal day to day life is like. Things might mean the difference between starving the capital to work in relative comfort. announced that new rewards were available illegal activities. They were told, "People and the government can then eliminate people In North Korea, selling things on the black is one of the only ways to make money. people didn't want the reward money. That would "It did not work out well. The state can't even and the people can't make their own living anyone want to report on anyone else?" often when the government feels like it's losing similar snitch scheme. A source said the Security and smugglers, and it has promised incredible smugglers." Poor farmers, he said, were tempted. a villager and a soldier were shot in entertainment," what leader Kim Jong-un had destroy the North Korean way of life. at the town square, and a young man is wait for it... "a movie and 75 songs from South A North Korean girl who escaped said she and her again, for nothing but distributing she suffered from mental problems "The prisoner could hardly walk and had that I could not dare look at a soldier It's not that North Koreans don't know buying bootleg DVDs for years now. North Korean and Mickey and Minnie Mouse have appeared now and breaking down, even South Korean K-pop stars some of the songs and asked questions about the But that was just him playing the part of a again can relax. This comes straight out they are supposed to show they have mercy. Kim usually to great applause, just as happened spared a life because he thought it When kids get older, they might go to university, it's still based on the ideology of the ideology is Juche. For instance, some philosophy "Juche Political Economy." It's brainwashing; you skepticism, and the wonders of liberal democracy. they drive home in their imported luxury cars. articles 64 and 65 guarantees democratic all spheres of state and social life. That's Korea is totalitarian. Its mission is "to line in order to protect the nerve center of Academic courses are full of lies. Students can off a round of golf and, after 11 holes in one, course by a man who'd never swung a golf but they can't question it. Some know it's the hamburger, but can't disagree nonetheless. it's true that North Korean scientists cured North Koreans learn Korean nationalism, which has and ideas about widespread well-being. pure. That mankind itself started in North told that their purity is always in a battle The divine, they are told, can only be found in times past, North Koreans are told the evangelist Billy Graham visited North Korea and North Koreans learned how this Christian man read in books and in newspapers that Graham said: unique political leadership, I can only think that Kim and announced, "Kim is this world's God. Why North Koreans aren't religious, but the Kims born to rule. If Billy Graham said so, it must leader likes to play World of Tanks online Some of North Korea's best students become their job knowing many things they've been told get better at it, to improve something, This is why the best scientists work behind great said before he defected, he worked in a as the hardening of the arteries. Everything only heard by the party bosses. that he had a colleague with a Ph.D. in he did. He was subsequently arrested as family. Knowledge is dangerous in North Korea. he said, "Scientists don't believe but they cannot discredit it either. You have Most people, though, don't work in science. factory or on a farm. Article 22 of the Labor They should also get national holidays, Like you, they might eat three times a day. possibly with some side dishes. The People often take a lunchbox to work with them, Dinner is more rice, soup, and, again, those side The more money you have, the more meat you can they've collected themselves. A former North "I still cannot forget North Korean army food. and 70% cornmeal, one bowl of lettuce, and soybean soybean fried radish, and cabbage but special food was given for their All defectors say the same thing. You need to make The government's rice rations are not enough. cigarettes can be as cheap as eight cents a pack. Almost half of the males in North Korea smoke, but very few females do; maybe It's also a heavy-drinking country, often bought at the market under the table. is stress. As a German doctor and activist once only pleasure they have...Fear creates sickness. It's common for people to buy their booze they get the Chinese stuff. One of the most which can be 38 between 63 percent Many North Koreans can't afford that, so it's illegal. The government doesn't see this so most officials turn a blind eye to people "In my town, one out of every 10 households ingredients were potatoes and corn." drink that kids would regularly drink it. but he said no one gave a damn about it. Again, some things. You can destroy your liver or smoke but for God's sake, whatever you do, Folks like to drink with their buddies state-controlled television programs on TV. They and look like they mean it, but that doesn't over a glass of hooch. People do see through dangerous to speak about it. "While the North Korean government wanted people comrades', the truth was that this feeling never have that quality only because we were forced to." but said he and his friends sometimes ignored to drink together. They used to date girls, the couples would sneak off to one of their Much of the entertainment made in North Korea long-running comedy show called "It's So thing you've seen in your life. one of the episodes. The man and woman Man: "If we soldiers see beans, we become Woman: "If we farm in the way the They both laugh together, slapping each Presumably, the viewers at home were also in choke themselves with their own fists while defector was asked about this show, he said: over and over again. They are still talking all since I defected about 20 years ago." documentaries detailing how many North Koreans of starvation or being worked to death in labor If you can be executed for watching a South Korean of crimes also lead to severe punishments. everywhere else on the planet. However, the highly crime-free, unlike America, where it says society North Koreans steal. They kill each other the countryside that they take methamphetamines crimes like these are called "kyohwaso." anti-socialist activities, they might be exiled. as will their worldly goods. Exiles have their citizen rights. They will usually end up working The people who have it worse are the 150,000 to camp. The UN says about 40% of the prisoners fed very little and often have to do grueling are not being re-educated. The government After a hard day's work on a farm or in a they're often given a small portion of cabbage or a good source of protein. Some former prisoners cow poop. There are even reports of A defector who now lives in the US brought up in a labor camp. In the camp, he knew nothing, not the existence that the world was a sphere. All he knew was parents in the camp, he said he had no concept some corn and was beaten to death for it in a child of the camp. This was normal life for him. shot. If you try to escape or plan to escape, you who is trying to escape, you would be shot." front when it was announced another execution was it might be him. It wasn't. It was his mother and was. He said at the time; he thought they got The rules were clear to everyone. They death. Steal: death. Talk in a group of more death. Don't report suspicious activity: As for a minor transgression, Shin Dong-hyuk he was still young, and the guard decided to the clinic and given medical attention, The guards wanted the men and women to have the more labor available. But the guards often liked. Matchmaking would often go like this: on, you're married. Work hard, and don't waste Shin Dong-hyuk said for most people, He took the risk of his life and escaped, deep heart of darkness where he once lived. at work, or maybe they were found to keep a messy will consist of being ignored by colleagues. All this causes severe stress. People feel the do many people smoke and drink a lot, but these that during the Lunar New Year, one of the main seeped out of the countryside and into the cities. able to bribe officials, and so the stuff was dealing is also a great way to make money in a Psychiatrists that have helped defectors once they suffered from a whole host of mental problems. In totally focused "on survival amid continuity of In short, they were traumatized. cause of their trauma was "witnessing starvation-related deaths of family and There's a Catch-22 in North Korea. but if they admit they're feeling depressed, If they say they're happy even though they the reason a report stated, "Anxiety disorders psychiatric treatment in North Korea." or just manically screaming how bad things 49 Hospitals." They receive zero counseling and insulin that renders them comatose. droughts or floods, or any number of natural that the North Korean government used but in 2019 because of crop shortages, that went survival rations should be 600g daily per person. lack of sustenance, saying, "Since there we eat everything we can get. We eat roots "There was a mother who entrusted the nursery with Out in the countryside, it's doubtful there will the temperatures sometimes go down to -13degC not always available. Meanwhile, the elites are women who've been taught to make a man happy in "pleasure squads" or, in Korean, "Kippumjo." top officials who also enjoy luxury goods from Royce and Mercedes-Benzes that they often drive and have bank accounts in countries all over worth $5 billion. He's reported to have over 100 Now you can understand why he has people executed is not a noble lie. It's plain old greed, so-called imperialists so they can maintain their of social happiness, but all totalitarian they are doing everything for the common good. and 55 for women, upon which they are supposed 300 grams of food. Many will sell things so they can try to get enough money for snacks or according to one defector, prefer such things as embroidery or handicrafts. is not stable, so most old folks work. Teachers umbrellas. Others will walk around the people's overworked cigarette lighters. the cadres, can always make extra cash from tell a young cop to turn a blind eye to most of the money that changes hands is black will ever head to glittering places such as the Western journalists often say barely things like the Heinz Ketchup and foreign clothes. They say the place was only created to show Korea is no longer a place of abject poverty. was never fooled. Sure, she hated the Japanese due as she was told to. She remembers when she was American soldiers tore off the limbs of innocent soldiers gouged out people's eyes, sliced off they would decorate a Christmas tree at home. her village about this. She said they American soldiers adored Korean children Like everyone in North Korea, by law, she had the local government pumped out propaganda about minutes of hate aimed at the evil imperialists. longer a crime to wear the wrong facial expression learned that there's good and bad everywhere, Some committed war crimes in Korea, that's true, she can say what she wants about North Korea. in the intro, she was not so lucky. Amnesty from his frostbite and was sent to live with his said the one good thing is for some reason The reason, we expect, is the fact Amnesty but her bad Songbun probably hasn't done her arrested and sent back were not published by name, chance crowds gathered for their execution. The the blood leaked from their bodies. Then everyone Now you need to watch "Did North Korea Really have a look at "So I went looking for