Geographically speaking, South Korea should Fractionally larger than the state of Indiana, it's not agriculturally productive. The nation is rugged and steep to the extent Worse still, this rocky disposition doesn't through any sort of mineral wealth. South Korea has coal, but not much, as it behind even its dirt-poor neighbor to the And perhaps most problematic is the fact that gas reserves, and is tied for dead last in And all of these are only the domestic challenges. Zoom out from the rocky peninsula and the powerhouses. Squeezed through history by empires around Korea should be poor. But it's not, it's rich. By nominal GDP, South Korea has the tenth has much to do with a single company. Before there was a Republic of Korea, and doctrine of Korea, there was a grocery trading in fish and noodles and went by the name of While the shop's owner, Lee Byung-chul, would soon serve as the backbone of one of of the 20th century--what economists would Now, miracle is a bit of a misnomer--ultimately, a 100-fold growth over forty years, was extraordinary It was a function of successful long-term It was also, in part, a function of the fact exist at all. By August of that year, South Korean forces north had taken all but this corner of the From a southern perspective, it was the bleakest But war, and South Korea's reversal of fortunes In the midst of the Korean War's wreckage, In 1953, with leftover Japanese colonial assets of South Korea's already meager industrial Jedang, a sugar refinery, then, in the year under what could now be considered the Samsung For Lee, it was a logical progression, as products and food while South Korea's first international aid to allied industrialists Rhee's government funded the construction for Lee's new projects and soon, with few a few timely expansions, the Samsung group With cozy political connections and a strong took off. In the years that followed, it acquired Ankuk while also becoming a major shareholder in Less than a decade after acquiring that first most powerful conglomerate, and Lee's net South Korean wealth. The company had burst into a massive success. The problem was, while South Korea had distributed feudal land practices, South Koreans were agricultural and underdeveloped--issues that Rhee's government in 1961. South Korea's economic rise began under focus on expanding industrial exports and GDP per capita growth shot skyward, only dipping 1963 to 1978. Driving this growth more than anything were While Park had publicly stated plans of crushing dealings in the post-war period during his approach. Rather than breaking the conglomerates up, critical task--getting Korean-made goods With the government providing cheap steel, tax breaks to major manufacturers, the likes just that, expanding vertically and horizontally. These family-controlled, government-aided, term that entered common Korean parlance during In the 70s and 80s Chaebols dominated, pulling their products out to the world. Samsung launched TVs, then semiconductors, cars on the international market; and LG opened Though South Korean citizens came to argue society, what wasn't up for debate was the standards of life. Life expectancy doubled from 1950 to 1990, a tenth of what it was at war's end. All the while, chaebols showed no sign of Through the turn of the century, South Korea's of Lee Byung-Chul in 1987, Samsung continued under the guidance of his son, Lee Kun-hee. Today, just seven decades on from the company's Samsung is South Korea. For the average resident, it's a relationship government itself, perhaps best demonstrated after year, just about 20% of the entire nation's The only single entity that can rival that typically makes up 20% to 25% of GDP. This staggering degree of economic concentration rest of the world appear routine. Japan's biggest company, Toyota, accounts sits at just 2.5%. An entire fifth of an economy being attributed company controlled by a single family in a absolutely unparalleled, even at a global Undoubtedly, this exceptional centrality permeates Young people, and especially their parents, becoming the so-called "Samsung Man." It's considered the pinnacle of success hurdles necessary to be deemed worthy to work this idealistic vision is encapsulated across of a position at the company even borders film and television. Just as American youth might fixate on moving New York to break into big business, Korean for the opportunity to pack into testing centers Samsung Aptitude Test--hoping to score high Hundreds of thousands won't even be allowed won't advance past it, leaving legions of layer in the social hierarchy of careers: Hyundai or LG. For those that don't succeed there, they sized employers--a fact they will try to to its characterization as failure. This centrality of focus can perhaps be attributed into South Korean life: when you buy a smartphone you need life insurance in South Korea, you the ferry in South Korea, you step onto a theme park in South Korea, you once again This convoluted, seemingly scattershot structure that Samsung has followed and captured opportunity actually been a critical factor in the Lee Today, there are 59 major Samsung affiliate ownership structure, this is a soft, subjective control is held across the empire is soft But let's say there were just two affiliates: one of which wholly owned by outside investors, Now, most major business decisions are settled a budget for the next year, for example, just vote affirmatively. So that's to say, 49.9% of the Lee family worthless from a control perspective, at least So what they could do is sell that 49.9%, a tiny bit of extra cash to get up to 50% It's essentially the same amount of money control instead of one. But now using their control of both of these annual operating profit to buy up 50% plus than paying it back to themselves and the tax--and while they wouldn't directly own because they control the first two affiliates, And even then, while 50% plus one ownership it's often overkill as it only becomes relevant shareholder, which is rare, especially when that the Lee family has. So, the Lee family might only need 30% or affiliate if another 10% or 20% is owned by Through the decades, these and other systems convoluted web of ownership that can confuse ultimately results in what matters to the entire empire. But these structures are tenuous, especially South Korea has one of the highest inheritance That means that 50% of the value of assets from one generation to the next. Therefore if Lee Kun-hee, for example, passed the heir would have to find some $2.5 billion only do by selling $2.5 billion worth of shares--therefore This hypothetical started to feel far more attack of Lee Kun-hee. The chairman survived, but only barely. As he sat comatose in a hospital bed at the and eventually years, his children were thrown to craft a plan that would keep Samsung in upon their father's inevitable and seemingly This was difficult, the numbers were tough, too much. Two of the most critical links in the Lee-family Trading, or C&amp;T, and Cheil Industries--each acted primarily as de-facto holding companies But Lee family control of C&amp;T--and therefore other affiliates partially owned by C&amp;T--was continued to buy in. If Lee Kun-hee never awoke from his coma, and the house of cards would crumble. Therefore, a plan: they'd merge C&amp;T and While quantifying their control of each is informal control, what's important to know than that of C&amp;T, so what would make the restructuring Cheil and undervalued C&amp;T so that post-merger, control over the new, combined de-facto holding entire empire without having spent a cent. So, they proposed exactly that, an objectively 0.35 Cheil shares. C&amp;T shareholders--and specifically its largest, against the merger, arguing that Cheil was a merger ratio of 0.35 inflated its value of millions of dollars in value to the Lees It was an unbelievably good deal for the family, Unlike most business decisions, which the their de-facto simple majority, mergers and of two-thirds of shareholders. They could get most of the way there themselves, to convince C&amp;T shareholders to vote against But there was one whale: the single-largest was the South Korean National Pension Service, Welfare, which was run by the South Korean President Park Geun-hye. That's to say, if they could get to President service. Conveniently, they had a back-door: long-time cult leader, Choi Soon-sil. It was an open secret among South Korea's official position in Park's government, decision-making--even to the extent of picking specific policy propositions. On the surface, Choi worked as the owner of neighborhood, but politicians and business-people to her office, where she solicited donations and K-sports foundations, supposedly dealing projects, but in practice acting as the top money-laundering scheme. Samsung, at the direction of Lee Jae-yong, foundations, and while still little is known the State Pension Fund voted in favor of C&amp;T the two companies combined, and the Lee family the next generation. Of course, we now know about this: we know how Choi influenced Park, and we know how Clearly, the secret was spilled, a massive Lee Jae-yong was indicted and jailed, but normal. Park was pardoned and freed in 2021, then as of October, 27th, 2022, following the death hospital bed, Lee Jae-yong was appointed chairman Social order was returned--the Lee family's This is a familiar refrain. In fact, Lee Jae-yong's legal troubles are from a decade before. Lee Kun-hee was sentenced to three-years in but only one year later was pardoned by the Olympic Committee and shepherd South Korea's While that was the publicly-stated reason, bribery to convince the President to pardon Similar justifications were used in summer South Korean business groups, and even the years for a pardon, and while on parole, Lee even meeting with President Biden in May 2022. So two months on, President Yoon Suk-yeol manner--saying that, as the only realistic leadership was necessary to guide the country's COVID-19 pandemic. This justification isn't that far-fetched. While undoubtedly unfair, considering the has on South Korea, it might be pragmatic--the But it does perpetuate the cycle that seemingly South Korean politicians, cannot survive without But to an extent, Samsung can survive without and refocus away from the nation in the long-term. This power structure, of enterprise above a large company exists in such a small country, Corporations can't run countries, and public generations, lacking the sympathy born from nation's ascent, are increasingly fighting It's tough to know which house of cards ownership structure that keeps the Lee family balance between Samsung and South Korea, knocked of both venerable institutions? For those of you that have demonstrated that the end, I have some suggestions on what to First I'd start with Polymatter's excellent how one of the world's most consequential like why China won't abandon its zero-COVID without essentially any major international Then I'd watch the episode of Real Life conflict in the 21st century--it provides peace, and how that could crumble and threaten Both of these series' and far, far more considering Polymatter, Real Life Lore, myself, Nebula, and designed it from the ground floor Over 50,000 Wendover viewers have believed to those of you who haven't, the idea behind incentives that compromises video quality By putting it behind a paywall, we're incentivized that will keep you all subscribed, rather that will make you click and zone out. We use these subscription fees to pay to run Nebula creators, and to fund our big-budget pursue their big, ambitious passion projects, all of these made by the Wendover team. Of course, even while being a good deal for deal for you all, our audience, and it really You see, they're an entirely different streaming shows and documentaries like David Attenborough's bioluminescent animals. They're running a deal where by subscribing they'll give you a Nebula subscription for They've even discounted their annual plan streaming sites, both of which have great than you probably pay for a month of one of you'll be helping support hundreds of independent So, click the button on screen or head over and thanks in advance for your support.