This video is sponsored by Shopify. This is a hedgehog picnic, Meet Autumn the Fox. She'll eat anything - shoes, she even tried to eat the picnic basket! So instead, I thought I'd feed her something fox food. I set up a bowl and night vision camera, [adorable chomping] you've ever heard?! It must have been an improvement, And so it gave me an idea - exclusively for foxes, Plus, what if I opened several more restaurants including squirrels, birds, If you enjoy this video, please consider subscribing, and golden foxes hidden somewhere in the background. Now the fox wasn't the only one eating the so I thought I'd start by building a cafe I built a wooden backdrop and added floorboards, Next I furnished the room with dolls house decorated with all manner of miniature delights. It made me incredibly hungry. Add some mealworms and birdseed to the table, I tweeted about it, There was a blue tit, a robin, a great tit, But there was one bird in particular that See this flash of feathers, I'm almost certain that's a woodpecker. It's meant to look something like that painting The trouble is, on a flat table like this, Soooooo, I moved the camera back, To begin with we had the same birds as before, But then arrived this, an elegant-looking bird with a striped head, [drumroll] Isn't she glorious?! The nuthatch returned, only to be scared off before the woodpecker began demonstrating persistently pecking the peanuts for a good whilst the nuthatch was relegated to the fence. The early bird bakery was a hit, only ones who'd been eating the hedgehog so I decided to build the squirrels something a squirrel-sized market. I call it, 'May Contain Nuts', pumpkin seeds, sunflower seeds, peanuts, Brazil nuts, gourds, And our first customer was... You're not supposed to be here. And even after a few hours, so I decided to do some marketing, It must have done the trick, his head around. It was all very adorable for a couple of minutes, [fast piano music] but we had two very satisfied customers. It went so well in fact that I thought I'd this time selling my own products. There's tiny squirrel sized colouring books, loads more. However the squirrels were far more interested completely ignoring my merch, I'm able to sell human-sized products online Shopify is a commerce platform that I've my store. It's enabled me to really bring my business it's simple to use and completely takes I'm not the most technical or business savvy but it has all the tools you need regardless even a squirrel could set up their own store, It's honestly incredible being able to take such as making my own colouring book, idea into a reality, all around the world. So if you want to set up your own business go to shopify.co.uk/halfasleepchris to get I mean I've opened a bakery for birds, a merch store for humans, for foxes, a crazy distant idea, Anyway, allow me to introduce you to one of This is the fancy fox, destination in my entire garden. We're awaiting Michelin star recognition, menu. The first course sees the same old fox food albeit garnished with a sprig of parsley. It's a known favourite and a sort of control The second however features a whole roasted simple, timeless and elegant, believed. And the third and final course, dessert, into a fox. Yum! It's a dinner certain to titillate the taste and will undoubtedly go down as the greatest So I've gone completely overboard with the they're everywhere, all staring at the food, us a nice top-down view, the garden in case she runs away with the If a fox as much as farts in this garden, Al that was left to do was wait. It rained pretty horrendously for most of and I wasn't optimistic about our chances. But that didn't stop Autumn the fox. She was clearly a little skittish, fox food. However there was more on the menu than just specifically treats. I guess she's never been to a fancy restaurant and doesn't know that you're not supposed Still, she obviously enjoyed it, But then her sights moved onto something bigger, I think she expected it to fight back, before she finally managed to drag it off And then just as quickly as she'd appeared, None of the other cameras picked up what happened the next morning, had a gigantic feast, However, an hour and a half later, this time by a scrawny and very wet fox. I'm fairly sure this is a different fox, just eaten a whole roast chicken, and a nice meal. As I quick side note, are at least 3 foxes that frequent my garden. Anyway, this fox stayed for about 15 minutes, I kinda feel bad that it didn't get any but it appeared to very much enjoy the ambiance even if the meal itself wasn't the fanciest. So there we have it, with slugs, And the next morning, I woke up to a glowing But the garden still had one last secret to A couple of nights later, a badger, the most elusive night-time creature I've never seen a badger in my entire life, and it somehow managed to evade the other Regardless, I feel incredibly lucky to have and I strongly encourage you to get out in Set up some bird feeders, or maybe even leave out a bowl of fox or hedgehog It's a whole other world out there at night, witching hour and almost never come in to But finding that empty bowl in the morning world, but a very hungry fox. Remember to go to shopify.co.uk/halfasleepchris