You want to hear all the things I tried? I've tried medications, I've had about half a dozen therapists, that were kind of like a rehab for people with shock therapy (and I was like I can't believe they ever going to get better, that this couldn't be always going to be miserable and make my family gave me a little glimpse of light so that I that could happen again. This is my friend a couple of years. And she's never been a client of together. One of the things I've seen is that four but you were functioning pretty well. And then a you at church, and you would just be pacing, like shaking. You just looked like you were in so much how did anxiety impact your ability to function? come out of that darkest space into a better space. things. I just turned 50, so I need notes. Anyway. I In fact, I've had like more than a month at a I couldn't even nap in the day. Mhm. It was insane. out of that with the help of some meds. But I had at least a month or longer, where it's not just front of the food and want to throw up. Like I - it I really was forcing myself to eat. And I lost a ton that came from my anxiety. I lost my personality. lost all of my confidence. Well, because you were of an extrovert, right? Yeah. Yeah. You're good with of things. And I I did - I noticed that you had a I also lost the ability to enjoy anything. So I couldn't concentrate on reading. I used to people and doing things, and all of it made me a movie with my family, but I couldn't really, like, not enjoying it. Yeah. Memory loss. That's just kind fatigue but not being able to relax. So being on Um but it didn't translate to my mind being quiet I have this - must have been like so exhausting. Yeah. Like just couple years, so. And then just really quickly, I tried that - Yeah. Let's do it. Yeah. And most of them worked for a it's - I don't want to say that people should never things I tried. Yeah, cuz you're the kind of person happen to you. You're going to try stuff. You're out. So you tried a bunch of stuff. Let's hear it. Yeah. I dozens of medications. I've had about half a dozen just different times in my life. And I would drop ketamine, CBD oil, energy healing - both in person been in two inpatient programs that were kind issues, I've been hospitalized. And for a couple and I was like I can't believe they even do that magnetic stimulation, or ECT, where they're actually - it's the ECT. sleep so you don't feel anything, and then they do I've also heard that might be part of why I period, that it messes your mind up. That is one apparently it did calm me down because I was able of meds. But I have read probably a dozen books me. My family and friends have been been giving me my faith was a part of it. But it's like, oh, but to try to deal with the things that I'm anxious program at home online, and tons and tons of guided a temporary fix. So I could calm down while I'm just want to listen to another one, not get up and find yourself getting to a place where you withdrew from life? I mostly kept doing the things and being miserable. So I would say - to just to start would say a couple things. First one is I learned bit about this. I'm so interested in about that. of a mantra, but it's &quot;Get out of my bed and get out struggle for me. Mhm. Um. So would you find yourself the day and worrying? Or what was going on? Yeah. I made me calm but but sleepy. Mhm. And so everyone in this habit of just staying in bed as long as you - at least for me - don't want to get out of bed, longer you do it, the more you feel miserable and So the longer you laid in bed, the worse you get out of bed, basically. Yeah, and then when I like, &quot;How are you going to get the stuff done that now,&quot; you know, that kind of thing. So it actually it does. Like humans aren't meant to sleep making progress on that is my mom started being started calling me at 9:00 a.m. once a day, and - phone call, and I would go back to bed. Uh-huh. I mean, I I was like, &quot;Okay, I'm going to make this effort time the phone call comes, and I'm going to sit here, stay So that was like the first baby step to getting &quot;What if I just what if I took a shower before think about it. But I did that, and man, I just felt know. And this is so silly to people that usually step was, as the weather got warmer I've started So I do a walk before I talk to her. I would say never been a regular walker or exerciser, and I do good for my body and my mind to get out. I know getting outside is really critical. Was it always I just wasn't motivated. Not your thing. Not my Yeah. So that's kind of cool, though, that the dog a hard time getting out of bed. You were having a You started sitting in a chair - your mom started your mom called you, you started trying to take you got a dog, which didn't help at first, then you function a little better in the mornings. Was this yes to things. I think this is the beginning of &quot;Okay, I can do this. Like this is a part of life accept, and like I can accept the morning.&quot; And then, some magazine that I was reading where the person laughed. I was like, &quot;That's silly. Like that's and I realized that I say no a lot. And sometimes the time it's, &quot;I'll do this kicking and screaming complainer, really negative thinker, and so - but I was that be like?&quot; And so I just started exploring that. changing because I have to get out different up. &quot;Oh, it's spring. Now I have to find new clothes Anyway. Just trying to accept the season changes. getting older. There's a lot of things that I don't worried I getting older. But it's like, &quot;What if I it takes me?&quot; That's so cool. Yeah. And it's hard then - didn't really want to do it. But I had already Okay. &quot;So you can say yes to this,&quot; and I just said it. this is what I'm afraid of a lot in my - is not afraid that'll be unhappy. It'll make someone else things that are coming up. Like, &quot;Is this going to try new things. Yeah. Another thing that was a big gave me. And it was, it's from ACT, from acceptance has what's called defusion phrases. Yeah. Right? And so the fusion is like your mind is really tight defusion is a way to like stand back and actually thought or not. Mhm. Right? So the idea between these notice that you're worrying and then go on with I would be like - so when I'm getting ready this &quot;Oh man, I don't want to get on camera. I don't know how My mind will say that stuff to me. And I say, &quot;Oh, I'm going to get back to having breakfast right right there. So I can be going on a walk, but my really stupid, like somebody's yard is unkempt downhill.&quot; And I'll go, &quot;Thank you, mind, for your perspective, but Yeah. Um but you have to be careful not to turn it that I'm kind of a pessimist and would wish to supposed to do is in the moment of that bad argument with yourself. So if I'm nervous about good because this and this.&quot; You just say, &quot;You've meantime, let's get ready.&quot; Because the thing - if you but it's ineffective. Yeah. So of those phrases, my you're worrying a lot right now&quot; or &quot;I noticed that just move on.&quot; And then one of the other big ones We just need to see what's going to happen. The too hard&quot; or &quot;I should go back to bed.&quot; Yeah. Okay. Cuz even though I would get better in my mornings, my and rest. So for me it's like a drug. Yeah. No joke. of whatever it is, uh oxytocin or something, some I'm safe.&quot; Huh. And then next thing I know I'm worrying like a drug for me. So my mind would just even give bed.&quot; So. That's really interesting. I like that paper audience. Yeah. I think that was one of the biggest giving myself permission to drop the worry without Yeah. Especially on big things. I mean, how can you one of them's going to die someday?&quot; It's true, but that. And if you do spend your time thinking have with them, right? And and you can't just say, going to happen.&quot; What you can say is, &quot;We'll wait faith comes into play because on the big things - I one of my parents dies. Like that's really hard for me it. Yeah. Because I know that I've seen him do that your videos for years, and I will sometimes take thing that I do now that I probably learned from writing out. I remember you saying, &quot;Never worry different kinds of writing. One of them is a worry who you had also did a video with him. That's how called The Friendly Mind. Mhm. Yeah. Nick's great. by him called Worry Free. Right. And I did do that. like, all of a sudden I was just doing great for one of the things that I realized, &quot;Man, I know that And maybe life is ups and downs, and it's not a to exactly who I was when I was 30. Yeah. Just, you how that works. But anyway, the scheduled worry is fill up one page of junk that's in my mind. And and okay to have a time and a place for it, which morning. I don't like to start first thing in the feeling pretty good and I'm about ready to get over, anyway, that's when I hash that out really this writing at night. I call it wins, wishes, and what. about before. But I've got all in one paper now. So that I'm proud of I did that day. Cool. And that's your gratitude. And I do everything, guys. I couldn't ate. That's so cool. I ate breakfast, had lunch. Um I write things I accomplished. And so I write that, about paragraph is how I want tomorrow to look, and that to change my mornings. So I would write, &quot;My wishes what I plan to do the next day - Cool - to walk with to have a little bit of a routine. When you're wake up and say, &quot;What should I do next? Oh, and then it's good to have a routine for me. But I also have that if something has to change then it's still didn't do my writing today, I'm gonna have a panic I do think that the daily habits make a difference. is what. And the what stands for what I'm grateful Yeah. So it's wins, wishes, and what. And I end up write what I'm grateful for. And doing that every weird stuff. You can look around and be like, &quot;I'm I just try to be a little creative with it, and it gratitude helps a lot. That's really cool. I like whats. Yeah. Cool. Love it. I just have to say, one of they bring a notebook, that is a sign that they're learn something, and they're going to grow. So like I love it. Yeah. I have like favorite quotes in here a long time where they weren't working for me yet, &quot;Hey, this is real. It actually worked.&quot; Yeah. That's while. Like I hated affirmations for like my entire started being able to use like affirmations in the past I could never really believe them. They now I'm like, &quot;Oh, I can say nice things about myself really love that quote, &quot;When the student is ready, why couldn't I have done this before? What will But I feel like I've learned enough that there is better. It's not all about just a chemical in my But. Sure. And you've always talked about that, how our thoughts and - anyway. So. I really - it just took I could actually change for myself. Yeah. Two more other main thing he has you do besides the scheduled practice. Oh, yeah. And his theory is that you start worry, Emma. I can't do 30 minutes. I did it once. I Yeah. I have not given up the mindfulness practice, 10 for a while, and even then I was starting comfortable and calm in my life. And so 10 minutes Yeah. But I do five minutes. And I think the thing the mindfulness is all he wants you to do is sit breath. Yep. And then every time a thought comes in Attention training, basically. I haven't gotten any place, But I'm guessing that is helping me build &quot;Okay, that's an interesting worry, but we're going that same muscle, and so it probably helps a lot. I've done a little bit different - I think I learned actually get my body grounded first. So when I my fingers and my butt. I just like feel myself in I just listen to what's all the little noises around just - you don't have to breathe special. You try it sounds, how - anything you can to get your mind as I can do, but. That's still impressive. I still in it, and I - it's hard for me. Yeah. Me too. I don't one of the things that I most easily drop if I'm wanted to give it up altogether because I think And then another thing that I learned from one of and go, and I was like, &quot;Do they?&quot; I mean, that's so - you because I was in a constant state of anxiety, like anxiety emotion constantly.&quot; Yeah. And then it anxiety, just get in your body. Do mindfulness just kind of accept it. And then wait and see what different than when you're trying to stop this Yeah. So I I was like, &quot;What would happen if I waited to always be anxious. Huh. You know&gt; Interesting. Anyway. you? Like dropping the struggle against anxiety? I Because it felt like it was always there, all the that it comes from your thoughts.&quot; And you also have from thoughts. So if I keep up a constant stream of be anxious constantly. Yeah. The biggest thing, I back. I felt hopeless, that I wasn't ever going to of these things had worked. I was always going to just some of these things gave me a little glimpse I wonder if that could happen again,&quot; you know. And nights came on first. So for a long time people would say, night, and in the mornings I'm still struggling.&quot; started feeling better, like I can eat dinner with stuff. That came first. And then as I accustomed started to feel better, I also wondered, &quot;When going to fall down again? When am I going to feel and enough skills now that if when something hard it doesn't have to be permanent. That's cool yeah that you've all heard before, &quot;Let go and let God.&quot; go and just see how things play out. And most of was running around acting like most things are bad, so I've had more time. I've been able to help my doctor appointments, and I'm doing some things help people. Yeah. And people are still so shocked always check with me first: &quot;How are you feeling? I'm like, &quot;I'm feeling okay,&quot; and it's so great. Have uncomfortable? What if people noticed? What if - &quot; Have yourself? Cuz it sounds like you judged yourself happy or if you were feeling anxious. You'd be like, need to make this go away, or I need to like not be Yeah. I think accepting the way I feel is - like I way, but it's wrong. Like a good person wouldn't be about it is - because I don't want to say this is uncomfortable. Yeah. This is painful, even, like - More Yeah. Not a good or bad. Cuz I've also learned this or bad. They're just meant to be a reaction to our to learn how to live with all of them. But for me, the hard ones. Yeah. Yeah. We want them to go away. that that if you accept them, then they do go away necessarily fast, but a little faster. Yeah. They really cool, Rachel. I'm really proud of you, one, so much, and and you worked hard to learn things just doing more. And also just showing up today. a lot of courage. So I really appreciate you being for letting me come do it. I do like to talk, so. of advice or words of encouragement for people who say, &quot;Don't give up,&quot; and I would also say believe in tendency to be happy and be positive -Yeah - but we this idea that I was a pessimist, so I couldn't constant pessimistic thinking I just find natural mean, I'm just shopping and cooking and eating, but all the time. Yeah. So I think we really do have to break the negative habits. That's awesome. Well, Really appreciate it. No problem. Yep. To all of you out