The things I bought at the Day 1 Rakuten Marathon are one after another... It's like unboxing deja vu from the things I was looking forward to , but it's a new member (not a PR) The 26cm shallow oven pot I always use for hot pots in winter I want it... Already I have a feeling it will be a big success.I was thinking about choosing beige, but I really liked matte black.I think it would be cool to put the two side by side.Tonight , I'm going to make a pot right away.By the way, the rest were consumables and a small carrier today. Haburi shabu! I was so excited that I went to buy it, but the fence was thin and I wondered if it would work if I cut it diagonally. Ah, it's good . It's fun to arrange them thinly for shabu-shabu. I'm getting used to cutting them in stages. Divide them into two plates, and it looks good . Cut the mizuna into 5 cm pieces . Also add the bean sprouts. Let's grow the bean sprouts after a long time. Cut the carrots into thin slices. Vegetables for shabu-shabu are ready. Also add lettuce. Cut into thin strips and soak in water to make them crunchy. Use a salad spinner. Drain well and keep in the refrigerator until night.Cut the remaining yellowtail into small pieces and soak in the sauce.Add soy sauce, sugar, and sesame oil.You can also add gochujangMix well and complete Add water and konbu to the pot and it's ready When it's boiling, it's a yellowtail shabu-shabu party.Ponzu sauce that's perfect for shabu-shabu.Wrap it with plenty of vegetables.A pinto thief cheering captain ? The children made pickled whitebait and yellowtail rice bowls.Day 2The morning started with making bento boxes. I overslept so I finished it in a hurry. Good luck at school today too~ I bought a new carrying case. I'll bring it with me on my trip to Korea starting tomorrow. These days, it's high tech~ It 's light and easy to use. I took the trouble to put it on. This is the Rakuten ranking. I found itThe big point is that it comes with a drink holder.I'm no longer interested in it. I received a regular shipment of liposomes, and I need to take them with me when I travel. Replacement liposome serums and mini size ones... Cleansers, lotions, emulsions, creams I've got all the old ones, so I'll bring some for my friends too.I'll pack the cosmetics to take to my favorite Hello Kitty pouch.This is There definitely is! This is my favorite to take with me because it's small and convenient, but it's out of stock.I recommend Rom&amp;'s eyebrow mascara.Mascara top and bottom, eyeliner is easy to peel off on the lips, so it's a must.If I could reduce the weight even more, my luggage would be lighter, but I still love this carefully selected minimal cosmetics. Take your favorite people to a beautiful home I vacuumed carefully so I could come home, and the cheerleader was at work and I'm sorry for interrupting you while you were basking in the sun.I'm planning to get a temporary tooth today to replace the ceramic on your tooth... I'll give you some anesthesia, so please come and have breakfast. That's what I was told, so I grabbed my breakfast handkerchief and went to the dentist , where my upper lip was tingling from the anesthesia. The shape of my teeth looks good, but what if my teeth fall off while I'm traveling? It's time to get temporary teeth - I'm looking at me like this all day long. I took a nap until the anesthesia wore off . Ah , how cute I was so happy to see my face fall asleep. When I woke up, the anesthesia had worn off. I prepared pizza toast for breakfast during the trip ...I ran out of ketchup . That's all. Mix mayonnaise, steak spice, and garlic well to complete the pizza sauce.Butter , Costco's Mentai Barako, and mayonnaise.It 's still frozen, so leave it for a while.Prepare the ingredients for the pizza toast.Slice the onion.Slice the green pepper.Slice the bacon. Now that it's melted, mix it well and spread it on the pizza sauce.The bread was bought at the supermarket. Top with the prepared ingredients Plenty of corn This is also popular mentaiko toast It is also recommended to use frozen stock Topping with shredded seaweed For the pizza toast, make plenty of cheese Make ahead of time The toast is finished Finish the pizza toast with pepper It will last for 2 days, so store it in the refrigerator I keep it frozen for dinner while traveling. I prepared the meat sauce and curry that I had prepared.I also froze the rice.I repacked the chanterelle body and it was ready.Dinner was also a hotpot today.Today I made a hotpot with sesame and soymilk.I added chicken stock and bean sauce for the main dish. I used a large amount of sesame seeds that my mother gave me (!). I had a small mortar at home, so I made the sesame seeds in several batches. While I was enjoying the pleasant smell of the bubble wrap, I looked at the completely missing bag of sesame seeds, and all I could think of was a pot of sesame and soy milk.Miso , garlic, ginger, and soy milk.Pour in the core of the Chinese cabbage, which is so delicious , and add the leaves later.Shiitake mushrooms I pulled out the stems, sliced the carrots, and cut the shiitake mushrooms.I forgot to buy noodles, so I searched for a trick to turn pasta into Chinese noodlesI have a lot of pasta, so when I turn it into Chinese noodles, I add baking powder. Just be What happened to me was that even though I had measured the BP, the amount of water was quite appropriate (that's why I failed).The komatsuna pasta (Chinese noodles) that I had in the fridge was boiled and the remaining vegetables were full of shiitake mushrooms with plenty of bean sprouts and pork. Put everything in Finally, I sprinkled sesame oil on it and added a little bit of soup.I couldn't make it into Chinese noodles, so I drizzled it with pasta chili oil and had a sesame and soy milk hotpot for dinner.It was easy to make, but it was delicious.Day 3I was so excited that I woke up at 4am in the morning. I got up, took a shower, and finished my hair. I suppressed my excitement and made a lunch. I'll be away from home for three days, so I'm checking the vegetable room and trying to use up as much as possible. I'm looking forward to cutting the carrots and green peppers into thin strips again, so I can go to bed at night. figure. I'm sure I'll have a good night's sleep on the plane I'm headed to.I'll also buy a latte in the morning at the airport (I'm excited) .I'll boil the spinach that looks like it's going to go bad.I'll boil the spinach that looks like it's going to go bad.3 eggs, sugar, light soy sauce, and Japanese omelet.It's been a while since tamagoyaki appeared? When I was writing down the places I wanted to go in Korea, all I noticed was food I want to eat a lot of the things I saw in Korean dramasWhen I go on a family trip with friends, it's already fun, and I prepare everyone's luggage, and then a few days later I open it and wash it... I wonder how many times I'll go through it. It's hard to clean up. Well, I can't enjoy it at 100%.I do n't really like traveling in the first place.I'm an indoor person.I'm done with egg rolls.I just boiled the Vienna spinach from the stems, added the leaves, quickly boiled them, added some sesame oil, and stir-fried the thawed pork. I added salt, pepper, and carrots , and since the meat was large, I cut it with scissors. Add man and season with oyster sauce. Plenty of sesame as a side dish . Meikritz is still sleeping while I wait for the rice to cook. It looks like it's going to get wet , so I'll make it thinner... Finally, the rice is ready . I drained the water from the boiled spinach and froze it. I 'll keep the other half aside and toss it with dashi soy sauce for breakfast.I'll use the cut ends of the fried eggs for breakfast. Use perilla leaves as a divider and start filling with tamagoyaki. Line up the large side dish cups and make plenty of meat. Open the gap and sprinkle colorful furikake on sausages. Place pickled plums on top. Finished today's bento breakfast. I'm ready to go Day 4 The morning after I came back from Korea, which was fun. I imagined that I would be even more tired after I got home, but I washed my clothes, vacuumed, and drove normally. I 'll post another video about my trip to Korea I've been eating all the time and gained 2 kg, but if I leave it alone , I'll regain it... ? After walking so much, my toes look like red sausages.My bean seedlings have grown so muchI had one piece of roll cake left over from the convenience store at the airport . I made an iced coffee and had a relaxing time.I was lonely, but I was more happy than usual with my baby-like face.Every time I go on a trip to the Ritz, I think about it, but I still need to take at least 3 days worth of naps at home ... Sleep well and get to bed early Make rice with ingredients you have at home. The main dish is salted meat and potatoes.Cut the onions into wedges, add sesame oil and garlic, and stir-fry the pork.Add the onions and potatoes.Add plenty of pepper and salt.Add the garlic , as well as sake mirin, which is about to run out, and chicken bone water. I ordered a 15-minute timer with the lid on and it arrived . I love J'adore's hand cream so much that I ordered a perfume and oil set. I'm planning on skipping the Christmas coffret... This is the hair and body oil , the disgusting bottle type. It's not a push... I applied the leaked oil to my hair, and the perfume I originally wanted both smelled too good... This is a birthday gift I'll wear it when I go to sleep I washed off the nice scent and resumed making food... Thinly slice the lotus root that was kept alive in the refrigerator and soak it in water for miso soup and kinpira.Cut the daikon radish into strips and use it for miso soup. I added a dashi pack to the miso soup , cut up some vegetables, added some kinpira chili peppers, salt, and stocked up on cooking sake.I forgot to add sake, mirin, and soy sauce, but I also added sugar. Today, I added plenty of sesame seeds and finished the Kinpira. I reheated the Salted Niku Potato and there was no green. Tonight's dinner was Salted Niku Potato, Lotus Root Kinpira, and Miso Soup ? ? Tottering around... It's the season for gas fan heaters again this year, so I'm feeling warm and happy. Thank you for watching until the end, Ritz, whose feet are constantly being stepped on , doesn't like the cold and is cutest when she's sleeping Thank you for watching Please subscribe to the channel. mnm.myth