- [Jared] The International Space Station is the largest manmade structure in space. It was built in pieces and and assembled in orbit. In this video, I want to at the station. We're gonna look at that they were assembled. We'll look at the countries involved and the future plans for the station. So if you're ready, let's (electricity buzzing) (explosion pops) (digital music) The International Space Station, or ISS, took many years to become a reality. In 1984, the United called Space Station Freedom. Here's some drawings of what the original station It was never actually There were lots of redesigns, and it's funding was almost Then in 1993, after several on board, the name was officially changed to the International Space Station. Five years later, I'll show you the complete but first, let's learn a little This is the ISS as it looks today. It's mainly used to that can only be done in space. There's usually six astronauts They generally switch out so that no one spends The station is about the size It's located just outside This is called Low Earth Orbit. It's not very high up, considering that some satellites orbit way out here. The ISS only takes about 92 That's about 28,000 kilometers per hour. Over time, the ISS will If nothing was done, the as it reenters the Earth's atmosphere. To prevent this, the station to stay in space. The main countries now Canada, Russia, Japan and many countries from the European Space Agency. Let's get to know the The Integrated Truss Structure is kind of like the backbone of the station. It holds the solar arrays radiator panels, these remove heat from the station, and other equipment and science experiments are also attached. This part down here contains which means the astronauts without a space suit. All of the Russian modules make up the Russian Orbital Segment. The other side is called the It's made up of modules Europe, Japan and Canada. The different pieces of the were built in many Each module was then launched into space by one of these three rockets, the American Space Shuttle, and the Russian Soyuz Rocket. Once in space, it's time This is definitely not Once construction started, over a decade before it Each one of these lines of a new module to the station. Let's go ahead and start The first piece of the station is a Russian It provides power from the solar arrays and also propulsion when there's There's three docking ports These will be used to connect to the next pieces of the station. The second module is American, and it's called Unity, or Node 1. It has six docking ports to There's a special piece here to connect between the different docking mechanisms. This is called a or PMA for short. Unity was launched with PMA-1 and PMA-2. This is the Zvezda service module. It provides life support systems and is considered the functional center of the Russian Orbital Segment. It also has three docking Next is the Z1 Truss. This holds equipment for the station. It's not part of the main truss, but it provided a as we'll see here in a moment. PMA-3 was then added to It's always good to have an The P6 Truss was temporarily mounted to the top of the Z1 Truss. This includes the first solar array wings. This provides much needed Radiator panels were also installed to help remove excess At this point, there that astronauts can start instead of just temporary visits. From November 2000 until now, there has been a continuous human presence on board the station. The Destiny module is also This is a place where a lot of A little rearranging was necessary so that Destiny could be installed. March 2001 came the addition of the External Stowage This was a place to store Canada made a vital It's a robotic arm that can help around the outside of the station. It's usually controlled by an astronaut who's on the inside of the station. Either end of the arm can be attached to one of these grapple fixtures that you'll find on various modules. The Quest airlock allows the outside for a few hours to perform an EVA, also known as a spacewalk. This is a Russian module called Pirs. It can be used as an or as a docking port to to attach to the station. Now we get to start building If you remember from earlier, this is kind of like the Our first piece is the S0 Truss, and it gets attached to the The Mobile remote servicer Base System, or MBS, was added next. This platform can move along the truss. It's especially useful when Then the S1 Truss was added The S stands for starboard This way, you know on which Each side has room for For now, only the center ESP-2 was added to the station right next to the Quest airlock. This is the P3/P4 Truss and another radiator panel. The tiny P5 Truss goes at the end here. To balance out the station, we'll have to retract a few panels. The following year, the other sides of the truss were added as well. ESP-3 goes down here. And then the P6 Truss can be moved to its final resting place. It's also time to deploy a The Harmony module is also called Node 2. It will be attached to the But first, we have to do Harmony has six docking for further expansion of the station. Next comes the Columbus module, which is a European laboratory. Now we get some more robotics This is a space robot called Dextre. It can attach to the same grapple fixtures that are used by the Canadarm2. In fact, Dextre is most to the end of the Canadarm2. The largest module is the also known as Kibo. It came up to the station It even has its own robotic arm. Finally, we have the S6 Truss, the last of the truss segments. Now we're starting to look a little more These solar arrays will be rotated so that they face towards the sun. This helps the arrays generate The Japanese Experiment It's called the Japanese Exposed Facility. This allows research to be The Russian module Poisk It was another place for This is the first ExPRESS This is a place to store hardware to help the station work correctly. ELC-2 was installed on The Tranquility module, is added to the side of Unity. On the bottom side of called the Cupola. This has seven windows Each window has a cover that can be closed when they are not in use. Then came another Russian This was used for storage The Leonardo module is used for storage of supplies and waste. The trash will build up here until it can be removed from the station. Here's ELC-3 and -4. This is a science experiment called the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer. It's used to study rare A more recent addition to the station is called the Bigelow or BEAM for short. It takes up a small amount and then inflated once BEAM is an experiment to see if this kind of technology can work. The ISS only has funding through 2025. But hopefully, that will be extended. After that, we may see pieces for other projects in space. I want to thank my supporters on Patreon for helping me make this video. This won't be the last time from me about the Stay tuned and let me know what you want to see next, in the comments below. I'm Jared Owen. Thanks for watching. (gentle music)