The Sixth Extinction: facing the abyss, will Hunted, exploited, poisoned, forced to live We're talking about animals, regardless of Whether they are emotionally close living spiders, and ants... they are all facing extinction. Similarly, all environmental indicators are a planetary catastrophe. Or more precisely, towards the &quot;Sixth Mass Below we barely mention a few examples, not as we are about to see, the disappearance is also much more serious than the disappearance as wolves or whales. . on those who are listening, right? Ok... In less than a century, the elephant population to 415,000 individuals reported in the latest The African lion survives in only 10% of its has dropped from 200,000 to less than 20,000 Bottom trawling and indiscriminate fishing each year. Similarly, about 400,000 marine turtles get with over 150,000 of them dying. According to experts, there are now less than a steady decline and poses a serious risk From 1940 to 1980, three subspecies have already and the Caspian tiger. In India, traditionally considered the main showed that there are likely only 1,411 individuals It is believed that 95% of wild tigers have And then there's everything else... a chaotic mix of animals, insects, and plants we just mentioned, constitute the true essence Follow us to learn more! What sound does a species make when it goes Apparently, none, given the alarming numbers To be a bit more precise, the disappearance it's an alarm cry, but one that few seem to Those who listen to that cry and try to amplify rate at which biodiversity is disappearing A normalcy that - we must remember - predicted Extinction is, in fact, a fundamental natural game of life's evolution on Earth. Through evolution, living species differentiate when something in the environment changes go extinct, leaving the empty space - the Extinction has therefore always existed and history of life on Earth (over 4 billion years), species that have ever lived on our planet Someone has even tried to estimate the number then gone extinct) on Earth until now: an be between 5 and 50 billion different species. These figures are impressive when compared species currently estimated on Earth, of which by science. Extinction is, therefore, the natural fate it will affect everyone, including Homo sapiens. Each species is born with an expiration date years of existence. These numbers vary greatly depending on the specialization, and the breadth of their habitat. For example, the average lifespan of a mammal years, while for invertebrates - especially longer, up to 11 million years. A species becomes extinct - intuitively - when but there is also a &quot;programmed&quot; type of extinction, to an organism whose population is so small And perhaps this is the saddest extinction &quot;before moving on, don't forget to subscribe make sure to hit the notification bell so Usually, extinctions occur slowly and gradually, a large number of living species suddenly time on a geological scale, due to catastrophic These exceptional events are called mass extinctions that inhabit the planet at that time. It has happened at least five times in the The most catastrophic one was the Permian over 90% of known marine species went extinct, The last and most famous of all is the Cretaceous saw the disappearance of almost all dinosaurs on Earth. Extinction from an ecological standpoint isn't species that goes extinct, because it opens In fact, almost always, mass extinction is which is a swift evolution and diversification It is indeed thanks to that meteorite and we are here today. The disappearance of most dinosaurs, in fact, of the planet. At least, until now. In recent centuries, more and more species All experts agree that we are currently in Extinction. This time, however, it is not an event caused The catastrophe that is literally making hundreds and a surname: Homo sapiens. Ever since the invention of agriculture, the has unfortunately been incredibly strong and The rate at which living species are going above normal extinction rates. It seems that the situation has even accelerated Do you want some more numbers? Ok! -Approximately 75% of terrestrial and 66% altered by human activity. -More than one-third of the Earth's land area now dedicated to agricultural or livestock -In the last 30 years, the area of urban regions -Plastic pollution has increased tenfold since We produce 300 million tons of plastic each up in the seas and oceans. Straws, bags, and various artifacts contribute contaminating marine environments. It forms a veritable ocean of plastic that and causes the death of millions of marine -Every year, 170 billion animals are slaughtered: Runoffs from agricultural areas contain pesticides, farming. Over 5 million tons of pesticides are sprayed up in the sea via rivers. Furthermore, 500 million tons of heavy metals, waste are dumped into the world's waters annually. A very bad situation... A situation that will lead to the complete as someone once said, &quot;If you take one brick take too many bricks out, the house will collapse.&quot; Each time the Earth loses a species, the overall and humanity will bear the consequences because insects crucial for agriculture and disease to a functioning ecosystem.&quot; Since 1500 alone, it is estimated that at including 85 mammals, 159 birds, 35 amphibians, These are conservative estimates that may Habitat destruction, pollution, and overexploitation loss that can be directly attributed to human Are you suggesting that we forgot to mention Well, let us be clear: global warming, in that is largely irrelevant to the ecological With climate change, species may shift, but However, politics and economic interests ensure which is solely due to the reckless and greedy Billions of dollars are being allocated to politicians and multinational corporations economy, while shamelessly continuing the of animals. Due to human activities, we have already lost These species, now gone forever, should serve to change course as soon as possible to prevent So, let's take a closer look at some of the because of human actions. The Thylacine, or Tasmanian Wolf: extinct Also known by the name Tasmanian Tiger because the Thylacine was a carnivorous marsupial Guinea. It was Australia's largest carnivore and a Although it bears a remarkable resemblance the last common ancestor between canids and making it one of the most emblematic cases Disappearing first in New Guinea and later until the 1930s. It was considered harmful to livestock,and This, together with habitat reduction and The last specimen seen in the wild was in Benjamin died in 1936, in Hobart Zoo, Tasmania. The Western Black Rhinoceros: Extinct in 2006 of the black rhinoceros, was once widespread In the early 20th century, it was heavily as early as the 1930s. However, these efforts were unsuccessful. By 1980, only a few hundred Western Black just 10 individuals. The subspecies was officially declared extinct The Northern White Rhinoceros: Declared extinct The Northern White Rhinoceros, a subspecies such as Uganda, Chad, Sudan, parts of the Republic of the Congo. Between 1970 and 1980, the population drastically In 2005, the last four remaining free individuals The Barbary Lion: Extinct in 1942 habitat in the Atlas Mountains of North Africa, long brown mane, extending over the shoulder The last specimen was killed in 1942 in Morocco. The California Grizzly Bear: Extinct since The California Grizzly Bear, prominently featured 100 years, with no traces or even photographs In the early 1920s, it was hunted because and later it was exploited for fighting against Within a few years, the absence of individuals disappearance. The Quagga: Extinct since 1883 that roughly corresponds to present-day South Resembling a zebra, it had a coat with white neck, and front of the body. Apparently, it had a more docile temperament rather than a separate species. The Quagga was hunted by colonizers for its for domestic livestock. These animals will never be seen again, not its course, but due to the greed, indifference, They say that nature will need about 5 million caused, but it will never bring back these The images of the last Thylacine, a melancholic a testament to our shortsightedness and irresponsibility.