Hello Chess Friends. Today, I am going to share with you a secret and win more games. This trick is amazing. You cannot afford to miss this. I also have an interesting puzzle for you Chess Talk. Hey, it's me, Jeetendra Advani. If this is your first time on this channel and become a better chess player, then start you don't miss any of my videos. Okay, so The trick I am going to show you This trick can be played by black after the So lets start with the opening. You are playing as black. White starts with d4, you play d5. Then pawn c4 and pawn e5. This is the Albin counter gambit. After this, white obviously captures your Now your next move will be pawn to d4. The idea behind this move is to stop White's square. Now White's main intention here would be to A very common response that you will see from He is looking to trade the pawns and get some If he plays this move, then it's great for That's exactly what you want. After this, you can play bishop b4 check. Now the obvious move for white here would Now it's time for you to unleash a surprise Instead of saving your bishop, you will capture If your opponent has not seen this trap before, So he will take no time and capture your bishop. If he plays this move, then he is gone. I will show you exactly how this works. After bishop b4, you will capture the pawn White cannot capture this pawn because if free. So the only move he has is to move his king And now comes the most deadly move. You will capture this Knight with your pawn Yes, you heard it right. You will promote to a knight and NOT a queen. I will tell you later why we did that. For the moment, let's continue with this. It's check to white. White can capture your knight with his rook. If he does this, then bishop g4 check and Another variation would be if instead of capturing, Then you will play queen h4 check. If g3, then you can play queen to e4 and his And if he plays d2, then you can bring out You can then also bring out your bishop to You can castle queen's side to give check So all in all, as black, you are not only options to win the game. Now those of you who are wondering in this Well, if we promote to a queen, then white and after you recapture, he can again take So that was the logic behind underpromoting Okay, now let's look at this game from White's How can white save himself from this trap? Well, the best way would be that in this position, Instead, he should capture this pawn on e3 Black can regain his lost pawn by playing e4. If you look at the board carefully, you will the pawn on e5 and the pawn on e3 since the So in short, black will be able to even out So that was all about the Lasker Trap. Now quickly, let me just show you the solution I had asked you to find the best move for Well, the best move is king to e7. This was tough so only a few of you got it Correct answers with perfect explanations I will be posting your names on my Facebook Do check it out and like our page for more So Coming back to the game now. After this, black will have to move his pawn Now you will play king d6. Again black will have to move his pawn. Now this is the right time to move your pawn. Black will obviously have to play bishop b5 Now you will play king c5. This move does two things. You are targetting Black's bishop. Plus, you are also threatening to stop Black's If black decides to save his pawn, then you Both sides can then make queens and this would If black saves his bishop and plays it to hunt down the pawn. Again, it will be a draw. So that's how white should play. So Now its time for today's chess puzzle. As you can see in this game, White's king But he is well protected by all his pieces. The game looks even but Black has a beautiful and checkmate the white king in the next 3 It is Black's turn. Can you find the best move for Black? Comment with your answers. I want to see how many of you get it right. I will be sharing the Solution on my Facebook So that's it guys, hope you enjoyed this chess Don't forget to like this video if you find Click the round Subscribe icon to watch more If you have any questions or video suggestions, For some interesting chess tips, tricks and Links are in the description box below. Thanks for watching and I shall see you in