Welcome to The Daily Show. I'm your host, Jon Stewart, Why would you even I had a gentleman he said, oh, I'm so You know, television is dying. I said, I am aware. And, in fact, I'm You're welcome. I did have such a good time And then everybody at Comedy are you going to do this week? And I was like, I did already-- What am I, a cyborg? Come on. But I don't mind the response to the was universally glowing. REPORTER: Jon Stewart is from Democrats over his Olbermann tweeted, &quot;Well, there's nothing else to say Stewart bashing Biden, except-- please make it Chris D. Jackson but I won't be OK. Maybe not universal. But that was on Twitter. Everything on Twitter I've seen Twitter tell themselves, labradoodles. I just think it's better an apparent issue to people. I mean, we're just-- we're just talking here. REPORTER: And Mary &quot;Not only is Stewart's rhetoric not funny, it's for democracy.&quot; It was one [bleep] show. It was just one [bleep] show. It was 20 minutes. I did 20 minutes of But I guess as the democracy dies in discussion. But, look, (SOUTHERN ACCENT) I'm sorry. (SPEAKING NORMALLY) my intention to say out and then brain. I can do better. I can haz learning. I can haz it. But I don't even know Where do I go to of unquestioning propaganda? I would need mentorship. We're in Moscow tonight. We're here to of Russia, Vladimir Putin. Saints be praised. For professor Tucker Kennebunkport Backgammon Professor, tell me, what world-class fealty to power? Here's what we're doing it, We're in journalism. Lie about what your job is. In journalism, our Lie about what your duty is. Americans have a right about a war they're Freedom of speech We were born with the right Oh, shit. Kudos, sensei. That was deep. I have much to learn. Disguise your deception to power as noble and Yes, master. Just out of curiosity, as a there interviewing Putin and his utter bullshit, want to really be that obvious, Oh, I see. OK, so it's not really as you try to convey a mixture arousal, and I'm going For instance, like you're off to a Sears catalog. Been there, haven't you? A guy up there is like, well, Now, obviously, is going to work when in what Putin says. But what if Putin starts was Poland's fault because they I mean, what do you do That's got to be hard. Of course. [laughter] Of course, you know, that's says what the what the &quot;of course.&quot; It's so hard to-- how do you-- all right. How do you do that? By the way, Poland why would a country whose navy doors want to instigate a war? Quick history lesson. Years ago, for reasons a stereotype emerged inept in various ways, submarine manufacturing and as the changing I don't know actually how it takes to change but it's certainly less at that time would tell you. Now, we know that Polish and certainly did not deserve who, of course, accomplished in backwards so the Poles Well, (ACCENTED you a little bit of dumb. (SPEAKING NORMALLY) Well, this into the delicate dance of Tell me, Tucker, include field trips? How does Russia have a subway to get to work and home than anything in our country? There's no graffiti. There's no filth. There's no foul smells. That's a [bleep] nice subway. That's a very-- although, to system, it was constructed by the great engineer But point taken, it's But the subway, So we thought it would a look at a 2024 Russian grocery store. Ooh, go on. All right, here we go. So I guess you put and you get it back when So it's free, but to return it and to your homeless encampment. [oh] I know I've said this Now, I do realize-- really, truly, a dick. I didn't realize is caused entirely by easy Oh, I had all my but I didn't know you It's so much easier. This is the grocery This is designed-- I'm where the wheels don't move. They lock on the Look, Ma, no hands. Oh, oh, OK, OK, Forrest. An escalator for the open automatically. Oh, mother Russia. Russia is famous for its I can assess pretty well. Look at that. It's fresh too. Look at that. Oh. Come on. Mm. [laughter] This [bleep] guy I hate to think what if he had found a bagel. [laughter] But, hey, if being a means you have to bang sourdough, nostrovia. But our time is limited. Could you drive home the on this trip in the most We didn't pay any We were just where we would actually And we all came in around It was $104 US here. And coming to a Russian grocery and seeing what things it will radicalize you That's how I feel Radicalized. And it will radicalize understand basic economics. See, $104 for groceries unless you realize Russians But that's the kind what did you call a journalist would But here's the reality. You [bleep] know all this. Because you aren't as dumb us believe. Perhaps if your you would have seen fee to your cheap groceries Ask Alexey Navalny or REPORTER: In Vladimir political repression [scream] And hundreds have to honor Navalny so publicly. Right, because the difference chaotic subways and your subways is the literal But the goal that Carlson is that there is between our systems. In fact, theirs might The question is why, why Here's why. It's because the old was communism that what drove the Russia was the enemy then. But now they think the And in that fight, Putin He's their friend. Unfortunately, he is also a So now they have to more comfortable with that. I mean, liberty is seen Russia's shopping carts? And Tucker would have gotten for those meddling assassins. REPORTER: In a statement Carlson said, quote, what happened to Navalny. The whole thing is No decent person Correct, no For more on-- oh, For more on Tucker Carlson's we turn to our Michael, how-- what an unbelievably display of sycophancy Yeah, well, I'm not so I'm going to assume you It made me think that gotten a bad rap, traveled here, to North Korea. And as you can It looks like you're Well, I am, but this is looks like, I'm told. It's a paradise of chocolate I mean, Jon, check this out. This bucket of gummy it costs a nickel. Do you have any would cost me in the I don't know, Yeah, yeah, can afford that American pedophiles, OK? And just look at the Check out this You put, OK, you put a quarter. And look what comes [sniff] Oh, death to America. Jon? You need to Well, I'd like to, I renounced my for these gummy worms. Now, look, they made And on the inside, And until America comes up say goodbye in our language? Michael Kosta, everybody. Michael.