Vsauce! Kevin here. This ant needs to get to the end of this 20cm It's really more of an elastic latex string If he moves 5cm per second, he'll get there Okay. Uhh. No. No paradox there. But what if, as the ant walks 5cm per second, Will he ever get to the end of the rope and Ant-bitions? It doesn't seem like it. It actually seems completely impossible. How could he ever reach the end of the rope to travel by more than his progress? Oh, also this ant's name is... Billy. Speaking of ants, I started reading about live for 28 or 30 years. Which means there are ants alive today that came out. My voice cracked. Okay, back to stretching. At 0 seconds, Billy starts walking. And at 1 second, he's 5cm toward his goal. That's when we stretch the rope another And then Billy moves. Billy moves Uhh... I can't stretch the rope and move Billy at or something Ahhhh! Woah! Hey! No! Come back, mystery arm. I need your help. Look, just hold this end of the rope. Like that. And then. Yeah! This is frightening but helpful! Now after this stretch, the rope is 30cm long. And look! Billy's no longer at 5cm because the key and he stretches with the rope. So to make sure he moves exactly 5cm every There we go. Billy moves another 5cm. And now we stretch to 40cm... Billy moves another 5. 50cm. Another 5 for Billy. 60cm. 5 more for Billy. 70cm. And you can see that despite stretching the second, Billy is making progress toward the So a 5cm speed and 10cm stretch really isn't But. What if the rope is 1km long and Billy moves And we stretch it 1km every second? Then can Billy ever reach the end of the rope? Obviously not! Or definitely yes? And there's our paradox. Ant On A Rubber Rope is a veridical paradox, video. It's the type of paradox that packs a surprise, end of the rope if we stretch it that much as we ponder the proof. Actually, if I stretch it 1 kilometer per he will still reach the end. As long as old Billy here lives forever. Okay. Let's ponder that proof. It's important to think about this as the instead of the raw distance. I'll show you. Let's put Billy at the halfway mark of the Like that. And I'm just gonna mark where he's standing Okay. So that mark is our Billy. And this time Billy doesn't move at all. He just stands there being Billy. Every time we stretch the rope, distance is he's still at the halfway point because Which means that in spite of the stretching, he's making progress toward reaching the By continuing his journey forward, he can he will. Because he's always shrinking the fraction If you still don't believe then this we First I want to briefly mention the harmonic It's a divergent series, meaning it's don't have a finite limit. It was first proven over 600 years ago and since that I'll link you to down in the description But the important thing you need to know is where the sum of these fractions eventually Okay let's talk about Billy and his stretching Let's say the rope is initially c units other end of the rope every second but the single second. During the first second, the ant will have stretched to c plus v units long. Cool? Cool. In the second second, the ant will again move v units longer, making its new length its Which we can just write as c+2v. In the third second, the ant will have moved be c+v+v+v units long or c+3v. During any second, the fraction of the rope two lengths in that second's row. After the first second, the ant covers a units During the second second, the ant covers a of length. And so on. If you add these two fractions, you get the and second second. The number of fractions we add corresponds sum tells us the total fraction of the rope One way to think about adding fractions to Okay? Take one big bite of pizza and then a smaller and their sum equals the total amount of pizza So if we represent seconds as k, during the c+kv units the rope is long. Okay cool story, Kevin. But the question is: if we wait long enough, of the rope's length the ant covers during 1? One whole of the rope's length? YES. And we can prove that by using a COMPARISON Let's compare this series with one whose We can do that by creatively tweaking the the ant covers during any given second k. If we multiply not only v but ALSO c by 2, 3, 4, etc., this new formula will give . Well, it'll give us the same result when Because if k equals 1 then this is just c will be the same so that will be equal. Or it'll give us a number that is smaller. And this new formula -- a/(kc+kv) -- is equal Because 1 times a is just a and we still have Got it? And if we generate a new series using this for k we get a over c plus v time 1 over 1 and so on... Which is the harmonic series! Exciting! So this new series we've created diverges. As long as you keep adding in new values for any number you want -- including 1. That's a big one. Because this is a big deal. And since every single element of this new element in the series that describes the ant's So no matter how tiny the fractions get, no any proportion of the rope, he will eventually has become. H will reach the end. But it will take A LONG, LONG TIME since a step of the way. In our example of an ant traveling 1cm every second, the ant will reach the end after about To put that number in perspective. The known universe is about 13.8 billion years All the known atoms in the observable universe A Googol is still only 10^100. So what does a number with 43,421 zeroes actually This. The real world analog to the ant on a rubber traveling through space. If photons are traveling through a universe ever reach Earth? The ant on a rubber rope teaches us that yes, it would, if the universe were expanding at But the metric expansion of the universe is ant photons traveling through the universe's eyes. So be sure to enjoy the starlight that does And as always -- thanks for watching.