- [Jared] In this video, I want to show you how they launched the space shuttle. We'll look at all the then the details of the launch pad, and then their 8 1/2-minute (intense music) This video was made possible by NordVPN. I'll show you more about Sadly, the space shuttle is retired. It no longer flies. However, I think it's still After all, some of this technology is still being used for space programs. In preparation for this One of them was called &quot;Riding Rockets,&quot; and it was written by three-time He does a good job of capturing what it was like to ride I reached out to Mike, He made a lot of good suggestions for what to include in this video. Though before we get This is the Orbiter Vehicle, the part that looks like an airplane and carries the astronauts I have a video all about the I'll put a link in the video It takes so much fuel to get into space that we need a really big gas tank. That's what the orange It provides the fuel for the three Space Shuttle Main Engines. Even this isn't enough We need two extra rockets on each side. These are called the Solid It takes a lot of work to ready for the launch. There were two launch sites Kennedy Space Center in Florida and Vandenberg Air Force Shuttle launches from the being canceled, and as a result, all 135 shuttle missions were So let's take a closer look at Kennedy Space Center in Florida. It has two launch pads, 39A and 39B. Shuttle missions were launched There's a few buildings way over here, about five kilometers away from the pads. The large one here is the It's as tall as a 38-story building. This is where they would in preparation for a launch. Next to it is the Launch Control Center. Notice how it's positioned with a good view of both launchpads. This building is called the or OPF, and actually there It's where the orbiter was Over here is the Shuttle Landing Facility. This is where a mission But they didn't always land here. Sometimes due to weather the shuttle would land in California at Edwards Air Force Base. When this happened, we need all the way back to Florida, and the shuttle can't and fly like an airplane. It wasn't built for that. So here's what happened. The Orbiter Vehicle was taken or MDD, which would lift up the shuttle and then load it on the called the Shuttle Carrier Aircraft. It was then flown across the United States to get back to Kennedy It was then taken to one of the OPFs. Once inside, the engineers all over it to fix or replace to make sure that it's safe to fly for the next shuttle mission. This process can take This is part of the reason why the space shuttle was so expensive. Meanwhile, work starts We start with the solid rocket boosters, which are assembled piece by piece. On the inside is the solid rocket fuel. Once ignition starts at liftoff, Now it's time to lift the Inside, there are two smaller tanks. One for liquid hydrogen, These tanks will remain empty until just a few hours before the launch. Now at room temperature, hydrogen which take up an enormous amount of space. But if we put them at they will turn into liquids, and we can put a lot more The liquids from each tank down to where it will This side is for the liquid hydrogen. And this side is for the liquid oxygen. Once the orbiter was ready, from the OPF to the VAB. This was referred to as a Rollover. (bright orchestral music) The orbiter was then hooked up to a crane and then carefully lifted up, moved over to the high bay, and then mounted to the The fuel and electrical to the bottom of the orbiter. There is also another attachment Once this is all ready to go, we need to move it to which are more than five kilometers away. This is referred to as the Rollout. (gentle orchestral music) The weight of the entire shuttle stack is supported at the base four on each of the SRBs. It's then secured in place At the moment of liftoff, to free the shuttle. The platform it's on is called Underneath is the Crawler-Transporter, which moves everything at just under 1 1/2 kilometers per hour. It takes many hours to get all the way to one of the two launch pads. (grandiose orchestral music) Then it's up the ramp The platform is put down on supports. And the crawler goes back down the ramp. (gentle orchestral music) The Mobile Launch Platform has large holes for the rocket flames. The three main engine flames And the flames from the two SRBs will go through these two holes. Below the pad is the Flame Trench. During the liftoff, the flames will be deflected to each side. The structure next to the the Fixed Service Structure, and the Rotating Service Structure, which can pivot around to completely enclose the space shuttle. (bright orchestral music) Sometimes the payloads were loaded here in the vertical position, and other times they when the orbiter was on The Fixed Service Structure and then three service arms. Two of them are vent excess hydrogen and oxygen This is the Gaseous Hydrogen Vent Arm with the Ground Umbilical At the top is the Gaseous Oxygen Vent Arm. Because the fuels are so cold, the Beanie Cap is really important to prevent ice buildup at the very top. The third arm is called At the end of it is the White Room. This is how the astronauts in preparation for a launch. Down here are the two Tail Service Masts. They have connections to On the day of the launch, will come in to fill the If there is an emergency on the launchpad and the astronauts need they will come over here to It has several baskets far away from the launch tower. Each basket can hold three people. One more feature of the is the Sound Suppression System. Beginning at just a few water will start pouring out This will limit the sound shockwaves from bouncing back up and damaging parts of the space shuttle as The water is stored in this So let's see how this works There are many things that I can't cover them all in this video, but let me show you some of the main ones. At T-5 hours and 35 fuel begins loading The fuel comes from the on the edges of the launchpad. Remember that the SRBs already have their solid fuel inside of them. At T-3 hours, the astronauts and begin to enter the Orbiter Vehicle. Since the shuttle is all of the seats are in Most missions had seven astronauts, three in the mid deck, and There are no windows on the mid deck, so some of the astronauts won't be able to enjoy the view on the way up. (bright orchestral music) There's a lot of excitement coming up to the moment of liftoff. However, if there are any problems such as mechanical failures or even bad weather, than the launch will be delayed or even canceled until another day. This is called a Launch all the way up until just a At T-7 minutes and 30 seconds, the Orbiter Access Arm If there is an emergency, they can quickly bring it back into place. A T-3 minutes and 45 seconds, the main engine gimbal test to make sure that it's working correctly. T-2 minutes and 55 seconds, and the Gaseous Oxygen At T-10 seconds, activate and no, this does not That happens up here inside What these sparks do is This hydrogen can cause at launch if it isn't taken care of. At T-6.6 seconds, the All three of them must work correctly, or they will shut down At the moment of liftoff, many The Gaseous Hydrogen Vent Arm is retracted from the external tank. The two connections at the The eight Hold-Down Bolts will detonate, which frees the shuttle, and then both SRBs ignite. (grandiose orchestral music) For their journey into space, the shuttle is mostly Of course, the astronauts if they need to. Shortly after clearing the tower, they do what's called the Roll Program to get the shuttle so that it's heads down for most of the ascent into space. This reduces the aerodynamic It will also allow the of the Earth as they ascended to space. Now, as we keep gaining the air in the atmosphere on the front of the spacecraft. Then as we get higher, the They use the term Max-Q when the aerodynamic pressure During Max-Q, the main so we don't accelerate too quickly. But then shortly after, we can A little more than two the two SRBs have done their job. They are detached, and on the bottom and on the to ensure that they are The SRBs fall back down to the Earth where they will parachute in for a soft landing in the ocean. They will be recovered by boat, and then refurbished for Now the three main As we get higher, more and more fuel will be used up from the external tank. This means that the shuttle We have to keep throttling or we'll accelerate too quickly. The maximum amount of acceleration to feel is 3 Gs, or three pushing them into their seats. At about eight minutes and 30 seconds, we have Main Engine Cutoff, or MECO. This must happen before the tanks run dry so that the engines aren't damaged. The external tank is now detached. We're not an orbit yet, so to Earth and burn up in the atmosphere. (gentle music) The two doors on the bottom now that the external tank is gone. If they didn't close, we would at the end of a mission, At this point, the orbiter vehicle is on the same path as the external tank. We're not quite going fast enough to stay in orbit around the Earth. Remember that the for the three Space Shuttle Main Engines, so we can't really use these anymore. Instead, we'll use the These each carry their own (gentle music) This gives us that last push Now it's traveling at many times faster than Now it's time to do some science, release a satellite, or dock to the It takes a lot of time I think I've spent most of my summer learning about the space shuttle. I do this for a living, for the sponsor for this This is an app that encrypts which means increased privacy and security when you are online. This means your browsing from any unwanted prying eyes. But there's a lot more It can also protect you on a link to a malicious website. So that's really handy. The app is super easy to use. Just open it up and click on the Quick Connect Super fast servers so a difference when you're online. And if you need to, you can even connect to a server in a different country. Now, why would you wanna do this? Sometimes shows aren't available in the country that you're in. NordVPN can easily solve this problem. The app is available on whatever device you happen to be using, up to six devices simultaneously. Right now you can get only 3.71 per month, you can get an additional month for free. That's NordVPN.com/JaredOwen. (gentle music)