The mathematics we learn in school doesn't We only get a glimpse at one corner of it, wonderfully diverse subject. My aim with this video is to show you all We'll start back at the very beginning. The origin of mathematics lies in counting. In fact counting is not just a human trait, e vidence for human counting goes back to bones. There were several innovations over the years the ancient Greeks made strides in many areas numbers were invented in China. And zero as a number was first used in India. Then in the Golden Age of Islam Persian mathematicians algebra was written. Then mathematics boomed in the renaissance Now there is a lot more to the history of I'm gonna jump to the modern age and mathematics Modern mathematics can be broadly be broken of mathematics for its own sake, and applied solve some real world problem. But there is a lot of crossover. In fact, many times in history someone's motivated purely by curiosity and kind of And then they have created a whole bunch of but doesn't really do anything useful. But then, say a hundred hears later, someone edge of physics or computer science and they'll is exactly what they need to solve their real Which is amazing, I think! And this kind of thing has happened so many It is interesting how often something so abstract But I should also mention, pure mathematics to do because it can be fascinating and on that almost becomes like art. Okay enough of this highfalutin, lets get Pure maths is made of several sections. The study of numbers starts with the natural arithmetic operations. And then it looks at other kinds of numbers rational numbers like fractions, real numbers to infinite decimal points, and then complex Some numbers have interesting properties like There are also properties of these number an infinite amount of both integers and real integers. So some infinities are bigger than others. The study of structures is where you start in the form of variables. Algebra contains the rules of how you then Here you will also find vectors and matrices rules of how they relate to each other are Number theory studies the features of everything of prime numbers. Combinatorics looks at the properties of certain that are made of discreet chunks that you Group theory looks at objects that are related A familiar example is a Rubik's cube which And order theory investigates how to arrange something is a larger quantity than something The natural numbers are an example of an ordered way relationship can be ordered. Another part of pure mathematics looks at The origin is in geometry which includes Pythagoras, all familiar with form school. Also there are fun things like fractal geometry scale invariant, which means you can zoom of the same. Topology looks at different properties of deform them but not tear or glue them. For example a Mobius strip has only one surface And coffee cups and donuts are the same thing Measure theory is a way to assign values to spaces. And finally, differential geometry looks the example triangles have got different angles next section, which is changes. The study of changes contains calculus which looks at area spanned out by functions or And vector calculus looks at the same things Here we also find a bunch of other areas like evolve in time from one state to another, like ecosystems. And chaos theory which studies dynamical systems Finally complex analysis looks at the properties This brings us to applied mathematics. At this point it is worth mentioning that than I have drawn. In reality this map should look like more subjects but you can only do so much on a out as best I can. Okay we'll start with physics, which uses to some degree. Mathematical and theoretical physics has a Mathematics is also used in the other natural which look at loads of stuff from modelling Mathematics is also used extensively in engineering, Egyptian and Babylonian times. Very complex electrical systems like aeroplanes systems called control theory. Numerical analysis is a mathematical tool becomes too complex to solve completely. So instead you use lots of simple approximations approximate answers. For example if you put a circle inside a square, of darts in the circle and square portions, But in the real world numerical analysis is Game theory looks at what the best choices and it's used in economics when the players areas like psychology, and biology. Probability is the study of random events is the study of large collections of random of data. This is obviously related to mathematical and get an edge to win all those fat stacks. Related to this is optimisation, where you a set of many different options or constraints, to find the highest or lowest point of a function. Optimisation problems are second nature to to get the best value for money, or trying Another area that is very deeply related to the rules of computer science were actually of something that was worked out way before Machine learning: the creation of intelligent like linear algebra, optimisation, dynamical And finally the theory of cryptography is of pure maths like combinatorics and number So that covers the main sections of pure and looking at the foundations of mathematics. This area tries to work out at the properties of all the rules of mathematics is. Is there a complete set of fundamental rules, from? And can we prove that it is all consistent Mathematical logic, set theory and category in mathematical logic are Godel's incompleteness Mathematics does not have a complete and consistent made up by us humans. Which is weird seeing as mathematics explains Why would a thing made up by humans be able That is a deep mystery right there. Also we have the theory of computation which how efficiently they can solve problems and what is and isn't computable and how much most interesting problems, is an insane amount. Ending Now the thing I have loved most about learning that seemed so confusing finally clicks in an epiphany moment, kind of like seeing through In fact some of my most satisfying intellectual of mathematics and then feeling like I had Universe in all of its symmetrical wonder. It's great, I love it. Ending request I got, which I was really happy about so much interest in it. So I hope you enjoyed it. Obviously there is only so much I can get done the subject justice and you found it So there will be more videos coming from me it was my pleasure se you next time.