The IIIrd century AD was a traumatic time deal with mass barbarian invasions and of the most critical problems for the had been growing unchecked for almost the economy was at the point that it was normal to In a desperate response to this, emperor one of the largest pieces of Roman economic everyone to see. It is now known as the Edict on different goods and services, as well as the This was in hopes that if there were it would put an end to the constantly This attempted remedy might seem simplistic and century, but even with all our modern knowledge controlling and predicting Inflation. to strictly enforce, especially throughout the However, what this surviving list represents goods at that time, as well as their relative So today, we decided to have some the lives of 3 real individuals who and who represented 3 different social diet, and the commodities that they could quality of life. Be sure to like and The first man on our list is Theodorus, a 30 on the island of Santorini. According to the Roman a 20 year old woman with whom he has a 2 year Theodorus works as a tenant farmer, which means his produce goes to. In exchange, his landowner According to the Roman Census, Theodorus 2 hectares of vineyards and 18 olive trees. would be 25 denarii per day, plus the daily food 6 days a week, let's see if Theodorus can sustain For the quantities of common goods required for respectability basket" of historian Robert Allen. daughter would together eat like another adult by 52 weeks, and then multiplied by 2, to get family. The most dominant food in the common Roman of protein and their biggest expense. Theodorus' For this, they would need about 4.4 kilograms to a weekly expense of 35.5 denarii. And this If not, they would have to pay the local baker denarii. If needed, they could cut the expenses which would cut this expense by half... Olive oil Each week they would need about 200 ml. The depending on the press of the oil. If Theodorus to 4.8 denarii a week... But a good roman oil. Theodorus would need to complement the diet Beans and peas are a nutritious supplement, of most expensive ones, being broad beans, lentils, a kilogram, and the family could have cycled Out of the Vegetables and fruits, some great onions, leeks, apples and peaches, which are 20 denarii, Theodorus could get a healthy For drinking, the family would purchase a 16 and 8 denarii respectively. Regarding animal at 1 denarii a piece (-5), and cheese, at luxurious items, as even the cheapest pieces cost his family would only reserve such expenses for With the food covered, Theodorus still has to shoes, heating, rent and saving money for taxes. For heating, 136kg of firewood costs 30 denarii, season. It would be wise for Theodorus to just in case the winter turns out colder Clothes and shoes would have been the most so he would always take very good care of sole of his left sandal beyond repair, and needs 50 denarii a pair, but Theodorus would only This was very common with sandals, as they tunic would be out of reach for Theodorus' Instead, they would buy cheap 3rd quality coarse and weave their own clothes at home. But and they would stick to repairing their Most of the spare money the family would have house and other minor needs. In this case, they The remaining 15 denarii would be a good Experts and scholars have concluded, as we have capable of providing his family with an average of even cover some secondary needs of the household. would live better than most serfs and medieval to XVIIIth century workers in Europe or Asia. fit and capable, he could join the army, like standard of living and social class. This was very for the military recruiters, who, in the words countryside than the city, because they were more Our next character is Aurelius Flavinus, a 36 stationed near modern day Venice. He was born in legion at the age of 16. For the next 14 years, he a rank he has held ever since. Now, his detachment The official soldier salary in the a meager quantity of 69 denarii a week. benefits. Aurelius receives a food pension of 5.000 denarii each year from the Emperors. expedition, he and his comrades are quartered need to pay for a roof over their heads. The one 3rd of the house as a private residence, as The only problem with his official salary is which means not all of this amount will Instead, he could receive it as extra rations, assume that only half this amount will be paid either keep or trade in to cover his expenses for That leaves Aurelius with a spend on things other than basic food and This week is a special date for the unit, it is Mauritanians, and the men are all eager for some soldiers will go for a drink at the local taverns. he is now an Optio and has learnt to enjoy the of his officers. Sharing the expense with 5 of for 60 denarii, 1 kg of beef for 24 denarii, This menu will be supplemented by 20 oysters 48 denarii, and 4 liters of wheat beer for from their own daily rations. Finally, they soldiers chose to spoil themselves with 1 which costs nothing less than 90 denarii, an But spending everything on just as there must be enough money saved for unacceptable condition, its color has almost faded The centurion has already noticed and warned him it again. Getting a new cloak is out of the hooded cloaks cost 4.000 denarii. Therefore, he him 6 denarii for dying the cloak and another Aurelius has also been saving up a long celebrations and parades. He is now an Optio, must look more presentable than the common full of cloth merchants and he is able to find almost 15 times his weekly income. A plain denarii cheaper. The reason for such a price expensive and tedious dye to produce, and was A brighter pigment of purple indicated quality look. So the price of purple also For Aurelius, even light purple bands will everyone watching him at parades. Aurelius was as all his basic expenses of food and drink and he only needed to save up and an achievable thing for one He also needs a new pair of military boots, as footwear and he hasn't received any new ones boots are worth 100 denarii, almost all his weekly to buy them, if he wants to stick to his weekly old one broke during the celebrations. At the Alexandria worth 24 denarii and also purchases Lastly, attention must be paid to his personal than the public baths. A good bath session the superintendent, 2 for the guard tasked with maintenance. As you can see, joining the army Thrifty soldiers like Aurelius could amass small clothing, quality wine, and large parties, and medical treatment by the other half of their by a large cash bonus or a land grant, plus fiscal We have found that upon Aurelius' death at the age worth 10,000 denarii, almost a full year's of the comfortable economic position some soldiers despite his comfortable position, higher end exotic foods were all out of Aurelius' reach. For Our final man is Tatianus, a local aristocrat in Asia Minor. According to the Roman records, first quality arable land totalling at least 285 villages and countryside. In total, he has 7 families to work his lands on a daily basis. estimate Tatianus' expenses. Firstly, he must which amounts to a yearly sum of 206.700 denarii, to pay for the upkeep of his slaves and salaries This totals to a weekly expense of 9525 denarii. on him periodically, as contributions to the sum of money he would have to pay. But Tatianus and it is safe to assume that his weekly larger, at about 47 000 denarii. Now, let Being a member of the local aristocracy perform a wide set of compulsory obligations Some of these obligations included tax collection, the purchase and distribution of free oil transportation, quarters and supplies to visiting And worst of all, in the case of any shortcomings property and wealth as compensation. And so, to fulfill his civilian obligations. It will Next, he must see to maintaining his land. and managing his states and main villa would make event took place in one of his minor farms. Dizus, of feve. The situation presents a huge dilemma to not jeopardize this week's harvest. On the one costs 30.000 denarii, plus his maintenance, a very hiring a new tenant farmer to replace the slave of having to sign a contract detailing plus his salary and the increase in taxation also the possibility of him being conscripted Tatianus will go for the second option, When it comes to slaves at this time in with some educated an skilled individuals costing loss if something was to happen to them. As such, not afford to have them mistreated or abused. of the family, with some accounts of owners But the death of a slave and finding his magnitude of work the harvesting season will the local free peasants, and the workforce needs spend some coin for the seasonal laborers and pay denarii a day. In total, paying them for 6 days But the expenses don't stop there, extra wagons, to transport the produce to wherever it's which are enough for the job, and we won't have 36,000 denarii. He could use extra wagons though, and new axles for 200 denarii to repair his new one. The cheapest four wheeled wagon costs freight wagon for 3,500 denarii. Now he can But to poor Tatianus' dismay, Census officers at the capital have found the and a member of the provincial administration is assistants, and a military escort to conduct an officials are looking for tax evaders among the Regardless, it is the solemn responsibility of the and to provide lodgings, food, and any commodities council has decided that each of the hundred out of their own pockets as a tax to provide as they need to stay in the city. For Tatianus, It may seem as a small quantity, but it adds to month as part of his civilian obligations. The councils of every spare denarii, be it in taxes, Fortunately for Tatianus', he has nothing Now, he can finally focus on his own household he must plan a great feast for all their guests. wife. Clothing is a great luxurious option, with purple bands costing 135,000 denarii.. Probably one this week, it will be more meaningful to gift over the shoulder. For 12,000 denarii he will in the best Milesian purple. Then, he will take a garment for 40 denarii. For the finishing touch, denarii, will stitch beautiful patterns into the product will surely be stunning, which Tatianus' For the feast itself, there will have to be a big largely an expression of wealth and status, and Therefore, his food must have as much variety as out his slaves to buy 2 kg of pork, 2 fattened meat, 3kg of lamb, 4kg of gazelle meat, 2kg of pig 3 fattened geese, 3 hare, 20 dormice, 3kg of first 100 sea urchins, and to top it off as the main Now that the meat menu is out of the way, like 3 kilograms of spiced salt, 2 liters of virgin olive oil, 3 liters of first quality fish 50kg of various fresh fruits and 40 liters of best quality wine from Picenum to hire about 4 cooks and 5 water carriers for For entertaining the guests and his 2 children, Large predators are the most and a male lion costing 150,000. But for the for 5,000 denarii will do the trick. It is safe Another expense on Tatianus' list this week his younger daughter, he will hire a teacher and for his older son, a teacher of rhetoric Now Tatianus can enjoy a more personal expense. villa, and add something that will impress all He has managed to secure marble shipments from a huge sum to the imperial administration, because property of the Emperor. With the marble, he hopes one of red porphyry from Egypt, one of of white marble from Phrygia. They will cost and will be about 3 meters high and 30 cm thick. to the nearest port at Ephesus will cost 119 and Nicomedia will cost 120 and 90 denarii transportation for the 64km long trip to for the two days work of the drivers of wagons. the marble for 10 days and install them in place project has cost Tatianus 10,691 denarii, almost will prove a beautiful addition to his villa, We hope this video gave you a good insight into ancient Rome. For more videos, be sure generous Patreon supporters that make these videos