This video is sponsored by &quot;War Thunder&quot;. This is the communist Concorde. It's arguably the biggest waste of money built purely for propaganda purposes. Dubbed Concordski in the west, the soviet Tupolev Tu 144 was never in the way that Concorde was. It was just impossible. This airplane was built to be the first supersonic And the Soviets did win the But if you put that aside, the first Tu 144 was so bad that was essentially a completely Now don't get me wrong. Even though this aircraft it looks like its from the future... It resembles a giant bird during landings, with a nose that's designed to ability to see the ground. It was also the last passenger jet the only passenger jet to ever But why the Soviets were never really supersonic jet in the 1960s, in the 1980s or even today, why the Tu 144 was not a and how canards precipitated the crash is not what you think. Just like many technological politics was at the heart In the 1960s, soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev build a supersonic commercial aircraft, the Concorde. Meanwhile, the American Boeing and Lockheed the Boeing 2707 and the Lockheed L 2000. The pressure was immense. Thus the Soviets had no time to lose... Just like with putting they had to be the first to put a new Back in the 1960s, the more successful it was deemed. For this reason, the communist party demanded Tu 144 to 2300 to 2700 kilometers per hour, at least 4000 miles, so it can travel from The problem was that at that speed, the aircraft skin would warm which made the goal of unrealistic. But not to the best of Andrei Tupolov, who was tasked with So much money and effort was thrown at Officially, the Tu 144 project began in At the time, Tupolev had experience in building military supersonic bombers. But to build a supersonic passenger Reliability, safety and comfort had to Military aircraft fly supersonic to outrun hostile areas... But supersonic passenger jets would This meant that the aircraft For this reason, since it was tailless. The downside of such design was that speed meant that it was harder As a result, in order for pilots to learn how the Soviets had to modify a MiG 21 that 144 without stabilizers. Being tailless made the soviet which sparked a lot of controversy. Westerners believed that the Soviets and that the only way they could stealing the designs of Concorde. But that's a severely exaggerated claim. Yes, the KGB was spying on because, that's what spies do. But regardless, the Soviets solve multiple especially on the inside of the aircraft. The Soviets had less the interior of the aircraft, compared to the answers that While on the outside, there were still many differences. The Tu 144 was slightly larger and wider, meaning that it could The engines were stacked compared to the engines being split And the later versions of Another major difference Tu 144 had twelve wheels compared to just four That's because Concorde was designed airports like New York to London, while the Tu 144 was envisioned between rustic soviet airports, which were pretty rugged. Soviets put the landing gear especially through a wetted Runway, and that engines were able And in case of landing gear failure, the Soviets practiced The first Tu 144 was even equipped case something went wrong. You can see the open hatches in case of emergence. The Tu 144 was also faster, with a top speed of Mach 2.29 Tupolev also flew higher 000ft compared to 59, The Tu 144 had its first 1968, which was two months prior to Soviet propaganda portrayed the Tu triumph that lasted 38 minutes... But even prior to the first flight, the soviet engineers already The Tu 144 first went 1969, However, the Concordski wasn't the first In fact, it was an American Douglas DC 8. On August 21, during a test flight to evaluate a a DC 8 broke the sound barrier at controlled dive through 41, 000ft and maintained supersonic And just like that, DC 8 made history you can make your own mark in the sponsor of this video. War Thunder is the most comprehensive available now for free on PC and consoles. What's cool about this game is that down to their individual components, like the crew, and weapons. This means that when the x ray view shows you so you can adjust your War Thunder features a comprehensive countless camouflages, historical markings, including community Whether you're new or a returning click the link below and you'll receive that includes multiple premium vehicles, the exclusive vehicle decorator, 100, and seven days of premium account. It's a limited time offer, A big problem with the first Tu all four engines together generated severe vibrations. This made the landings and In addition, the wings did not generate enough tons overweight compared to the The engines were also but more on that later. The combination of all these problems its original goal of reaching Khabarovsk, which was 4000 miles away. The practical range of the first For reference, Concorde had over doubled This is why Tupolev had to The Tu 144 S was essentially a its maiden flight in 1971. It featured much larger and The engine placement was changed in order to reduce vibration. the new smaller landing gear with the engine compartments. The jet was also made bigger and wider, While the redesigned Tu 144 S was it was 15 tons heavier than the the original inefficient engines. Tu 144 S was only able to travel original goal of 4000 miles. The Soviets added canards to the Tu 144 S, The canards would only retract during lift in the front of the aircraft. Canards gave the Tu 144 S an aerodynamic of low speed lift and stability. But there were also some disadvantages. The canards not only increased but also its weight. In fact, the serial production model 33 tons heavier than the Speaking of Canards, they arguably precipitated the the Paris airshow in 1973. You see, the soviet canards were deemed So the French decided to fly a Mirage from above and take pictures Unaware of this, when the mirage suddenly its believed that the pilots took So they violently pitched Concordski down. This overstressed the aircraft While officials never fully it appears that both the French under the rugged in order to avoid International prestige was the Soviets built the Tu 144. At the time, the market for supersonic passenger worth billions of dollars, and the Soviet Union wanted The Soviets claimed that 20 foreign But in reality, even Cuba didn't want mainly because the jet couldn't The passenger flights began in November 1, with Tu 144 S flying a 2000 miles and Almaty in Kazakhstan. The number of passengers was capped and the cruising speed This was the only route Flying to the other 18 soviet airports feasible either due to range limitations or issues with sonic booms. The Soviets portrayed flying on with cognac and caviar being Propaganda claimed that every felt like an astronaut, and they did because of the noise. You see, while traveling at inside the cabin would This was partly due to engine noise and At Mach 2, the airplanes fuselage would warm So without cool air inside the cabin, the passengers would The cabin noise measured which is as loud as a lawnmower. The passengers sitting next to each while passengers two seats apart passing notes to each other. The back of the airplane was even noisier number of passengers was capped at 80. However, what made flying on the Tu not the cabin noise... The tickets were subsidized While Concorde's tickets the Tu 144 tickets cost around 68 rubles, In reality, the ticket sales didn't even It was all for a show. But that show didn't last very long. On June 1, only seven months after the Aeroflot withdrew the for two reasons. First was due to an accident that a test flight of a new Tu 144 D. It was a mid flight fire that forced killing two of the crew. The second reason was that In total, during which there were 226 malfunctions to cancel or delay the flight. During seven months of service, 55 passenger flights took place Concordski was never even capable which was carrying over 3 The only reason the Soviets flew was to show that they could, purely for political reasons. Here is the thing the Tu 144 project was deemed to be 10 to industry was capable of at the time, and thats mostly because of engines. Concorde was the first aircraft controlled by a computer. In order to make sure that as efficiently as possible, the computer would constantly This is how Concorde managed to compared to the Tu 144, A big reason why the Tu 144 consumed engines had to use afterburners Without the use of afterburners, the aircraft would immediately At the time, especially compared to Concorde's For instance, the soviet engines This is why the Tu 144 had to Of course, the Soviets realized that they and they were working on it. The problem was that the RD 3651 A, Besides being fuel hungry, the original NK 144 engines The continuous use of afterburners severely shortened the engines' lifespan. The original engines had a life meaning that after the it needed four brand new engines. But those engines didnt even and the first three Tu 144 went During test flights, the engines just kept breaking apart. The Soviets continued to upgrade the NK first to 100 hours and then Finally, in 1978, the RD 3651 A, This engine didn't require the use of making it much more fuel efficient. It consumed 26 tons of fuel per hour, Along with the new engines, the Soviets introduced a new the Tu 144 D, meaning finished. Finally, 14 years after the first the Tu 144 D, was able to reach Khabarovsk, in 3 hours and 23 minutes. But the new RD 3651 A engine In 1980, 000ft, forcing the aircraft to The new engine's service The Soviets did eventually increase but that still paled compared to with a lifespan of 25, hours. The short service life was The Tu 144 S airframe had a and the Tu 144 D airframe had a In comparison, Concorde was designed 000 hours Out of 16 Concordski aircraft built 497 hours of flight time, with the average hours accumulated 269 hours per airplane. The fleet of Concordes flew about 12, 100 hours each on average Concordski was just a gimmick, nothing more... The Soviets just wanted the bragging first supersonic commercial jet, and after 15 years of trying to make the aircraft work, they gave up and cancelled After the cancellation of the program, the Tu 144 S flew limited resupply to time and sometimes acted Concordski was used to study as well as a simulator for the Then, Russia partnered with NASA to conduct the help of a modified Tu 144 LL. This modified aircraft used which was built in 1981 and had only Since no working engines were left Four new NK 32 engines from repurposed for the aircraft. NASA had installed various sensors and in order to compare the real against their computer models. A total of 26 flights were conducted, with the last flight As part of the program, two american test pilots were one of whom was Rob Rivers. According to him, the Tu 144 and the Concorde are The Concorde is more sophisticated, but there are also many examples of Rob Rivers is the only person and the Tu 144 Concordski. Play war Thunder for free on PC New and returning players that also receive a massive bonus pack, including multiple premium It's a limited time offer,