In early October of 2019, a young CEO by the name of Erin Valenti was on a business trip to California The 33-year-old was to participate in a 3-day workshop and tech conference with other businessmen and women Her company, Tinker Ventures, had previously that dealt with machine learning and neuroscience. After frantically calling her parents exclaiming, we're in the Matrix", Valenti misses her leaving behind a very strange mystery. What happened to Erin Valenti? Erin Valenti grew up in Fairpoint, New York, and full of crazy ideas. She was a graduate in business administration in Chinese language, culture, and business practices. Erin was also an advocate against human trafficking, a non-profit organization that fights against Her husband, Harrison Weinstein, is a psychologist of mental illness, hospitalization, substance The two eventually moved to Salt Lake City, a web-development company that The business notably recruited a remote staff according to close friends of Erin. In 2019, Erin planned a business trip to Orange Silicon Valley to meet with friends. Her last post on Facebook was on September &quot;Heading to San Francisco and Los Angeles soon... whose around? DM me!!&quot; On the week of October 1st, 2019, Erin flew for a professional-development workshop. Her mother, Agnes Valenti, recalled that Erin their phone call; that she couldn't wait A few days later, she flew to Silicon Valley to Finally, on October 7th, Erin made a series of strange phone calls to her husband, Harrison, and her mother They described the way she spoke as being, Her words were reportedly "fast and erratic", and that what she was saying wasn't making much sense Notably, Erin told her mother: "It's all Erin also stated that she was going to miss her flight and that the vehicle she was driving was low on gas. Her husband and mother took turns talking After that, their calls went straight to voicemail. They would not hear from her ever again. Later that night, Erin missed her flight from She was reportedly last seen at Almaden Expressway wearing a white T-shirt and ripped up blue jeans. Her case is sent to the San Jose police department, the backseat of her rental vehicle in an Almaden There were no signs of physical assault and Shortly after their phone call, Valenti's The family gave details about her rental vehicle, The police actually managed to speak to her but also found her communications to be bizarre. Weinstein called Verizon Wireless and found had signal in, was on Menlo Drive north of Her phone also pinged a few times in the streets Officers investigated both areas, as well as nearby hospitals for several hours but found nothing. Interestingly, her rental vehicle did not The family also attempted to locate her phone Despite the fact that Erin was clearly in an official missing persons case until Thursday, By the point, the family hadn't heard from This is due to the police believing that her because she was an adult, and could have simply Sounds crazy, but people have voluntarily because of an abusive partner, home life, or such. As noted by spokeswoman Sgt. Melody Gray, "If you're over 18, you have However, given that Erin was the CEO of a worked on contract (not subscriptions), and for Entrepreneurial Excellence a mere two would choose to leave. Still, when the police eventually did file "voluntarily missing" and didn't actively Disappointed with the police department's Facebook page called, "Help Find Erin Valenti". The page garnered the attention of locals Some families drove around while others incorporated Despite all their efforts, Erin remained missing. That is until a few days later, when one of gray SUV parked at a residential street in around half a mile away from her last known location. After looking inside, her body was found in The coroner's office hadn't yet officially was able to confirm that it was her. An investigation by the San Jose police department tests determined that there were no drugs At the time, officials were not able to determine she was in her car before being found. We now know that her vehicle was parked on that street for five days, following an extensive investigation. This means that shortly after Erin's phone her flight home, parked at a nearby neighborhood, died somehow, and remained completely unnoticed Residents of the quiet neighborhood struggled "It's really strange, bizarre, foggy to Because this kind of stuff just doesn't "What else seems weird is that And we're a pretty tight neighborhood. Erin's father, Joseph Valenti, firmly believes mishandled her daughter's case and wished It's difficult to know exactly what happened but most sources say that the police With such a strange circumstance and so many open for conspiracy theories. Some online sleuths have accused her three-day workshop of being an L. G. A. T., or Large Group Awareness Training The workshop Erin participated in was called intended to help entrepreneurs with personal Some have compared this to an LGAT, which psychological and somewhat cult-like practices. Both cost a large amount of money. Both take place over several days with a group And both promise to help attendees achieve Many have expressed fear that the techniques little scientific evidence to back that up. Others have attempted to tie this to the Overstock In August of 2019, then CEO of Overstock, where he claimed to be involved in "political And Erin did use to work at Overstock and If there is a connection there, it's honestly to be a whole other conspiracy on its own. Finally, an eco-terrorist group known as the or simply ITS, claims to be responsible for the death of Erin, as well as another Tech CEO, Tushar Atre. In Tushar's case, he was kidnapped from and was found dead the next day. However, this claim has not been verified and there's no evidence to suggest their involvement. One of the oddest aspects of this case is, She exclaimed to her mother, "It's all in the Matrix." Even though it's quite a bizarre thing for death, it might actually be explainable, but I think it's safe to say that most people but just in case you don't; the matrix is and everything that it's made up of, is This is most popularly depicted in the 1999 Neo learns that humanity has been enslaved intelligence, and the "life" that he was to his brain. Neo: This... this isn't real? Morpheus: What is real? How do you define real? If you're talking about what you can feel, what you can smell, taste and see, then real is simply electrical signals Now I don't think the people who believe robots and machines will one day overthrow humanity. But instead, they believe that at some point, humanity became so advanced that human consciousness, something that we currently don't completely to the point of being replicable. And so, like humans usually do, we went for Given how advanced our technology has evolved integrated AI technology has been in our everyday of our world in the next couple hundred years And if that's the case, who's to say that Elon: If you assume any rate of improvement at all, then the games will become indistinguishable from reality. It would seem to follow that the odds that we're in &quot;base reality&quot; is one in billions. Of course, this is all just a theory based fun philosophical conversation. But such technology that can read our movements is already being developed. And as previously stated, Erin's company, brain-machine interface technology, particularly Reardon of Microsoft fame. The company sought to create a future... This, combined with Erin's last words to led some to believe that she may have stumbled being a simulation. Unfortunately, this was all we had to work new details about Erin's death would be That is until February of 2020. In February 2020, a cause of death was finally According to the autopsy report, her death an "acute manic episode", though it didn't Although Erin's husband claimed she had Erin did have a thyroid condition that was According to Business Insider, it's possible condition that she thought was already taken were "not satisfactory for an analysis". Furthermore, an investigation into some of symptoms of a "manic episode" according They eventually concluded her death was due Bipolar Disorder. Bipolar Disorder is defined as an illness high moods and extremely low moods. You can think of these two periods as opposite &quot;Bipolar Disorder." According to Dr. Po Wang, a psychiatrist from Disorder, the condition is frequently undiagnosed depression and irritability, where suicide In Erin's case, she could have experienced her friends in Silicon Valley. This causes her to call her parents and frantically or the matrix. Her company was interested in that Following this conversation, she rushes to parks her vehicle in a San Jose neighborhood, Even so, if Erin had committed suicide, the However, it's not entirely impossible. A 2015 study conducted at the University of and found that 49% of them reported having When compared to a small sample of 93 non-entrepreneurs, they were noticeably more likely to report having some type of mental health condition. The entrepreneurs were then asked to specify 30% reported having Depression, 29% reported abuse, 11% reported having Bipolar Disorder, In comparison, 7% of the U.S. population identified National Institute of Mental Health. All this would seem to suggest a link between And this isn't too surprising. Take Aaron Swartz for example He was an Entrepreneur as the co-founder of Reddit. He wrote about his own struggles with depression he committed suicide. There are dozens of examples and articles have also been affected as well. However, because Erin's body was found report admitted that their findings were "inconclusive". Furthermore, her family does not believe she Following her death, Erin's family started scholarship, with the goal of raising $100,000 for aspiring female entrepreneurs at the University of Utah. She always believed that more women should was created to honor that dream. Whatever happened to Erin Valenti will remain &quot;We may never find an answer."