Did you know that there is a capital city remains practically empty? And that the U.S. wasted $17 billion for a completely useless till this day? Today, we will explore 5 of the most useless Before we continue, make sure to like this Share your thoughts about these megaprojects Number 5: Interstate H-3, Hawaii Let's start with a breathtakingly scenic highway The 26-kilometer long Interstate H-3 passes in the world. It is so stunning that there were genuine traffic hazards. However, the highway is as controversial as It was first proposed in 1960 with defense connect the Pearl Harbor Naval Base on the on the east coast. The announcement of its construction was immediately as well as native Hawaiians who were worried would bring. Environmental laws of the time and a change delayed the plans indefinitely. 26 years later, the environmental hurdles project from environmental laws and cleared in 1989. The highway was finally opened in 1997, almost Interstate H-3 is often considered an engineering is built on and the advanced technologies In addition to the numerous high-tech tunnels, to protect the local environment in the valleys Decades of delays, route changes, and newer it was completed five times over the original The total cost of construction was 1.3 billion per kilometer - the most expensive cost per Despite the enormous budget, this beautiful Critics believe that it's a &quot;road to nowhere&quot; 60s are no longer relevant and the highway Then there's the case of Native Hawaiians, this day. They consider it to be &quot;cursed&quot; as many religiously during its completion. The interstate H-3 highway is certainly an for certain native groups, it remains &quot;Useless&quot;. At least, it isn't completely abandoned like Number 4: Ciudad Real Central Airport, Spain Spain is one of the prime travel destinations when the idea for Ciudad Real Central Airport It was tipped to be the go-to destination as international visitors. The vision for this new airport was to make main airport in Madrid. The new airport had one of the top five longest passengers a year. That's a relatively low number compared to However, expansion plans were already in motion So when it finally became operational in 2009, seemed justified. However, all these plans came to a grinding filed for bankruptcy. The problems began with the location of the While it was called the Central Airport, it 200 kilometers away from Madrid. This compounded problems as most of the passengers remote location and most big airlines preferred So within the first year of opening, the newly airline. With no major airlines to attract passengers, dollar debt by 2012. Unsurprisingly, it went into receivership The airport was even popularized as an abandoned in 2014. After multiple auctions fell through, including finally sold to new owners in 2019. As businesses crashed and profits dwindled Airport got a lifeline. With little hope of passengers returning, home for grounded planes given its dry climate, By August 2020, there were 65 airplanes parked provide a storage facility for over 300 aircraft. This new storage approach gave the airport However, all the stored planes will eventually and the return of normal flight operations This billion-dollar megaproject remains effectively Number 3: Naypyidaw, Myanmar Next up is another megaproject that made it However, this isn't just a remote airport, that was built from scratch. Myanmar's former military leadership started The shifting of a country's Capital isn't Egypt and Pakistan have done so in the past. In November 2005, Myanmar's leaders announced name of the new capital a secret. It was four months later when he finally revealed &quot;The King's Residence&quot;. The reasons for this sudden shift of capital Some speculated that the military leadership others thought it was shifted on the advice However, a lot of it had to do with the former Yangon is home to 7 million people, the city limits and its population is set to double Moreover, the coastal city was established the British Navy. So, it made sense for Myanmar to shift the The new project was built swiftly and to this 4 billion dollars into the city. Naypyidaw seemingly has everything to attract hotels divided into three hotel districts, tall replica of a landmark originally situated But there's one essential component that remains The new capital is home to less than a million that were present even before the city became But why does no one want to live there? A lingering gap in health facilities, lack opportunities mean that most of the population home. So the city often paints the picture of a a Ghost Town. The incredible 20-lane highway is practically Traffic congestion is unheard of and at times the tremendous road. The city has an airport that can handle 3.5 day, a dozen people will actually use it. The shopping malls are visited only by the lobbies are mostly empty. Despite the apparent barrenness, there's a It's built as a city of the future and with has time for an inevitable redemption. For now, it's arguably the world's strangest country's population. Number 2: Forest City, Malaysia We talked of an apparent ghost city, and next that would rise from reclaimed land on four an artificial forest ecosystem. Forest City's location makes it an appealing from its proximity to the independent city-state Singapore has the world's 2nd busiest port The developers have already linked Forest bridge, shortening the distance between the Forest City will also have its own customs to Singapore and back. The design is advertised to incorporate many Forest City will feature buildings with green jungle experience. City streets will have a multiple-layered parking spaces while the upper layer will hubs. The city will be powered exclusively with 2035 at a cost of 100 billion dollars. One of the four proposed islands is close golf courses, swimming pools, and beaches However, it's not all smooth sailing for this A multitude of economic and political hurdles The project is being funded mainly through a free pass to the city in the first few years As a consequence, wealthy Chinese investors apartments in their own country rushed to By 2019, 80% of the property owners were Chinese. Even the street signs were in Mandarin and offering Mandarin courses. The native Malaysians simply can't afford are set with only the Chinese markets in mind. This influx of Chinese investors caused a calling it a new form of colonialism. So after a change of leadership, the returning from owning property in the forest city. Many foreigners started leaving the city and The next major setback came in the form of Malaysia's movement control order meant that Lots of existing investors opted out of the So by the start of 2020, less than 500 people which is not a lot considering that Forest The project has remained in flux ever since than 10 homes were sold at Forest city since Moreover, Country Garden laid off more than year signaling the epic downturn in the project's Forest City was probably too ambitious to and is too politically challenged to succeed It is safe to assume that despite the billions megaproject. Number 1: Yucca Mountain Nuclear Waste Repository We'll conclude this list with a megaproject issue. Nuclear waste isn't talked about as much as However, if not stored properly, it can be the advent of civilization. As of now, nuclear waste is stored aboveground However, the scientific community agrees that to store this hazardous waste deep underground. In the 1980s, the U.S authorities set about waste problem. In 1987, Yucca Mountain in Nevada was identified It was close to the USA's most used nuclear centers. The plan was to deposit the waste from all 300 meters under Yucca Mountain. In addition to the isolated location, Yucca millions of years ago. It allows the Yucca mountain to absorb any Yucca mountain seemed like a great location having none of it. The United States has over 100 operational but none of them were in Nevada. So the Congressional representatives and the of being the only nuclear dumping site of Furthermore, question marks were raised over of the Yucca mountain. Opponents believed that the site was unsuitable a nearby water source. The water source flows into Amargosa Valley in the area for centuries. Despite the opposition, the project won approval construction. However, Nevada's opposition only grew stronger. They contended that routine exposures during and affect tourism in the state. For the opposition, the only reason Nevada its lower population and a smaller representation By the time Barack Obama took office, the and in 2010 the Obama administration deemed it. Three years later, a federal court ordered little progress since. The Biden administration has clearly stated plans anymore. Nevada seems to have won the battle after Decades of planning, legal troubles, and over Mountain project, but after all is said and &quot;useless&quot; megaproject. So what do you think of these megaprojects? Do you think any of these have a shot at being Let us know in the comments down below! If you want to see more about similar projects, Megaprojects Never Finished". Thank you for watching, and we will see you