So when you think about a child, the word &quot;love&quot; probably comes to mind, and instantly other emotions rush in: joy and hope, excitement, trust and security, and yes, sometimes There might not be that more of us Yet, given its central isn't it interesting that we're never We build friendships, navigate early romantic relationships, get married and bring babies with the expectation But the truth is, we often It can be subtle things like guilting a friend or sneaking a peak at your partner's texts or shaming a child 100 percent of us of unhealthy relationship behaviors and 100 percent of us It's part of being human. In its worst form, shows up as abuse and violence, and relationship abuse is something that one in three women will experience in their lifetime. Now, if you're like most people, you'll go, &quot;Oh, no, no, no, It's instinctual to move away to think that they happen But the truth is, unhealthy relationships We just call them different things Abuse sneaks up on us I work for an organization called One Love started by a family whose daughter This was a tragedy no one saw coming, but when they looked back, just no one understood Called crazy or drama his actions weren't understood which was clear signs of danger. Her family realized that if anyone her death could have been prevented. So today we're on a mission to make sure that others have the information We have three main goals: give all of us a language that's quite awkward empower a whole front line, and, in the process, improve To do this, it's always important the unhealthy signs and our work really focuses to start conversations with young people. As you'd expect, most of our content given the subject at hand, but today I'm going to use yet still thought-provoking pieces, &quot;The Couplets,&quot; to illuminate five markers The first is intensity. (Video) Blue: I haven't seen you Orange: I've missed you too. (#thatslove) Blue: I haven't seen you in five minutes. What have you been doing Orange: It's been three minutes. Katie Hood: Anybody recognize that? Abusive relationships They start out exciting and exhilarating. There's an intensity It feels really good. You feel so lucky, But in unhealthy love, from exciting to overwhelming You feel it in your gut. Maybe it's when your says &quot;I love you&quot; or starts showing up everywhere, Maybe they're impatient even though they know It's important to remember that it's not it's how it evolves. It's important in the early days to pay attention to how you're feeling. Are you comfortable Do you feel like you have space It's also really important to talk about your own needs. Are your requests respected? A second marker is isolation. (Video) Orange 2: Want to hang out? Orange 1: Me and my boyfriend Orange 2: Want to hang out? Orange 1: Me and my boyfriend Orange 2: Tomorrow? Orange 2: Wednesday? KH: If you ask me, isolation and misunderstood signs of unhealthy love. Why? Because every new relationship to spend time together, it's easy to miss when something shifts. Isolation creeps in starts pulling you away your support system, and tethering you more tightly to them. They might say things like, &quot;Why do you hang out with them? about your best friends, or, &quot;They want us to break up. about your family. Isolation is about sowing seeds of doubt about everyone from Healthy love includes independence, two people who love spending time together but who stay connected to the people While at first you might spend over time maintaining independence is key. You do this by making plans with friends and encouraging your partner A third marker of unhealthy love (Video) Blue 2: Blue 1: She just started Blue 2: What are you so nervous about? Blue 1: She, she just started (#thatsnotlove) KH: As the honeymoon period extreme jealousy can creep in. Your partner might become more demanding, needing to know where you are or they might start following you Extreme jealousy also brings with it frequent accusations and refusal to listen to you they have nothing to worry about Jealousy is a part but extreme jealousy is different. There's a threatening, desperate Love shouldn't feel like this. A fourth marker is belittling. (Video) Blue: Wanna hang out? Blue: You'll get an A anyway, Blue: Wanna hang out? Blue: You'll get an F anyway, F for, F for... stupid. (#thatsnotlove) KH: Yeah, hmm. In unhealthy love, Conversations that used to be turn mean and embarrassing. Maybe your partner makes fun of you or maybe they tell stories and jokes When you try to explain they shut you down &quot;Why are you so sensitive? You are silenced by these words. It seems pretty obvious, Their words should build you up, They should keep They should make you feel more confident, not less. Finally, a fifth marker: volatility. (Video) Orange 1: Orange 2: I'd be sad too. (#thatslove) Orange 1: I'd so depressed I'd throw myself off this step. I would! Don't try to stop me! (#thatsnotlove) KH: Frequent breakups and makeups, as tension rises, so does volatility. Tearful, frustrated fights hateful and hurtful comments like, &quot;You're worthless, followed quickly by apologies By this point, you've been so conditioned that you may not realize how unhealthy your relationship has become. It can be really hard to see when unhealthy love turns towards abuse, but it's fair to say your relationship might have, the more unhealthy and maybe dangerous And if your instinct is which is advice when they're in unhealthy relationships, that's not always the best advice. Time of breakup can be If you fear you might be you need to consult with experts But it's not just and it's not just about violence. Understanding the signs of unhealthy love can help you audit and understand For the first time, you might understand or why every interaction leaves you discouraged and anxious. You might even begin to see is causing problems Understanding is and while you can't make some you're going you can do your part every day And here's the exciting news: it's actually not rocket science. Open communication, mutual respect, kindness, patience -- we can practice these things every day. And while practice I have to promise you I do this for a living and every day I think and talk and still I do unhealthy things. Just the other day as I was trying amidst quarreling, squabbling I completely lost it. With an intentionally angry edge, I screamed, &quot;Everybody just shut up and do what I say! You are the worst! I am going to take away and anything else you could possibly (Laughter) Anybody been there? (Applause) Volatility, belittling. My oldest son turned around &quot;Mom, that's not love.&quot; (Laughter) For a minute, I really wanted Trust me. But then I gathered myself and I thought, you know what, I'm proud that he has a language I want all of my kids to understand for how they're treated and to have a language and a voice versus just accepting it. For too long, we've treated when relationship skills and hard to build things in life. Not only can understanding unhealthy signs help you avoid the rabbit hole but understanding and practicing can improve nearly I'm completely convinced that while love is the ability to love better and improve on over time. Thank you. (Applause)