I have 25 player picks to build myself a team for one match but when I open them I can't see their face their rating just the club they play for how am I supposed to guess this? I hope luck is on our side because we need to find a player that is bald a player that is 91 overall and a Ballon d'Or winner and for each one we miss we have to start the game a goal behind I doubt the Manchester City player here is Haaland it could be Mbappe in the third one but I think it is Danilo and he is bald so if we get Danilo out of this we already have 1 of the 3 objectives we are looking for please be Danilo Chawinga... never heard of them who do we miss out on? number one? Hummels and please don't be Haaland... Alvarez Now I really hope we get some special cards because if we have to use a full team of gold cards it's going to be a tough challenge show me some big clubs... that is not what I meant which one of these could be bald? let's go with Real Sociedad show me bald it's not bald this is not good so far those have only been the 80+ player picks and clearly not getting the players we need hopefully out of this 1 of 4 83+ we can get a player 91 overall it's a big ask but please at least show me a special card and we have nothing again this is the 83+ so Danilo wouldn't be here and he's actually a gold common card so I don't know why I thought he was going to be in that other one but I feel like we're just going to have to take Manchester United I don't think there's a good except Man U let's see what we got Varane Okay that is a good pick we need a strong defence highest rated is good enough for me special card... special card please be a special card again not a special card I'm not going to take Aston Villa let's take Benfica could it be Joao Mario he is bald in pick number one YES - we have a bald player! I knew it! we have one out of the three thank you Joao Mario you're actually my favourite Portuguese player now I do have a player pick that's 87+ guaranteed it's a bunch of special cards in here which means there is a chance to get a 91+ overall show me some big clubs show me some big clubs here what in the world is that first one? none of them have a club? oh yeah cuz it's like Heroes I'm just going to go with the coolest looking card pick number one who are you? Bompastor! kind of sounds like Pazjor but it's not 91+ overall who did we miss out on? Vialli, Milito and Francescoli to be honest we did get the best one doesn't cross off one of the categories still waiting for a big pick my first guess is this is Wirtz this could be Matty Cash and this could be maybe Lacazette Iglesias, Watkins and Tagliafico 0 for three on that one - W ball knowledge we're off to the next one are we ever even going to okay Griezmann could be here, but neither of those players we're going to take pick number two I not great oh man this team sucks we're running out of picks okay okay we got two big clubs I'm going to have to go Inigo Martinez who was number two Ramsdale and Hernandez wow the one time I shouldn't we missed out on Hernandez and a decent goalkeeper we still don't have a goalkeeper cuz if we end up losing that final match every single player pick I have I don't even know if you're able OHHHHH Al Nassr - that is Ronaldo 100% I'm putting all my marbles on pick number three noooo Laporte! why! who do we miss out on... Di Maria and? Onana, another keeper I hope we can find another Al Nassr player Real Madrid... this is going oh Vazquez, nooo that was probably the worst pick yet what's it going to be another Real Madrid player that honestly might be Kroos or it might be Modric we see a little bit of the play style please be Modric - do not troll me again it's Kroos - I hate seeing Kroos' face! at least we get a walk out I do have another good player pick maybe this one's going to show me some big clubs show me some big clubs Real Madrid who could that be? the Liverpool one is also it could be someone pretty crazy I can't I have a feeling pick number two is so I'm going to lock that in but Morata okay I'm happy with that Gakpo even happier and Boniface okay please be Courtois I believe he's 91 rated yes 91 rated, striker Courtois he's going to bang in some goals too we have our second out of three categories we need welcome back to the club I guess welcome ,you're still here so let's try our luck with the 83 plus again ooooooh could that be Messi? could that be Messi? number two inter Miami I if we could go back to back 91 rated players show me Messi Busquets - I, I actually knew it Busquets... welcome in 10 picks remain to find a Ballon d'Or winner it's going to be a tough one but I don't think I have Ronaldo in none of these players are Ballon d'Or I'm I'm going to lock in number two Jorginho he almost did win a Ballon d'Or I I'll never understand, but welcome in Jorginho what's this going to be still okay the first one might be Dybala let's lock in pick number one, and there he is, my favourite player Paulo Dybala but now we need to find a goalkeeper and I'm I'm thinking Maignon in this first one, let's lock it in please be Maignon... it's not well that didn't really work out this is another one of those hero picks but I this is actually a pretty good one two La Liga players, one EPL and one Eredivisie but have any of them won a I don't think there's any I'm going to take the first who did we miss out on Kanu, Berbatov, Mascherano and who did we get... McManaman! that is a big big player but he is not a Ballon d'Or winner that's okay show me Messi! it's not Messi there is a chance that this and we don't have many options left, it's not well that is not good please we need a keeper - I don't but we're going to lock in this Walsh - not bad for a CDM but only two player picks left and we got to be really strategic here - I have no idea, I'm going to go for Galatasaray my Galatasaray fans do me proud! it's Mertens... well at least we got the best one at this point I don't even care about the show me a goalkeeper! I have no idea, I really have no idea can I see any play style that I hate that we have Courtois and I don't think I have Ederson in the club so there is a chance chance that this is Ederson I just can't recognize that little oh man the first pick was... a goalkeeper the only one I wasn't paying what are the chances there's two in here? okay Nacho... who is this number four? Kimmich that would have been a great pick please be Ederson! Ruben Dias - no that's such a good oh man who's going in net for us? the player picks were clearly not great, but an and now it's time to put them to the test we've given them the 1-0 lead let's get this dub come on... rainbow over them flick! what a flick! one more cut oh my Martial you're starting - oh he dropped it! oh that's he dropped him, and then missed the entire net I'm scared though any shot on Courtois is probably he is a striker flick - what a move go Dybala, as fast as you can woop! don't do that, don't do that, do not foul 99 pens Thibaut Courtois top left corner 100% in or money back guaranteed! let's go that is why he's in this team and because we need a keeper to redeem yourself oh what a shot by Martial off that would have been beautiful Martial... to make up for ohhhhhh what a block by Ronaldo! [Announcer] great ball movement from the oh I think I just got a red card I may have just gotten a red card this is not good we're inside the referee, what is going on here? it's a r - oh this is not this I don't even think that yeah that's never mind that is a red card good call by the referee we're playing with 10 men this is a chance right before halftime great move what a save by Courtois! he's not a keeper but he is a keeper even a man down, it's one one can't mess this up - Vazquez, to Kroos, Martial waiting in the middle... he takes it and he's blocked again - is [Announcer] this looks dangerous for Pazjor, Derek don't foul, just don't foul, maybe foul! it's 2-1, how did she do that?! [Announcer] Pazjor finally putting what a move, Dybala our savior far post finish! no off the post Joao Mario what are you doing?! I was already celebrating that's it Martial... don't mess this up there we go, grab the ball, we need one more 7 minutes to get a winner here he makes up for all those mistakes earlier on what is the referee holding in his [Announcer] this looks promising what a tackle - that's not a foul another red card, what am I doing?! Jorginho relax man, you're jesus, I've never seen him so mad I thought I got all ball that - honestly I think I got all ball there oh my days oh my - what a save Courtois! now we just can't lose, we can't lose what a save again Courtois! how is it not done yet? end the game referee! still holding that piece of paper, oh what a move... clear it, clear it CLEAR! all right we've made it, we didn't and if you enjoyed this video you're going to enjoy it, money back guaranteed and I'll see you guys soon PEACE:)