MDMA or ecstasy is not a particularly complex will not be too shocking for you. However, did you know that MDMA-assisted therapy for people with severe PTSD? Today we will look at MDMA s history and its Aside from many interesting points, like dispelling at the first kilo-gram scale MDMA synthesis impressive recent clinical data that suggest affected by PTSD. This video is educational and not a DIY-tutorial Also, don t use this information to rationalize MDMA can be severe and regular use is discouraged The origin of MDMA has quite some tales associated For example, crediting various German scientists or basis for this can be found. MDMA also was not intended for use in World quite some military experimentation on stimulants The first point at least goes in the right than this. The story actually starts with hydrastine, from some random plant. By start of the 20th century, this drug became was becoming more rare and cultivation attempts Therefore, the German company Merck was interested They had some chad chemist reach out to them for hydrastine but for some reason, this guy Bayer quite funny. So the Merck scientists now had to find some You can appreciate that hydrastine is basically not shock you that the Merck scientists produced in it at all. So while true that their 1912 patent refers did not pursue or test it, so the first MDMA 50 years later and things gained traction As a side note, consider becoming a channel want to support the channel! Let s check out three syntheses of MDMA the one based on late 20th century approaches, from 2022. There are other clandestine methods, actually we will not discuss this here. So saffrole is a natural product which was as a food flavor due to its nice candy shop Human consumption as banned later after people cancer feels like half of pesticides and food Saffrole was the starting material for Merck, few steps. Starting from Catechol, a double SN2 reaction Then, mono-bromination with NBS gives the a Grignard reagent and used in a nucleophilic From saffrole it s only two steps: first, and another SN2 with methylamine to get MDMA. Optionally, you can also throw in a Finkelstein substitution. The second synthesis from piperonal starts a nitro-olefin. This can be reduced in acidic conditions to methylamine gives MDMA. So this synthesis uses a bit less bromines The final synthesis is pretty sweet. It was published in 2022 by the MAPS PBC, of MAPS, a non-profit organization working substances. They required large amounts of MDMA to supply will check out shortly. This is the first-ever document kilogram scale appropriate for clinical and potential licensed and GMP compliance. Instead of using saffrole or piperonal, both highly regulated and difficult to obtain, saw is an intermediate towards saffrole, and suppliers. This synthesis is very similar to others we It starts again with a Grignard reaction but electrophile. This epoxide nicely introduces the rest of which can, similar to other syntheses, be This ketone could be used without any purification You can check out the paper for more info and impurities. The experimental procedures are quite funny of MDMA HCl salt with over 99.4% purity. So they put in a lot of effort in this process As crazy as it sounds, 6-7% of people in the lives, with about 1/3 of cases classified Often, there are other conditions decreasing patients need more effective treatments. Just as a side note, this did remind me of National Institute of Mental Health for example, what they termed any anxiety disorder per This is probably exaggerated, of course anxiety probably not affecting 20% of adults every As a last reason, many patients do not respond those are sertraline and paroxetine. The latter was actually part of the massive and failure to report safety data. You might know that SSRIs are used in various be nice to have a more targeted therapy or That s why MAPS has been supporting MDMA clinical All their advocacy and support culminated recently completed we will dissect one of Let s talk about study design before going any other psychiatric medications, patients therapy sessions. The important points are the red experimental where patients in the treatment arm received The individual therapy sessions consisted and probably some other things, and were conducted This was a placebo-controlled Phase 3 study, two trial arms. You can see that the patients in each trial obviously is important if you want to compare average duration of PTSD was around 13-15 quite a large variation. From a trial endpoint perspective, there are The CAPS-5 score is based on a semi-quantitative bad the PTSD is a score in the 40s, as present The Beck Depression Inventory score tells above 30 is also severe. So, these were quite severely affected patients therapy? Well, both PTSD severity and depression scores end of the last therapy block. You can see that normal therapy also improves sessions are useful but the effect with MDMA illustrative uncertainty ranges as well. At the end of therapy, patients in the treatment mild to moderate PTSD and much lower depressive Please note that guided therapy was still the same effect and could make it even worse. In this other nice visual you can see classification a few non-responders and only few patients MDMA group had almost 40% of people completely The nice thing was also that MDMA had an equally disorders, including the especially difficult-to-treat There s obviously some more statistics which at the visuals but the last thing we should profile. Several side effects like muscle tightness, in the treatment arm, but most of them are I would guess that you would rather lose appetite with severe PTSD. More severe adverse events, like suicide attempts the placebo control, probably because their So at least in the short-term, there were It is still a mystery how this works physiologically, a window of neuroplasticity that allows for Doing so, MDMA might support and catalyze to stay emotionally engaged while revisiting I could throw some synaptic biochemical pathways The FDA already granted MDMA-assisted therapy this promising data in hand, MAPS PBC is expecting It will be interesting to see how they decide Let me surprise you with another score which the Sheehan Disability Scale. This is measures how well an individual functions MDMA-assisted therapy could also help thousands and independent in their daily lives. Supposedly, US veterans report service-related per year. A sizeable chunk of these costs are probably FDA to approve MDMA-assisted therapy, at least I think this was quite a nice journey, going outcomes. If you liked this video, consider becoming for future videos. Thank you and until next time.