I've got to be interested in whatever I. I mean, there was a time when I was, Wow. And nobody. That is freedom. And. Yes. Yes. That's the devil's music. With anything that involved in my mother's house was the devil You know, we'd go to Sunday school. Yeah. And then, like, so I would go to different the African church, which is very simple. It's church and hymns and choirs And then we would go to like, That was the church And even when they would tell stories remember the story when Jesus is fasting, And then he gets tempted and then Yeah. Right. And like, literally, like when you say Linkin Park, I'm like, Wow, When you were free. I was reading. I was reading, Wow, this is what Now with Trevor Noah. Yeah. wow. Brianna would be that. Nice to meet you. You, Lupita. Of of all the reasons, On the podcast. An African podcast is the last thing And it's you know, really, I was just like, I mean, obviously you're always making And then I was like an African podcast. I was in on so many different levels. This is exciting actually, let's settle the debate Okay. Who are the best Africans, I mean, what kind of question is that? We're all subjective of I told you so, And I tell you, Kenyans are new. I know. I know that they already are like, And if you ask a Nigerian that's Nigerian, the best and worst Africans, if you means anything, the hubristic, right. Yeah. Kenyans are always like, always, Cause I found like South Africans and like, we know South Africans Yeah. Like South Africans We got everything first and we're we just ignore So even when Kenya gets like advancements like when Rwanda started and South Africans are like, Yeah, See that to me? Yeah. But I feel like Kenyans are like quietly, and things grow and but I've never heard a Kenyan being like, Never. Like, what do you think that is? Okay, I don't understand, yeah, we're not very It's not in our culture. Perhaps Nigerians opposite's the opposite. I love us. I just. Why would what's there not to love? Apart from, like, you know, that kind of arrogance. Yeah. If I go someone, there's no Nigerians. I'm like, Like if I visit schools, I'm like, I haven't. Nigerian kids? No, not drunk. Wow. Like, But I'm like a Nigerian So maybe I'm kind of overcompensating One of the episodes of your podcast, who makes a Nigerian suit that she I don't want to spoil it, which you probably shouldn't Right? Typical Nigerian soup. Yeah, but it's just like it's about like the soup people eat it stories Like, how did you find these people? Well, I've always loved storytelling and just cinema through And growing up, radio was a big thing. And so coming here This American Life made a big impact on me and my understanding of America And so I wanted to make a show like that. And so I teamed up with a production, podcasting production studio. They went out, hired who then would come you know, going through their own memory you know, like that story was actually And that's how the stories got to me. They would then, you know, send me like blurbs of all the stories And then I would pick the ones that I felt mind your own story. So, yeah, that's it. I'm loving the idea of this starting off in a production studio and then by the time it gets to Africa, what you're looking for is like gossip. That's what you're doing. No, if you think about it honestly, all you're doing is you're just like, You have any good stories for me? You know, anybody who has a story, that's Yeah. But what I love about the podcast and it like it, it adds such a, It really takes you on a journey. You know, losing your accent just the and then on the one hand, you want to make yourself, in this country and you want the country You want to be embraced. Yeah. But then on the other hand, you don't want to lose your people, Like, why was it important for you to make Well, I think because it is the way and it felt like a natural, organic point to talk about identity When you are a transient person. And this podcast is about for me, it's about expanding our understanding and making that experience feel global Yeah, right. And so the way people know me my voice and here I am starting a podcast. It felt just natural to talk about how to sound on a global stage. And do you feel that's something no, I am not grappling it with it that I sound I sound mixed up and confused, just like, you know. And sometimes it's sometimes it frustrates when I want to sound more Kenyan And then mainly that's the the betrayal I'm back home and I say something, I remember my my niece, I went back home and I felt like when I'm back home, Yeah, yeah, yeah. America. So I'm with my cousins. I'm feeling really chill. And my cousin, my little niece, She goes, Why do you sound like that? And then I say, Like what? And she goes like a white somebody. Wow. Was so got so, you know, white like a white somebody. And I was just so heartbroken sounding like everybody, And she called me out. So, you know, there's those moments. I'm like, my God, I can't run away But for the most part I'm fine with it. So at this point, I feel like my vocal expression is malleable and that's okay. Reflects your experience. Yeah. Yeah. And I and I want it to be more malleable I want to be able to lose myself And it all starts technically. You know, for me, You're a mimic Thank you very much. I have to study the IPA of the accent, but that's what makes you brilliant. It's funny you understand So for instance, I always tell people I mimic people. Yeah, okay. You know what I mean? So I like, find a person and I'm like, the person who sticks in my head, So someone would be like, I'm like, There's for me, because when I'm in London, I just go, This is my friend in London. This is how they speak That makes sense. And then sometimes They'll be like, They'd be like, Trevor, And that's not how Trinidad am. Like, Yes, No, I'm doing my friend. Yeah, this is how my friend speaks. And he's from Trinidad, so you should Yeah, but it's also you are also owning Exactly. Trinidad through you. Yeah. And that's cool. And I'm envious of it. What did you. I would love to know what. What enabled you or what? What gave you the permission or betraying something I I've heard countless we moved to this country from Mexico And I I'm ashamed that but then my family feels like I'm No, no, and I But at the same time, my family says, Or what was it that allowed you you know what? My accent is going to evolve to it's just going to shift, the most amount of time. Was there was there a moment or my first the first permission I gave myself to change my accent or allow my accent to transform Okay. I went to drama school because I didn't I wanted to understand my instrument. I wanted to know what I was good at, and work on the things that I wasn't good at was accents. I didn't know how to sound and that was the first permission But it was full of heartbreak and grief, The process of deciding, okay, I'm going to start working on my American accent to sound Kenyan and really trying to understand my mouth in a technical way to like, those new sounds in a context that was in You know, I didn't feel like myself. And I cried many nights to sleep. Many, many more. yes, I did. It was so frustrating because you were I was living in an American accent. And so I told my family and I would call home So you like method based method Okay. And there were moments where I wanted to be able to succeed Now, I did all that work and sound like yourself. What? That wasn't another betrayal. I mean, I've done all this and people can be like, And then now someone is telling me, actually we need you, just as you were my goal. And so now I had to do it again. And when I, when I tried to return to my accent, I couldn't find the originals. Part of me note of how a of a speech And it brought me to tears because I've never been able So it's it's an it it wasn't a moment. It was many things. And it is also people you know, And my mother saying to me, is a product of your life experience. And that was like, You know, I don't my, my, the way I sound is representative of my And that growth involves America. You know, it involves Mexico. There are certain words I say, and I say And it's just like, You must be so thrown by that by the like. So I remember in Black Panther, and I remember watching this in the cinema and the scene isn't like It's not like you're like your Nintendo No, you like speaking, You speak. And I will never forget this Yeah. And I heard people gasp, like, And tell me a little bit about that part. Like, for those who don't know, like, connection with Mexico and with Spanish? I was born in Mexico. My father was in self-exile there and I was born in the last year He was teaching political science And yeah, I was born there. And then we moved back to Kenya like shortly after I turned one. And when I was 16, my parents were like, You have a mexican passport, And they sent me to Mexico And so I spent seven months there It's what actually informed my decision when I was in Mexico. After one month of being there, no more English. I'm only going to speak Spanish. wow. And for the rest of my time there, I want to learn this language And if I allow myself to have the crutch around me and my classmates and stuff, And so, yeah, I stopped speaking English because I didn't have enough Spanish Yeah, switched into survival mode, and because you pick things up Yeah. Yeah. I would go to the market and I would learn the names of foods Yeah, okay. Because I need it for the next day. And I learned Spanish There's a study that I read about languages particularly, who can speak multiple languages that they have a different personality in every single different language And so I would love to know like what what personality traits do you find that you don't have in the others Because I know, I know when I when But if I speak Zulu with my friends And then if I have like the mixed then it's an even it's Like do you know what I mean. What's Yeah. What are we not getting from That, that is like hidden even that there we did, And the body language, everything. Yes, That's, that's an African sound. Yeah, that is. Yes. And that's already. Well I have to English Lupita's right. Yes. Okay. The Kenyan English. And then there's And I think with my Kenyan I have I'm a lot spicier, I think. Okay, okay. No. And I can I'm provocative, you know, and this might be my family The way my family complements here. So you think that jacket is nice? So, you know, And I tried that in school and like, I was like, okay, this is a code switching thing, you know? So like that. So I'm a lot spicier, And I'm like the Kenyan version of me and I use a lot more of those sounds. I mean, you know, Africans, Yeah, yeah, yeah. So there's a whole lot more of that version. Yeah. And and then my Mexican self Mexicans are very polite, right? And so I think I take on a more you know, like there's even just two. And who's that? Do you. Yeah. Like the whole doing that thing in, in when I'm in my Mexican mode It's a very yeah. And the, you know, the pole So I take on that personality Yeah. And then I mean look I'll say Yeah. You know, so what's so interesting is barriers for African actresses. So the Lupita that arrives at Yale may not feel the same pressure to change your accent but I'm African actress but yeah has to be Yes in a way and do the thing If an actress comes from Nigeria Yeah, yeah, yeah. Do you know what I mean? yeah, you can say us So that person may be able to assume have their natural accent in a way It's true, to learn other accents I wouldn't have been able I wouldn't be able to Black Panther and try my hand at closeup. Yeah, I very carefully, you know, and even though even by the way, Thank you. Must remember, like me and Lupita, like Lupita would call me and be like, And I was like, okay. And I'll get the whole puzzle because I was like, Look, Yeah, but I don't speak it as fluently. But I would literally assemble Guys, Please. And then all of us would have like all the way down, and we'd be like, How would she say it? And we're like, This is And then I would send Lupita This is how well your dialect coach has. Like, this is the people have agreed, And when we watched the movie together, like proud African grandparents I guess I owe you guys pizza. look, I don't really work, yo, I put it. And thank you for being there, SpeedUp, you know, sometimes things would change on here's something else my God. Like, So thank you. You nailed it a thousand times. So you nailed it. Yeah. it was about being able you know, just hear the nuances your tongue, the vocal placement, So learning how language and accent work technically helped me to be able Yeah, so I would say it's great to expand beyond the limitations Yeah, Yeah. We're going to continue this conversation right after this short break. And talking about expanding with African stories told by Africans, we always want to lean towards because everything is so negative But what I like about the podcast, stories in there. I thought Evelyn Story from Canada to Ghana against her will. That is an experience I know so many kids took them and it's kind of a thing But you really managed to humanize elements of the African experience But it's really done in a dignified way. thank you. And it's by giving the mic to the people to tell their story. That had been actually I wasn't going to share And then nobody wanted actually normalizing was like, We want to hear from you. You are the gateway to the other stories. And so I had to I had to be more open than I intended to be more vulnerable But was that, It was because I, The way I present myself to a public Right. And I do it sparingly. And I, I like to be buttoned up. And this podcast and just showing more of like my my self and my parents are all writers off So you are very private African women. Yes. Yes. Like we don't think about our office Yeah. Yeah, I'm. I'm superstitious. Yeah, there's a connection there. Yeah. I was actually thinking about that And I was thinking I was like, You don't air your business, you don't air You don't even like your people's You know, in a way, I never thought of it like consciously, That's And someone came up to me in the street Trevor, can I just tell you, man, But most importantly, I'm what is happening here, because that is our business and paint our country for other people. Yeah, but when you are here, I was happy your When you are here, You are killing us. What's wrong? But it wasn't Weekend America. And I was like, wow, it really is Like where I find like let me tell you everything that's it's that's like it's a very tell all thing how like I'd love to know and how you in the same way like navigating like your accent How do you find the balance in where people want more from you, but then also like maintaining like and I've seen people go like, Lupita, Thank you or thank you for talking to us like how have you found that balance and still keeping and then knowing So I, I try and I am private, You know, and I think it's a negotiation between a that I'll constantly and when I think. But I also work an actor is to be vulnerable, And while I'm characters, I'm Because I'm always exposing myself And in the only way to do that And so when it comes to my own life, I guess I think about, okay, how how can this help? I want to be additive. I don't want to be I don't know. I masturbate. Sorry about the things that I share. You know, it's not so because I feel it So that's why I talked about heartbreak, And I was looking at the landscape and how we're always presenting almost perfect side, almost perfect side, And yet here devastating and I just wanted to be real about it. In order for me to be able to live that when people saw me, they weren't if I'm not if I'm not vibrant a vibrant and vivacious moment And that was my time for grief. And then with this podcast, desire was truly to kind of challenge mentality of keeping things so closed. Because I think it robs us of an opportunity When you turn on the radio. And the only thing is the bad news, and American like Hollywood affairs and and issues, of an opportunity to underscore And so much empathy is gained when we can that is so unfamiliar, but going through And so I want for us as Africans and to go beyond our very limited because we're not having So hopefully this is contributing understanding of who we are today Don't you feel with like and you know that thing of like, you hear that a lot. But is it is it? And one of the ways to challenge is to actually get Africans It's interesting in the specificity of your podcast, that is that sort of touches on You know, like America are always asked to sort of But then what they don't realize is But what is that identity? And America You know, it's like you, It's like the Irish get here You're not Irish until the Irish like, And it's like, well, what is American Nobody actually sits and says, But what is American? You know, And even in the UK, you're What is English? You know, And when you go back to Africa, I remember saying to my friends one day, when we sit around we'll sit around with each other and we'll Do it the black way or do it the then I go like, But have you noticed And what we mean is it's not It's not, you know what I mean? So we feel like if it is sophisticated, if it is if it has a level of panache, And it's like, well, who taught us this? Who taught us that black is not suave? Who taught us that black is not, Why does black have to be only the negative things of black in addition to something that is, Yes, I know exactly what you mean. And it's that reductive. Yeah. And one that is created by an exclusivity Right. And that in itself we have to challenge who gave us those limited self-belief, get to reclaim ourselves on a daily basis. I like using the word reclaim. I'll say this as a mother, is the breastfeeding story Well, not spoil it, but it goes some way. You don't think it's a disaster, Yeah, but it's just like I can't. Whenever you think of breastfeeding I saw That's why I made the choice to do it. But when it came to me the images I saw of women breastfeeding Because breastfeeding has become something affluent, privileged women who have Right? Yeah. But the images I saw, my mother but like African women, breastfeeding is It's not something that but it's something I've spoken in this episode of the podcast. Yeah. And it's that reclamation of things You also do these very special yet but it's not And the way we tell stories in the wild I'm coming to that. As somebody who like has breastfed for a long time, longer six months and ends up being like a year. And I was just I was like, I wanted to share it Yeah. And again, it breaks that thing of because it's actually that we don't share these things. And my cousins who are so ready to share with how ready But it's it's lovely to see how it's I hadn't even thought about that aspect of imagery of Africans. yeah, You say that like this is stuff And I do think we share, So it's refreshing to hear it Especially We're growing more global. Yeah. And so if we don't share these stories, we're not present in in on a global. Yeah, that's true. And that's so important. And in the world of podcasting, That's why I wanted to make this podcast. And when people said no, I was just I know I'm not the only one I know that there Africans out there It's exactly that. The global conversation Yeah, for Africans to gather And now it's time for a new segment Coffee Connection I have to say what Lupita is experiencing right now with the podcast and with the stories is probably one of my favorite expressions In what way? Well, like, we sometimes it is to connect to ourselves You know, And I think sometimes it's only when we get really old I know what you mean. Yeah. Do you know what I mean? Like, it's always going forwards. It's always going And then you see old people and they are really in touch sitting with their friends, talking So there's like a, and I don't know what it was like for you, that was like the number one thing It was like coffee and tea. Yeah. You know, Until the coffee travel tends to condense, It was like, yeah, and that was the thing, Yeah, I've got my coffee Like my great grandmother loved coffee and they would just sit around of whatever beverage they'd chosen And that's where you'd feel the stories. And that's why, you know, That was my favorite thing. yeah, that's. It's funny. I saw my husband's. I went out yesterday. I went and saw her in the Heights. And the first thing they said to me yeah. The Dominicans, they like It really is. Yeah. And it's like you can't say What is this style of coffee, by the way? Is it like a Because I know every region but they make it in like this metal thing. I don't know the name of it yeah. I've seen. Yeah, It's like an espresso as much sugar as you want, So I couldn't say no. And then we like cup over coffee. That's what I love. I just love, coffee brewing or tea, my brain goes. There's a story coming up. Yeah, there's like, it has, like a warm tell me what's going on in your life with the neighbors. Like, And especially, like, it's kind of low stakes enough I like if you say someone Yeah, you don't know. But it's coffee. Feels kind of casual. And then as it goes on, the gossip flows. It's my grandmother ever said to me, a glass of wine and I'll be like, And how can I help that? That would have been a red flag. What's it called? It's a green plant. Definitely has a green flag. All right, well, that's our coffee break. It's time to get back It's a great day for coffee. It's a great day for Starbucks. We'll be right back You know, of making your podcast, the journey of like navigating So I have I have a few friends or this work in the field, and then like some of them for Microsoft, some of them, but and the biggest argument And I always say to them, I go like, Right. Because data looks back And so it's limited And when I'm listening to your story, Norm, you know who we both know? As my manager, he said, everyone in And when And he said, everyone, Hollywood And I was like, What do you mean? And he explained it to me Think about how many times A movie has been made, And once that shows a success, like, let's you go like, no, people don't. You can't look at the camera And then Ricky Gervais did it in the UK They tried things all the time. They bring it to America then, It becomes huge All of a sudden, Modern Family, Parks and Recreation, everyone's making a mockumentary, Yeah, I mean, yeah. And then you, you look at the next story, let's make this Is it going to resonate? It's like you go, For Africans or like by Africans, rather. Yeah, but even for them first. Yes. And I can see people going, but Lupita, we just don't find Africans Yeah, I've even heard Then I go like, Yeah, because no one on the podcast, but like, Exactly. Exactly. Then why is an African person going to just listen And then become like, I'm I was listening to one about the malls I'm like, Why? And I it's I like that. You where do you think you got that from this, this, this, this sort of obstinance to think about everything you've done You know what I mean? You are a dark skinned black woman coming to America and not as extra number seven, but as lead Yeah, back when I was when I was watching I was watching and I hope but I was watching this and I was like, Yeah, this is this is a movie. And I think people take for granted. No one in the cinema is going like, When does No, people just it's, it's her from like, Like this idea, Like, I'm going to push You go, No, I'm going to do it. They go, Hey, your accent is thick. You go, No, no, I'm going to do it. You go, I'm going to do it. Where do you where do you get that from? I would I believe it's my parents. My parents didn't raise me to be limited by my gender, my ethnicity, my nationality. They just didn't. And I think that that is where because I am so grateful that I had parents And my parents are not My they never, ever told me who I needed But other than that, like, are you interested in? And do that to the best of your ability? And because I was born in Mexico Mexican name, I always had the feeling that I belonged to someone somewhere else So I grew up always curious And I had books in Spanish pore through them with a longing to one day understand. And I think those things, like those global curiosity, really, really. I think gave me that foundation And at the time I wouldn't have said that. I don't think that I've I've, you know, chest out. I this the world's my oyster. Certainly not, but a curiosity and a a disbelief that I am unwelcome. I love that. You know, belief that I am unwelcome. Like my default is not to feel unwelcome. My default is to seek welcome, you know, And so I don't look for rejection. I experience it, but I, I think I have more hope and faith than doubt as a default. So like, I remember when I when I got to when I auditioned for drama school, My dad bought me that ticket I had three auditions and it was NYU. It was Yale and it was UCSD. And these auditions were all taking place And I would go and people were like, And I was just like, I have come too far. I've just come too far You and you. I just can't. I'm going to go in there. I don't know what I don't know. I'm And then they're either going to say, Yes, no, you go home. But like, I don't have time. I just didn't have time for self-doubt Yeah. Yeah. You know, And so I think you know, and, and then I got to school fretting about And I was like, I don't have time to fret. I need to pick whatever I can and make the most of it because I get Yeah, I just cannot I cannot be. I was so grateful also to have I did not come from a society No, my parents were and they always But my extended family, they were like, You need to do something of mine. You know what I mean? It's just you. When you know this, this. Why do you act like a doctor, you know? Yeah, this is acting. Acting? I'm on. Do you have to get serious? You know, And I got that a lot. So I was the. I was often the child. I was often the the the wouldn't let me come to because I had my hair was blue, Yeah. I was weird. I was always like unconventional right. And so being that oddity, like, by the time I got to this, I was just I can't. I can't allow for someone else's I kind of for my own doubt to stop me. You know, I have to I had to externalize externalize the rejection and not allow for myself Lupita, I'm really curious. Do you think something about being raised from a lot of the messages that I think girls, experience in the West and because it seems like you just gave Yes. But, you know, I did experience I experienced that and I experience So I wasn't spared that. But the difference is So my issue was not being black. It may have been being dark, And so I was not othered in that same way. And as much as I was being teased the same. You know? So the self-worth thing Yeah, right. And so I didn't have a society you know, And, and I didn't have a political system that And I had other markers of identity. I, you know, I was a woman, There were other things that I was kind of anchoring and contending with. Then just this question of like my Yeah. Being the only marker of my value. And I have a lot of empathy for the just the experience one must have of being raised in America It's just such a, it's a lot more drastic because of the racial history paradigms And I definitely feel grateful that my identity was built in internally. Don't go anywhere because we got more. What now after this and why? But yeah, so, but the idea that like No, that's not a thing exist I have that language. I was, you know, It was just She's weird. She's just weird, you know? Yeah, but I was not it's not a larger you. I don't know is it's Right. So I was allowed to. So even though it was met with a side I, a whole lot more without we are without that that sort of like a cultural or Yeah just that tension because you have like this That you and you're very poised and it seems like America and that's a very difficult thing to do. I would say when I came here, I was like, or just being raised in the West, where you're confronted with these ideas being less than that, you're but you seem to retain And how have you done that? I'm curious. Well, I think it helps that I came here So when I first came, I was 20 and so and I had to it was a crash course And as an African, you can ignore the racial dynamics Yeah. So I went to a liberal arts school and the idea of racial what is it called? Just just racial awareness was something that I was thrust into and and picked up on. You know, and I, I have a a a group of friends and talking about these things in very, I mean, we never had light conversations. It was so deep and exhausting, actually. But, you know, I was able to develop but in a way that wasn't formative, right? It was yeah, right. My brain first. And then, of course, doing 12 Years because I had to go back in history you know, that period of time And it really helped me understand empathy, you know, that I can now I felt in a in a in a very personal way. But I think I really I don't know. I don't know whether I have a formula It's it's And I think, like, if I it, might lose it, But I, I remember like my mom, there was a time when my visa ran out I had done 12 Years a Slave, How long a student visa? I was on student Visa. Right, Right. Well. Student And it was running out 12 years. It wasn't out yet. And I was facing this thing of like, do I And I got this project. They offered me this role. I was going to play a And it was just so and it was infuriating. It was one of those stereotypical roles as if I did it. But if I did it, I got to stay in And I couldn't take it. I couldn't take it. And my mom said to me, You have a roof over your head you do not need to struggle in America You are accepted here and being reminded I belong to a people. I think that really bolstered me. And I chose not to do that project. And in the end, worked out. This is the good news. But I think I really want because they instilled in me self-worth that I go back to again and again But I have my family to remind me And I know that I am not. I am. My value doesn't come in It comes from who I am and who I am, like who I am continually trying to be. I can't help for countries and societies to adopt many of the ideas Because I remember from Compton and comedian, and we were chatting about life as a, you and we were comparing our experiences And so many And I said one day he looked at me he's like Angola. He's like, He said. He said, But man, he's like, I still wish I had home. And I said, And when he described it, America as a whole what you said in in Kenya. No one could take away your black card. No one could take away your Kenyan card. Do you know what I'm saying? No one takes away like your Nigerian card. No one takes it away. We will fight with each other in South you are this your trash, you, this, But no one will say Yeah. And I listening to you, has unfortunately created the system taken away and then given back You know, you look at African Americans, You are American. And now you complain. Then you're not American, you're not American and then not American And then it's like, okay, you know, And it gets taken and it gets given. It gets and then now it's How dare you complain about this country? You're not American. We maybe you need to go to another. And it's it's powerful to hear you peace and confidence regardless of like your actions, your mom saying to you, hey, you have people who love you, when a country would say that, hey, yeah, You don't. You still American? Yeah, you know. Yeah. You know, that is such a powerful thing. Yeah. To to really, But for a country to, I think something that America does really Definitely. Right. And that's why you can it's like you Who's determining You know, there is that thing And it's only now the way that my consciousness is different because I my my Kenyan even when they're fighting between Kenya like for me, there's no question. Right. And also I'm not limited to that, You know, like I'm I just am. Yes. Right. I don't have to prove Even if people would want me to, And like I also realized my father fought I mean, we gave up. We we basically growing up he was like more therefore the country often times Right. And so the fact that disappeared and was never found again, my family has fought for that country in such a way that like it belongs to me. And I remember when when I when I was here and working towards citizenship, apply for citizenship. And I asked my dad, like, Daddy, what does it mean Like, how does that make you feel? He was like, I'm only that the country is yours as much as this one. The world is yours. This idea of borders Yeah. You know, so we get to belong, you know? And it's unfortunate that want to convince you but you're of the earth, Yeah, I love that idea. And whenever I meet people who don't that they do it in their own lives So people were like, I don't like it when people say, there, I don't like it Then I go like, But you do that as well. I'm like, Where do you live? And without even flinching, Well, I mean, I'm between you know, I'm I'm between Florida. New York, There's this there's a You know, And the two, while they overlap, aren't Yeah, you know what I'm saying? You can be young and this you can be, It's like a big unity. It really is. And it's the nuance and ambiguity that I But I would love to know, like where you see these stories your your whole your whole journey You know, it's as you say, you would be forgiven if you took the path after 12 Years a Slave, which is like, And so we would like you to do it forever. And I must also say this question It's just that you happen But I think a lot of people deal You did something well and so World And then you went And they said, wow. yeah. Okay, do more of that and mean said, No, I'm going to do something And like, okay, But here you are. I mean, with a podcast about Africans that everyone can enjoy, I hope people listen to to understand And the best way I can explain it to you As an African? So I got like, No, All food We just cook with different spices And so it's like, That's that's really all it is, you know? And so I'd love to know continue towards like what it what is Lupita dream of doing beyond And I know you're always thinking bigger. Where do you hope to go now? Well, my, my secret and intention with the podcast is first, African perspective, when you go in with an idea they still scratching the head like, Who's the audience for this, So that was my intention, was to popularize that maybe some of these will be a movie And like it gives more of an opportunity it seems familiar, You just spend 40 minutes with me That's not much to ask. You're in traffic But you know, and so in that sense, of people who are not African, to just recognize it as familiar in a way that then we can grow and contribute perspective. Yeah, so there's that. I love that idea. I really do. And I think if there's one person you know, stubborn enough to achieve it you like your line, It's like not expecting the rejection, Yeah. Experiencing it. Yeah. But really saying no. You know what? This is where I'm going. And the world is a better place for it. Thank you for spending the time with us. Thank you And a wild robot is out as well. That's going to be amazing for people Lupita Thank you so much. This has been amazing. I appreciate how What Now with Trevor Noah is produced by Spotify Studios The show is executive produced by Trevor Again, our senior producer is just Hackel. Claire Slaughter is our producer. Music Thank you so much for listening. Join me next Thursday