India's longest flight averaged about 17 hours, 8,701 miles. A wild ride, 800 miles per hour. With all of these beautiful plants, this has to be the prettiest terminal in India. What is this? Bhaji Bhaji It's a mixed veg. That's called God. Heading out to the gates to fly today, so relax here. The whole airport feels like in a garden. It really has this relaxation effect, helping people before they fly out. Just passed two gruesome security checks first is in the general security and a second one for the u.s. flight and Uh, you know, again, empty out everything electronics. Imagine all my cameras, GoPros. But also interesting is they took away my nail clipper, which has been with me on hundreds of flights, went through US, TSA, went through UK, Europe, everywhere. Borading pass. This is the fifth round of check. Thank you so much. Namaste. Welcome. Namaste. Namaste. Thank you very much. Over here. Follow me. This airplane look a lot different, right? I think many of you have figured out there's no price of telling me the ex-owner of this airplane yet. You're right. It's the blue color. Now they changed to India's color. Delta Airlines, originally 777-200LR. And today's flight from Bangalore to San Francisco is India's longest flight. average about 17 hours and 8,701 miles. Would you like to have some more fresh Thank you. Here you go. So I just came off the A350 two days ago into Bangalore here and And boy, getting on board a 777, the suite here, has less leg room, and the walls are shorter. So the 350, everything is newer, taller, bigger, better. We taxi past like a hairpin graveyard all the A320 meals. All the one have engine issue of grounded or something. How many IndyGo's? And also GoWare. I know they went out of business, but... Sad to look at all the new airplane meant to fly but now all grounded due to pregnant women engine issues Super powerful takeoff, 55 seconds cut off the ground, this huge GE90 engine. But when we climb out about 7,000 feet, I hear the engine rattle and there's noise here. It's not something gone wrong. I hope it's just my ear went wrong. Used to be a quiet airplane, the 787, the 350. These days, it's not. This engine was so noisy right now, it's hard to even talk over. What size would be preferable? Sleeper What are the sizes you have? Now we have small, medium, extra large and large. Maybe extra lives for me, yeah. Thank you She spelled like a delta one sweet twenty. There's a couple of minus things I have to point out. Which bugs me which there is no moving man. You just don't know where you're flying at a moment um you know we have some data like 14 hour left for the flight but you don't know where you are First thing is, there's no Wi-Fi. No Wi-Fi on a 15-hour flight, so it's going to be totally disconnected. You're going to have hundreds of emails, hundreds of notifications when you arrive in San Francisco. Hello everyone, this is your captain, my name is Mohammad Khan. I'm the commander of this flight operating Air India 175 from Bangalore to San Francisco. So, today we have a flight time of about 14 hours and 34 minutes. We have taken an easterly route, so we will be crossing the Indian airspace, we will be transiting through Chinese airspace. Entering Japanese airspace, then we'll be entering Pacific Ocean. And we'll be flying over the water for about six or seven hours, and finally we'll be commencing our final descent through the space of the United States. And today, we had a takeoff weight of roughly about 340 tons. And takeoff speed was about 310 kilometers per hour. We are carrying about 1,80,000 litres of fuel today. And we estimate to burn about 1,50,000 liters of fuel today. That's it. We'll be consuming roughly about 3 liters of jet fuel every second. If we departure, we just run through our performance and we see whether we can meet up our performance requirements before our take off. So today we departed out of Bangalore. So that gives our runway. So we are taking off from the full length of the runway using the full length of the runway. those are the winds those are the temperature and that is your pressure setting and that is your engine ratings This is your flap setting, air conditioning, and anti-noise, and if I put it on... putting all these figures in my computer, the output that I get today is, we'll be using flaps 5 for takeoff, and that's the runway, that's the takeoff weight, alright, that's it. is your engine out high? Just in case, you know, if I have an engine cut on departure, I need to do certain specific procedures as per the company. So I initiate my actions at that particular height, all right? And OK, this is something very interesting. This is. your engine thrust rating in terms of percentage. 100 is optimum since you know today a take-off weight is marginal with your max take-off weight all right because of the performance requirement we are slightly going beyond optimum thrust limit rate because we need more thrust. It's so much fun to get airborne. So that's why it is 104.9 today. So we're over a hundred percent on the thrust. Yeah, we are beyond optimum, we are beyond optimum, you know, we are kind of... giving more fuel optimum is that you can give optimum fuel right. So we are consuming more fuel beyond optimum so that we need that extra part to fulfill all our performance requirements. It makes me very interested about the longest flight out of India is you could go west, you could also go east. exactly Exactly. You have many route options. Yeah. And we have a technical team with us, which basically decides which route is to be followed for that particular day, depending upon the weather and which route is more economical by putting in the figures in the computer. Let's say we are on a northerly route, we fly north and we fly pretty close to the pole. We go about 87 degrees, 88 degrees northern latitude. I heard this airplane has a turbo button, the 777-200LR. Yeah, so It is called the Bump Thrust. This is a specific feature that Boeing has provided in 200LR series of aircraft, Boeing 777. So what happens is, generally the engine which has been fitted in this aircraft, it gives you about 110,000 pounds of thrust, which is roughly about 100,000 brake horsepower. Let's say if you're departing at your max takeoff weight, and if you're departing from an airport which is at a very high altitude, and if it is a hot day, you really need more power from the engines. In that case, we have an option in our computers, which is called a bump first. Okay, once if you select that particular option, we get a momentary bump in the thrust. That's why it's called the bump thrust. From 110,000 pounds of thrust we get about 115,000 pounds of thrust As a traveler, I use Surfshark VPN to avoid internet censorship, to find cheaper travels, and also to secure and encrypt my data. Internet censorship is a huge pain when I travel to countries where Google, YouTube, Instagram, Facebook are all blocked. I use Surfshark VPN to connect to another country to bypass the internet censorship. And that's it. Even better, you can access many Netflix library with just one Search Our VPN subscription. With Surfshark, there are opportunities to find cheaper travel, cheaper air tickets, cheaper hotels, and cheaper rental car by simply connecting the VPN to another country to check prices. As a freedom flyer, I often use public Wi-Fi at the airport and in the hotel. If you want to secure your connection and encrypt your data, then you need Surfshark VPN. So check it out. Here's the best deal for my viewers today. Get Surfshark ETN at surfshark.com slash SAM. Enter the promo code SAM. You'll get more than 80% off at three additional months for free. This video is sponsored by Surfshark. Ferry Yogurt Coffee. I just had a three course meal. I think the food is so-so. The prawns, cannelloni, and the dessert. I think there's room to improve. Aiming the same to a lot of Asian airlines, they do much better food. But maybe Air India can do better at Indian food. And to be honest, I'm also not a big fan of this yellow decor here. I think it makes the seats look old. And all this folded pillows, this is the old Air India legacy. So behind the scenes here, the crew are still busy out here. For the meal service, they were refilling the hot water bottle, serving tea and coffee as well. You guys look fairly junior, how long you guys been working for Air India? So, I joined in 2017. It's almost 7 years in this airline and it's really good to work in this air India. Really? Yes. And after Tata has taken it, so many changes have been coming. Really? What kind of changes do you see? Work changes and management changes, so we are liking it slowly, slowly, everything we are liking it. Right, give me an example. What is the change? Because people all talk about a change, but we can't visualize the change Right, management point of view and working pressure and That's the beauty of working culture. Pikachu Is this much sufficient? Thanks. Thank you. I'm just at the galley, I met a lady here, a young lady, what's her name? Chandana. I'm from San Francisco. Yes. Right, that's a long flight. Yes. I saw you were looking after your mom. Your mom went to the bathroom. Yes. Yes. Yes. It's going to be a tiring flight, but you can keep carrying on. I know. And my dad is here too. The old folks of this play, that's what I'm talking about. Yes. That's just the young folks of this life. Say hi. Yes. Yeah, say hi to the. Hello. camera you traveling this route very often from Bangalore to us yes Yes, to San Francisco, but from Hyderabad. I'm traveling with my parents, so I chose Bangalore to San Francisco. What makes you choose Air India over the Middle Eastern or European airline? My parents feel it's their comfort factor to leave from their home country and not get down at a different country in between. Got transit going non-stop. Do you like Airtel? Yes. Do you like it or are you deaf? It's good. The premium economy that we are trying now seems to be good versus the economy. Unfortunately, we didn't get business class. So next time I would like to try. One thing I've noticed, things have improved a lot, is the hygiene. This airplane, it looks pretty good. When I boarded the plane, it looks good cleaning. And to be fair, I think Air India also have very demanding clientele. It's very interesting. I just saw a passenger, and the cheese car came down, and he knew that was cheese, he asked for cheese. the crew what is this and then the crew say cheese and he said i don't eat cheese it was really interesting with this kind of content So after the sunset I slept a couple hours and only to realise there's still a good 8 hours to go. The quality of the blanket isn't great. Air India is going through some transition before their new airplane arrives. For now, the US routes will feature Air India's older 777s, these ex-Delta products, and also some ex-Etihad Boeing 777s. We are now half an hour to land in San Francisco. It's been a wild ride on this flight because at one point we were doing 800 miles per hour. That's a strong tailwind pushing our plane. Now we're going to land one hour ahead of the schedule. Everything has worked on this Lee's Delta Airline configuration, the suites, the IFE, everything has worked. However, the food could be better. The cleaning list, the toilets need to be approved They kept the cabin pretty warm during the flight, so a little bit difficult to sleep. It's very different to the U.S. airline, which like to reduce the temperature, right? And also, lots of passengers have the windows up, so there's lots of light coming through. Also, lights coming from the galley from each side, so the best seats in business class probably in the middle, row 4, row 5 in the middle, so don't get disturbed by the light. That is odd. We landed on runway 19R, which is not the usual configuration for San Francisco. Usually we expect landing on a 28, the longest one from the bay, but odd runway, short runway to land. So from my flight, I can clearly see Air India is going through transitions before their new aeroplane order arrive to provide a consistent product. It'll be interesting to see in a few years time what they offer on these ultra long haul flights. Thanks for watching today.