Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today we are going use Stable Diffusion. With Stable Diffusion, you can generate an image based off of that text, There are many different companies that are reason I like Stable Diffusion so much is first you can install it on your computer as and you also get full rights to all of the images we install Stable Diffusion, one thing I want to you just want to experiment with it. Simply click can type in some text and then you can click on So, why would you want to install it? Well, the parameters, and you can also output far more is even capable of running Stable Diffusion, discrete GPU. On Windows, press control + shift the left-hand side, click on performance. that means that you have a discrete GPU Right here, you'll also want to verify that you Next, you'll also want to make sure that you have If you have those, then we're ready to move on To use Stable Diffusion, we need to get two called Git. You can click on the link click on this link to kick off the download. to start the installation and you can stick with what is Git? Git is used for source control going to use it to download Stable Diffusion and in learning more about what Git is and how else video down below in the description. The second click on the link right up above. This drops us on 10.6. This is the current version that works with the page, here you'll see the installers. Here Once you finish downloading, click on the install check this box next to add python.exe to path. scripts. Now you might be wondering, well, Python is a programming language, and it turns If you want to learn more about Python or even video right up above. Now that we have all of the install Stable Diffusion, and we're going to the most popular fork. You also get a graphical Stable Diffusion. With the base version, you and it's also been optimized to work on consumer open up File Explorer. Here I'll E as in Explorer. Here I have File Explorer to install Stable Diffusion. Here I'll click on right click and then go down to new and select Then click into the folder that you just created. then type in CMD. This opens up command prompt and files and we're going to use Git to do that. could type in Git and then clone. We're going then paste in the following URL. You'll Once you enter that in, hit enter. It'll now take in that repository. Now that we've cloned the you'll see that there's now a new folder called that, you'll see all of the associated repository checkpoint. You could click on the link right up bit and right here we see the download link for different versions that you can choose from. another one that's 7.7 gigabytes. Now you don't one you download, so I'd recommend going with For this, we're just going to stick with the base also experiment with different models. Different also different text. Here as an example, for this three different models, and they're all pretty specialize in certain areas. You might have or maybe there's another model that's really sticking with the basic model. Once you finish and you should see the file here. Right click F2 key and let's rename the file to model. Then Then navigate to where you created your Stable folder and click into stable-diffusion-webui and into that, then click into Stable Diffusion, file into this folder. We now have all of the Diffusion. Up on the top address bar, let's click and let's scroll all the way to the bottom Let's select that file and then right click on that we always have the latest and greatest let's click on show more options, and in this and at the very top of the file, let's insert an This way it'll always pull down the latest Next, go up to file save and then you can close launch Stable Diffusion. Right here where we click on that. Stable Diffusion now needs to and this will take a little bit of time, so feel back in a little bit to follow the progress. It's and don't worry, you'll only have to do this the it again, it'll be much quicker. Right here we central + C to copy and we're going to paste go to the address bar and then paste in this and this opens up the Stable Diffusion web UI. Stable Diffusion checkpoint or the model that model. This is the base model, so let's select you see all of these different tabs. The you can enter in some text, and it'll and right here, we have a prompt where we can type Times Square and I want it to be photorealistic, The more descriptive you are, the better your there's a color palette, and when you click on prompt, so this way it'll apply a different I don't need that, so I'll remove that, but just you can also enter in a negative prompt or things have anything in mind, so I'll leave this blank. steps or basically the way to think of this is you see it. In general, the higher the number, compute. For now, I'll leave it to the default and you can experiment with some of these default. Under that, you can also select the width it's set to 512 pixels by 512 pixels, and I'll the longer the processing time will be, and the be. Under this, you have many other settings and Right here, there's an option to restore faces, the faces are somewhat distorted, you could try Down here, you can set the batch count or how many I'll select maybe 10 images. Let's try that. To size or how many images are worked on at the same PC if you want to go anywhere above 1, so I would there's an option called CFG scale, and this match the prompt that you enter in above. If the prompt, and if you go lower, it'll give Stable I'll stick with the default of 7. Lastly, down seed, and currently it's set to -1. What this you'll get a different image. However, if you fix you run it, you'll get this same exact image. Now so I'll enter in -1, that way I get a different you have many additional settings that you can will help you tweak the results that you get, but for now, let's just click on generate and see what generate. It's now all done generating my images Square, and here I can click into the first one or here I could click through, and I can see each good. Look at that. We have cookie monster in so we see that there's that nice bokeh effect in a little off. Here, I don't know, it looks like but some of them are really good. This is pretty hopefully you were able to pull together some watch more videos like this one, please consider