[Arabic spoken audio] In Syria, citizens are running away, their weapons are their video cameras, their pens, and their courage. The old town in Homs is burning. It's raining bombs. For five years, of crimes committed against civilians. Without them, the traces would disappear. They film, and annotate the thousands so that one day Whether they are dignitaries armed rebels, or Islamic extremists. This film tells the story who take such risks will be served. We believe that the victims have the right We will punish these criminals. We're collecting evidence Whatever the offense You can't prove these crimes We've collected the evidence. We did this so that all the Syrians Antakya, Turkey, and a refuge for these collectors. Away from the blast of the bombs, it's relatively calm Here, Syrian fighters for a long time now. My name is Ibrahim. In April 2013, I conducted an investigation On 29th April 2013, his father's native city. The zone opposing Bashar al-Assad. Two days after the attack, he went to the city These images were filmed by Ibrahim. I conducted an investigation I didn't think I treated the subject and then present it to others. Once in place, he slipped into the role and he found proof of the use [Arabic spoken audio] Do we need to add more, or is that enough? Ali, bring me another jar Ibrahim is guided by residents Amongst the destruction, It's 60 centimetres wide. We gathered witness statements We retrieved photographs so that our work is more credible. Eventually, Ibrahim got his hands According to him, it contained sarin gas. His intuition was confirmed They were filmed by a local cameraman at the hospital The symptoms Nausea, vomiting, and suffocation. Good morning, everybody. For Barack Obama, it was the red line The United States had promised of Bashar al-Assad using dirty weapons. The day after the attack, Ibrahim was convinced What we now have is evidence have been used inside Syria, when they were used, and who used them. We don't have a chain of custody He said that he knew but that he didn't know Then I said to myself, and find proof that will leave no doubt Ibrahim is determined He went to the house of Maryam al-Khatib, the sole resident Here is the hole. This is the broken branch of the tree. This came from the sky. Maryam al-Khatib was here. Her daughter was also Here are the coordinates After finding I discovered that three of the impacts It was, therefore, from an aeroplane or a helicopter. God protect the residence of Saraqib. For Ibrahim, this video filmed during the attack proves [Arabic spoken audio] The young man confirmed owns such helicopters. At that moment, he was convinced to bring about an American intervention A few weeks later, he met with officials One of them now lives in Umea, Sweden, Ake Sellstrom has a clear memory At that time, was mandated by the United Nations to investigate His team worked on 16 alleged attacks, In Ankara, He showed us an admirable amount of work, He was very smart He aimed to secure the information I was obviously very surprised I was pleased to be able to an organization that I trusted. I believed of what was happening in Syria. In Ibrahim's opinion, it was urgent. For ten months, in rebel-held zones. Ibrahim believed that the regime The bombing of Saraqib of a larger attack. On August 21st, 2013, A chemical attack in the suburbs of Damascus, Ibrahim's investigation hadn't stopped but he had one last hope could point the finger The report was returned The use of chemical weapons but those responsible were not named. Barack Obama would not intervene. Unfortunately, we couldn't just take his information It was not a full chain of custody, and that means that the event that was followed could not be guaranteed from the start It was not like a movie film in that movie film, That is not acceptable The video could not lead to proof that the bombs For the senior official, could be proved. Thanks to samples However, nothing proved for the poisoning. The army and the rebels What's more, Ibrahim was described At first, I was shocked to see that they had described me Yes, it's true but I put together this dossier from an objective I specifically made sure and reporting all the possible details was not seen as a report with the sole purpose No. Any crime in the world is considered doubtful What they're asking for is impossible. All that for nothing. In fact, it was not Ibrahim's work that is in question What's more, Ibrahim is personally involved Yet, they are all putting themselves to conserve the traces Governor, Everything started in March 2011 in Daraa, At the very beginning of the revolution, children graffitied anti-Bashar slogans They were arrested, God, Syria, and freedom. Thousands of civilians took to the streets Here, on March 18th, 2011, the security force's retaliation Faced with this repression, They filmed what was happening Without knowing, the biggest collection of evidence A lot of these videos lacked context. The people did not know or state the location Most of the time, as a reaction, the people would just say, and we're being killed. Look what's happening to us. It's someone who is panicking Despite this torrent of images, the West condemns from afar The months passed. On the ground, The country was falling into a civil war, and independent information sources In Turkey, Western NGOs decided to train Syrians They transform the citizen activists professional and neutral. Abdelkader followed a dozen My name is Abdelkader. My institute works on the observation of all human rights violations, Today, from Gaziantep, he leads a team of Syrians like Ibrahim, of the attacks [Arabic spoken audio] Here is one of their first videos, of 150 dead bodies Here, the cameraman Here, it's good and not moved. Here, where they're getting he should have zoomed out Here, he hasn't done a 360-degree shot. The video is striking, Images are weapons. When manipulated well, A famous example took place in 1989, These pictures of a mass grave and accelerated In reality, these bodies had been dug up by the opposition. Syria is not an exception International organizations There are a lot of rumours Everyone denies everything These manipulations showed us the authenticity of our videos. We have also understood archiving, and saving our proof So that there is no suspicion Abdelkader's teams as if they were describing a crime scene, In this film, by filming himself. He explains who he is working for that we could question. He gives all To avoid any suspicion of manipulation, is systematically stripped, labeled, That day, Abdelkader It contained the remains of a missile Wednesday 9th December. We are currently with the team at the Institute of Justice in the presence and Said El Sheikh, We are going to open a box These images are supposed to guarantee if one day they can be used to convict These are the cartridges according to the analysis done homing missiles. We are very careful from their collection right up to It's now 2:15 p.m. and the operation We opened the box In five years, huge progress has been made that their work has become used by the media and Western NGOs. It's true that at the moment, our work is not stopping but the day will come when they can. On that day, and they won't escape judgment. On the ground, for a long time, collecting evidence However, in 2013, a dossier endorsed by the opposition Two men claimed to possess 53,000 pictures of which half appeared to be prisoners One of the men with the military police and calls himself Caesar. He tells us that until 2011, accident scenes and crimes From the beginning of the revolution, suspicion appeared didn't look like accident victims anymore. The military photographer alerted Sami, an activist friend since the beginning of the revolution. For the first time, Sami, has accepted to speak to the camera. Before the fourth Friday Cesar called me. His voice was troubled and preoccupied. It was just before midnight. He said to me, &quot;Come now, I need you.&quot; He didn't want to talk on the telephone, and I understood I went to see him, and he was waiting He seemed worried and tense. I reassured him He said to me, &quot;I'm receiving bodies, but they aren't like they usually are and we take photos These bodies have signs of torture, I don't know what I'm doing. He showed me a few information. After that, of quitting his job I said to him, It's our only chance to know For two years, onto USB keys that he passed on to Sami. The pictures show men They appear to be prisoners This betrayal means has to stay hidden away. The bodies were covered in burns and cuts. They were the results of torture devices On certain bodies, It was obvious because there was blood Many of the photos for long periods of time covered by flaccid and suppurating skin. In August 2013, The armed rebels helped him to escape. Tonight, an exclusive new report of prisoners by the Assad regime. At the beginning of 2014, Caesar's images and provoked a massive shock. A few days before, by an international This time, with the Syrian opposition, the evidence is judged as admissible, In Paris, Laurent Fabius, the Director discovered the photos. They were shown Eleven foreign affairs ministers We gathered all those involved We were shown these images and horrifying there was a deadly silence. Not just while they were being broadcast Obviously, you can't just It was extremely powerful and useful. Caesar's photographs who were trying to defuse These images are, unfortunately, for months and months. The official position of the French President is that Assad's regime is criminal and yet responsible When we see these images, for the sake of the victims and their families, to the attention of the world In New York, to refer the case This jurisdiction has previously opened investigations into crimes committed in Uganda, and in Darfur. However, there was one obstacle, To be investigated, of the permanent members including Russia, We're not going there to lose. We're going to try to win. The decisions are taken transparently, We can perhaps say if a dossier to do with the objectors, just simply to bring justice, for certain countries Maybe they won't choose but will abstain from voting Behind the scenes, and organize a press conference. I must warn you Once again, On 22nd May, For those collecting evidence, It will mean that one day, Bashar al-Assad The Russians use their veto. Those who support Assad, say those photos do not prove by the Syrian Bashar's regime You can be right about something, here, I think it's obvious They are criminals that need However, not because you're right and convince others. However, do we have to say then we are wrong? No, not at all. We thought that we had conducted into the crimes We were shocked that a country could use its veto. That little word means who've died was spilled in vain. They tell us that this decision At the moment, we lost all hope In reality, there is no such thing In Syria, the conflict The international community is powerless, and a group spread and let itself be known In June 2014, the Islamic State It controls a large area and rules through terror. Public executions, the obligation to wear a full veil. Despite these risks, from the inside for months. My name is Mohammed. I am one of the founders which collects evidence committed in the five regions of Syria. Mohammed was living in a city in the east of Syria This graphic designer, is thrown into a barbaric war. He realized very fast from the organization are below People thought that Daesh but we realized were only the tip of the iceberg. In reality, they only announce publically There are terrifying crimes happening Collecting evidence is very difficult the means of communication. From Turkey, that can show the reality The documents that he supplied us showed that men were banned and that all internet users As for the photo of this man, accused of rape It was taken secretly which also takes witness statements from prisoners held by Daesh, medical reports, In fact, under the control of Daesh. The members of his organization, sound and images have become We receive lots of threats. They come through as posts on social media They're not anonymous. I've received some by email. They say that we know who you are. We can find you. Sometimes there were photographs attached. One day, in one of the emails Inside Syria, the contacts are infiltrated Every conversation is protected by a code. That day, they had to hang up. -Hi. -Are you okay? How is everything going? Everything's going well, what about you? I hope the best for you. Rice and beans. Okay, well, enjoy your meal. The conversation is safe. You told me that Daesh has published Was it okay? Yes, I have them I'll send you some soon. I don't need to tell you to encrypt them. They're all encrypted. The last communication published by Daesh to protect Daesh The trick is to do with clothes. They're making everyone wear Pakistani? They say that this Pakistani uniform I think that if they want It's for the planes and drones. So that everyone looks like Pakistanis I enjoy this work, It's the only way to peacefully resist It's also the only thing we can do. I hope that God gives you strength. Be careful. You, be careful, brother, Despite all these precautions, at the end of June 2015. Their throats were slit, One in Syria somewhere that nobody imagined Being tracked, We need to keep They show the reality of the events They are important They'll be used what really happened in Syria. As the expression says, we don't want this history In 2014, and they monopolized To the point were pushed into the background. However, eight out of ten civilians killed In July 2014, the Syrian opposition This time, they went to the US Congress. Their representatives were opposed to a military intervention in Syria A group of Republicans took hold of the dossier. Evan McMullin, of Foreign Affairs from his party, organized for the photographer We knew that most people in the United States The idea was about what exactly Assad was doing They would expect, especially the president, and who leads our foreign policy to do more, Caesar is living in hiding, afraid of being caught The security was very, very high. On July 27th, His visit is organized The photographer made his way to get to the interview room. Before entering the room, We bought a blue rainjacket with the hood over his head so that no one We had Caesar's pictures On the televisions in the hearing room, we displayed pictures some of the more gruesome. For over an hour, Caesar was listened to In the room, the shock tactics worked. It isn't often, if ever, that there are hearings You can't see those pictures for the victims and outrage that any human Even further outrage or any other world leader to stop these crimes. I think everyone The members of Congress, the media, the public, the Syrian opposition, The shock wave propagated a few streets away. The Director of the Center at the Museum created an exhibition This was the first time on our own of photographs of such, but an active case. These were photographs Some of them were going on as we spoke. They were not a historical event They were not photographs These are photographs in full-color Caesar reminded them of a man A Polish man who alerted the Americans to the living conditions Jankowski was, at the time, a very young lawyer in Poland. He infiltrated the Warsaw ghetto that the Nazis had set up. Which I think was fairly unprecedented document what was going on, However, he did all of that, He came to Washington. He ended up meeting He took an allied victory Caesar, however, of American politics. Barack Obama out of the Middle East. The Democrats cannot afford to take the risk That has been a disappointment for Caesar, We could have someone like Caesar come to Washington and tell the world and then have no real response. Not a letter, not a meeting, not a speech, and certainly not actions The Syrian opposition of intervention into the crimes committed by Damascus. Living in Europe, an ex-investigator noted the paradox of Caesar's case. It has tremendous emotional It puts a human face It's a dead human face, That's ultimately where we're going to see Letting the world know as putting together a criminal case. I'm sorry to be so optimistic about it, but the criminal investigations are not very emotional. From a criminal investigative point It works well with our other material. However, in and of itself, No, not at all. William Wiley searched In these offices, united a team Thanks to European and American funding, for four years, and analyzed the documents of the Syrian regime. It's the only way, according to him, to prove the guilt Most of these documents were collected when the opposition gained territory. There are around My name is Adel Al-Hariri, The war is tearing through my country, which means During these missions, abandoned by the Syrian Army. In the emergency of war, sometimes tens of kilograms of paperwork. When I collect my documents, I share them between different places. That way, if one of them is bombed all the documents aren't lost. In war zones and lack of access to medical care risking your life seems nonsensical. One day, I left some of my documents I left for a few months, When I arrived to move the documents, I asked the woman to give me the She hesitated and then replied, Er, I had to use them There was no more fuel. Imagine you exhaust yourself, that could one day be used in a tribunal, puts your evidence on the fire, That she needed to feed her children. What can I say? There are always surprises like that. Another time, we recovered documents We arrived at a roadblock We were in our car just in front of us. At the moment, we honestly had no idea We didn't know. It was a huge missile. We took time to know that we were alive. William Wiley takes these risks will one day We've moved out of Syria When you have such a massive amount essentially, you get to the truth how they think collectively, This is far in a way Documents essentially don't lie. Unlike others, the lawyer aims to, before looking for the victims. His organization is reconstructing Who was giving the orders, how did the regime's security forces and is Bashar al-Assad We were finding the directives and finding the reports That enabled us to get and establish of the president, and military chiefs in Damascus. We believe we have sufficient evidence to bring charges and to succeed with that prosecution. In these boxes, Twenty-four superior representatives The lawyer has made his investigations but who could take the case on? The International Criminal Court hits a wall and the powerlessness of the United Nations Syria is a sovereign state, and Bashar al-Assad In the short term, Other ways need to be found. The question is, how can you have justice A lot of countries They can prosecute anybody whether it's their citizen or the victim. A criminal investigation It directly targets the regime In September 2015, The French state instructed of the Paris Court of Prosecution in the hope in the defector's photos. A sine qua non condition is able to judge the culprits. It also appeared that important decisions on the future of Syria Once more, to address a message to the Russians. The reply from Moscow Officially, Vladimir Putin's aircraft A torrent of bombs When the Russian assault began, They started Targeting mainly civilians. We were ready to document After Bashar, after Daesh, the Russians took their turn Yesterday, Sukhoi hit Alep. Osman debriefs Abdulkadir from the ground. Osman, who was attacking? Russian planes. How can you be sure Listen, I've been living here In Alep I know the different sounds of the planes. Then there were other clues. They were able The Syrian planes but the Russian planes or 15 attacks in one day. What's the result of this attack? The attack targeted a block of flats next The bombings killed five people and resulted in over 20 injured victims. Just next door there's a food bank. The vice is being tightened surrounded by Assad's troops, who are trying to isolate them Despite the disillusion and the danger, Osman continues The planes are causing massive destruction The Russian attacks are huge and they've meant that the population You've noticed is the consequence Definitely. At the moment, they're not too major Especially because they're targeting Ninety percent of the attacks hit On the other side, on the eastern side, In December 2015, half of all Syrians In Istanbul, Turkey, Two attacks have recently The conflict no longer belongs to Syria. It is spreading beyond its borders and opposing Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Iran, and Russia. However, the silent little hands My name is Bassam Al Ahmad, I work for the Center We publish the names of the victims, the names of the prisoners, from the beginning Bassam is doing this task who have died in Syria We are documenting them by name, They are not a number. We're not publishing saying today We document them by name His quest against being forgotten for his boss, the human rights activist, A veritable icon of the revolution. She did not want to leave Syria, since her kidnapping in 2013. She disappeared It's very important also to do Maybe we change the names We put the names of the children We will put the names of some activists. It's a different Syria. A new Syria for all Syrians, regardless of ethnic,