(gentle music) - [Falcon] Non-player characters or ask you to do something for 'em, and a lot of questing would So obviously, they're good to have around, and of course you're gonna That's the game, right? But what happens when your assistance is actually pretty negative Hi, folks at Falcon, 10 NPC lives you ruined by helping. Starting off at number 10, it's Sorceress Sellen from &quot;Elden Ring.&quot; In the lands between, The best you can hope generally as they were, but Pretty much every side quest Either somebody betrays you, usually both, sometimes Take Sorceress Sellen for example. She's got this long, winding quest line that involves finding a bunch all the while she's being who you can eventually but we're helping Sellen here, so we don't want some She's probably got some sweet for our trouble, right? That's what this seems like. It is inevitable that Sellen dies during the course of the quest, but you can bring her back Yay. Although like everything else in the game, it's not exactly obvious to do it. - Jaren, bringer of my death. You have my gratitude for (mythical beeping chiming) To reflect on your mistake. - [Falcon] After reviving you're given the option in taking over the Academy of Raya Lucaria or fighting her, but you've been working for and she's been acting kind anybody and everybody in &quot;Elden but of course you're In order for us to talk about it has to be the helping her way. Everything seems cool I doubt she's happy at the school, but everything's looking good. Nothing unusual here, blah, blah blah. It's one of the few times at achieving their goal So you leave content that job done, everybody's happy, right? So you're gone for a while, like learn a new spell or something. And oh, hey, look, she that can barely speak monstrosity. (Sellen stammering) And us helping her somehow led to this. I don't know how, but yeah, maybe we should have just left her alone back in the Waypoint you know, might have worked out better. And number nine is Tommy It's another one of those games where you're just casually out sometimes on purpose, but mostly as a consequence Most of your victims aren't all but there's an occasional to remind you that sometimes, no matter what you do in the world, somebody is going to suffer for it. The mission's simple enough, infiltrate the Center for and grab some files from The place is supposed for up-and-coming sports stars, but what you see when you enter is far more messed up than it sounds. It's essentially an auction who are sold into indentured servitude. These aren't college age kids either, between like 10 and 12 and they're already getting to give them a competitive edge. If they're signed by a team, but their lives are highly - Ladies and gentlemen, the next junior for the 2077-2078 season Katie is a young but extremely top scoring position, midfielder. She's equipped with and boasts excellent quadricep growth. If you're interested in Katie, please see our starting offer. You can also see her latest up on the board. - [Falcon] They're in massive and they're thrown into a cutthroat and competitive sporting than what we've got going You can find Tommy in the main office and choose to help him out, but you'll allow the It's possible to get the place shut down, give Tommy his freedom, he's just resentful of you at leaving the hell hole of a city. So basically, Tommy's screwed either way. - I have a duty to protect You understand that, I'm sure. - Business? The (censored) gall. - Think of the children, of their only chance for a better life? - Just gets better and better, this. - If you'll please just hear me out, I'd like to make you an offer, - [V] I'll make you a counter offer. - Oh? - No need to get emotional. - Let's be professional about this. - [Falcon] At number from &quot;Red Dead Redemption.&quot; The &quot;Cyberpunk&quot; stuff was kind of heavy, so here's an NPC that's just an idiot. The Mexico portion of you meet a guy standing on the edge of the cliff named Charles. Like a lot of strangers you He wants to collect some resources for him to complete his flying machine. You don't need much, five and 10 red sage, and he'll be good to go. Ah yes, a classic component a beaver fur. Anyway, you bring all this junk back and he'll complete his and then immediately fall to his death, you know, because he's using The flying machine doesn't do anything and Charles is a coyote's breakfast. - The bird has learned and learned it so thoroughly that its skill is not We only learn to appreciate And I, Charles Kinnear, will now demonstrate here Into the wild blue yonder, Marston! (Charles laughing) Oh dear! (Charles screaming) - [Falcon] Sometimes, there isn't some you have to figure out when choosing to help somebody in a game. Sometimes they're just too stupid to live. If you hadn't done anything, he'd still be standing there on the cliff looking like someone what they're doing, asking some poor sap to help collecting the I mean, flight machine. Helping him doesn't just And you have to do a tedious so in this case, unless you really like seeing a delusional man jump off a cliff, which don't get me wrong, is funny the first time, but It's not really worth the trouble. At Number seven is vigilant from Skywim, oh my God. I'm leaving that one in. &quot;Skyrim.&quot; Most of the time in &quot;Skyrim,&quot; but this quest goes in It starts off normal. A guy named Vigilant Tyranus, who sounds like a super villain, but seems like just regular old exorcist, wants some help entering found in Markarth. If you just choose to ignore but the moment you agree to - Follow me and keep your eyes open. Daedra are powerful Never know what you'll find. (dramatic music) - [Falcon] Entering the at least before stuff starts you start hearing a voice in your head telling you to kill the other guy. - [Mysterious Voice] Weak, he's weak. You're strong. Crush him. - [Falcon] You'd think there some option to resist or fight back, maybe stand down and the But no, you have one option I mean, sure he might attack you first, but if he had never come into this place, he'd be perfectly fine. And I mean, you would be too. This kind of turns you into a murderer. Not that you weren't anyway, but that's not where it stops even. (swords clanking) (characters grunting) - [Mysterious Voice] Yes, Further down. - [Falcon] The voice you're hearing is the Daedric Prince, Molag Bal. He wants you to take on another guy, only this time, it's gonna be even worse 'cause you lure him back into the house, trap him in a device, and then you're forced with a rusty mace, and then bring him back You just go into some random house and suddenly, you're the Haven't we all been there? It' just, I don't know to these random houses. - Call that a swing? You, you'll pay for this. - [Falcon] I guess you do it as many times as you do in &quot;Skyrim,&quot; and eventually something's I would just think that and entering and serve some time, but I guess servant of evil And number six is Emil from &quot;Neir.&quot; The story of Emil is a boy with his vision, and he gets transformed into a hideous, bobbleheaded skeleton baby after being forced to A tale as old as time. (dramatic music) (character grunting) This entry's a little different 'cause it's part of the main story, but even compared to the on everyone and everything Emil's whole deal is on another level. Spoilers aside, because seriously, with &quot;Neir,&quot; you can make the case that the NPC lives you have ruined includes potentially but that's all hypothetical. I mean, it will happen, but With Emil, the whole messed you experience it firsthand, you know? - But my... my body, I can't stand to be with - What'd I tell you? We're (Emil sobbing) - [Falcon] It all starts where Emil's trying to figure out a way to turn Kane back to normal. I guess you could make the the secret lab under his house either way, but at at least it speeds up the process, which ultimately leads to you know, whatever this thing is. He becomes an ostracized monster who isn't allowed inside the village, and this new form ultimately leads to him spending thousands of - Round thing, you okay? - Watch out. They're still alive. (ground rumbling) - Oh, are you kidding me? - [Falcon] Emil ultimately comes around to a more positive outlook, but that's only after literal centuries of misery and suffering. So, you know, maybe it if he just stayed a kid That's not great either, but and a butler to hang out or spending thousands of and suffering, you know? And number five is Siegmeyer Obviously, how can you not Just look at him. His goofy armor and friendly voice makes him one of the few that's kind of a relief to see. - Oh, forgive me, I was I am Siegmeyer of Catarina. Quite honestly, I've run or a gate, I should say. The thing just won't budge. - [Falcon] And if you're the ending to his story is Most players lose track which honestly is the best 'cause if you follow his quest and try to assist him on his mission, it's not a happy ending. You do end up helping him multiple times, and eventually, it leaves so much that he's pressed to sacrifice himself pointlessly against a group of monsters. It's possible to save him, but it's extremely difficult The only way to survive the with more than 50% health, 'cause otherwise he just dies of poison. - Well, you saved me once again. Dear me, what can I say? I have failed you. My dear, little Lin... (eerie music) - [Falcon] Saving him doesn't just leaves him feeling more inadequate. His sorrow eventually takes he comes like a zombie, like hollow. At least his daughter but there's not really any if you decide to help him out. Just different shades of tragedy. - Oh, have you seen my A suit of armor, just like mine. Thank goodness, I knew Well then, now I must find him. Thanks again, truly. Now, if he'll just stay - [Falcon] And number four is Jar Bairn and Diallos from &quot;Elden Ring.&quot; Speaking of cute little characters whose lives are made let's talk about Jarberg. This happy little hamlets hidden away from the chaos It's also one of the only The goofy jars are just chilling out, living the good life, Everyone's happy and nothing And then you show up. It seems like you're There's a jar that'll talk who says that the town is and they need a new Enter Diallos, the fancy lad who wants to prove his worth. He's clearly kind of a chump. Every time you find him, to come off as a total lame ass. Even the jars are kind of but they're happy to have - I don't know. I'm a little disappointed actually. Even though good sir Diallos he says he isn't a warrior. And since he's a coward, he His smooth and silky hands but I wish we had a potentate, - [Falcon] But you know, happiness isn't allowed. So of course, some and kill all the jars in the village. Diallos' final breath is hoping so of course he didn't. - Are the jars, are they all right? Did I defend them? Then all is well. This fool proved his worth in the end. - [Falcon] All that's left is Jar Bairn, who has nothing left, so to become a warrior like Alexander. - Coz, I'm glad you came. We're fine now. Diallos fought the poacher, so I won't cry though. I'm a warrior jar, a warrior. - [Falcon] So to sum up, nothing would've happened. The jars would still be but if you show up and offer you doom them all. And number three is the Sasquatch from &quot;Red Dead Redemption.&quot; What starts out with noble So John Marston stumbles who wants them to help hunt They eat babies. You Someone's gotta put a stop to them. And that might as well be you. - Damn, Sasquatch, filthy when this girl hollered out, and I shot the thing boom like that. - You feeling all right, Mister? I seen a lot of strange things recently, but no Sasquatch running They're made up. - They're Sasquatches every place, cowboy. They're nastier than your mother-in-law with the bad case of that virus. - [Falcon] So you roll around Tall Trees, blasting any strangely (gun firing) before coming to the last they're actually herbivores to humans, particularly human babies, which they were accused of killing. - You eat babies, you have to to survive. Everyone knows that, ain't your fault. - We eat berries and mushrooms, you fool. Or we did. Now none of us are left. Some maniac's been murdering us. - [Falcon] You just killed for no reason. Who's the real monster 'Cause you know, Sasquatch But like morally speaking, Kind of makes you into a huge jerk ass. I mean, you're responsible that aren't just incredibly rare, but also completely all just because some crazy into the woods and You don't even see that guy again. He probably tripped on a wood and broke his neck or some crap. That's the guy you're Clearly the message of this to kill off an entire species 'cause some drunken oaf asked you to. Maybe they don't deserve - My family is gone. My kind is gone. (somber music) Shoot me. I can't take it anymore Make it stop! - [Falcon] And number two, oof, Hugo from &quot;A Plague Tale: Requiem.&quot; I mean, also from the first &quot;Plague Tale,&quot; but we're talking specifically So we gotta spoil the The cavalcade of suffering that it's so bad, and it's it's just the story of the game. (dramatic music) - What are you doing? - Emily? - Oh, my baby boy, you Hugo- - No, no, I'll take you back to bed. Victor, take him back, will you? - [Falcon] But the ultimate thesis is that you make everything so much worse in a misguided attempt to help. It's the opposite of most and good-intentioned hero and decides to do things their own way, but it actually ends up That's how most stories like this go. But &quot;Plague Tale&quot; is It is a tale of plagues, So yeah, doesn't work out so well. Premise of the second game who's got these crazy alchemy powers that make it so he everywhere he goes. It's also killing him, which sucks 'cause they do a really good job making you care about this kid. It's so painful to see him by a doctor who seems really - He's your son. Do something! Ah, the Protector, finally! - [Falcon] The doctor's a it becomes more and more clear and chasing after an impossible on a mysterious island, they really should have and continued the treatment. Taking Hugo away from the to a crazy amount of suffering. Entire towns get destroyed Hugo was forced to deal with all kinds of violence and suffering. And in the end, big Nothing you did in the game helped at all. It only made things worse. The doctors, though jackasses, of doing something, something particular that isn't killing a (dramatic music) - Get them for blood! (characters shouting indistinctly) - We're making you pay. Keep going, Hugo! - Whoa, what? What is that? - Stop! (characters shouting indistinctly) (characters shouting indistinctly) - [Falcon] And finally, at number one is the Brotherhood from There's a lot of things go down in New Vegas. Character stories can run the gamut. They can be really happy, They're usually somewhere in between, but for the Brotherhood, there especially if you Unlike the Brotherhood of Steel we see in other &quot;Fallout&quot; stories, the one in New Vegas is isolationists. They're weak and they're also They become enemies of both so they're stuck in their old ways that refuse to do that is gonna prevent them from surviving. (gun firing) That's all set up for the quest &quot;I Could Make You Care&quot; given by Veronica. She's a member of the Brotherhood who is advocating for reform. She believes bringing new the leaders that they need and try to engage with the larger world, or they'll die, which is You can't change their minds. So Veronica's left with a choice. Stay with the Brotherhood And though it sounds obvious, leave, neither option is actually good. Either way, Paladins confront It's even worse if she tries to leave and join up with the 'cause the paladins will before killing you. So there's a few more that you inadvertently killed. (guns firing) (electronics beeping) Ultimately, after beating the game, there's a few good options The only thing that turns is you make peace between them and the NCR and then take over New Vegas for yourself. They're still really weak and are most likely gonna be destroyed by one of the more but hey, they're acting more openly, policing the highways around Vegas. With the Brotherhood in this game, there really is no happy ending, not for the organization Veronica's endings are, but the Brotherhood are most likely just delaying the inevitable. And that's all for today. Leave us a comment, let If you liked this video, click like. If you're not subscribed, We upload brand new videos Best way to see them first so click subscribe. Don't forget to enable notifications. And as always, we thank you very much for watching this video. I'm Falcon, you can follow me We'll see you next time