The truth about the message that SETI detected Exciting end of the year! Just in these days is leaking the news of to come from the same direction in which Proxima A star too faint to be seen by the Earth with it is in fact the closest star to our solar The signal has such characteristics as to a terrestrial interference, raising the vague may come from some form of technologically It's too early to tell, but the world of science a long time. Picking up that strange radio emission were Listen Project, promoted in 2015 by Russian intelligence in the cosmos. An ambitious program, with a budget of $ 100 &quot;SETI Renaissance&quot; that sees in the front and the main Observatories of the world. A goal to be achieved by funding the purchase around the world and checking one by one at And it was thanks to this &quot;Joint venture&quot; on April 29, 2019, the Parkes radio telescope, pointed at the star Proxima Centauri. Not so much in search of aliens, but to study stars like Proxima frequently emit. The endowment of the large dish of 70 meters used &quot;commensally&quot; also for the research of the astronomers have observed the star for flares, but have also archived the observational detecting any SETI signals. An examination that was entrusted to Shane the data in June 2020, and who in late October that appeared to originate from Proxima Centauri In the five years since the start of Project time that something similar is found, but attributed to some natural source or interference discarded To arouse the interest of any SETI a long series of automated tests to rule out Hundreds of candidate signals are routinely are subjected to further investigation. But not this time. This time there was something more serious. At that point, Shane Smith's team registered which stands for &quot;Breakthrough Listen Candidate &quot;candidate 1&quot;, i.e. the first serious candidate selection is) and went on to examine some The first of which is that it arrived on a usually never employed by human technology The second feature, really very suggestive, compatible with transmission from a moving And as we know, Proxima Centauri has a planetary body, &quot;Proxima b&quot;, a little bit bigger than But seriously Could the signal come from that Could it be? Until we know more, we can't say more about inclination or rotational properties of Proxima it would provide. Without a good model for that planet and without That said, if the signal repeats and turns is not inherently modulated, then we could of the transmitter and possibly determine the rotational and orbital period of that "BE sure to join the "Insane Curiosity Click on the bell, you will help us to make In addition, and this is also a clue in favor, signal in scans lasting 30 minutes over a technique, whereby the dish spends a period to look at another point in the sky, to verify point. If the signal is coming from something on direction the radio telescope is pointing. If it comes from space, it will only appear In short, the ingredients to make those who seem to be all there. The problem is that the spectrum is full of Occasionally someone even comes from an interplanetary the Earth and from terrestrial sources. So there is also the other side of the coin, For example, it is considered an unfortunate modulated radio signal. In the movie Contact, the signal coming from on how to build a spaceship... Remember that? The BLC-1 signal, on the other hand, doesn't Perhaps the signal itself is the message? Some kind of callback whistle to say &quot;We are Some have then pointed out that the frequency of megahertz, which would indicate for the It would be quite improbable, in fact, that as us! Another objection is that of those who emphasize Earth and Proxima b, could be at such an extraordinarily point of view. In addition, astronomers believe that most &quot;habitability zone&quot;, is not suitable for life star, and the fact that showing the star always while on the other there is the eternal day. Opinions completely shareable. But what if we renounce to the idea that the to have to do with a kind of lighthouse, or that lives somewhere else? If there is a galactic community, able to could have created a communication network where the repeaters are placed. When we call a friend on his cell phone, the to each other. This would require too much energy and a too Instead, our phone sends the signal to the By this logic, Proxima b might be the most any message to be delivered to our neck of In fact, it may be the only planet enabled In practice, if someone was trying to get he would start the signal from the place where the nearest star? And if we really want to use statistics to we could also ask ourselves: how many probabilities will turn on just in correspondence of the The answer would be: maybe one in half a million! And only because it has been calculated that of 16 arcminutes around Proxima (about half Otherwise, it would be many fewer! Unfortunately, news of the signal leaked out so we are here commenting on the event based Someone in the &quot;astronomical community&quot; (we has in fact leaked the story to the British However, the team is preparing in these days be published in January. Before then no one will want to unbalance if in the scientific environment is evident In fact, an anonymous source confirmed, &quot;It the best-known precedent in all of SETI history&quot;. The Wow Signal is the name given to a strong by astronomer Jerry R. Ehman on August 15, life search project with Ohio State University's The characteristics of the signal hinted at System. Lasting 72 seconds, that emission has never possible to identify the exact point from Ehman, amazed by the characteristics of the red on the printouts printed by the radio expression with which the signal later became Frank Drake, co-founder of SETI, to explain that it was sent by a distant civilization, in a very narrow spatial beam and only for at great distances. A signal emitted in all directions, in fact, amount of energy. In the case of the BLC-1 signal, on the other and from the moment it was detected, the research but has yet to find anything. &quot;In order to make claims of scientific validity, the phenomenon,&quot; Sheikh says &quot;that's how the That's why, despite the excitement, caution Pete Worden, former director of NASA Ames of Breakthrough Initiatives invites to wait conclusions: &quot;Our team has picked up several They appear to be interference that we can't underway.&quot; Seth Shostak, the senior astronomer at the foot off the gas. The oscillation of the frequency of the signal on our planet, but this does not certify the It could have been emitted from an orbiting that buzz above our heads. Even if not, however, the radio wave could aligned to Proxima Centauri and perhaps hundreds Produced by a quasar, by a pulsar unless it a strong magnetic field. Shostak's list of explanations - think about dining room of the Parkes telescope... But even the extremely cautious SETI astronomer know, we should continue to consider the alien After all, any SETI survey will be risky when There will be a lot of calls for restraint But it's reasonable to expect that someday be the coveted evidence of a flowery intelligence Caution is often a good idea, but one must the bathwater. After all, this baby could change our concept