Okay, remember now. We want to handle this You want to tell him maybe hurt himself. Okay Harold, what time did you Five o'clock No, he'll be here in three, Is this a five o'clock Y'all tell anybody, Peanut butter This week, Tyrone gets invited Lock the door. Good idea. Okay Tyrone, do you know I'm here for the same reason I want some crack. Okay, Tyrone, we are not What? What time is it? It's five o'clock. Did I miss the five o'clock Tyrone, these are and they have something I've been tricked! Okay, Tyrone, I'm what is known Oh. And these people would like to What you talking about, man? What'd you all them? Come on, Benedict Arnolds, Okay Rhonda, would you like This is ridiculous. Do we get crack at the end? Tyrone, you know I love you but I feel like drugs is Tyrone, I was very hurt that you What's you talking about Rhonda? I would never car jack Get out of the car! Tyrone, what are you doing? Who's Tyrone? No it's you, I'm not Tyrone. Get out. Look, the police found you in my car asleep, That's impossible, Rhonda. How can I sleep Chinese riddle for you. Okay, let's have Janet and Rob, I aint do that, Rhonda. Tyrone, we opened You let your addiction Janet, Rob ... look y'all. It's me you talking to. Don't play dumb with us Tyrone. I just need $200 dollars. I take these real estate classes I'm serious, Rob. It's Tyrone. Okay. Oh Rob, Janet, you all aren't Oh. I studied my ass off We're off to my mothers. We'll be back Sunday evening. The number's on the fridge Okay. Bye Janet. Bye Rob. I passed my test and was Good for you, Tyrone. Damn right, good for him. He sold our house $450,000 dollars. Where's the money, Tyrone? He spent it on a party. Took out an ad You didn't get your invitation Oh Rob, you should have seen it. We had piles of crack this high. Heart attack. Rob! Come on, come on, come on. I'm getting a restraining order Harold, why don't you go next? All right. Tyrone, I'm here Well if you love me so much why'd you get me fire Do you know how many people complain of receiving open mail? Seven? 136 Tyrone. And then there was the incident Oh! Attention everybody. Be on the lookout Senator Tom Dashell It might contain Anthrax. For your information, Is Anthrax bad? Yes, Tyrone. And if it fell into the wrong I got than Anthrax $60 bucks. If that man hadn't it would have been a disaster. Y'all act like crack is so bad! let he who is without And I shalt smoketh it. Basically Tyrone, into rehabilitation All right. Okay. Fine. Fine. I need to get better. But first step is first And then I'm on my way I've got the key. And that wasn't me, Rhonda. Go to the bathroom. Okay. I've got it from here. Oh. Oh. Why didn't they say there Oh. Here goes nothing. We have a very special Let's hear it Hi kids. Thank you It is truly an honor to be here at Pinehurt School or whatever your school I say it's a privilege because to be around children. Hello little boys Kids, y'all are looking I should not be Drugs and alcohol I started doing drugs when I was Me and my friends would go home and smoke marijuana Can you say marijuana? Marijuana. That's what I was smoking. Sometimes dipping And me and my friends and eat all the cookies. I can definitely say anti drug speaker Then I upgraded Very inexpensive Even young children I did two hits of that and all my favorite cartoons and ate cookies with me God damn. Talking about And Mickey Mouse was doing And then he basically told them We all know we can sneak when she's sleeping ten, maybe run on down to Third Street and meet a Latin America We know that. And we know that Martinez's Kids, drugs is all around you. How would I know You might be asking. Well, I'll tell you. What do you think that is, No. And you'll be high. These little ones are 10 You. You know what dog food Do you? Delicious. I thought the worst was over. That, children, was the first But it wouldn't be the last. I'm trying to say something- Thank you for the lovely You're welcome teacher bitch. I'm not finished Can I get cash for this? and I don't think I- It's my money, bitch. Give me my speakers back. Hello. My name's Tyrone Biggums. Sometimes the endless pursuit leaves me tired and depleted. But now cocaine comes Red Balls. My baby! It's my baby in the car! Oh my God! FYI, people do still How do you think Red Balls got me! Mayday! Mayday! We've got a crack head Must be Red Ball. I love this drink. Excuse me, jailer. Pardon me but may I have Shazam! Red Balls. I can get some money for this. My name's Jeff. I'm a computer programmer and I refuse to lose. My name is Rita. I aint no couch potato. I'm Anne. I'm from Boston. I promised my mom I wasn't going Huh? Oh. I'm Tyrone Biggums. I heard that I can and I get a pig testicle meal Got to play to win. Here is your first stunt. We've got to eat that? You each have to lie covered with worms and bugs. The three of you will move on Rita, you're up first. All right, we're going to have Oh God. Oh Joe Rogan, you crazy. One of them tried Oh god. One minute and 42 seconds. Let me just help you out. Get some all in ... Look at them spreading. Five minutes and 42 seconds. Anne, it's all up to you. Oh God, that was gross. Wow. All right, Ty. I'm going to tell you something that you might not know. You did it, Tyrone. You can come on out now. Oh Joe Rogan, if it's I'd like to finish I haven't had a chance to sit Technically you can stay You know what? I think Go ahead without me. Could you dim the lights Crack. All right, it's time Walking on hot coals. Some of these coals burn God damn. The two people that can spend on those coals will advance. All right, Rita, Ready to do this? Yeah. Go! Time. Eight seconds. This is a test. Time!. Seven seconds. Congratulations, Tyrone, it's up to you now. All you have to do is beat and you will move on and be that much closer Oh. Take your shoes off. Whoa. Tyrone, I think with one of your feet. Oh. Go! Hey Joe Rogan, Because I smell Maybe some hazy steaks Tyrone, are you okay? You won. You beat Jeff's time. My feet are strong. All right, Rita and Tyrone, Eat one of these platters of elk penis It's topped off For dessert, Whoever can eat the most with $50,000 dollars. Hurry up, girl, Grab that penis, Suck it. I can't do this. Are you sure? Mm-hmm All right, I'm sorry. All right, Ty. It's up to you. a little bit And yada yada yada. You know, Joe Rogan, I've tasted penis. I've had several You taste penis' all the time. Tyrone, you are our champion. And evidently fear Fear is never a factor, I'm trying to get For real, I did it. Come down on Hot sauce! There you go. Tyrique, this money's going to Tyrique, I can finally make Give you that rock Here Tyrique, see? Oh Tyrone. Hours. I know. But first,