Coding With Dee released a video that Strong words. As a developer who's been working I disagree. Let's get to the video I didn't want to go in blind. I've already watched the video. I'll be pausing here and there to agree, disagree, And maybe a few stupid jokes. Let's go. Ok, so from what she's said so far, it sounds so she knows how to code, but doesn't That's why real pros do cross-platform baby. I'm joking, I think it's important because this someone with zero coding skills, and usually I'll try not to pause so Yep, I think that's how you do it, but it sounds like she did a round of requirements But what she described there as a sudden The problem is either you, meaning you are Or it's the tool itself, it's just the limit of The first one is a pain in the ass, And the second one just sucks balls. Yup, feels good to know others share your pain Imagine if an Upstack Studio client asked hmmmm....between 10 - 90% done. I don't know, it's just funny More like Blue Sky sucks, am I right? This is interesting. It challenges my perception of Yes, Flutterflow offers code export. As opposed to a platform And the idea is if my app outgrows Flutterflow, I just download my code and hire With Bubble, your code is stuck there. And I've always just taken code export as a I never actually stopped to ask, If it's so bad that human developers can't In which case, it doesn't matter, Let's keep watching. I've never actually downloaded source So if Dee's experience is the typical code export Doesn't stop Flutterflow from being a good no code app builder, it just Fuck bubble. I agree with everything part and play my shameless pitch instead. entrepreneurs grow past 5 -10 million dollars We've worked with over 30 These businesses were stuck where no ready-made To continue growing, they had If your business is also currently stuck at this 5 - 10 million level and you want to There's a link in description to sign up for We'll dissect your current constraints about whether custom software is your answer. And if yes, we decide if we can work together. If it's not, you just saved yourself Apply through the link and we'll be in touch. I'm only taking three of these calls per month, and it's first come first served, so Back to the video. Hmmm. I think she's right that the typical user And for that reason they won't really know And unlike someone like her or me, cause we and they are more likely to limit us But..that's like criticising water for being wet. I know water's not actually No code app builders aren't meant They're meant for the Homer And yeah it's a painful experience But if 90% is good enough for an MVP that And I want to be pragmatic here. So let's revisit that 90% and get stuck situation. If you can't code and don't want No code app builder, or And a bad experience with a developer bad experience with a no code subscription. It's a huge price difference, it's if no code can get you there, because if it And there are so many success stories of apps and SaaS that you can't really tell what And I think it's a risk worth taking. Unless you're already a millionaire So I disagree there. Let's hear the second reason. This one I fully agree with. I think a lot of no code app But that's the nature of marketing, you know. If you guys own businesses or your landing page and your backend if SaaS landing pages were honest, The software is kind of shit right now, the meantime please subscribe Stuff like that just won't sell - or And it doesn't help that a lot of bigger tech marketing teams without tech people, so I've dealt with a few, and Some of them really believe their and I'm trying not to tell them what I So out of Dee's two points for no code being way more than it can, which can be frustrating But when we say it potential clients won't Let's see how Dee ends it. In summary, Dee says that no code is ok, but Do your research, and I am in complete agreement about point number 1. Different no code app builders And but Bubble and Flutterflow are among the most The more powerful the tool, the And if you don't have to, why would you? So if you're new to no code, I subreddit and asking if your idea can Just remember the more specific you are about And definitely DO NOT leave a comment under As for Dee's second point, I half agree. She says no code is inferior to custom code. I would phrase is as no code is It sounds like uncle Adrian is just Fussy is my middle name. Dee said it would be better And I cannot agree with that. Most of the time, that will result in a far Learning to code to build an app is like becoming You need to have decent English before you You need to have decent coding skills before And as for sitting down with a developer, Some of them overpromise as While writing worse code So, while I feel for Dee's experience, lost a lot more if it had been custom Between no code and custom code, no code carries thousands you're prepared to burn, go no code. fun watching, I wouldn't mind Recommend some stuff for me to react to and judge. Meanwhile, if you're on the hunt for a no code