Every couple of years, mega-sporting events, like the give us a glimpse into the outer bounds Surrounding that spectacle quite literally is an entirely different calculus, the decision to even put on Once a highly sought role, hosting a mega-event is now an entirely different proposition. One that politicians, governments, executives, and citizens are asking, &quot;Is it worth it?&quot; What is the change in tourism during the games and after the games, controlling for other variables? What is the change in fiscal revenues? What is the change in employment? What is the change in GDP, and so on? We don't see these gains materializing. There's some big numbers that go around for Qatar's spending on this tournament. I'm worried that the at how many people leave I can see why hosting the Olympics, and bidding on the Olympics is attractive, but it absolutely comes with enormous long term risks and costs. After years of controversy and criticism, mega sporting events could be on the cusp of a When it comes to organizing the games, there must be a debate. And we've done a lot of to make sure that the But will the changes be enough to convince potential hosts? One city's example might We have the ability to really fit the games to our community, as opposed to have to fit The first winter World Cup, held in the compact has drawn a massive number Organizers are expecting some 1.2 million people over the course of this month long event. So you're essentially thinking in population every night in the most busy parts of the tournament. Qatar's also really interested in developing a tourism economy. They've seen the success of Dubai. And even though this is a much they think that they can draw people here for other major sporting just to visit on So they're hoping that and new entertainment venues and the like, that they've built for the World Cup, can get used by the next Authorities estimate that could add as much as $17 But in order to get to that point, the country has spent a over the past decade on infrastructure, including building an entirely new city. There are various estimates has spent in order to The stadiums are really While costs for the 2022 World Cup are reportedly the highest ever it's part of an unsettling trend for what are known as mega-events. Mega means big. Other than the day to day leagues, the NBA, the NFL, MLB, NHL, the day to day leagues, where they have every couple of days, or if it's baseball, every that's standard economic issues. But if it's something are coming from out of town, and there's one big event or like the Olympics is 17 days, or the World Cup has you're doing something special and involves tens of thousands, then we call that a mega-event. The first international modern Olympics in 1896, held in Athens, was considered the first the largest competition Although initially limited from only 14 countries, the Olympics have expanded significantly in size, One key tradition that has is that the games travel every four years. Every two years, we have the Olympic Games which represent what the and bring the best of the At the helm of the modern games is an organization called the International Olympic Committee, made up of delegates from The IOC is responsible and ensuring that the games are run in accordance with IOC rules. The movement has evolved tremendously over more than a century. It has gone through many developments, as sport in the end reflects society, and to remain relevant, this For the first half century or so, the games were a relatively But beginning in the 1960s, the IOC and local planning in lucrative sponsorships As the potential rewards grew, so did the scale of the events, along with the cost to build the infrastructure to host them. Those costs however, are It's up to the host cities, who bid for a chance to But is it worth it? Somewhere between four and $6 generated by hosting the On the expense side, it's That's not a good financial balance. Projected costs for an event on an Olympic But the real trouble facing is when projected costs often forcing governments The University of Oxford in England has done a number of studies And what they have found the average cost overrun or the medium cost overrun So that means 3.52 times the initial bid. The whole point about these be aware that organizing an It's a constant strive to make sure that, that the games when it comes What drives costs so exceedingly over Well, it's partly due to optimism bias, in which planners simply assume things will cost less Promoters might even intentionally distort initial projections And by the time the there's simply no other If the Olympic Games are gonna start on July 20th of a particular year, you can't call up and say, &quot;Oh gee, we need another two weeks. The Olympic Stadium won't No, that can't happen. And so once you have hard deadline in place, now know that this has to be top priority. And they have to start shifting workers from other construction projects, and shifting materials over there. And that gives them an excuse to bid up the prices still more. So you have all of these And all of a sudden you're or five times higher than the initial bid. Not surprisingly, enthusiasm for hosting the For a period, the game seemed cursed. From tragic violence around and 1972 Munich Summer Games, to a debt-ridden financial that Montreal spent the More recently, enormous budget overruns, political controversies, and viral scenes of decaying stadiums in Athens, Rio de Janeiro, and Beijing, have led some citizen activists to openly question the political optics, and cost Boston is an absolutely beautiful city. It looks great in the summertime. It looks great when you envision that helicopter or drone shot looking over a brand new stadium and our gleaming skyline and the Charles River on one hand, and Boston Harbor on the other. It's really an impressive It's also on, or in the most valuable The East Coast time zone has something like 40 or 50% of all of Boston beats out Los Angeles, San Francisco, and DC, and will be the US bid in a worldwide battle for the 2024 games. The polling was very clear that at first, residents of Greater Boston supported the Boston 2024 Olympic bid. The idea of the Olympics improving the public transportation was always the most But what became clear is that over time, the more people learned about the risks, and the costs, that they got beyond those glossy images, and saw what it would really mean for their lives and for that people's support for the We see that the bid requires building the three most that every Olympics since We felt that there needed to be a real debate about was the right thing for And we saw that because pushing the bid, there were that would normally ask that were gonna do that in this case. And so that opposition had and that's why we formed Boston 2024's original proposal was to put beach volleyball not a place that has sand, And one of the most and important public spaces in the US. This is the original public Boston was the first major city to stand up and say no But in the wake of our decision in Boston, other cities dropped out. Rome, Italy had been A new mayor was elected there who said she had more important and so that bid died. Hamburg, Germany, actually to bid on the 2024 games, and voted that down in November of 2015. Budapest Hungary, there was a grassroots opposition to the games there, that forced the question of the Olympics to be on the ballot. And eventually the decided not to move forward with it. In 2017, left with a dwindling set of potential hosts for the 2024 games. The International Olympic Committee made an unprecedented move. It awarded the two remaining Paris for 2024 and Los Angeles for 2028, giving the IOC some extra breathing room and a chance to focus You have to listen to critics as well. And we've been in contact with them, and other opponents to the games. Because this is our mission, to listen and to make we do understand why they and what we can improve. In the late 1970s, the IOC was in a similarly facing backlash after events earlier in the decade. Sensing a rare opportunity for leverage, the city of Los Angeles the 1984 Olympics a What happened in '84 was it turned out for some But it was a disaster, 'cause the IOC had to give up The IOC requires for instance, that it will carry out all and take full responsibility financially for any costs that are involved. In 1984, because Los Angeles was the only city that was bidding, the IOC basically was on its knees in front of the Los Angeles committee saying, &quot;Please, please do this.&quot; And so the Los Angeles and one of the terms was, we're not gonna be By most accounts, the 1984 Los Angeles Summer Instead of saddling taxpayers the games were actually profitable, thanks to the strategic and manageable costs. Because the metropolitan area already had suitable stadiums, very little new construction was needed, preventing the sort of surprise expenses that had played earlier host cities. And now, amid another challenging Los Angeles is again trying We like to say that the what gives us the ability public support here in You can't walk around this city and not meet somebody who has And that's really the We are a no build games. And sometimes we like to say reuse philosophy around sustainability. The fact is the best venues are the ones you don't have to build. Right over my shoulder, you can see one of the main pieces that sauce of LA being able to and that's UCLA. We have UCLA and USC within really a, just about 10 or 12 miles of each other. And really that's the beginning But beyond that, you know, we really have just an here in LA and in greater whether it's three that are over 75,000 seats, multiple arenas, different And so we're just tailor made to be able to actually host a mega sporting event, like the Olympics and the Paralympics. As for potential cost overruns, LA '28 has a plan in mind. We actually are carrying a 10% contingency from day one in our budget, in terms of how and what it is And so we're trying to build I think it's incumbent upon all of us to think about everything that we do, and think about it through We'll have probably just shy that will be a part of our And that's billions of directly to citizens of LA. Beyond the raw cost benefit figures, there is another value to the Olympics that is harder to measure. For us, it's really about human legacy. And it starts actually with the kids that we want to be sitting in the stadiums thinking and dreaming, that they too can be an It was a part of our Play LA program, which is our $160 million investment into kids in Los Angeles. One of the real important parts adaptive sports into the in the city of LA. I'm optimistic about the '28 I think that they have really excellent management of the organizing committee, and they're Los Angeles. They've got a lot more stadiums now than they had back in 1984, and they've got more infrastructure, including public transportation So I think it'll turn Meanwhile, at the other there are places where costs But this path comes with The person who really seems the World Cup more than anyone else is Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani. He's now known as the Father Emir. He was the former ruler of Qatar. And this was really his desire, not just to host, you know, a He knew that it would drive an enormous amount of that Qatar really needed to And that's exactly what happened. In the last decade alone, Qatar has built more roads, than during the entire Funded by a robust petroleum the government was less and more interested in the long term benefits of future tourism, business development, and global prestige. For instance, they've and no doubt expense, to show off cutting such as this innovative stadium design constructed partly out meant to be easily deconstructed But the attention the nation has received has generally not been so positive. Behind the scenes, many unpaid, forced labor, badly treated. It's very hard to give an exact figure. I would suspect it's I think hundreds of workers have died to make this World Cup possible. There was initially reports in stadium projects and other projects directly tied to the World Cup. This obviously set off an and ultimately the government did start making reforms in order So people were living in very cramped, unsafe, unsanitary accommodations. They've set minimum standards on that. They also introduced a meaning it applies to It's not much, it's about $274 a month. But it's something, and in fact, it's the first across the gulf region generally. Activists are not entirely happy with the reforms that They don't believe that have gone far enough. On worker deaths, for instance, nobody really had bothered how many workplace deaths and injuries you had across the country. Activists are very concerned about what happens after everyone goes home. I think these are questions Qatar's hope is that in the long run, memories of compelling matches will outlast any lingering controversy. The 2022 World Cup story echoes other mega-events in recent years, where strong centralized governments have spent lavishly to only to find themselves If you look for example at the 2022 Winter all of the democracies that actually dropped out before The only two cities that were left were Beijing, China both autocratic countries, where there's no democracy, there's no opportunity against the extravagance of the games. Russia received a 4-year ban for doping from the China has been criticized by some countries and human rights groups over what they say is abuse They're gonna be under increasing pressures from corporate sponsors. They're creating all sorts of problems, in terms of how the in terms of environmental So corporations are sort of pulling back. Or they're saying, &quot;Well, if you've gotta clean this stuff up.&quot; Mounting public concerns from citizens, cities, and sponsors, over the recent state have forced organizing bodies, like FIFA and the IOC, to pursue reforms. One approach to address has been to spread out mega-events over a region or even a continent, instead of forcing a single I think FIFA has an easier job, only because there are more places that have the necessary And because of the very and pervasive popularity of soccer, they have more leeway, So hopefully, we'll see Ends of vote... are already looking differently. In the next World Cup, which will be spread out in 16 and rely mostly on The World Cup is coming And it never crossed our minds to create a No Boston World Cup group, because the costs are just of what hosting the As for the Olympics, the IOC has spent the past decade reflecting on its complex legacy, and outlining broad new reforms aimed at reinventing the games for the sustainability Listen, the most important when we adopted a motto that, &quot;A city does not adapt to the games, but the games adapt to a city.&quot; Then the second thing we don't build if it's We have a sustainability agenda, that is very appealing as well. It'll be climate positive but already Paris 2024 which is a great objective to reach. I think everybody also is recognizing the efforts when it and the whole agenda, economic, Yes, it's more to deliver but for the better. A successful Olympics is one brings back to the community Even the bidding process, once a fierce competition that often encourage the sort of wild promises, that led to financial It is a partnership now. So we have cities that come to us and say, &quot;Listen, what does it take if I want to organize the games in 2040?&quot; And the big difference is that the IOC is not judging anymore the quality of a given value proposition. It is contributing to it. The plans for upcoming games, Los Angeles in 2028, Milan in already seem to be heeding so far at least. But some critics have proposed What I would favor in the long run, what I think is most rational, particularly in these and the need to conserve resources and not waste resources, is we ought to have one city, that hosts the games permanently. Having everyone agree might be a challenging diplomatic problem. Regardless, the institutional reforms within the World Cup and the Olympics demonstrate that mega sporting events can respond to the demands and the days of massive cost overruns and wasteful infrastructure I think there are much more Whether the world decides I think it's still an undecided question.