If you want to be the life of the party, there's First, you need to be able to captivate people to be able to make people with different senses So in this video, I want to cover six easy are things anyone can do and you do not have To illustrate these points, we're going to and start with Jim's most obvious gag, &quot;playing story of going out in public wearing disguises. You know, so I got this mustache and I applied I had a baseball cap, and I kind of thought I got inside. Jim continues and he finally takes his daughter du Soleil, thinking that he pulled off his how the story he tells isn't particularly he embodies and exaggerates the facial expressions, that he plays. I've heard people say, and maybe you have for good stories, and whenever people say Yes, it's true. Some people's lives just might the truth of comedy is that you can make the characters life, and Jim Carrey demonstrates their mannerisms, their facial expressions, for comedic effect. It's incredibly simple Playing the character is also really helpful other people's feelings. So watch here how with, but does so in a way that is unlikely You'd see, by the way, that Jim is singing that he makes when he disses them that he playing the diva. In another video on Robert Downey Jr., I sword since it makes people feel bad sometimes. you're playing a dopey character who's being this mean thing, it's this over the top idiot. So this next clip is a bit more subtle, but when telling people not to sit down, which Again, there, you see that shift in tone to voice, and that marks the fact that he's kidding, feelings when he makes jokes at their expense. Moving along now to the next ridiculously Bill Burr in for this one because he doesn't does, but he's still a hilarious comedian. he starts telling stories and jokes. So here he is talking about a Black Friday You see right there? He uses Walter Payton's he solidifies that ridiculous image in your is. There's just something funny about being here, again, as Bill Burr continues. If Bill Burr had just said cookies, it wouldn't it would have been a bit funnier, but Mint adds to the humor. So when you are telling funny stories, remember The next tip gets to the core of confidence conviction in the 6 Mindsets video, but I in a humorous setting. Watch now as Jim Carrey stays absolutely committed the laughs start coming in only after a few If Jim had backed out halfway through and looked You might have experienced this before. You is funny, but you're nervous, because, maybe, know so well. So you rush it, and by the end, you started speaking in the first place, and conversation. If you have done this, it's because you didn't maybe your body language even apologized for committed to a bit just a little bit longer the party and just looking weird. For another example, watch how Jim plays out physical intensity and the amount of time Now, just to be clear, I am not suggesting parties. Jim is a zany character, so he goes what commitment looks like. His whole body runs off the stage, before he grabs the camera, the audience to kiss her. I can't show the up back in the studio after having run around continues to push that joke to the next level, Again, you don't need to do all that much. and see if you can take your jokes to the the first joke didn't hit. So the next tip is to use the element of surprise. fact that someone did something unexpected this into your own life is to purposely misinterpret Obviously, Jim knew what he meant, but he purposely answering a question that he wasn't it doesn't have to be witty. It doesn't have other than it's odd is plenty to make people this joke that has basically no content. All he has to do is to pronounce the word if you're watching this and think that Jim is that surprise is really easy to create makes people expect that randomness from him hard, but if you have a more deadpan style, here as Bill Burr's tone make you not expect much harder. By doing the opposite of what Jim Carrey does, the surprise is heightened. So the good news adapted to fit your own style. You just use balance. But the truth is all of these techniques are important. I love to focus on the actions, little micro-cues that can be the difference So here's some comedic and life philosophy and is going to go a long way towards helping This is one of the paradoxes of being life you enjoyed this channel, it's because a part You want to be liked and you do want to be nothing wrong with that. The thing that I to figure out whose acceptance you want. If you want to be accepted by everyone, you does. You won't be weird, you won't make faces, try to blend in and you will be invisible. the acceptance of any individual or any particular Instead, behave in a way that is fun and amusing look for acceptance from the people who liked that you want to be and the kind of people to be accepted by everyone because, then, little mindset. That is the kind of attitude that leads to leads to jokes landing. Unfunny people who funny?&quot; And I get that is actually the title what people ask. But the funniest people ask themselves how How can I have fun myself? And once you get I covered flow much more easily, and sometimes, And then, lastly, there's this Jim. As someone who's done what you're about to the effect you have on others is the most When he says currency, I think he's referring if you can make people feel good or laugh, experience. You're free to form relationships open up that otherwise wouldn't be there, the most. And I include that quote to thank you for continue checking out the channel, because other people and to form relationships is are more interested in that skill, specifically we set up another video that covers the four every time. You hit those four emotions in the right order, to the bar, a party, it doesn't matter. So if here. It's going to take you to a page where access to that video so that you can begin If you've enjoyed this video and want to get here and subscribe to the channel. That way, screen every single week, and you won't ever also fictional characters like Game of Thrones, self. So be sure to subscribe if you want please go ahead, write them down in the Comments. Jim Carrey was a suggestion that I got from I'm working on Arnold Schwarzenegger, which topics, but I'm always open to your feedbacks, so let me know. I hope that you've enjoyed this video and I will see you in the next one.