"Hi, I'm Sohla, here at the And we're going to Thanksgiving fried I'll do it again. [LAUGHS]:" [MUSIC PLAYING] "Today, we're going to make feast. Why fried chicken? Ham and I don't have the spread, like the because depending on by the time it's Thanksgiving, dinner like dozens of times. Fried chicken is one of our go not something we And it feels really special chicken all the time, and You're not going to miss any though. So even though we're having all those holiday flavors we're still going to but we're going to do For your green bean moment, smashed green bean salad. It's going to be It'll go really well We're still going to have but I want it to So it's going to be like a potato with a mustard gravy. Growing up, for had those Pillsbury rolls So to give you that we're making some They're so buttery, and it's perfect for Dessert, I'm taking the two pumpkin and pecan, and turning So you get the fried chicken That's the theme of this menu, There's a lot of connections. O.K., we thought about Ultimate goal, we're going to enjoy this fried I'm going to prep this over A lot of the cooking is And then tomorrow, we fry up, and then enjoy dinner. You will be able to pull this I recommend you print and you want to read so you can figure out how So we're going to except bake the sweet And then we can reheat Because the day that you don't want to be frazzled. And then you can clean your in law's coming and The first thing we're going And then next, we're The rolls have to be This dough actually mixes So while that happens, And then next, we are going See, this is how you layer. I want to see if there's time to do something else. Yeah, it's going to So during that the Mornay for the potatoes. We got our gravy. Ooh! We're going to make a So while the cake bakes, we'll That's not bad. This is not bad. You can do this. O.K. Get suited up. Is it time? Do you want to do [MUSIC PLAYING] "Wow. Did we do it?" "One side is sticking up." "Below?" "One second. All right." "So we're going to start I tested this with a wet and brine, and I tried one where brine. And at the end of the was delicious. It kind comes down to I like the wet brine in the juiciest chicken. So it's 3 3 tablespoons salt and just MSG just makes something So for our chicken, I prefer the bone-in, But I have this one friend so I made tenders for him and favorite. So you could turn this Sometimes, there is a lot a little bit too much, This is a nice thigh. I'm just going to trim If you have a little container skin going, you can save this O.K. To split this --" "Wait, wait. Sorry." "What? Is that a --" "You have a container Is this --" "Yeah, yeah, you "Is that a common thing?" "Yeah, you should have like a little container where bits. And then when you have and you have Schmaltz. Whoa. All right. To split this, you want to So I learned this works almost every time. Use the back of the skin just so you can get And see this line If you cut through there, get between the joints. I said almost, I was close. But look, it got me to the and then you can see There it is. Huh? We're not going through bone into our brine as we This meal is for think one leg should because we have so But if you're just this might only serve four. Kind of depends on what Personally, I really not just because it's organic, smaller. So you get a better because the more the more flavorful O.K. That's it. Easy. Now, I'm going let it hang out [MUSIC PLAYING] "We're going to make I love this shape. It's very retro. You roll the dough out and And then you flip it on And when it bakes, it So you're going to have all that are layered with and the layers pull apart like can make a little We're going to start off with Enriched Bread. So we're going to start This is called tangzhong. I'm probably but it's an amazing technique to increase the "Tangzhong." "I can't say that. I can't say that. I'm going to call it the roux. The great thing about using is it helps the So if you want to bake it'll still be Bring this to a simmer, and it's going to go a little don't hydrate fully but just keep whisking and thick, really smooth, the It's getting thicker. Don't stop just yet. O.K., see how it's beginning of the pot? Ah, see how gluey it is? That's good. If you take it off the dough is wet and hard to work with. And now, this has to cool. It's really important for it the dough. You can let this but I'm going to cover and then make pickles [LAUGHS] "Wow. O.K. All right, so these pickles. If you don't have use whatever These are great because If you're not into cucumbers, with this, like cauliflower, Whoa. I always trim off a little bit there's some enzyme there So we're going You can also do Whoa. Whatever you're feeling. Get crazy. If you do want to it's probably going to take a And I'm not going I'm going to cut -- start with the small guys I need to pack the jar. Wow, this pickle O.K. Let's pack these You really want to will be shocked by how from the pickling liquid. These are quick pickles but non-quick pickles, like you just cover it in a develops that acidity as in the solution. There's like room here. I think we are at capacity. For our brine, I'm going to Just a little toast. You can also make these like tuck a serrano in there. So you know these are toasted aromatic and you hear [POPPING SOUNDS] "Can you hear that pop? O.K. Now we're going in, water the vinegar in there, in your face. Vinegar. I'm using distilled white, but apple cider or whatever. So this is just like classic pickle. So we want to just bring and then we're going to O.K. So we have bubblage. I'm going to pour it into because the mouth on I just want to make sure The longer it So I'm going to let this hang once it's cool, I'm going So now, we're going This is a spicy mustard gravy sauce for McDonald's chicken So it's that in gravy form. So we're going to start actually going to use A lot of times, but here, I found the the mustard flavor, want the mustard to shine. So we want something Traditionally, for gravy, broth possible, but It's wild. I tried this with like really and it just mutes the So get, regular, low Don't get too fancy with this. We're doing this We want these to get brown. So the first time I did I accidentally burnt added so much flavor. So now, we're going to I tried this with a I did like a combo, I tried powder. But you want Colman's mustard McDonald's taste. O.K., we have some light Now, let's add our flour, and now just to avoid lumps. And our shallots are and our flour is going We don't want the flour to of overwhelms the The idea is everything the mustard. O.K., see our shallots, See how toasty they are? It's starting to That's what we want. Now, add your stock a little You just want to If you add it too quickly, the lumps after. And we are going but it's just better to Oh, this is exactly Wow. It's the gravy version. No matter what we're I try to make the And then if you're doing just add your See how smooth that is? Look at that. No lumps. At this point, you can just and you will be lump-free. Color really adds to flavor. So in order to make I want it to be very yellow. So I'm adding a little but it's just for color. I don't want flavor. It's going to be just a We want it to There's no mustard, but it And we're going to add Salt, pepper. You need to make sure otherwise that mustardy So you can see, coats I think that's good. I'm going to add the mustard I'm going to take it off And I'm not going to go because tomorrow, I'm going to adjust So now I'm just going to It would feel so annoying to for this little bit. And then I'm going to let this we'll put it in the fridge. Ooh, it's hot. Well done. We can do this. I think the tangzhong We should bread. So this is nice and cool. Not quite like fridge We're going to add yeast and the Mix it until it's a Three minutes, low speed. So I'm going to get This is for the Mornay is just cheese sauce. This is the base So we're going to start That's the theme That's the meaning I think we figured it out. It's roux. It's interesting because now, we did a milk roux, and now we're doing Wow. We're seeing a then we're going to add Now, we don't want any It starts out and it kind of lightens up. It gets nice and foamy, and And it's exactly the same a splash at a time. Every time I've made like someone in the comments is he adds all the He's too skilled to know Before you add every addition, it's nice and smooth. And I'm not even using And at this point, So you've just got to be and then dump it all in. Now, same deal as the gravy. Let it simmer to cook out that flouriness. So we're just going to let and then we'll finish it with seasoning tomorrow. Right now, it's bechamel. When we add cheese, But either way, Huh? Oh, I forgot the garlic! [GASPS]: I'll add it now. O.K., guys. Whoops. This is just what happens But it'll be O.K. But you were to the roux, just briefly, Now we set this aside. O.K. Our bread needs While it finishes up, the green bean salad. And what's awesome about this our beans. We're going to smash. We're going to smash and you need them to sit hours, six hours. And that salting and makes it more If you don't they're going to stay tough. They're not going We're putting this So if this is aggressively So toss it for a moment, in the bag, pop and we'll finish But now, we're going but I feel like my dough And I forgot I was supposed to That feels firm. It feels elastic. You can see it's like I'm going to add half and then the other O.K. While that we're going to make our And this also, like the in advance because you a little bit. Super easy. We're just going to shake it dissolves. Tomorrow, I'm going to add juice to this and some Lemon juice can kind of get far in advance, so we're going juice tomorrow. Oh, wow. Perfect timing. That butter got incorporated, add the rest of the butter. The beauty of the butterflake So you can use any favorite that you make a lot. So it doesn't have You could do this with a just has some butter in it. O.K., let's test this. I think we're there. Look at that. It's not tearing. It's falling off the hook. The final step you scrape the dough and fold it a few times. I kind of got sick so I just fold it in the bowl. If you were only making this and do it exactly as advised. But we got so much going on. O.K., we're going We're going to let this prove minutes, and then it's going will form it tomorrow. Wow. Let's see how far The best part about making a Shall we make cake? So we're going to It's supposed to combine the So the cake part is going to those warm spices. And then on top, we're going It's going to be a sticky on top. Everything you want. Everything you need. So I'm doing this I love a metal pan because the cake rises very evenly. I'm going to grease just so that the paper sticks. You could use a paper your hands are And then afterwards, All right, now for the batter. First, we're going So this is a really You got your wet and I wanted to keep it Cool. Now, the wet. We have room temperature eggs. I found the room got a little bit more was a little bit more plush. If you forget to the easiest thing is to cover while you mise out the And by the time you're they will be room temperature. This is dark corn use any kind of corn syrup. And there is no substitute Oftentimes, when there's people always ask, Can I use maple? But just because they're it doesn't mean They're actually and they work in completely goods. And don't worry, it's not the corn syrup. -- thing that we need that is recipe. Corn syrup is pure glucose, It makes things -- This is going to stay because of the glucose, If you substituted this for Am I going too far on a rant?" "No. Actually, this is [LAUGHS] "Because I'm why does it have "It has to be corn syrup. If you want the benefit of but don't want to increase the People are like, can It's like, no, dude. No, you cannot. All of it spikes your insulin. All of it's bad for you. Use the one that's I need to plug it in. So we're going to whip It's going to get thicker. It's going to hold the It's going to take O.K. See how thick That's because our eggs While this is whisking, in my oil. O.K., cool. So to finish up this cake, I'm and wet ingredients And you do that because if you and then the just mixing it a little it to evenly incorporate. So for pumpkin pie, I like But for cake, I always use the it can really So the canned stuff and it has that very I feel like the corn syrup So pour this in. All right, we're going The main thing is making I feel like the corners That looks good. We're going to give That's just going to Like that. Minimize some of We're going in the Now, we're going to make These potatoes are inspired at Claim Jumpers. Nobody here has heard of it Coast thing, or maybe It's like a gold rush themed mashed potato that I This is going to be a little reminiscent is why I thought it would go meal. So we got two The red skin is going to and we're going to leave the us a little texture And the Yukon gold, and we're going to peel these. Double the fun. I know none of you have but I promise it's like real. And their mashed Now, we're going to bring it up to a boil, and to a gentle simmer. Otherwise, the potatoes Season generously. Potatoes, you always If you drop your the outside is going to and you end up with a little Since we got a little bit of we're going to prepare some There's no official We're just going O.K., so I want The moms who really would put like a ring of We're going to do so I'm to freeze All right. I'm going to brew Strong tea is the We want it to be a to help cut all the booze. We're putting a lot of so I guess it's not exactly The potatoes still And I guess we're going for the cake. While it's warm, we're because we want to pour it on warm. Otherwise, it just kind So we're going to It's not really a caramel, So we're not toasting We're just going to cook it We want a really sticky, because I want it to remind goopy topping. O.K., that's good. So we're going to turn this it a little just to cool before we add the vanilla. If you pour it on right away it just like runs You want the cake a little warm. You don't have to worry because it's going to and we're going to cover If you can buy them Otherwise, pop it in a for like, maybe 10 minutes. Flaky salt. And then I'm going minutes. And then wrap this Leave it at room temp on the counter for if you want to make All right, let's Make sure it's totally tender. A lot of times, and then afterwards, was a little under. Mhm. O.K. You want to get as much And you want to pop this your stove will go. And you want to just for a couple minutes. We added a good bit of but we still need salt. When you want really potatoes, you that your cream is warm when you add it. But here, we're We don't want that We want some of the so we're adding cold I've got a cup measured out, just 1/2 a cup, and we just a very gentle smash. I think I'm good. I don't think I Very tangy from Now, if you've been tell me that doesn't look potatoes. Now, we're going to let this minutes, cool down a bit and O.K. We're in a good place. We finished our list for so tomorrow's going We just got to finish We got to get the bread and then we can focus because fried chicken is hard. Normally, I make fried but doubling it to eight, It's a lot of splatter. It's a lot of mess. So it's great that we got all and we can just really "Any last words of wisdom?" "Order food tonight so you [LAUGHS]: See you tomorrow. Welcome back. Today, we're going to So the first thing I'm going the bread, and then we're potatoes. Those things take the longest of the way. And then after that, and set up our fry station. I recommend that you start your guests get here, so But you could also just wait and make them fry. The choice is yours. So the bread has Whoa. So I'm going to start For a long time, I said that so you can control your I feel like it's one of those just repeat and you don't And now, I'm like, hm. So I'm buttering the Grab our dough. I need to divide this and you could use a scale. It's about 550 grams, and because you don't really have I'm going to set aside half. I want to roll this just under a inch thick, to help keep it into a square. So you see, I'm I'm rotating it. I'm just going slow so I can Just gives you to really get the shape right. O.K., let's see It's a little thinner a little wider than 11. That's fine. That's good. So I'm going to brush this Because our butter it's going to solidify It's practically softened All right. So now, we're going I divided the dough is going to turn O.K., we got our strips, And now, we're going to As you cut each one, pop it and you want that cut sticking up because it's going to flake open. It's almost like a laminated And it doesn't matter It bakes up so cute We've got our rolls and now, until they get a little It could be as or as much as an So just keep an eye on it. I'm just going to take a a little moist environment. I'm just going to put So now, I'm going to These are going to get that we started Roasting them takes So it's a good thing These have already been to roast it with the skin on. And I was really inspired So we're going to season it like to put in my So a little onion smoked paprika and generously And then we're just going to as you can. It kind of gets like but it'll be O.K. Hands especially when you got I'm sorry. I'm not trying to body And now we're going to put snugly fit it. And I'm going to just scrape and seasoning right on top. So I'm going to wrap this in until the potatoes between 40 to 55 minutes. Now, we fry chicken. Yeah? Before you get frying, it's your setup. Once you get frying, you don't for a sheet tray to You want to stick So I've got a sheet tray with to first drop my chicken when And then we're going to go with a wire rack so the bottom soggy. So I love to fry in either It's going to hold the consistently. If your oil temp the crust is going to absorb to get very greasy. I have a candy but I'm also going to keep because I have trust issues. I'm going to put We're using peanut oil. I know oftentimes you want to And even though it technically they're really unstable fats down and develop off flavors. My favorite fat to fry in It's like the new There's a couple It is very expensive, the crispiest is very, very stable so you You know what's Animal fat. So if you really want to have I really want this seasoning And I found that something taste like stuffing So that's what's We're starting off with a I'm going to use my fingers I'm also going to crumble I feel like when I smell sage, I'm just going to O.K., I'm keeping an eye on my we're going to fry I got my parsley Now, to this, Let me tell you, it will We got a little garlic a little bit of sugar. It's going to really help and a touch of MSG. And I'm going to sprinkle this out of the fryer. Because we have a lot of we don't need to O.K., so here, I It makes it extra crispy and But I get it. It's like a specialty be able to find, so And I'm going to season of salt. And that's it. I'm not going to put because I'm going to O.K. I think We can grab our chicken. O.K. So when it's at 275, I This one says 275. That's what I'm So let's drop it in. Now sage tells you so it's really bubbly and loud a lot of moisture. And you know it's going to be to quiet down. Some have gotten so just scoop those out. And it might not be but as long as the once it gets cool, because we're going to crumble fried chicken. Anytime anything comes don't forget to season, We don't need much. My ideal fried and what I love about it are little bits. And so the key to making want to prime your flour with to create these You get these really big and get really craggily This one says 315. This one says 325. That's what I'm You're going to have a Wet hand, drop it in, and the chicken, and press. Really, really get and that's going to make sure bits. Then pull it out and See that? See those shreds? That's my favorite part. That's what you want. That's how you get And don't be afraid to I know it can be scary, but from far. So you've got to get brave. It's not going to And you can't really do this going to end up pulling And we are going to try The drums don't really have -- it's skin on both sides. But for the thighs, make The side that's hidden at before you flip, is going And we're going and that's going to be O.K. When we get this pan full, it and that's O.K. Don't The temp will You don't want the temp to Don't get in there and Just let it do its thing. It'll be O.K. When you happening, that's See how we're getting I think the first piece Also, I dropped everything in the middle, so I guy went in there first. Are you ready? Yes, you are. Look at that, I love when the with the bottom of the pan and bits. It's my favorite part. So I'm hitting 325, so a little bit because I want O.K. Successful flip. We didn't lose any crust. Frying is not scary. I feel like people The oil has to get to like 450 but there's a lot of signs. It's going to start smoking. If anything happens like your oil is getting turn off the heat With dark meat, fried chicken, brined, I really I know that seems really of connective tissue and fat and it doesn't really But we've brined it. It's not going to be dry. And something about it's very hard for it to be is sealed in that crust. Let's check one piece. This first guy. It's 190. We're good. So I'm going to evacuate Before I do that, I'm because an empty pot of oil You'll be so surprised. So I'm not going to turn the dredging and putting And now, we will So now, while it's hot, Be generous. And I'm going to flip because we don't want Don't be shy with this. This is what makes Pluck out these big chunks, it might burn. O.K., our rolls I'm going to give them a in the oven. 350 degrees, till [MUSIC PLAYING] "They have softened. All right. We can take our potatoes out. I've got my second final and my rolls are in the oven. They're just a The chicken looks good. Chicken looks good. I think everything's But you know, there's always a to put a whole bunch of But that's what I love I think it's better so you don't have Actually, the first after getting those rolls out, and I'm going to It's going to make the rest of You can see the As it baked, it just like to have these really And now, while it's still Drench it in butter. It's going to soak up And then, I think our Wow, what timing." [MUSIC PLAYING] "All right, finish it up. Lemon zest. This was a last and it ended up being Ham's really brightens and we're going to crumble Ooh, extra sagey. So much sage, right? Our chicken is totally ready. We're going to make punch, and then we're going So I'm going to start partying O.K. This is the most I don't have a recipe, Just mix it until it's good. So I love doing a I have friends coming over. It's just so stressful to try are here. You could even You really can batch anything. And then also, I'll have wine I love making punch. And then you just taste and it's delicious." [MUSIC PLAYING] [LAUGHS] "It needs a little help. [LAUGHS]: Let's add some tea. Oh, it's like -- it's really hot. Can I do a series where I just "No recipes." "No recipe. So I'm going to Ooh! Oh, wow. Whoa! It's like, magically, That's for me. And we're going to which is just going to be Oh, that's good. O.K., cool. Let this chill, and we're up, and myself. Ooh, wonderful. Plate up our pickles. They look like pickles. Isn't that cool? If you've never made pickles, You're like, whoa. So this is the bechamel It's thick, and that's So that's going to get going. And we got our gravy has been put into I did not do that. It was against my will. There you go. See, it fits. You can't seal it, Just plop. Very satisfying. Mashed potatoes. So we're going to get those in microwave it, and then get in Mornay, slowly melting. O.K., so the salad, the colors changed. It's more like bright green, just from hanging So we're going to finish up olive oil and some Wow. So we're going to add our and shake it up. Toss it around. There's so much dressing on to dress our leaves. We got really nice Hi, potatoes. I'm returning for you. Oh god. Panic. There's always We're definitely going So I'm going to go and then we'll see if we need it. O.K. Let's see. We might need a little Not a lot, because we really thin. Salad, let's return. So add a little bit of beans just like that. You can play this up before and just throw Just keep layering, And then right when we're going to shower it with onions. You want to hold off will lose its crunch. Let's get this This is where you want This is like just enough You know what I mean? It's really about the cheese. If you just scattered you want to take Go for that. But this kind of makes it feel There's no cheese Now, the main thing today, on, you don't want to get things. Mm. It needs salt. There we go. It's getting smooth. The cheese is melted. Now, we're going to drape Make sure you and then go back with more. I'm going to get everything because this is All right, so Definitely needs more Maybe a bit more milk too. I think, three more O.K., what's next? Let's put our rolls Whoa. O.K., fried chicken time. Hey, buddy. Did you know you're a star? Look at that. Come on, I think that's more O.K., they're both fun Everybody can be fun. O.K., our gravy I'm going to thin her out, but my sweet potatoes burn. Mm. O.K. That's what Really nice and Oh yeah. Don't be afraid of It's not going to be bitter. It's just going to really And because we didn't we mixed it into it's not broken or greasy. Now, as you can see, And now, we're going to Save a little for the top Ooh, potatoes. Make it look swoopy. Wow. Whoa. Huh? All right. So, our cake. Now, if de-panning stresses Just cut it into pieces. Oh no. Oh no, you're cracking. Come on. The caramel kind of crumbled. If this happens to There's so many pecans, Either way, if you get a or if it's a little bit it still tastes good. So just don't tell people You don't apologize. You pretend like it's correct. Just be confident. If your potatoes are cold, and move on with your life, And I guess we are ready. We just have to set the [MUSIC PLAYING] "Come, gather around, guests. Let's eat." "Thanksgiving, 2024!" "This is gorgeous." "Happy Thanksgiving." "And this is the highest you. It looks like Popeye's." "That was the goal. That's the inspiration. Yeah, I love Popeye's." "There's fried sage. What else is on this chicken?" "It's like so it's seasoned with And I recommend squeezing "Mm!" "The sweet potato has "Oh my, these taters." "Mhm." "The sweet potatoes are seasoned with stuff you so like garlic, The salad is inspired so it's smashed green beans "There were green "Wait, do you not "No." "No, I don't have that "This is so much the Thanksgiving that I make." "So I like these because So take a little mustard a little chicken, and "You're like a mad scientist." "This is so good." "This is so good." "Like, doing it like "So this is a pumpkin and caramel on top." "It's the best of pecan And that's how I like it. And the best of a cake." "It is really balanced. And I like how salty "Thanks for coming to the And if you want these head over to New Cheers!" "Cheers!" "Cheers!" "Cheers! Oh, this was so fabulous. Thank you so much." "Thanks for coming." [MUSIC PLAYING]