In 1914, Europe was at the peak of its power. and armies larger and more powerful they would turn them against each other. Each victorious war, but instead 1914 dragged In the decades before the First industrialization led to huge increases in stark inequalities in society. Ruling groups so encouraging nationalism and pride the anger and energy of the popular classes Britain, France, and Russia had well-established arrived on the scene. Germany became a unified own overseas empire and bluewater navy to offset the powerful influence of social ambitions for its "place in the sun" caused who were already in competition with each other. culture with jingoistic press, militaristic children's toys to thriller novels and even movies These political and social tensions caused and the danger that they might lead to war As the Great Powers expanded their empires and military capability and political alliances. reactions from the other powers. The UK responded Dreadnought class. Meanwhile, Austria-Hungary where new independent states had largely replaced By 1914, a system of alliances bound most of for worse. France and Russia had been allies since Austria-Hungary, and Italy. Britain had for most of the 19th century, but its fear of the Franco-Russian block to create the "Triple a conflict involving one or two powers was more Germany felt surrounded by potential enemies, diplomatic crises in Morocco in 1905 firm but there was no war, which angered "If we again slip away from this [Moroccan] we cannot bring ourselves to put forward to force through with the sword, I shall I shall then resign. But before handing in Army and to place ourselves under Japanese to make money without interference and Germany's worries about its situation priority from the navy, which had which caused France and Russia to it seemed that time was on the Entente's side sooner rather than later. Historians still debate refusal to share international power played While Great Power alliances hardened across The Austro-Hungarian annexation of Bosnia from Serbian nationalists, who wanted closer ties Russia then supported the independent Slav 1912 and 1913, in which Serbia gained more and Russia rose sharply over the Serb counterintelligence officer Alfred Redl Long term causes of the war like imperial mean that war was inevitable. For a had to come that would force governments 1914 Serb nationalist Gavrilo Princip Ferdinand and his wife Sophie in Sarajevo. Following the killings, Austria-Hungary blamed some semi-official Serbian involvement in the Nikola Pasic and the rest of his government knew in 1914 there was no proof of Serbian involvement. directly. Austria-Hungary was disappointed that killings more forcefully, a view shared by German "Not only in the press, but also in society, one meets almost only with unfriendly judgments But the Serbian response was the one that mattered condolences but also claimed the assassinations Serbian investigation lasted only a week and nationalists and newspapers were less diplomatic. themselves for the killings, while others complained, Pasic said he had neither the tools Back in Vienna, the Imperial Council met to Conrad von Hotzendorf had argued forcefully Foreign Ministry was flooded with letters from response. Austrian artist Joseph "Last year I took the liberty would have to learn how to tolerate Serbian the matter has acquired an entirely Conrad put it more bluntly: "War! War! War!" (Clark 392) The Austrian government decided Serbia and resolve the issue of to be destabilizing the empire. The But attacking Serbia meant and for Austria that was unthinkable without the German ambassador to Vienna had urged made Germany's position clear by giving Austrian ambassador Count Laszlo SzOgyeny-MarIch "The Kaiser authorized me to inform our Gracious support [...] If we had really recognized the Kaiser Wilhelm would regret if we did which is all in our favor." (Mombauer 14) Wilhelm went on to say that he and if Austria attacked Serbia, it And so, by early July, four possible peaceful negotiated settlement. 2) an continental war involving Austria, or 4) a world war if Britain and Only Austria-Hungary and Russia had but the system of European alliances would neither the Triple Alliance or Triple Entente Instead each state had to decide The Triple Entente powers generally preferred Britain and France favoured although Russia was more willing to accept a keep its reputation as protector of the Balkan the area around the Turkish Straits that were so If it came to a Great Power war, France that Britain would join. In Britain, a major war and some members of cabinet. Some politicians, reasoned that if a major war broke out if it joined Russia and France. If Germany British interests and security would badly opposition in the UK. As far as the Entente Powers Understanding Austro-German intentions them. Their leaders saw little benefits resolve the issue of Serbian nationalism or The best outcome would probably come from a launching such a war meant accepting the risk and possibly Britain. Germany had made plans the longer it waited, the more powerful Russia Germany and Austria both decided to risk resolve the Serbian issue in Austria's favour. If dominate the continent. The wildcard, of course, an Austro-German victory was much less likely So in the face of rival alliances, and conflicting Europe faced the July Crisis of 1914. After Austria-Hungary planned to move quickly against On July 7, the Austro-Hungarians planned their the government was not united. Hungarian hesitant. The Kingdom of Hungary already would only increase tensions. Tisza insisted Serbia to give one last opportunity for action. Crafting the ultimatum took time, and The ultimatum text was not the only delay. for the harvest, and mobilization would take two Prime Minister arrived in St Petersburg on July so if the Austrians gave the ultimatum Moscow and Paris might quickly It's debated how much the French and coming Austrian ultimatum, but they did use unity. As President Raymond Poincare told the "We shall have weighty matters to discuss. But there is one question which is very England. We must get her to come The Austro-Hungarians waited until the send the ultimatum to the Serbs. Of the of Serbian officials and the suppression of the ultimatum demanded Serbia "accept of the Imperial and Royal Government [of to surrendering Serbian sovereignty, and ultimatum so the Serbs would have no choice Belgrade replied within the 48-hour deadline and accepted all the points except for those like allowing Austro-Hungarian The ultimatum triggered a wave of feverish realised the seriousness of the crisis, which Vienna and Berlin until now. London, Paris and St suggested mediation talks including Britain, Russo-Austrian relations were by now Sergey Sazonov actually shouted at the "I know what it is. You want to make war egging you on. You are setting fire to Europe. you will see what effect this has in London The Tsar ordered partial mobilisation followed by the "Period Preparatory to to call up reservists, gather supplies the Tsar wanted to make sure that these measures So Austria-Hungary had a blank cheque from Germany unacceptable. On July 28, 1914 Austria-Hungary regional one, but that would all change in In reality, partial Russian mobilisation was to partially mobilise and Tsar Nicholas's would disrupt a potential full mobilisation and political leaders of all powers if one army mobilized, its neighbor or run the risk of an early defeat thanks to border within days. This dilemma gave the On July 30, after overcoming last minute nerves, the Tsar announced full mobilisation. From July 29 to August 1, Tsar Nicholas and telegrams. Affectionately signing 'Nicky' affection for each other, but also issued "I now receive authentic news of serious frontier. Responsibility for the safety of defence upon me... My friendship for you and on his deathbed has always been sacred to me The peace of Europe may still be maintained by measures which must threaten Germany and London now tried mediation again, including stop at Belgrade. On the 29th, German asked Britain to stay neutral if Germany Foreign Secretary Edward Grey now desperately two-thirds of which had previously opposed war. "Situation seriously reviewed from all points of Britain still would not say if it would join was now unsure of British intentions and including suggesting the Halt in Belgrade Helmuth von Moltke was encouraging Conrad "Who actually rules in Berlin, But the Austro-Hungarians claimed it was now too of Belgrade would not achieve their aims. Moltke since the German war plan depended on speed called for German armies to first defeat then shift German troops east. If Russia was disadvantage. The Germans had started preparing on pre-mobilization, the Kriegsgefahrzustand The decision led to another flurry of telegrams. while simultaneously asking Austria-Hungary to also asked for French and British neutrality in a a third royal cousin - King George - now called Herbert Asquith recalled the moment he "The poor king was hauled from his bed and one him... I read the message &amp; the proposed should be made more personal and direct Nicky' - and the addition at the end of And so, as July came to an end, messages between European capitals. it was too late for more talk - and they On July 31, French General Joseph Joffre asked his government to reverse its more President Poincare described the meeting, "Joffre appeared with the placid face of a calm, outstripped by German mobilisation, speedily find herself in an irreparable France finally mobilised at 4pm on August 1. In with Chancellor Hollweg and 30 minutes later, Moscow told Berlin that Russia would not stop on Russia. On August 2, German troops were on the This was in accordance with the Schlieffen Plan, The British position was still not clear. London Britain might remain neutral if Germany did not to abandon the Schlieffen Plan and stop his Von Moltke replied that stopping the massive and The Kaiser was angry, and his answer showed he "Your illustrious uncle [Von Moltke such an answer. If I order it, Soon after, the Kaiser learned that there and gave his armies the green light to follow the By August 2, the mood in Britain had shifted the French they would block any German naval Belgian neutrality. Belgian neutrality was Germany had already begun to cross. The same it had prepared back on July 26. The Germans so Germany had no choice but to move the Germans would consider it an enemy. "The intentions [Germany] ascribes to formal declarations made to us...The infringement Government threatens her would constitute a strategic interest justifies such a breach of to repel every infringement of its rights That same day, the final dominoes began remain neutral and would not join its claimed France was about to attack it, which On August 4, German troops marched into France and Russia to guarantee her independence By August 4, the Great Powers of Europe were at next four years, roughly 20 million people would debates were raging about the war's origins and After the outbreak of the war, "color book" making its case as to and, basically blamed the other side. After the Allies put the responsibility squarely on the Since then, the evidence of 1914 has as historians have tried to answer who was many historians concluded that all the In the 1960s, German historian Fritz Fischer claimed that German government and military achieve them through war. The Fischer school against Russia and France and directly led More recently, other single Powers have been McMeekin emphasized that Russia's actions and Niall Ferguson blamed Britain Some other recent interpretations, like suggest the war was largely unintended misunderstandings, and perceived insecurities. unlikely to become involved and tried its Another debate centres around the recent consensus is that the alliance as Italy proved by staying neutral in 1914. were many times when things might have taken a quickly against Serbia, or if Britain had taken There is also the discussion about culture for example, suggests that the cultural, military and indeed desirable, tool for societal Since modern war also involved the need for military commanders became as or the crisis. But their inflexible strategies so perceived military necessity dictated partial mobilization not to scare Germany but want to bring Britain into the war but their This was the exact opposite of Clausewitz' and is an important aspect of understanding The war that started with the July the war amongst historians to make sense of But those future debates were far from the minds every city, town, and village rushed to their the borders, and the armies marched towards the soldiers were caught up in a sort of war fever, jingoisitic headlines in the press, and soon, by to see off the men and women stuck flowers in the people rioted against local Serbs. In Paris, angry German company - but they were actually Swiss. once believed - for millions, especially in and dread. French military doctor Louis Maufrais "Everyone stopped as though petrified. fixed to the sidewalk, looked at the clocktower there was a deep silence." (Le Naour) socialists might stop a war with a but despite a few demonstrations, most socialist The German Social Democrats all voted for war Jaures was assassinated by a radical nationalist. "Between Imperial Germany and republican France, France republicaine et socialiste!" (Le Naour) to war for the first time in a century. And the fears of those not cheering The German plan, the Schlieffen or armies through neutral Belgium and then swing into encircle and crush the French within six weeks. Russia, which would mobilize much more slowly. The required more men than Germany had, but the bulk marched into Belgium confident of victory. far too small to stop the massive German force properly coordinated with the French and British important fortresses, especially around Liege and to hold up the German advance until French help heavy artillery - 420mm guns, and Austro-Hungarian was in command of the forts near Liege: into action they hurled against us shells which surpasses anything known hitherto [...] I had great blast passed by, and I was thrown violently on my way, only to be stopped by a choking of the peephole, I saw to my horror the fort had rubbish, while huge tongues of flame were shooting As the fighting raged around Liege, German for jumping in and taking command of a brigade in pull back quickly, even though French and British areas, German troops' fear of mostly imaginary to kill some 5500 Belgian civilians - and they well . Allied propagandists later used reports create the narrative of the Rape of Belgium. main German force was coming through Belgium, and French 5th Army run right into it. The Germans desperate delaying actions. The BEF briefly but the outflanked the British and forced them never received the retreat order and was trapped: men to fix bayonets and charge, which the gallant ninepins. As I loaded my revolver I was hit in the bullet through the calf of my right leg, which me when I was on the ground to finish me off, that turned the bullet and saved my life." (Hart 56) Cateau on the 26th, while the French 5th Army was so exhausted it didn't help them. The Germans Retreat continued, not only for Allied soldiers, "One of the saddest sights of that day, main road to Guise. Carts heaped with household children. These carts were ruthlessly for the troops. This was absolutely necessary, While the Allies were reeling in the north, army sprang into action according to its Plan and countered German moves with attacks in the the Frontiers, a massive clash from August 14 to but often without enough artillery support and result was slaughter - German artillery and tens of thousands. On August 22 alone, around Captain Ignard was among the wounded: faltered under rapid fire at close range from could not see my no 2 section, I looked back followed our advance.[...] I set off immediately time to go a few steps before I got a bullet shoulder was shattered, my arm hanging only by The Germans had planned to allow the French to but Crown Prince Rupprecht couldn't resist the formations pushed farther west than planned. This seriousness of the threat from the north. French had failed, sacked dozens of generals, and took of operations to counter the German threat strike force near Amiens and hit the Germans The new French 6th Army, raised in Paris and the French capital and threaten the German flank German advance became more and more menacing, and and the war, had already been won. But in and more difficult for the Germans. Chief of the gave conflicting orders, and began to doubt: Victory is the destruction of enemy resistance. victor takes prisoners. Where are our prisoners? He ordered his two westernmost armies a gap opened up between them as they approached reconnaissance revealed the sudden change and Joffre convinced British commander Field Marshal again, and ordered a general offensive: coming battle [...] All our efforts must go Troops hat can no longer advance must hold and be killed on the spot rather than no failure will be tolerated."(Le Naour) the Battle of the Marne from September 5 to 12 - in civilian taxicabs - and the Allies outnumbered Germans had 3300 guns to the Allies' 3000. at first the Germans were getting the upper hand. "The men fix bayonets, a flag is unfurled. It's dead man's weapon, slip on a cartridge belt scattered and pushing forward in every that I'm stepping on? The dead and wounded, The Allies kept up the pressure. The BEF into the vulnerable gap between the German many German soldiers , French firepower was eye a hundred times yesterday. We are lying whom it is impossible to approach as he simply German headquarters was blinded by the fog of successes, but did know of the mortal threat armies . Staff Officer Colonel Hentsch visited the the Germans decided to retreat to the and was replaced by Erich von Falkenhayn. The Aisne, but lacked the strength - France had been Marne. Some historians even argue this battle SEGUE before 1914 was out, but the French had stopped war plan. Meanwhile, Austro-Hungarian armies were Austro-Hungarian planners faced a they were only at war with Serbia, but they of war with Russia. Once Russia joined the war, it they had to attack Serbia as well. Chief of Staff Franz Conrad von Hotzendorf had the Serbian front, a large group for the Russian could be sent to either front . At first, Conrad risk it actually getting bogged down, since so it would play a temporary support role This meant the Austro-Hungarian attack into a rival of Conrad's, was keen for a victory he 40% of whom were Serbs, Bosnians, or Croats, the Serbs. The 200,000 strong Serbian army and modern French artillery, but they are The Austro-Hungarian troops began the so-called on August 12. Their advance from the west ran into logistical problems, heavy rain, and defensive position inland from the border, but Habsburg troops, who had orders to show no mercy: the utmost strictness, hardness, and distrust as one shot is taken at our troops in a village, seen outside a village or especially in hiding weapons. [...] if these people look halfway As they advanced, Austro-Hungarian troops especially in the town of Sabac . Some estimate in about 10 days (though the numbers are debated), Serbian commander Radomir Putnik pivoted his army Battle of Cer Mountain. The Serbian night attack "After a quick burst of fire, the Serbs charge...in comes too unexpectedly for the troops, for whom defend themselves valiantly at some places, but at After several days of desperate fighting, the territory by August 24. Some Serbian troops take they learned of the Habsburg atrocities. The a Serbian victory at the cost of 17,000 killed 20,000 killed and wounded and 4500 prisoners. but the population did not rise up So Serbia had won an unexpected victory were higher on the Russian front, and there, The campaign in the east began with complications plans coordinated with the Germans, and more troops to face the Russians than they attack out of East Prussia, but they refused. had been slower than expected, and Russian as Conrad's last minute changes meant that troops and had to march tens of extra kilometers exhausted before the campaign even began. 750,000 to 500,000, a lot more cavalry, and were trained in indirect fire thanks to the Conrad launched a large-scale offensive rear of the Russian armies facing East Prussia. planned to send the armies of his Southwest Front At first, the Austro-Hungarians were successful. Krasnik thanks to determined infantry from the skilled Russian artillery . "Russians are fleeing everywhere. Our troops were charge at the enemy with unrelenting vigour [...] us too heavily - are no match for us." Lloyd 30 a few days later, as they forced the Russians though, didn't have the numbers or the and again paid a heavy price: the battlefield...into a living hell. And the events held expectations of the war." Lloyd 32 Brusilov's Eighth Army led the charge into Austrians at Gnila Lipa in late August also attacked the northernmost Austrian armies, Battle of Rawa-Ruska. A massive Austro-Hungarian withdrew deep into Habsburg territory , leaving Fresh Russian units and devastating use of and thinly-spread Austro-Hungarian formations. as one Austro-Hungarian soldier recalled: blocked the streets for miles. [...] All of screeching in a wild cacophony of voices; the horse-mounted train commanders vented their pistols. Hundreds of broken and bullet-ridden carcasses and the corpses of soldiers." Lloyd 52 atrocities. The army suspected local Ukrainians alleged spies - estimates vary between 1500 and there was no widespread pro-Russian or espionage By late September, Russia had captured and the forts at Lemberg and Jaroslav. wounded, and 100,000 prisoners. 100,000 more Russian losses were heavy too: 210,000 killed and Russia could afford such losses and Austria could Austria-Hungary's eastern offensive Galicia offensive actually achieved its armies. At the same time though, the Russian When war broke out, the Russian Empire rushed possible to help France. On August 17, two Russian hoping to surround the smaller German forces totaled 500,000 men and about 1650 guns, while But the Germans had the advantage of local rail on several lakes, while the Russians had poor roads and few supplies. The Russian thick forests and several lakes, and its army As the Russian armies occupied German villages, atrocities - most were exaggerated , but Russian and killed nearly 1500 civilians, usually on This fired German ideas of Russian barbarism and on August 19. Corps commander General Hermann easternmost Russian army too quickly and without Gumbinnen saw General Pavel Rennenkampf's officer recalled the intensity of the battle: line was so precise and deliberate [...] that had to stop and drop to the ground. in these open attacks, as they advanced in Then, German aerial reconnaissance and radio showed that the entire German position was under in the south . German commander Maximilian von and retreat to the Vistula river, but the Army von Hindenburg and Erich Ludendorff in his But the German 8th Army staff already had a battle for his army not to press the advance, which They quickly transferred units south along the the unsuspecting Samsonov on August 23. Confusion and thirsty troops suddenly driven back along ordered his army deeper into the trap - by the it was too late. By August 30, Samsonov's army and the remnants withdrew across the a dramatic account of the carnage: two huge lakes or swamps to drown was ghastly, horses he will never forget. So fearful was the horses, and ammunition struggling in they turned the machine guns on them. But even in for a week after." (Clark) The Russians had lost 92,000 prisoners, against German losses of just 15,000 killed Battle of Tannenberg, historic revenge for against the Polish Kingdom . The victory made and the myth of Tannenberg helped propel The Germans then turned their attention to Samsonov. Trains rushed units back north, and the Battle of the Masurian Lakes from September 5-13, forced them out of all but a tiny piece of East Russian army, which even launched a successful front settled. By September, a month of titanic struggle in Russia defeat Austria, and Germany defeat defeats were decisive, and the powers The Austrians, especially Potiorek, still hoped and November but failed, then finally took ammunition and weapons from France and Russia, 15 , leaving the Balkan front in a stalemate and and sick refugees it could barely care for. g and German armies all attempted large-scale 1914. The Habsburg army briefly relieved the siege them back again, and the Germans stopped another The Germans and Austro-Hungarians advanced before a Russian counterattack threw them their capture of Lodz in December. That same avoid another disaster by stopping a major keeping Russian forces away from Cracow and relatively unknown today, but cost both sides great suffering for millions of men fighting lack of artillery shells and other supplies . Central Powers' side in October opened up a global jihad against the Allies , but it made and the Russians attacked in the Caucasus. War Minister Enver Pasha ordered an ambitious Ottoman troops set out into the Allahuekber but the campaign quickly turned into a deadly extremely cold, and Ottoman badly-equipped Tens of thousands froze to death, the Russian and the surviving Ottomans retreated into Anatolia There was fighting across the globe as well. with Britain, but also to expand its own empire German colony in China at Tsingtao, taking it French, and German colonial forces battled in the British and German navies clashed in leaving Britain in control of the So after months of bloody fighting, and the armies dug in - usually, by using Western Front that 1914 saw the introduction Now, trenches were not unknown before 1914 - even more in more recent conflicts like and Russo-Japanese War. But the network of armies dug in 1914 was unprecedented in its scale, Once the initial war plans failed, both sides misleadingly known as the Race to the Sea. Even the front lines began to harden. By October unbroken from the Swiss border to the deepen over the next three years. Mobile to be replaced by trench warfare once the grand and why new offensives had little chance to break The arms industry developed deadly new and when these new weapons were used the results were devastating. So devastating shelter in trenches. The weapons of 1914 made last European great power wars in 1870 or 1866. French 75mm was considered the best field gun hydraulic brake system, it could fire in bursts as opposed to about 5 rounds per minute for the had ranges of 7 to 11,000m - far beyond the 3500m artillery that could fire even heavier shells even also more powerful than in previous wars, thanks Small arms had also become more deadly. British rifles all had superior ranges and rates of fire to 15 rounds a minute per rifle. Modern machine fire 500 bullets every minute, 5 times as many Military experts knew of these developments before like in the Russo-Japanese War, and "Bullets can still kill a man at 2000m. At men." (Legrand-Girarde and Plessis 21) how this would influence fighting - would theorists thought it might lead to a defensive felt that a vigorous attacking spirit would battles in 1904-05. French Captain Billard was "War is not so much about science will always yield to devotion every trooper must be inculcated with this reveal itself in the offensive." (Loez 95) showed the new weapons made attacking in the Charles de Gaulle experienced first-hand: and concentrated. Second by second the shells grew stronger. Those who survived lay and the humble corpses. In an instant it had world could withstand this fire." (Hart 50) in droves. After just 5 months of fighting Germany about 85,000, and Britain about 30,000 were lost in August and September, before These losses were proportionally heavier than any escape was the relative safety of the trenches, "The fire of the [German] heavy guns is admirably six shell craters in a 30m diameter circle; and But however accurate their fire, a trench gives infantry can only be dislodged by infantry, Another problem that ended mobile warfare for the long haul was how to fight. Given the early trench systems, armies struggled to sustain and especially coordinating the two. situations. In mobile war, they often fired battles and when faced with trench systems, targets at ranges greater than they had trained more information which in 1914, was difficult Aerial reconnaissance helped, but aircraft were and dig in to hide their guns from prying eyes. enemy was risky business and mistakes often took into account enemy firepower, like moving but officers often had difficulty coordinating denser formations, which then withered made this mistake at Ypres in October, as "A great grey mass of humanity was charging, us not 50 yards off. [...] I have never shot so much than a few seconds and they were down." (Hart 73) the two main combat arms in a way that would place at the right time to help the infantry enough liaison officers to communicate the needs overly-eager infantry officers didn't always wait Captain Alphonse Grasset recalled the suffering "My Company was sustaining heavy losses. enemy who concentrated the combined fire of us. [...] among the men lying on the ground one dead. [...] we had no support from our artillery! the army corps, besides those destroyed they arrive? We were alone!" (Hart 43) even put out an explicit warning to his infantry after he'd received reports of units doing just of the doctrine of the offensive, though Another factor that enabled trench and control. The armies that took the field the German army numbered about 2.3 million vast armies would receive and act on orders could manage such masses of men, had caused many And indeed, commanders did struggle to direct who needed to move the farthest and the fastest. and Von Moltke ended up accepting 1st rather than approving or countermanding the order couldn't handle the troops well enough, and Part of the problem was that the technology to to massive moving formations wasn't equal lines or telephones, and what equipment French General Gascouin was among "A few km more of telephone wire would the blathering on about combined infantrymen and gunners." ( Linnenkohl 176) and voice radio was not effective until after the German messages sent by wireless en clair, without ammunition, reinforcements, or to find out also suffered from difficulties communicating, British General Horace Smith-Dorrien was left neighbouring French forces near Mons in August: serious happenings in the French army on namely, that it had been forced back, and was of at least 9 miles between the right of our II thus leaving us in a very vulnerable, Communication was often reduced to mounted or the nearest working telegraph or enough system to implement complex war plans. "Like the fictional Dr. Frankenstein, the general could scarcely control and whose movements at a Mobility and logistics were another issue. The on foot, and the artillery could only worked so hard and were extremely vulnerable who was operating within his own lines, was more quickly by taking advantage of the roads and problem was that the attacker's poor tactical greater operational and strategic mobility. by trench warfare in 1914 were supply problems: with food, fodder, ammunition and reinforcements, The key aspect here is the railway. As soon as a it began to move farther from its own motorized, that meant the main body of the infantryman , and their supplies only as fast as shift his forces and supplies much faster by rail. plan, since the plan demanded more than was soldier Wilhelm Heigl described the hardships: lot of time to rest. In the last couple of days we comrade in 6th company has shot himself because he we have to go through.&quot; (Schaefer and Doyle) 26kg packs, and received inadequate them to scavenge for vegetables in French behind the infantry it was meant to support. over captured French and Belgian railway lines. interior lines to quickly shift troops around, the race to the sea began, the same transport troops around the Allied flanks and the fighting Another logistical issue was shell production. heavy rate of fire for the artillery in pre-war shell stocks by September. This contributed to the didn't have enough shells to attack early trench state factories, for example, could only produce their 3500 guns in the field. The situation was of shells fired, and placed strict limits on had also been used up within the first 6 weeks, So, by fall 1914 trench warfare dominated for decisive mobile war failed, and attempts to because armies faced insurmountable problems: inadequate infantry, artillery, and combined arms logistical shortcomings. The result was that from of trenches crept from around Nancy to Verdun, the sea. These defences defeated every attempt to in Champagne or by the Germans at Ypres. the impossibility of breaching "The terrible digging continues. Every day get rid of those Englishmen. They've dug Ironically, the trenches were not meant entrenching would buy time and free up forces to mobile war. A British officer in "I am getting awfully bored by the trenches won't be in them much longer. I wish they The war began in July 1914 as a regional but just a few months later, the Great Powers bloodbath with no end in sight. In just 5 months, Austria-Hungary 1.2 million, the Ottomans 80,000, France 530,000, and Russia 1.8 million. Christmas" were gone. Mass armies and modern in the East and trench gridlock in the the factories, and on the battlefield. Hundreds of and yet all the powers still believed victory Since you are watching this massive documentary War, I am guessing you might be a fan of If you're interested in the final offensives produced two epic World War 2 documentaries the most detailed documentary about the Battle breakdown of one of the biggest battles of the Oder River into the heart of Nazi Germany's called Rhineland 45 about the last set-piece under Bernhard Montgomery attacked from the Dutch River. Both documentaries were filmed on original expert and veteran interviews and more. But you YouTube because of our uncompromising portrayal If you want even more history content on Nebula, coverage of the Napoleonic Wars. And if you really right now you can get the Nebula lifetime more into original documentaries we couldn't and bring it to even more platforms. Again that's also supports us at Real Time History directly. $30 a year and supporting our channel As usual you can find all the sources for this watching this video on Patreon or Nebula, thank and this is a production of Real channel that wants you to know that in the present