Here's a black hole. We imagine it as an enormous, super dark region And once something falls inside, it is dragged where everything gets squished, right? But what if we told you that's not exactly So what's a singularity anyway? And what really is on the other side of the Get ready to discover a mind-bending world than any fiction. Black holes are intricate space phenomena. Everything about them is complicated. When a large star, about 10-20 times more fuel, the balance between gravity and pressure itself and goes supernova. The problem with our current understanding phenomena happening on different scales. There's quantum field theory, which works ranging from atoms and down to the tiniest Apply this theory to astronomical scales, For that task, scientists resort to Einstein's Pick the right theory, and calculations generate But black holes are tricky. At first, they're astronomical objects - large And then, they quickly shrink to much smaller, For example, in order for the Sun to become to the size of just about 1.8 miles [2.9 km] Theoretically, you can turn any object into There's a formula that tells us how much This threshold is known as the Schwarzschild planet would have to be to turn into a black a radius of 0.35 inches [0.88 cm]. But what if an object's radius is 0? Traditional calculations, both math and physics, a singularity. But does such a concept truly appear in the Let's try to break it down. Consider this thought experiment: if you wanted you'd start with tiny bits of matter floating They don't push against anything, but just So, they're like small specks of dust floating much. But in space, there's gravity, and so it starts between dust particles. Over time, little specks of dust start to a point where their combined mass and gravity to compress. And this creates an event horizon - a kind really allow anything to get out. This type of a black hole is called a Schwarzschild It has mass, which is just how much stuff electric charge or spinning motion. Now, think about what happens when you cross For the sake of experiment, let's say it's Once in, you panic, and try to get out by Physics says that regardless of the direction toward the central singularity. To understand this, imagine a long, narrow door at the end. Once you step into this corridor, the door it again. The corridor has a moving walkway, much like you forward at the speed of light. No matter which way you try to move, either or moving sideways - you'll still end up Or, at least, this is how scientists thought However, spacetime gets way more complicated far, we only know about the existence of black They form from the collapse of rotating massive is conserved, leading to the formation of Quantum mechanics was created to explain the But instead of giving us answers, it led to fabric of spacetime. And these quantum fluctuations play a significant black holes. Now, we've all heard that nothing can escape But this is where things get tricky. Near an event horizon, particles and antiparticles annihilating one other almost instantly. But what if one of these particles manages The late great Stephen Hawking explained this When a particle-antiparticle pair forms near a black hole while the other one escapes. And by doing so, the free particle steals If you give it enough time, and we're talking years, a black hole would evaporate completely, But if there's nothing left behind, where In the real universe, infinities do not exist And so when scientists make calculations which something wrong with the theory - it's Imagine a guitar string, gently plucked at According to the simplest model of wave behavior, over time. In theory, it would vibrate past the moon, But although this is what the model predicts, The fact that there's an infinity appearing there are certain limitations. While working perfectly to explain string a better theory to avoid infinities. So, what does this mean for our understanding If singularities aren't real, perhaps, at entirely different, something beyond what But as always, scientists have some ideas. According to Penrose's theorem, singularities Anything that moves in space, and is only a specific path - a so-called geodesic. Basically, it's the shortest, most efficient The idea is that all of spacetime is structured and its form is dictated by these geodesic other - curved. These paths are never-ending, just like a But Penrose suggested that geodesics should centers, which means that paths of spacetime or an infinity. Stephen Hawking believed that this is how or in other words, geodesics that trace back Although a recently published paper by Roy on black holes. Rotation of matter changes everything. Instead of a single event horizon marking spinning black holes have two distinct horizons: These horizons are like invisible walls, marking too strong for even light to break free. Rotating black holes also have something called a black hole where spacetime itself is dragged of light. If you happened to be there, no matter how would be to no avail. In a way, these ergospheres are like whirlpools nearby objects, which come in contact with Because of how insanely fast things move there, it would leave with much more energy than In theory, this mechanism is the source of Although learning how to extract it seems And then again, there's still the singularity. Although it doesn't have a point-like shape, effect of angular momentum that smoothes it Here's a simplified way to visualize this: of paper. If the paper is stationary, the paint forms But, if you spin the paper fast as the drop shape. And so if matter falls into a black hole along a simple circle that stays in one plane. Instead, it moves all over the place, kind Over time, the particle's path fills up a So, instead of sticking to a flat path, particles painting a kind of doughnut shape in space. And particles attracted by a rotating black heading straight into the central singularity. It's not like dropping a stone into a pond Instead, it's more like tossing a leaf into The wind's swirling motion carries the leaf it closer to the ground, other times lifting Called Kerr black holes, these spinning celestial and matter doesn't necessarily end up falling Instead, past the event horizon, the centrifugal around ring singularities, where objects can be able to do so for a very long time. So what is this ring singularity then? Basically, it's a gravitational field inside object. But here's a mind-boggling follow-up: a would still be there inside a dark space monster. Chunks and bits of the star follow the paths And even light would still be present there. Can you imagine a place like that? An almost perpetual centrifuge isolated from own small world swirling around, and illuminated What do you think about this new perspective Share your thoughts in the comments below. We hope you enjoyed the video. If you'd like more fascinating discoveries tuned here. Thanks for watching!