today I invited 20 of the best penalty each getting their own piece but what the players don't know and now there's 11 Ronaldo's, 11 who will compete in a penalty but who will go first... Kevin De Bruyne and the direction he will go is SOUTHEAST which means he's going to now the same player can't take which is why I cloned them but it didn't go perfectly... some weird things have started to happen luckily everything seems pretty Neymar to set the tone in the and he puts it away De Bruyne up next will he also score - he does now the keeper has yet to make a save, but every to make sure it's fair imagine Neymar trying to save a penalty what's it going to be this time... puts it away, sends Neuer the De Bruyne oh there's the first miss! Neymar to extend his lead here... he does it's 3-1 De Bruyne, now must score to or else he will be leaving the island can Neuer make the save... off the post but it goes in can Neymar send De Bruyne packing home? he does! Neymar moves on, De Bruyne is erased from the map who let the fans on the pitch?! next up we're going to have... Jude Bellingham which way is Jude going... WEST which means he's taking on Calhanoglu remember when I said the game has been well look at the ball - it is tiny! what is Calhanoglu going to do here... he panenka's it - the tennis ball! can the keeper even catch it? Bellingham... puts it away Calhanoglu... puts it away as well still no misses Bellingham... it's a save - oh it's not a save, never mind Calhanoglu... oh it actually is a save Bellingham... great pen Calhanoglu can't miss here... another save by Neuer! Bellingham now with the who scored the most pens in the 2023/2024 season can he do it? he does! Bellingham moves on and which pen merchant is next - it's Bukayo Saka which way is he going... WEST it looks like he's paying Modric a visit all right everything seems why is the ball moving like that? Saka... puts it away but the ball is moving very weird Modric... great pen - I don't know the ball's Saka... puts it away, we need to see a panenka here how is the ball going to react to that? Modric...no one has yet to miss I think Neuer could have save that one let's go Saka... Saka - and there's the first save! Modric in the lead can he extend it... how did Neuer not get that Bukayo Saka must score with this balloon and he misses the completely - Neuer leads Modric's team to victory he is moving on! Bukayo Saka is eliminated which player will we see next it's Harry Kane... which way will he go EAST he's going to pay Florian Wirtz a visit this is a personal matchup for Harry Kane Wirtz was the reason why Kane he is looking for revenge Harry Kane a lot of pressure on him now if he misses he is eliminated come on Kane... great penalty, you can't hit top corner, Wirtz puts it away as well he - off the post off the head... Wirtz... finally a save by Neuer, Kane can win it here I don't think Neuer wants him what a pen - Wirtz is eliminated, Kane moves on! still so many great penalty takers on this wheel and it's Erling Haaland up next which way will he go... EAST Cold Palmer and Haaland used to be teammates uh why is Neuer 10 ft tall? Palmer up first - puts it away I got to check my computer for some viruses off the post and in! Erling Haaland with a statement finish Cold Palmer up next... right into the hands of Neuer, which Haaland puts it away Palmer... great pen sent Neuer the other way Haaland still hasn't missed... and there's the first save by Neuer well, second I guess Palmer? well done nothing separates these two sides yet Erling Haaland - puts it away Palmer... tries the panenka - you are crazy Palmer! Haaland with the game by where's he going, he's going right he goes right but it still goes in! Neuer you guessed correctly it's over for Cold Palmer who are we going to see play next... it's Paulo Dybala my favourite player which way will he go... EAST looks like he has a date with Messi wait why is Neuer that small he's not going to make a save! there's no way anyone's missing right? oh my days this is going to go on forever Dybala man, come on, put it away Neuer was actually pretty close one miss and it's over what a pen by Messi I don't think he's going to I want someone to try a great pen all right well if Dybala misses I want him to just shoot it oh he does! he tries to panenka on the most important penalty 4 foot Neuer sends Messi to the next round and my favourite Dybala is eliminated :( like I can't believe it he's still standing there luckily Lewandowski is still up which way will CR7 go... WEST it looks like he's taking on his the two oldest players in the competition Ronaldo the favourite in this competition puts it away top corner Ronaldo... panenka for the first pen! look at the confidence Modric... puts it well - why is the ball moving so weird? please tell me it's not the balloon again this guy went back to back Modric... puts it away as well, no one has missed just yet there's no way he goes back what a pen who will be the first to miss? what was that form I don't Ronaldo... another great pen this has been a master class of penalties my goodness still no misses there it is Neuer with the save and Ronaldo I mean 10 this is round 10 it's gone forever... with the captain's band on he puts it away! Modric is eliminated, Ronaldo moves on who is up next wheel will we see Mbappe anytime soon maybe it's Bruno Fernandes up next which way, which way? EAST it won't be Mbappe it's going to be Napoli verses Manchester United no way the ball is that big! I swear - oh it actually went in! good shot by Osimhen to start this off Bruno Fernandes... puts it away okay - okay I thought it might Osimhen okay that's - that was an easy save will we get any more goals here? what in the world was that? Osimhen has the lead once again Bruno Fernandes looking he gets it the next miss is probably going to off the post and in wait wait wait if Bruno just hit it down the middle what Neuer knew it! Neuer saves the day for the Osimhen's they are moving on United fans I'm sorry - still a lot of players we haven't seen play yet and we got Lewandowski up next who will he play whoever is... WEST looks like he's headed into Ronaldo territory good luck Lewandowski the last time these two guys met in a not only beating Poland in Euro 2016 can Lewandowski get his revenge here where's the keeper, is there a keeper? off the post Ronaldo what are you Lewandowski puts it away is there a keeper there or not... we will find out Ronaldo finally gets his first goal Lewandowski the confidence, great pen Ronaldo... does he do a panenka he doesn't - but it goes in I think the keeper might be invisible he does, but it goes in regardless Ronaldo can't afford another miss here he gets a great pen Lewandowski... against the invisible keeper oh it's a save by Neuer, he's there! Ronaldo great pen, it's all level once again Lewandowski must score to it's another save by Neuer! the invisible Neuer leads bye-bye Lewandowski what, what the heck let him - what the heck am I watching? which pen merchant will we see next it's Szoboszlai which way is he going to go... EAST which means we got two fresh faces who isn't in a Brazil kit it's a Norwich I don't understand! other than that it looks pretty normal Vini Jr steps up... puts it away Szoboszlai who I finally Vini Jr once again... same spot I feel like the Neuer's could make a the fans are going crazy! why are they cheering? I don't understand, but if Szoboszlai there are the Szoboszlai fans where is he going right? he does a panenka cheeky cheeky boy still no one has missed oh my days what was that Vini Jr? Szoboszlai, match by his feet can he end it here the Norwich fans aren't celebrating as much now and they're eliminated! Szoboszlai moves on and Vini sent packing home 10 penalty merchants remain on the will we see Salah or Mbappe in this next one? we will, it's going to be Mbappe but which way, which way will he go... NORTH which means instead of relaxing on the beach, I thought the game was fixed but the but Szoboszlai gets the first goal Mbappe... in the Real Madrid he does I don't I did - Neuer even Szoboszlai... puts it away as well, I feel Mbappe steps up and it's not a save? how did Neuer not get that? maybe he did it just - no way, no way Neuer just saved it! Szoboszlai on the brink of elimination now there's no way he misses another... he didn't Mbappe? great pen, tricked Neuer to go the other way it all comes down to this Szoboszlai must score, or else he's eliminated I think he's going to score he doesn't score? he missed twice with a marble! how are you letting that happens Szoboszlai? Mbappe moves on - takes over Szoboszlai land you can't even see the ball in the replay now it's only Salah who hasn't played a match but it's Neymar up next but which way? EAST I don't think Kane's going to what is that background, Harry Kane why are the fans like caged up? Neymar... shouldn't miss on his first one and he doesn't round three Kane steps up off the post?! Nemyar with a chance to take the lead here he does Neuer was close but not close enough Kane can't afford another miss he actually almost missed, that was very close! come on man I want to see great penalty all right now Kane can't afford a miss here, is he a true pen merchant? off the post again I guess I can't Neymar moves on Kane, bye-bye all right Salah I think it's time you finally play there we go which way is he going SOUTH Ronaldo's onto his third match defending all right everything looks pretty normal teams are re - what the heck? where's the other referee? is he inside the ball? can this even fit in the net maybe not I think one goal is going to win it Ronaldo... tries the panenka I guess there's no way it doesn't fit in the net what is Neuer doing, you're Ronaldo steps up... and it's an easy save Salah... doesn't score either I don't understand wait wait WAIT! what are we watching?! where did he go? look at Ronaldo - he can't - oh my Salah with the chance to win it how in the world did that not go in? round after round Ronaldo and Salah would step and I started to think it was actually impossible hold on, hold on is this the one? is he trying to kick it into his own net? is he trying to make Ronaldo win? if this goes in it's going to be incredible Neuer... with the own goal does it count?! I've been here for like an hour Salah must score to win it! Ronaldo is the winner somehow! Neuer, scored an own goal that is the craziest thing I I don't know if we'll ever see a penalty Kylian Mbappe once again which way will he go... SOUTHEAST will he ends up right in the corner it is Napoli vers Real Madrid who will be sent into the top 6 Osimhen starts off strong will Mbappe follow... it's a save by Neuer! what is Mbappe doing? Osimhen with the lead already can he double it? he does Mbappe must score to remain in the competition... great pen Neuer needs to come up big for - Osimhen again Mbappe tries to panenka, this guy is mad Osimhen to win it and he does Mbappe, that is just pathetic 6 pen merchants remain on the wheel Ronaldo up next what's it going to be for Ronaldo... East Osimhen won't be able to rest because Ronaldo is invading his territory if Ronaldo wins that is his wait does Osimhen look a little tall? he looks like a giant somehow as long as the ball isn't giant I'm okay with that who will be first to miss? Osimhen? oh no, I think Ronaldo's about to get eliminated 10 ft tall but can he put the ball in the net come on Ronaldo and it's a save by Neuer are you serious? giant Ronaldo's have been clearly not a pen merchant five players remain but only one who is up next wheel we're going to see... Lionel Messi and he's going to go... WEST looks like Erling Haaland has some work to do it looks like everything has remained normal and Haaland starts off with a goal Lionel Messi, to follow... right down the middle what was he thinking? Erling Haaland puts it away two great pens by Erling Haaland so far Messi, to redeem himself puts it away Haaland on a streak here another one! Haaland is confident I don't great pen by Messi this is a very important penalty for Haaland and he puts it away Messi must score to remain in the competition come on Pessi put this one away... he does, but that doesn't mean anything Haaland with the chance now to win it he's not even looking, he's he's going to put this away and knock and it's done just like that to Lionel Messi I think Haaland is my favourite to win it all sad to see Messi go the final 4, who is up next Jude Bellingham it doesn't matter which way he all right the match is starting wait wait wait where are the players? oh okay wait no they're there - they are there we just can't see them Bellingham up next puts it away this is really weird no one has yet to miss Bellingham? right into Neuer's hands what was he thinking great pens from Osimhen, but now Bellingham must score and Neuer saves it! the invisible Osimhen celebrating with Neuer! who wins them the game - oh it's just the sub - the subs are visible? what the heck is going on? there's a reason why Neuer's one blue must be a lucky colour - cuz the but only one will be the true pen merchant wheel, who is up next - it will be... Erling Haaland he borders both of the other NORTHWEST which means Haaland will play Neymar the unlikely hero in this competition, or will Neymar or Erling Haaland spoil it? Neymar the favourite to go to the finals up first lots of pressure on the Brazilian... oh what a save by Neuer with the feet! Haaland takes the lead off the post not the start Neymar wanted, Haaland steps up, puts it away as well Haaland has been clinical puts it away Haaland no run up, puts it away no problem pressure now on Neymar a miss here means he won't play to be crowned the ultimate pen Merchant steps up - stutter step puts it away Neymar's fate now in the hands - if he scores he goes to the final and he does a panenka! the confidence on the Norwegian! it is time for the final Osimhen versus Erling Haaland and I'm going to let Osimhen be the host as he won not one, not two, not three, but four penalty he deserves it no invisible keepers, no giant balls, to determine the greatest will it be Erling Haaland or will it be Victor Osimhen five penalties await... only one winner Osimhen to set the tone easy pen 1-0 Victor Osimhen Haaland - I don't think he's missed yet what a penalty pressure on Osimhen... but he puts it away, great penalty who will miss first... I have no - I honestly have no is it going to be Osimhen with the first miss? it is! Neuer makes the save, Erling Haaland panenka - this guy is a robot Osimhen can't get another miss here oh my days - oh my days Erling Haaland one kick away from can he put it away?! and Erling Haaland is the champion I hope you guys enjoyed this video and if you did, SUBSCRIBE I'll see you guys soon PEACE:) also YouTube thinks you're in the middle of the screen okay bye