There's a waterfall ahead of us, a herd of A magical country with stunning scenery, where to take you on the ride of a lifetime. I'm Alyssa from DiscoverTheHorse and today I can't wait to bring you along, we're heading and we're gonna be riding on Icelandic Horses. So if you're ready to go for an incredible Icelandic Horses are the only horse breed They have been bred here for over a thousand in the world. To start the trip I'm picking up riding gear in gear for both Icelandic horses and riders. There are no contagious animal diseases in As an equestrian traveler it is important making sure any used riding clothes are properly I'm here at the BSI bus station as you can Waiting for the bus that's going to take us Islandshestar is owned by a group of Icelandic Horse lovers from all around the world travel Most of the farmers they breed their own horses know the horses very well, they know the area So that's what we're trying to to accomplish and and take in the same message as the horses the farmers. This is our guide Ingvar. The highlands that we are riding through in of my area, my sheep, I bring them there every so you shouldn't get lost with me. We just had dinner at the farm and now we're Good morning! It is our first official day of riding here I am so excited to go meet the horses and Today is going to be about getting to know fun way of riding. They have a smooth gate called the tolt which but first - breakfast! We also pack sandwiches from the breakfast Hopefully we won't need this one... but better All right we've got saddles, we've got nose I'm missing one key item but it's over there, Although they are small with an average height can easily carry adult riders He's my first ride His name means &quot;Raven.&quot; This is going to be such a fun day! We are riding in Icelandic saddles which are addition of really cool looking stirrups. Icelandic Horses are gaited which means that also have a gait called the tolt, which is also have a fifth gate called the flying pace. These added gaits are natural for the horse We just tolted along these nice dirt lanes just absolutely beautiful. Thank you sir. You're welcome, how's your horse? Wonderful! Well done. Leg one. We're switching to our second horse for the little paddock over here and now we are next They're heading out to bring the horses up. This part is so exciting. &quot;Which one's mine.&quot; &quot;Who do I get? Who do i get?&quot; It's nice to meet you. You ready to ride? That's it for today. We're gonna let these guys go and then we'll That is a really fun horse she like she's this various terrain and just heading along So much fun. Now we're bringing the saddles in and we just here that we're gonna remember for tomorrow and nosebands. So I have to pick my spot. Our home for the evening is a nearby guest before heading to bed. Another beautiful day here in Iceland. We are getting ready, oh I have a little puppy we get to ride with a herd for the first time. That's the one of the main things I would here is because of the free riding herd. This opportunity to ride with loose horses, for most people riding with loose horses is they think, but we can make that happen. Our crew working hard. The daily saddle search... Not mine... Here we are. Before we continue there is something you Around the world there are various ways of For example, in Sweden there is a relaxing Here in Iceland they do things a little differently! Wow it is a sea of horses. Ingvar is working hard matching us with our everyone has their shoes. This is Hyttling. She is my first horse for today. I think she looks pretty sweet so I think I can't believe the terrain that these guys They're so aware of exactly where their feet I mean this is the way to ride, right? The rest of the herd is actually going to phone call when they're on the bridge and over here. We're going to wait for them to go by and we're just gonna head out after the herd. We just came up over this ridge and you can Every horse rider has to ride in Iceland at Just taking a little break to have some lunch hang out with my pals. This is horse number two for today horse number She likes snacks. We're heading out from our break and all the gonna actually head out after us. There are always two groups of riders with The front riders lead the way and the back There's a waterfall ahead of us, a herd of And that's how we bring the horses along. Not far from the paddock are the runes of In 1104 Mount Hekla erupted and it destroyed Back at the paddock it's time to get a third We stayed last night at a mountain hut. That is not where we stayed. Just a really fun community experience with after our long ride yesterday. I'm really looking forward to today because and almost like a moon-like or mars-like experience I get really excited each time we get a new these different types of horses and each one way of riding on the trail, so it's been really Never a dull moment here! There's a really neat contrast out here from and we're on lava fields right now. It's lunchtime. Oh Our talented Icelandic riding crew. You can feel when you have free horses running All the horses get a little bit more excited, into the adventure. You can feel much more energy and power and 100 horses running free with you. It's just an unbelievable feel. Right where we have the horses right now we rocks here. We just rode through the lava fields and you it goes from just soft grass to these crazy Hekla which is like 20 miles away from here. When you're riding in Iceland just don't forget look around you and take a deep breath and Iceland does not disappoint, especially for rides! Every part of today was so unique, interesting This guy's my third horse for the day. He is a super smooth tolter and a nice I hope I get to ride him again. This is where the horses get to stay for the we'll get dinner in a couple of hours, which I'm filming the luggage train. Being very &quot;not helpful.&quot; Bad excuse Mission successful. You take such good care of us. But the evening isn't over yet, we've been What are we doing? The big mystery. There is a ghost in here. They just keep going in! bye-bye bye-bye, see you tomorrow! We appear to be approaching our destination. Hellir means &quot;cave&quot; and Landmanna means, &quot;the So this is the Cave of People in the Area. If the weather was bad they would bring the Of course she has lived it, so she should So why exactly is Elin wearing a blue glove How should I put it... Rotten Shark. I was afraid of that. All right... Now I know how you guys figured out that sound I was going to bed last night and we're all and everybody's laughing and there's banter asleep, you're listening to just the joy of fall asleep you're listening to a little bit connected because of our passion for horses. This trip is unlike anything I have ever experienced. Saddles are ready to go, horses are getting some new shoes. It is a little bit chillier today so we have I think one of the really interesting things job. You've got these horses that are like ready speed ahead and then when you get to a place rein, walk through difficult terrain, they stop and just stand anytime you need, when the whole herd is getting together, or when When we take the saddles off and have lunch it's so interesting just to see how this breed these working horses. Pretty cool It's also interesting when you feel how you and trust your horse and we are we are used have used horses for a hundred for agriculture and everything. We have we use the horse to gather down to the roundups and I have done that two times that I have just been in a fog, completely lost somewhere in the highlands and I have just let the reins go the right path. It's amazing. And so that's Horse, that it's an animal that we just us through the centuries. Here we are in the in Iceland because of the multi-colored mountains This is the farthest point in our ride. We've ridden are absolutely beautiful! There's different and browns and reds and tans. I have to be just getting here on horseback. End of day four of riding and we seem to have We've heard that it looks pretty good on us you think in the comments below. We've all been staying in this hut right here. It's two bathrooms and it's been a very cozy experience. I think when we get to the next place where we're sharing some rooms it's gonna feel like We have to clean the horses off before we tack up to get the dirt off of them. You pick up a and instead of using your hand and if you have a brush it actually gets these little chunks of dirt off of the horse's back. Little Icelandic... uh... lava rock horse trick! I can't stop gawking. We are getting a little bit of Icelandic weather. A little bit of drizzle. But we're almost to lunch. We're here at our lunch break. Not too much around here just a lot of rocks and lava. Here we go. Many people are coming just because they are how it is to ride in Iceland. Many people like to to come to Iceland and feel how it you can say, their their real nature. So there's that. Then you have a lot of people that life or maybe they have a illness or sickness sometimes it can be really emotional, this so it's yeah, its.. of course, I get emotional when I'm talking it because there's a lot of things, that have helped other people, just being with the horses and the animals human people in a group, trying to do something This paddock is a little bit unkempt and so when we get the next horses, just to make that all the horses stay inside instead of heading out before we're ready to go. We took a break, the gate is opened, and off go! Oh my goodness. This is so much fun! We just are running along with us. This mare 'Ala I don't even know how we made it over half the stuff we did and she just You're amazing, yeah you're very very very fast! So fun. Good girl. Oh my goodness, it is our final day here on We are heading back down out of the Highlands but we'll be stopping at a place popular TV series. Wow, here we are at an absolutely magical Game of Thrones fans might recognize this location as well. You can watch for it in Season Look we found your friends. I'm so excited. I get to ride Hamar again today. He's one of my favorites, he's such a sweet horse. He'll do anything and Our last ride, last horse of the day, last of the trip, I cannot believe how fast it's gone! I feel that the a &quot;Quest&quot; is a little bit word for it. Because there's so many elements that come into this tour. There is of course, the horse, and the nature, and then there's also the food, and all with, the group that you are going to be part At the first day you have absolutely no idea anything about each other and together, and can take the experience with them home So I would just say to anyone who is thinking about is also a horseman, I would say that's let go of everything and just get into Six days of riding. We are back! There's the herd that carried us through. Thank you for Discovering the Icelandic Horse If you enjoyed riding along please give the video a thumbs up and subscribe to Make sure to check out Islandshestar if you are looking for your own riding Happy riding everyone I'll see you at the next breed!