Feel every punch in Mortal Kombat. Feel the throbbing heat of being 'on fire' in NBA Jam. For the first time in gaming, your body will with 1994's revolutionary It's the Aura Interactor - and instead of just with vibrational phenomena to put you inside your You're not ready for Playstation's dual But you've got the Interactor to pioneer it's powered by the US military's Feel the action. With the Aura Interactor. Okay, if the technology was so amazing, Deep inside the Aura Interactor tireless innovator who swung for the fences to the dream of immersive interactive entertainment... In the February 1994 issue of Popular Science, mine from 30 years ago. It told me to "FEEL incredibly cool photo of the vest lit "The Interactor vest vibrates in synch when plugged into the audio-out jack of a You can adjust the intensity of the pulses As an 11-year-old in 1994, I was a loyal subscriber to both GamePro and I remember seeing ads for the Interactor as I I wanted the Interactor. The thought Ganon in The Legend of Zelda: A But I had a hard enough time begging Sega Genesis. She thought the ultra what did you think of Mortal Yeah and she wasn't alone. A 1994 review Camarillo Star referred to kids like me Actually, Chuck, I was an 11 year There was no way I was gonna convince her to buy ripping off Sonya Blade's head as her spinal the Blood Code, obviously. So, I didn't have an It seemed like an incredibly cool, and we were all seeing the ads. Ya know, the retro tech items I've really tough to come by. It took me more than and it was nearly impossible to get a even when I find the thing I need, the unit and and survive shipping from a seller who may or But I managed to find an Aura Interactor cheaply on eBay. Not only are there a ton of used Interactors still in the shrinkwrap. For $25 bucks it off the shelf of Kay-Bee Toys while Warren I'm finally making a video about a readily today - but that cheap accessibility foreshadowed I cracked open the box and immediately It looks used and obviously scuffed The package contains the backpack, a power cable, and the biggest honkin' transformer I've power supplies for retro consoles, but this 3 1/2" Apparently if you want to you need to connect it to a Ok, so here's how this thing works - of incoming sounds through the so 400hz sounds become 100hz, which to be felt in the back of the user by The main technology inside is an anti-vibration the effects of unwanted vibrations. On August "Designed for the Space Shuttle, conceived by worked on the "Star Wars" programme. Rick Maybury was dubious it was anything more than But the hype from Aura was inventor Larry Shultz described the Interactor's "It's the full breadth of frequency, the full through the bones of your body. So when I go , I've got my Super Nintendo and my Sega of games to feel all 16-Bits of THIS KINDA HURTS. Well it doesn't really hurt but it doesn't attacked by a big plastic box-y massager. It of the music perfectly, so it does exactly punch and kick in Mortal Kombat II registers You can adjust the intensity of the feeling with limit what sounds get through with the FILTER if I crank the filter to 10 in NBA Jam I could and also feel the announcer's garbled The filter is the secret sauce technology what sounds come through and power of those vibrations is how to get My dream in 1994 was to be immersed in what Super Metroid - and the actual effect is in the back with each shot from But it's impossible for you to get just from me telling you what I'm Cymatics. It comes from the Greek 'kyma' meaning "wave" doctor Hans Jenny to describe the effects of "Cymatics - A Study of Wave Phenomena" minds had been observing how vibration Leonaro Da Vinci wrote about the gathering A really effective Cymatics demonstration named after "father of acoustics" Ernst Chladni, which is a metal plate attached to a speaker. As beautiful patterns emerge known as This means I'm going to SHOW you look like when they're converted The only problem is: I can't get it to work. Chladni plates are flat sheets of metal that dust or sand, but the Interactor is not flat. back. The upper part of the vest is concave, with the speaker is convex to follow I will now show you my failure. I put contact paper on the Interactor to fall down into them, but when I turn it on, and kinda shakes around. You can see the I could try to take it apart and put a flat want to really just demonstrate what a kid in 1994 Okay. What about holding a small bowl of water on it that can show the vibrations with I filled a bowl and held it on the convex area, but it's not secure enough to generate vessel just moves around too much, so While I figured that out, I really wanted to Interactor. It doesn't feel great on my adult designed to rest comfortably on a kid's back, so Kids' reviews in 1994 basically ranged from The November 13th 1994 issue of a review of the Interactor by 11-year-old disappointed." He struggled setting it up "I thought it would shake a lot... Which is not terrible for adults with back pain, but 5th graders playing Rocket Knight Adventures In the September 2nd, 1994 issue of Jeremy Belcher said "It feels weird," and 11-year-old Michael Edmond described it The Sun in Myrtle Beach, South Gavin Kongboon pronouncing "Pretty cool" is better than tickling and feeling weird - but it wasn't going to But those are random kids, what did the pros a nice breakdown of how it worked with different of 10 for not calibrating well, and ToeJam decent feel." Their final verdict was a completely innovative machine" but ended with suggesting you I DON'T REALLY KNOW IF YOU'D LIKE By the early 2000s, retrospectives on the EGM referred to it as an overpriced massager, attribute was giving Mountain Dew So despite a $5 million dollar marketing blitz reality peripheral with literal space-age dead in less than a year. It's hard to gauge 1996 Evening Herald claimed they sold 1.5 Wikipedia says 400,000. Which I would We know it wasn't selling like hotcakes by sales. Prior to launch it was expected to retail $500 today. They landed on a retail price of $99 down to $79.99 at Toys R Us - and by 1996 it was It appears that Australian retailer Jaycar in 1997 for pennies on the dollar. I found retailers sold [the interactor] slowly because them all to Jaycar at a fraction of the cost." it the Body Blaster with a bizarre illustration A RetroRoundtable forum post from 2002 Meijer grocery store had 50 unsold for TWO DOLLARS, two dollars, until they Now 30 years later, eBay is littered with brand anyone, to strap them to their kicks, uppercuts, slam-dunks, The haptic experience of controllers The N64 bundled the Rumble which was a controller-shaking accessory you "It's designed with a force-feedback That same year, Sony built it right "dual" being the two analog sticks, and "In each handle is an actuator, that's a hardware term for something that actuates or starts Haptics are meant to unite the senses - like invented in the 1960's. It was a 20x20 grid of of a chair so people could feel and identify But haptics in gaming began in the arcades back Technology on the TeslaSuit website, the TeslaSuit capturing suit, "Fonz by Sega was the first game player to feel the rumble of a motorcycle when it The real inventor of haptics from the place that invented basically everything. In my video on Mitsubishi's 1987 VisiTel impact of Bells Labs and guess who In "First-Hand: The Beginnings of Force-Feedback: A Memoir" A. Michael Noll recounts the system he Telephone Laboratories, Inc. in Murray Hill, in 1970, and allowed a motorized 3D input weight and mass. The 3D joystick worked in animation they also developed. The lesson And now haptics are such a huge part of gaming 5's DualSense controller with immersive But the most incredible aspect of this vibrating According to his Linkedin, before The a pay-per-view encryption system. technology that led to the world's And while The Interactor was languishing on Stanley Lieber to start working on movies and work - in the May 1941 Captain America #3, he There is a non-zero chance In the years since, Shultz developed the make airbags in cars safer. He started of energy technology including a more a sticky constituent of petroleum from pressurize abandoned oil wells, an all-in-one and an ocean desalination and Hey. Larry Shultz, if you're Anyone as prolific as Larry Schultz has successes out. Kids weren't begging Santa Claus for as they played Sonic the Hedgehog. But even a can be used for something - because like So it's time for Interactor cymatics. I spent an afternoon with my dad to develop double-sided tape to affix a small piece of Interactor's speaker. With some blue-dyed water we can, for the first time, SEE what Mortal The Interactor may have suffered a fatality. attempt at virtual reality right into the But the beauty of human ingenuity is in the And invent something better. Because sometimes you need to get kicked See you in the future.