I believe this is going to help going to bring deliverance and freedom That's the only verse I'm going to read from this this. David goes into to Jerusalem, sets his Israel had this ark. Ark is think of like a the Ten Commandments and where Israel believed would take this ark with them to battles and see guy. He was under the leadership of Eli, this box and they lost the battle. And Philistines God box among their gods. As they left and put God in the morning their gods fell in front of the ark serious. They went to another city, tumors broke God for this God box than the people of God, and this God box back to Israel because they said this know better, so what they did is they found some shipped it as a gift to the God of Israel. They a cart, and put God box on the cart and let the and it was brought on a cart. Years later this ark bring the ark of God, the God box into Jerusalem. of how it's supposed to be done, he simply builds, new cart. And as they're driving this God box from God box for so long, I think for over about 20 sons Uzzah and Ahio have watched over this ark. the God box is about to fall from the card, you and bam. He drops dead. David got scared. He and this is the story that we've read. I want to chapter. Number one. God's presence rests on men, on programs. The mistake David made is he borrowed supposed to be carried. The Philistines put ark to be on the shoulders of the priest. See not on programs. People have programs but God Spirit of the Lord is upon a program, a system, a Me. We always look for better programs, God is the Bible says that God has sought a man who will Him in spirit and in truth. While we are always better ideas, better houses, better workplaces. the right people will make right things work. not for better strategies, God is looking for presence to rest upon us. God doesn't want His to rest his presence on the saints, on you. God presence on the worshipper. God doesn't put His the people of God in the church. God's glory wants only one that wants to put His presence on your your shoulders. The devil wants to put depression embarrassment. And that's why God says, instead of of praise. So I can put My presence on your life. in this house. If you believe your shoulders is depression, your mind is for peace, your heart your heart is for the presence of God. You're not You are not just an ashtray for ashes, you are temple, a walking temple. The second thing that I &quot;The church is looking for better methods, God is like to highlight and that is this. The threshing I want you to notice where this Uzzah touched Something that I would like to highlight here not participate in this type of agriculture today, to us. The threshing floor is where the grain steps. The first one was threshing. It's when you used to tread over the grain. The weight and the from the chaff. The second step of the threshing tossing the threshed material into the air, down while the wind carried away the lighter the grain. You take this grain through a threshing is number one you are beating the grain. It's because you're trying to separate it. That's a you're being pruned. You're not going through It's because He's trying to cleanse you. He's not supposed to be in your life, and just because it does not mean you also have some false things in the threshing you would thresh, you would beat grain. But you don't stop there. Then you take up in the air, and then the wind takes the lighter fall down. The Scripture uses the terminology judgment separating the righteous from the wicked, Psalm 1:4. Remember the Psalm 1:4 where it says by the wind, but the righteous, that they will be the land. The threshing that happens to each and wicked to separate them from the righteous, but and difficulties to separate the righteous people And the next verse, He says, &quot;But I prayed and when you have returned to Me, strengthen the way I take; When He has tested me, I will come threshing floor spiritually, the devil is trying to prove that you are a grain. Satan will yell, the Holy Spirit will whisper, bless God and live. and let your feelings take you with the wind. truth, fall back on the facts, fall back on what it says, &quot;And &quot;yet once more&quot; indicates the as of things that are made, that the things God will allow the shaking of the things that falls back on the ground and remains. If you go the sifting, the shifting, the troubles in your not a grain. What I want to encourage you today you to fly away from your faith, fly away from fly away from your convictions and say, I've tried and this is hard. Maybe you've fallen into sin you're not proud of and the devil is whispering It's time to leave your family. It's time to leave Jesus tells Peter, Satan will try to sift you like done, make sure you fall back on the ground, fall back on your God. Don't fly away like the wicked, Peter had a bad day. Judas had a bad heart. Peter and Jesus restored him. Judas flew with the wind him. David had a bad day. He committed sin but heart, O God; renew a steadfast spirit. Never for his sin, took ownership, dealt with his sin was before. He fell back, he fell down instead of commits a lesser sin, but Saul was a chaff. Saul Making excuses, blaming other people, forfeiting room is going to go through a sifting. They will family. It could happen in your church. It could your purity. It could happen in your finances children. It's when your bottom falls out. It's the core and you feel like you're flying in the and the devil will whisper to you, curse God doesn't work. Don't be a chaff, be a grain. Fall Word of God. Don't fly with your feelings, fall Don't trust what you feel when the world is being your mood, it cannot be trusted. You must trust deceive you, your mood will mislead you. Trust in I know my Redeemer lives. He didn't say, I feel my but my God is with me. I don't see Him, but I in Him, and when you fall back on the ground, on grain. Maybe you lost the child to miscarriage, away from you, maybe your child backslid, and Lord and now they completely walked away from you're broken. Perhaps a business partner that and you left without the promised resources that is shaken. Perhaps the person was a believer and where is God in all of this? I can tell you and when you're being tested, don't fly with your that you know, that you know He's with me, He God's love for me is not that everything went well 2,000 years ago, and He has taken care of my sin, inside of me. So that's why, that's why Job says, as pure as gold. Come on somebody. When you're being broken, don't fall, don't fly away. Fall be like Peter. Peter went back to Jesus, and back to God and the Lord forgave Him. Be like he worshiped Him and God restored him. Run to the stronghold is not accusing voices. The stronghold even yes even today says the Lord, I will restore Everything within you will scream run from God, God is not someone that &quot;works&quot; for you. God is the scenes when you don't even see it. Don't let the threshing floor, because while you're there You're not being punished, you're being pruned. I the hand of an Archer. God is pulling you back to No, you're like a seed that's being planted in sea. No, God is separating you from the Egyptians fire. No, my God is purging me. He's not killing my independence, my offense, my hate and other if you've ever been separated through the stuff The Bible teaches us that testing strengthens proves our faith is genuine. Tested faith gives qualities in our lives. Testing proves believers God, do not reduce your expectation of God to important what I'm about to share with you because conclusion, God always punishes. I will keep a Edom takes this God box into his house and the God is not just somebody who punishes sin, He's not somebody who just has the cross, He also of justice. He's also a God of mercy. Our God is fathers to four generations, but He also gives love Him. I want to let you know, do not reduce you walked with Him because God is greater than the last incident that you had when you served God. Sometimes that's not God. Uzzah should have never been on a cart. That's not God's fault. To is like blaming the Secretary of Transportation and it's not right. And most of us take credit bad and leave the devil undetected. The devil You're not that great, God is good and the devil happen we quickly run and say, God did it. But the joy comes in the morning. My Bible says, His My Bible tells me that there are moments, please if you punch in the right numbers you're going to also merciful. Our God is a righteous God, but but He's also a God of grace. Do not reduce your something did not go right and say, well this didn't walk right with God. We're not saying What we're saying is don't reduce God to only one gave me a picture when I was in the Ukraine, in I will have a son. I took a picture from Google on my phone. And you know I felt that I received after that for the next 10 to 12 years. It's easy say God is responsible for this. And to reduce God His activity or you saw negative things happen. experienced death. Please understand there's more just Savior, He's our Healer, He's our Deliverer, light in darkness. He's the rose of Sharon, the and the end. He's the Alpha and the Omega. He's heals. He's the God that restores. He's the God fifth chances. Our God is a great God. All other they cannot see. But our God made the heavens, on the throne, our God is to be trusted, He is has had tasted and knew that God is good, put Online drop that clapping emoji. Give God some What Obed Edam experienced was different than The God of breaking is also the God of breaking my supernatural. The God of the cross is also the the God of mercy. The God of the Old Testament is law is also the God of grace. What does that tell death when I walked with Him, I shouldn't walk experience breakthrough and life walking with Jairus came to Jesus, says Jesus my daughter is daughter gets worse and she dies. And the people teacher. Leave Him alone, meaning drop Him. Look they just got worse. And some of you, that's with God and life was hard, it got hellish, and teacher. Meaning distance yourself, like David. things died and he says, no, no, no. I need to I cannot put all my hope up in God. I cannot be things are not getting better, things are getting &quot;Do not be afraid; only believe.&quot; Meaning don't get worse. Don't be afraid to keep walking with walking with Me through the sifting. Don't be valley of the shadow of death. Because I am the other side. I will take you out of the not healed but raised from the dead. You came I didn't meet your expectation but trust Me, I miracles. Do not reduce God to just one incident. to Obed Edom, he says I'm going to give God right. Do it again, do it right and do it better. bearing the ark of the LORD had gone six paces, next verse it says, &quot;David danced before the linen ephod.&quot; Next verse it says, &quot;David and all with shouting and with the sound of a trumpet. In covenant on the shoulders of the priest. Meaning was just playing meeny, meeny, miney and just got to do it, we had right intentions, we didn't boyfriend living together, sleeping around but good intentions, but you can live wrong before God don't matter. I can have a good intention to opposite direction. Your intentions don't matter, matter, and David's directions, David's decisions I did it the wrong way. I didn't put God's box the Philistines taught us. I put it on the cart. and Uzzah died as a result of that. I'm not going meaning I'm going to bring the ark back and I'm going to do this better. I'm not going to walk with God and now really not dance, not clap, it didn't work. It backfired, so I'm going to do I'm going to go all the way after God. I'm going going to do it better. Somebody with me? Say this, will do it better. And somebody say, I will do it you were on fire for God, you burned for God, your happened, threshing floor happened. Maybe it was people that traumatized your life, and you took still believe Him, you love Him. You just don't In fact the new church you came into happens and I don't blame you, nor am I going to ask you say is first open your heart to God again, trust do it again and this time do it better. No, no, and you didn't know better. Now you know better. politics and you've got burned by it. So now you God. Can God's people have a tendency of hurting and if you do it for Him in this new season of you will see the power of the Lord, you will see of the Lord that I have in my spirit for you is do again. Some of you, maybe you lost your marriage Maybe you've had a business that failed during again. I have had so much trauma in that area. Do for you and there's a desire in your heart, may may your dreams be greater than your memories, may Do it again but do it with God, and do it better. didn't do it again. She listened to a sermon and name was Michal, and this chapter ends, you see 23 it says, &quot;Now Michal the daughter of Saul had taking notes write down the last thing. Where Where there is no intimacy, there will be no no children to the day of her death.&quot; While David disappointment, dancing, sacrificing. Michal, she of God. The Scripture says she was watching at the The Bible tells us about three women who watched God. One of them was Jezebel. The other one was The wife of David. Now I want you to notice the doesn't say Michal was the wife of David. It says she was the wife of David? Because at this point husband, she reflect passivity of her father. At desire to please God. She reflected the addiction didn't reflect the passion of her husband. See the king but she failed to be the mother of the because she was from the royal lineage, but the but it says that because of her passivity, you no children. I wonder sometime while we have an don't understand what I've been through. You don't what people did to me. I might never understand is stealing, not only your past but also your David, and the Bible says she had to pretend that there, David escapes so she loses her husband. out her dad gets killed in the battle, finds out brother becomes a king, gets his head chapped off. counseling. She needed the deliverance on the honestly, I don't blame her for the passivity that reasons you have for being passive in the present. because if you are passive today, you may have all but it can paralyze your future. That's one of the I cannot afford not to be hungry for God. I cannot they might have stolen my past, I'm not letting childhood but they cannot steal my adulthood. They my future. That's why I want to challenge every to challenge every person, lose those things. I'm trauma, but it's going to begin to pave way to again, I'm going to love again, I'm going to open I'm going to go to a life group again, I'm get healed. I'm going to get whole, why? I'm not I am going to be defined by what happened on the lukewarm. I will not live complacent. I will not day of salvation. Today is the day to be on fire the day to dream. Today is the day to believe for great work in my life. Today is the day. I don't fears of tomorrow. Today is my day. I will not I will be a participator. I'm a worshiper. I'm in what God is doing. Not spectate, watch and on down and be a part of what God is doing. There long at the window and fell asleep. When you are and every sleeping saint becomes a slipping saint. and he died. If you sit too long at the window, rehearsing the bad that happened to you. You sit birthing nothing, that's the best case scenario. falling asleep, and when you start spiritually down and then it could lead to spiritual death. I'm not one of those people who say, no pretend no, no, no. Do you think David never felt hurt the middle of the valley, I'm going to praise Him. Satan is not innocent and I'm not worthy. pursue Him and burn for Him. As you have passion, have passion, you will have intimacy. As