Just off the side of the road sat a grand Silently holding secrets from the past, waiting Sounds like the opening line of a southern family, and a real house, this country's center of far more than he had bargained for. The man is Fred Miller, a 56-year-old Air in his Virginia hometown for his large extended He had never heard the name Sharswood, and of discovery, with surprises and revelations at once. These are the gentle hills of Pittsylvania near the North Carolina border that once produced Fred Miller: Hey, we're gonna gather up Fred Miller grew up here in a close family birthdays, fish fry's, and as his cousin Adam Miller: We play games, and we do, like, Lesley Stahl: I hear the food is mainly cake. Adam Miller: Yeah. (LAUGHTER) Too many cakes-- Fred Miller: Too many cakes. Fred's cousin, Tonya Miller Pope, and his family. Fred's mother, Betty, and his aunt, Brenda, Lesley Stahl: How many cousins? Brenda: Oh my God-- (OVERTALK) Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Hundreds Fred Miller: It's hundreds-- Brenda: At least 100. Lesley Stahl: So no wonder Fred needed to Fred Miller: -- a huge place. Brenda: Exactly. Fred lives in California, where he works as visits the family in Virginia often. Fred Miller: One day, out of the blue, my up the road for sale. Lesley Stahl: This sister right here? Fred Miller: Yeah. Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Yeah. Karen Dixon-Rexroth, Fred's baby sister, Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Me and my mom was ridin' I said, &quot;Oh, my goodness. We have to get this house.&quot; I call Fred. &quot;Fred, this house is for sale.&quot; He's like, &quot;What house?&quot; I said, &quot;You know the house. The-- the scary house,&quot; I call it. (LAUGH) The "scary house" was less than a mile They'd passed it every day as kids on their Lesley Stahl: What did you know about Sharswood? Betty Dixon: Absolutely nothin'-- Tonya Miller Pope: --nothing. Debra Coles: Nothing. Brenda: No. Adam Miller: Just knew it was-- saw the house-- Tonya Miller Pope: A big house. Karen Dixon-Rexroth: He was debating, &quot;Should I said, &quot;Yes. Absolutely. Let's do it.&quot; Lesley Stahl: Did she twist your arm? Fred Miller: It took all the twisting she 'Cause I-- I d-- I didn't want to buy it-- But thinking his bid would be rejected anyway, asking price. Lesley Stahl: Why did you think they weren't Fred Miller: Well, I mean, I'm-- initially, they would never-- surely, they would never So for us to be able to own this thing, I Yeah. In a million years. Lesley Stahl: So guess what happened? A million years. Fred Miller: A million years happened. (LAUGH) Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Yes. (LAUGH) Yes. Absolutely. So in May of 2020, Fred Miller purchased the of land from a family called the Thompsons, Fred Miller: The first time I drove up to edge of the road there and just look up in-- Like, wow, this is-- this is mine. [SMILE] Karen Dixon-Rexroth: This is an original room Karen says she got obsessed with the house, its secrets. Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Hiding spot they say the valuables-- Lesley Stahl: Secret hideaway. Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Yeah, a secret hiding She discovered the house had been built around New York architect. And she learned and told her family that its Fred Miller: Every day she was calling me I'm like, &quot;My goodness, okay, relax.&quot; (LAUGHTER) Lesley Stahl: Are you exaggerating? Every day? Fred Miller: No, I'm not exaggerating at (LAUGHTER) But then Karen turned up something that stunned seat of a major, 1,300 acre plantation. One of the larger ones in the county. Lesley Stahl: What did you think of you owning Fred Miller: I was a little bit-- a little Because I just wanted somewhere to have family Tonya Miller Pope: When I found out that it Fred just bought a plantation-- Tonya Miller Pope: I was like, we own-- We Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Yeah, what we gonna do Tonya Miller Pope: It was just-- a feeling It was just a powerful feeling. Karen Dixon-Rexroth: It is. Powerful, but of course, plantation implies County held more than 14,000 enslaved people. The state of Virginia just under 500,000. Dexter Miller: I said, &quot;Do you realize what They didn't have a clue. Dexter Miller, one of Fred and Karen's many because years ago, he'd been coworkers with Bill joined us for a conversation on what Lesley Stahl: You grew up in this house. Bill Thompson: I did. This was my home. He inherited much of the farmland and still His sister inherited the house and sold it Lesley Stahl: You know, when Fred was buying would be sold to a Black person. Bill Thompson: Why would you think that, Fred? Fred Miller: Well, because, you know, it's-- Right? Bill Thompson: Well, this is true. (ALL LAUGH) For years, Dexter and another second cousin, together the Miller family's origins -- a because records are hard to come by, especially Sonya Womack-Miranda: It really was a hobby. Dexter Miller: It was addictive. It was addictive, it really was. Lesley Stahl: You were like private eyes. Sonya Womack-Miranda: Yeah. Dexter Miller: Yes. They had been able to trace the whole Miller Sonya Womack-Miranda: It's Dexter's great-grandmother; Lesley Stahl: Sarah Miller? Dexter Miller: Uh-huh. Sonya Womack-Miranda: Yes. They had found a picture of Sarah Miller. Dexter pointing to photo: This is Sarah right And they'd gotten hold of her death certificate, County in 1868, just three years after the And they found an even better resource. One of their oldest living relatives, a beloved Ms. Keyes, as everyone here calls her, is Lesley Stahl: Sarah Miller is the matriarch Marian Keyes: Yes, she-- yes, she was. Lesley Stahl: Did you know her? Marian Keyes: Yes, I did. Lesley Stahl: Well, tell us about her. Marian Keyes: She would always be out there waiting for us. Marian Keyes remembers her great-grandmother, Marian Keyes: What she wanted you to know, Lesley Stahl: Was she persnickety, as they Marian Keyes: Yes, yes, yes-- Lesley Stahl: --was she difficult? Stern? Marian Keyes: Very. Very. She didn't-- she didn't play. She didn't play. But we loved her. But that's where Ms. Keyes' knowledge She didn't know anything about the generations Lesley Stahl: When you were growing up, what slavery? Marian Keyes: Nothing. Lesley Stahl: Nothing? Marian Keyes: Nothing. They did not talk about it. I don't know whether they were afraid, whether to forget it, I don't know. But they did not talk to us about it at all. And we didn't ask them questions about it. Lesley Stahl: Why not? Marian Keyes: We were afraid to. (LAUGH) We heard that again and again from members Dexter Miller: Slavery wasn't mentioned at Lesley Stahl: Was there almost a code? We don't talk about slavery so nobody did? Dexter Miller: It was something-- that every Your parents was to tell you not to discuss That's what they'll tell you. Fred Miller: The first time slavery was discussed came. The movie "Roots" came about. Lesley Stahl: That's the first time? Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Uh-huh. Lesley Stahl: When "Roots" was on television? Did you read about it in school? Fred Miller: N-- not much. His family also remembers "Roots" as pivotal. Debra Coles: Yes. Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Mm-hm. Brenda: I think that's-- that's where we all-- Karen Dixon-Rexroth: That's where we all-- Brenda: I think all of us felt like that-- Tonya Miller Pope: That was an eye-opener. Lesley Stahl: But even after "Roots," Karen Dixon-Rexroth: No. [ALL SHAKE HEADS NO] Lesley Stahl: Even then-- Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Not at all. Lesley Stahl: What held you back? Fred Miller: I just didn't think they wanted Lesley Stahl: But didn't you wanna know? Fred Miller: I would love to have known. I would love to have known. Fred's purchase of Sharswood was about to slavery roots. It started with a call from two archeologists Dennis Pogue: We're historic preservationists. And so, you know, we start from the idea that Dennis Pogue once worked at Mt. Vernon; Doug Sanford at Monticello. They asked if they could come explore Sharswood, house designed by that famous architect. What they cared about was the dilapidated tree behind it. They suspected it had once been slave quarters. Doug Sanford: There were once hundreds of These were one of the most common types of But now these buildings are rare, with fewer And Pogue and Sanford started a project to Fred and Karen invited them to come investigate. They examined, measured, and searched for They showed us some of what they found. Dennis Pogue: These are the kind of nails 1800. Hand-made, wrought nails. Lesley Stahl: Hand-made? Dennis Pogue: You can actually see the hammer Lesley Stahl: Is this the original siding? Dennis Pogue: These are remnants of the original Absolutely. They worked from noon to dusk and finally Dennis Pogue: It's got a complex history, of that history, was it was a-- a quarter They say it's one of the best preserved They believe it was originally built in the Doug Sanford: That's where the original door And was later divided into two separate, single-room Lesley Stahl: Two families? Doug Sanford: Yeah. One household here. Another enslaved household over there. Fred Miller: It just showed that it was two world here, and lavish; and you go right behind story. It's kinda crazy for me just to even walk Lesley Stahl: Do you own that? Do you own the slave house, too? Fred Miller: I own the slave house, I do. That's mine. [SMILE] Lesley Stahl: Wow. Fred Miller: Yeah. [LAUGHS, SMILES] When Fred Miller unwittingly purchased what House -- with slave quarters just behind it family history. He'd always assumed his ancestors had been part of a distant past. Learning about his great grandmother Sarah piqued his interest. So when he found out her house was still standing, his mother Betty Dixon to go there with him. Fred Miller: Alright, we're gonna walk down Betty's grandmother Sarah had been the first shortly after the Civil War. Betty walking toward house: Last time I saw No electricity. Betty remembers visiting and spending the Fred and Betty approaching window: Whoa. What is it, one room? Sarah's house didn't look much bigger Just a single room with a smaller one above And no indoor plumbing. Fred Miller: Come a long ways, huh? Betty Dixon: Sure did. Fred Miller: Glad I didn't have to live Betty Dixon: Well, had to make it work. Fred Miller: You want a piece of this wallpaper Betty Dixon: Yeah. Fred Miller: (rips dangling piece off) Hope Betty Dixon: Oh lord. There you go. Sarah Miller is buried in the cemetery of Fred at grave: I'm glad now I can actually But unbeknownst to this Miller family, just cemetery, was a tombstone that also read "Miller" family had never heard of, but were about In Karen's search for information about them. Karen Dixon-Rexroth: It gave the names of Miller, and also Charles Edwin Miller. Lesley Stahl: Miller?! Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Yes. Miller. Lesley Stahl: Any lightbulbs? (LAUGH) Any wires connect? Karen Dixon-Rexroth: No, not at that point. Fred Miller: For me, it didn't. At that time it still didn't. Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Not at that point, it Others had suspected a connection between Bill Thompson: Because I was telling Dexter Bill Thompson says he had mentioned the thought Bill Thompson: What we had been taught in they just took the last name of the person I just had told Dexter, &quot;Dexter, it's a good farm.&quot; Dexter Miller: He did. He said that. Lesley Stahl: So you knew that this was a Dexter Miller: I did. Lesley Stahl: Well, Fred, you said you didn't Fred Miller: I had no idea. Lesley Stahl: Dexter, you didn't tell Fred. Dexter Miller: I did not tell Fred. I did not tell anyone. Dexter says he'd kept it to himself, because And that's where this becomes a detective to figure out whether it could be possible on the very property Fred now owned. The first step was figuring out who their And Sarah Miller's death certificate held and Violet Miller, who would have been adults Lesley Stahl: Did you know anything about Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Not at all. Not at all. Marian Keyes: I didn't know anything about We didn't-- Even Marian Keyes, who knew Sarah Miller, Marian Keyes: Nothing. Lesley Stahl: Wow. Marian Keyes: Sure didn't. Karice Luck-Brimmer: I just-- I-- I want everybody Enter Karice Luck-Brimmer, a local historian Karen reached out to her to see if she could Lesley Stahl: What are the special challenges Karice Luck-Brimmer: African Americans were So before that, they were just a number. Lesley Stahl: You mean, if they were enslaved, Karice Luck-Brimmer: Yes. Lesley Stahl: --weren't listed? Karice Luck-Brimmer: At all. So really, you're just looking for any type She started by looking at 1860 records for For Nathaniel Crenshaw Miller. Karice Luck-Brimmer: There he is. Lesley Stahl: (pointing) N.C. Miller right there, okay. Karice Luck-Brimmer: Yeah. He had 58 slaves here. But with only age and gender listed. Lesley Stahl: You have enslaved people (pointing And not a single name. Karice Luck-Brimmer: No names. There was no way of knowing whether Violet up David and Violet Miller in the 1870 census, finally appeared by name. It showed they were farmhands, that they couldn't including, as Karice showed us, a very young Lesley Stahl: There's Sarah. She's one year old. Karice Luck-Brimmer: One years old. Lesley Stahl: And this looks like Emily. Karice Luck-Brimmer: Yes. Lesley Stahl: She's three. And here's Samuel. Karice Luck-Brimmer: Yeah. Lesley Stahl: He's five. To Karice, that meant Samuel, Sarah's older So Karice searched for him in another historical Where slave owners had to list births on their And there, under N.C. Miller's name, was Samuel. Karice Luck-Brimmer: N.C. Lesley Stahl: Right. Karice Luck-Brimmer: And there's Samuel. Lesley Stahl: Oh. Karice Luck-Brimmer: And look at that. Lesley Stahl: Oh my word. Karice Luck-Brimmer: It lists Violet as his It was the genealogy equivalent of a smoking Lesley Stahl: So this is proof that Violet, Karice Luck-Brimmer: Yes. Lesley Stahl: --N.C. Miller Karice Luck-Brimmer: Yes. Lesley Stahl: And this is absolute proof? Karice Luck-Brimmer: This is absolute, definite Lesley Stahl: And you were able to tell Karen-- Karice Luck-Brimmer: That her ancestors, David [NODS] Karen Dixon-Rexroth: [NODDING] That was tough. Lesley Stahl: So did you call Fred? Karen Dixon-Rexroth: I did. I don't think he believed me in the beginning. Fred Miller: I didn't believe her. (CHUCKLE) Lesley Stahl: So the connection suddenly is Karen Dixon-Rexroth: And this house. Fred Miller: This house. Lesley Stahl: And you own it. Fred Miller: Once I realized that it was actually new meaning for me. It really saddens me sometimes when I-- you And I'm up-- a lotta times, I'm up wee hours happened here. As news spread through the family, there was Tonya Miller Pope: I almost felt like I was It was almost like a feeling of being found. VOICES: Yes, Uh-huh. Tonya Miller Pope: This is where I started. And as Black people, we don't always know Lesley Stahl: So here we are, sitting in this Marian Keyes: I can't believe it. I can't believe it. That I'm-- in the plantation house (LAUGH) Lesley Stahl: You're laughing as if this cannot Marian Keyes: Cannot be, that's right. But it is. Sonya Womack-Miranda: I felt-- I feel complete. Lesley Stahl: Wow. Sonya Womack-Miranda: I'm not half of a human They make me whole, even if I don't know them. I felt a connection to them at Sharswood. Dexter Miller: I touched the tree, I hugged here when my ancestor was here." I wonder which ancestor of mine has touched I didn't know what to say or do, I just hugged And felt like, &quot;I'm home.&quot; He shared the news with Bill Thompson, who Bill Thompson: I look at it that I've been life. And for the Miller family to come back home Fred Miller: Our home. Absolutely. Bill Thompson: --it's great. It's a celebration of-- of comin' home. Lesley Stahl: You've never heard anything Dennis Pogue: No. Doug Sanford: Yeah. So a number of plantation properties like relations with descendants of the enslaved But to actually see those descendants come Debra Coles: This is God. Adam Miller: Um-hm. Debra Coles: This is-- this is where we're Brenda: It's like a full circle, like it was Fred Miller: It's God's work. Brenda: To me it's like it was meant to The Millers also see the hand of their ancestors Fred Miller: I think they had to be because power to (LAUGH) make this fail. Brenda: To not make it happen. Yeah. Fred Miller: I tried to mess it up at (LAUGH) [LAUGH, SMILES] But those ancestors had one more surprise With all the revelations, there was one question Where were his enslaved ancestors buried? So, just weeks ago, he asked Bill. Dexter Miller: I said, &quot;Bill, there's one the slave cemetery?&quot; He said, &quot;Dexter-- it's right over there.&quot; I said, &quot;Right over where?&quot; He said, &quot;You see those trees over there?" Lesley Stahl: So did you just go right up Dexter Miller: We went right up there. The trees Bill Thompson pointed to, just beyond a cemetery. That is, until you start to look closely. Lesley Stahl: Is that one of them-- Fred Miller: That's one of 'em right there. Lesley Stahl: Oh, my gosh-- Fred Miller: And that's-- and that's one. As you can see this is the-- indention right Maybe this is a footstone on the other end. Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Yes. Lesley Stahl: (GASP) Fred Miller: It always-- Lesley Stahl: Oh, my-- Fred Miller: --seemed like to be-- Lesley Stahl: Oh, yeah-- Fred Miller: There's one, yeah, absolutely. Poking up through the leaves all around us No names, no engraving. Just plain, anonymous markers of many, many Lesley Stahl: Wow. This is astonishing. Karen Dixon-Rexroth: It is-- Lesley Stahl: It's kind of overwhelming, isn't Fred Miller: It is-- Karen Dixon-Rexroth: It is. It really is. I mean, we all live in the same area, we come our ancestors were right there beside us the Lesley Stahl: Fred, if you hadn't bought that Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Right. You're right. Fred Miller: If I hadn't-- Lesley Stahl: It would-- Fred Miller: --bought that house we'd never Lesley Stahl: Never-- Karen Dixon-Rexroth: Never. Lesley Stahl: So how has all of this affected Fred Miller: It's uh-- it's changed me, Lesley Stahl: You ever angry? Fred Miller: I get a little-- little bit upset should have known already. Lesley Stahl: Angry at yourself? Fred Miller: At myself and at the system, more. Lesley Stahl: What about the school system? Fred Miller: Should have known more. Lesley Stahl: Family? Fred Miller: Should have known more, absolutely. Lesley Stahl: You want the story of slavery Fred Miller: I want the story of slavery told. It's important. Fred Miller: So this was converted from a Dennis Pogue: Yeah, yeah-- Fred wants to do whatever's necessary to Dennis Pogue: You know, this has been exposed Fred Miller: Yeah, right. He's in the process of setting up a non-profit Fred Miller: That's important to me too 'cause big, white house there. Doug Sanford: Well, exactly. Fred Miller: But this right here is really Doug Sanford: Well, this is the story-- Fred Miller: --to me, right. Yeah, this is the story-- Doug Sanford: This is-- Fred Miller: --right here. Doug Sanford: This is your family's story-- Fred Miller: Yeah, absolutely. Fred at cemetery: One, two, three, four, five, There's eight right here. And he's been thinking about the cemetery Fred at cemetery: [BENDS DOWN AND RUBS SMALL Karen Dixon-Rexroth: We have to do something Fred Miller: Yeah, have to. And I will. I'm gonna fix it. [HOLDING ONTO TREE] Lesley Stahl: Do you think you might allow Fred Miller: Absolutely. Absol-- this place will be open to anyone Lesley Stahl: Anyone? Fred Miller: Anyone can come here. But for now, Sharswood is serving the purpose Gathering the Miller family together in celebration. Lesley Stahl: What do you think Violet and own this place? Fred Miller: Yeah, I'm hoping-- I'm hoping would be. They endured a lot. I mean, I can't even imagine what they went Looking down on us now, they must be smiling