The Taliban and ISIS are both Islamist extremist overarching goal is to create a state governed Sharia law, the religious doctrine that is a meant to protect the practice of religion, as communal wealth, and life, ISIS and the Taliban of Sharia law and have shown that they are Despite both belonging to extreme branches of states that adhere to their versions of Sharia that have been in perpetual conflict since fought against each other for so long? In what join us as we investigate exactly why the Before we begin, there's an important bit of beliefs are born from specific interpretations be applied to the governing of countries, neither of these forces are extremists who have pushed extreme interpretations, which do not reflect the have of the Quran, their central religious text. growing to prominence furing the Afghan Civil the Pashtun areas of eastern and southern point Afghanistan was already a country that in its already long history of instability. largely caused by the government of Afghanistan Given that the world was in the midst of the Cold decided to covertly offer support to insurgency sought to overthrow them. These fighters were were devout Muslims, they disagreed with a number resented the government for introducing as well as having ties to the Soviet Union. violent insurrections and attacks against eventually leading them to seek help from their In response, the Mujahadeen rebellion grew, United States' Central Intelligence Agency. agreement with the views of the Mujahadeen, as such they sought to aid the insurgency as a way of reducing the Soviets' influence. independent groups. They weren't a coordinated their tactics were sporadic and disorganized. their growing experience, and thanks to the via Pakistan by the United States and other However, the invading Soviet troops managed to most of the major towns and cities. The but their familiarity with this terrain allowed Soviets began bombing rural areas in an support for the insurgents. The Soviets' attacks drove nearly three million Afghan people away of them migrating towards neighbouring Pakistan. Afghan citizen: your country has been through livelihood, perhaps even since you were born. be willing to see the Mujahadeen rebellion more as at heart, fighting to end the perpetual conflict especially once that invading army starts bombings and travel across the border to seek refuge. the Mujahadeen and the Soviet Union, many of them Mohammed Omar, a Mujahadeen commander and eventual Pashto word meaning 'students.' Pashtuns are an eastern areas of Afghanistan, as well as northwest would have been displaced into Pakistan during them being educated in traditional Islamic schools Back in Afghanistan, the Mujahadeen eventually to shoulder-fired antiaircraft missiles that had eighties, the Soviet Union was beginning to fall Afghanistan entirely. However, even after the become peaceful overnight. A transitional various Mujahadeen factions took power, but to violent conflicts between these groups. at a madrasah, an Islamic school, in small end of the war leading to escalating political a vision that instructed him to restore of madrasah students - the Taliban - in taking By September 1996, they had taken control of ruling regime and establishing themselves They rulled with an iron fist. Any opposition to left starving by the conflict were denied and the rights of women - that had been previous Soviet-backed government The Taliban's rule over Afghanistan came to an coalition of armed forces invaded the country. attacks of September 11th led by Osama Bin Laden. and given he was in power, Omar had refused Bin Laden. This was what prompted the US invasion led to two decades of subsequent conflict. a diplomatic agreement for American forces to the Taliban once again seized power over of this video, have been restored to The Taliban are a fundamentalist Islamic choose to adhere to, and enforce a literal A number of their principles stem from tribal ways of life. They practice a branch which is one of the largest branches This is why it's important to remember that not even all Sunni Muslims, despite As part of their enforcement of the Taliban have prohibited women over the age in public unless accompanied by a man. Television control they employ are executions, detaining citizens who try to advocate for basic human difference between the Taliban and other Islamic objectives are localized. The Taliban only wanted whereas Al-Qaeda wanted to impose their version Then, there's ISIS, or the so-called Islamic to Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a man from Jordan. Islam known as the Salafi jihadist branch. This an Islamic state on a global scale, and advocates and other Muslims deemed to be heretics according of the Quran is taken in its most literal of the adherents of these extremist beliefs to Abu Musab al-Zarqawi ran a training camp within he traveled to Iraq and became responsible for during the Iraq War. He reportedly aided in American troops, and formulated the so-called when they drove Iraqi forces out of major cities A number of commanders from the Taliban also Many of these commanders had found themselves who was still head of the Taliban at the time, Islamic State. ISIS has since actively recruited in particular anyone discontent with the While The Taliban retains a much larger following with them. This included the lesser-known group affiliated with ISIS. The 'K' in their the Iranian Plateau. ISIS-K intends to act as Islamic State in Afghanistan and Pakistan. by militants originating from Pakistan, along with operate within the northern and eastern regions which is now once again under Taliban control. with, ISIS-K is actively hostile towards due to them possessing an even more extreme and this has led them to conduct a number of recent years. Despite contrary reports that actually increased, especially as the Taliban, made their advance across the country, which In terms of their tactics, the Taliban meaning they practice more unconventional or During the war in Afghanistan against the US Taliban would often conduct violent ambushes as well as conducting attacks using bombers in comes from the Taliban's historic links to the makes them extremely difficult to defeat through On the other hand, ISIS' tactics are far military. Additionally, while such a thing is ISIS also managed to utilize social media as a new recruits to their cause in a way that no crackdowns on the spreading of this propaganda ISIS has been known to have a presence frighteningly, they used social media to lure in from overseas to join their fight against not The fundamental difference, and the source of is that the Taliban and ISIS share different Islamic law. While both might consist of extremist what is known as the Deobandi branch. On the adhering to the even more extreme Wahhabi-Salafist Currently, there is still ongoing conflict between Afghanistan. When ISIS-K was established in at the time, Mullah Akhtar Mohammad Mansour, group was recruiting Taliban defectors, Mullah ISIS' leader at the time, abandon this recruitment that if there was to be a war for their cause in the Taliban's leadership, not that of ISIS. a group of militants associated with ISIS-K were operating in the Logar province. Fighting then groups in June 2015. Two separate factions of fighting each other over whether or not they More battles took place in April 2017 after the northern Afghan province of Jowzjan. in order to raise funding for the Taliban. 22 militants were killed in a fight between Eventually, the Taliban would launch a brutal in Jowzjan province during the summer of 2018. ISIS-K, who were subsequently almost eradicated by military in late 2019. Despite various setbacks, who remain alive and active within Afghanistan. a dubious peace accord with the Taliban, they extremists, including driving ISIS out of their of Afghanistan, there is concern that this by ISIS and its affiliated groups and that The Taliban recapture of Kabul initially left opposed to their control and ideology forced to members of ISIS, given that they do not share the Sunni Islam. However, if the reports are to be active in Afghanistan, given the shared history that they'll become allies anytime soon, even now Now watch "What Really Happened to ISIS". Or