Hi Friends, Welcome to Chess Talk! I'm Jeetendra Advani. &quot;Well begun is half done.&quot; This golden saying also applies to the game A good opening in a chess game is very very So What exactly is an opening? See basically, there are 3 phases in a game end game. Opening is the stage where you bring out your The opening is generally completed when both A big mistake that amateur players make is That is not the right way to go about it. Rather than memorising, what we need to focus good solid opening. So what is the basic idea in an opening? Its very simple. You need to bring all your pieces into play opponent from doing the same. In order to devise a good opening strategy, principles &amp; guidelines. In this video, I will tell you exactly what develop a good solid foundation to launch These are the absolute essential tips you journey. So what are we waiting for, lets get started. Principle#1: Develop ur pieces. This is the most important rule &amp; foundation Like I mentioned earlier, the idea is to use Therefore, piece development is very important. You need to open up your game &amp; move your control the maximum number of squares. Its advisable to develop your minor pieces its generally easier to figure out the active the game. Principle#2: Occupy the centre. So why is the centre so important? Its simply because a piece in the center controls in the corner. Lets take the knight for example. This knight in the center is controlling 8 knight sitting in the corner is controlling This same principle can be applied to other The opening, is therefore, always going to Principle#3: This is an extension of principle You need to exert pressure on the center. You must keep in mind that just like you, center so you need to threaten his pieces center. Lets take these opening moves for example. This is a very common opening by white &amp; black. Here what white is trying to do is threaten to the black pawn on e5. So indirectly, white is exerting pressure e5. This is how you exert pressure on the center. Principle#4: Never move a piece twice in the lose time. Your goal is to position you pieces in the are free to move up. The white knights for example, generally occupy The white bishops are generally positioned setup &amp; opening variation. So thats how you can setup your pieces. Principle#5: Don't bring out the queen early. There is always a temptation amongst amateur They try to play the glory moves &amp; try to known ways like these. While this trick might work against inexperienced But against seasoned players, this strategy Queen is a very important piece hence, it minor pieces. A good player will make your queen run all He will gradually keep on developing his pieces strong positional advantage. It is therefore advisable to bring out your Principle#6: Castling. Castling is generally the last stage in an The King is precious &amp; it is vulnerable in Therefore, it needs to be shielded. Also, the rooks need to be brought onto open Castling, therefore, has a double advantage. Your king is tucked aside into safety behind now ready to attack. Keep in mind that if your king or rook move, So therefore, you need to try &amp; castle asap. So these are the general guidelines that you moves. Keep in mind that apart from following these ur opponent from using these ideas. Ultimately, you will always need to think the moves made by your opponent. You can obviously deviate a little bit if should be your opening strategy while facing It is important that you try out different &amp; see what works best for you. I'm sure these opening principles will take So thats it guys, If you have any questions to post them in the comments section below. I read all the comments &amp; reply where ever queries. Don't forget to like this video if you found For more such chess videos, hit the subscribe For some interesting chess tips &amp; tricks, Links are in the description box below. Thanks for watching! Bye bye!