Hello friends! My military call sign is Abdula, I am the commander of the TERRA unit. Terra is fighting in the Bakhmut direction. We recently purchased a batch of FPV drones with your help. I want to thank everyone who took part in the fundraising. Also, here are these drones with cumulative ammunition PG-7. Ready. Waiting for the enemy vehicles. We will continue to fundraising for FPV drones because FPV drones run out like mines or ammunition for artillery. So the link to the fundraising will be pinned in the description of the video. We also have a Patreon and a Telegram channel. Donate to Terra. Donate to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Share this video. Only together we will win. Glory to Ukraine! - When did I become so tactical? - I said when I became so tactis in machine gun, weapon in general? That's happened when I was ambushed. We drove like this and didn't touch anybody. And then they start shooting at us. And we have started shooting them. The only thing that saved us was that we were driving with open windows with guns pointing out of them. and, as Mutsuraev sings, that the fire was already open on them and therefore we were able to leave. And if we hadn't been sitting like this or without machine guns ... This is a beautiful field of poppies. Relatively speaking, if we were not ready, we would pass away. For nothing. Well, for Ukraine, it turns out. No, we do everything quickly. To keep the car out of the danger zone. - Are we going out? - Tu-turu-tu... Well, don't panic. Fast but calm. - Have you taken everything? - Thats all, Zhora, go. - Getting prepared. - They will tell you, don't hurry. - The enemies are there. - There are men and there are scumbags. - Yeah... You're so epic Zhora. - Yep, No wonder they gave me the medal. - From what amount we are taking off the FPV? Or even by one request? - It depends on how much they will request. Or targets that we can hit on our request. If Here the enemies spend ATGMs for two people. And we are worse? - Agree. -- Zhora, there are enemies on the channel. - I'm taking off. A pilot drops a VOG-17 on a group of enemy infantry during an evacuation. The first VOG-17 is thrown off as a test to determine the direction of the wind at different echelons. Like a test shoot. The Russians, having heard the explosion, hide in the bushes. They think that they will not be seen and that will help them. On the left side of the screen, you can see the explosion of a 155mm projectile. Artillery also fires on this infantry. The Russian infantry continues its movement, thinking that it has an interval between fire. Dropping off the second VOG-17. Although the arrival took place at a fairly large distance, one of the Russian infantrymen fell. He's 200. This effect is achieved by the elongated nose of the detonator, which provided a larger range of fragmentation. His comrades continue to move since &quot;the Russians do not abandon their own&quot;. They leave him in place. *** According to the interception, was received information that a group of enemy snipers was working in this square. At first glance no one is visible, but here is the hit and he crawls out. You can see the pain on his face. The infantryman tries to crawl away. He got injured. We notice rustling in the bushes. It becomes clear that the information from the interception is confirmed. We see another undamaged infantryman. He starts dragging his friend. He is unconscious. Injured. His legs are covered in blood. The russian infantry hid in a ravine from the fire of our artillery. The drone pilot is dropping the VOG-17. The first hit injured one russian. He runs from the ravine moving into the field. The task of the pilot is to expel them from there so that they become Second hit. russian infantrymen begin to leave the ravine and move toward the trees. They will be more vulnerable to mortar and artillery fire there. - The sun beat down. -- My camera turned off today because of overheating. -- The main thing is that we do not shut down from overheating. - Do you have any bars? - Again... "Give me something too." -- Yes. - I want an ice latte. I want an ice latte and lemon tart. And also cold but not frozen. - Infantry with one wounded continue to move along ***. Now they will get until the gap. They stopped before a gap in the landing. From the side of the road. From the east. The target is perfect. They sit right on the edge. Chilling. - Do you hear Pasha? Give me the information. It turns out they crossed the gap in the trees, right? They crossed and four more appeared in that place. - They crossing the gap. What a shame, I wasn't fast enough. Two people crossed the gap. - Yes. Here is the second group. The one that moves. The third one runs. Damn. - The mortar fire is well. - The mortar fire is good there. - Zhor, I have to go help Dip. - Several means work simultaneously on the retreating enemy infantry. The pilot drops the VOG-17. A 120mm mortar fires at the same time. As a rule, the military goal is achieved in the synergy of the use of different means and types of troops. - We finished the work. - We told you. This is where we worked. I told you, about the gap. - He's sitting there. - Sitting alone. - Yeah. Observe this. Watch. - Just be careful. Do not get hit. - So, Pasha, get out of there. I'm going to take off with bombs now. - The pilot drops the cumulative ammunition exactly in the place where the russian infantryman is hiding. The position does not have a reliable overlap but is simply covered with branches and rags. So the cumulative ammunition should work. Assaults are going on. The enemy tank retreats under the fire of our artillery. M113 together with the landing force is moving towards the landing site while firing at enemy positions. The constant fire of a heavy machine gun does not allow them to raise their heads and use anti-tank weapons. The infantry landed. The machine gunner covers. The group is deployed to conduct a sweep. The pilot conducted additional reconnaissance. Looking for targets. Enemy positions are on fire but we do not see infantry there. russian infantrymen leave their positions, leading their wounded. -- The enemies seem to have retreated but we will ask now. - Look how it goes. - These are not our tigers. - Tell him to work. Although the Russians think that it is as easy to leave our land as it is to come in, it is not so. The entire retreat of the russian infantry is accompanied by the shelling of a variety of means. Including dropping ammunition from drones. The russian infantryman was wounded. He ran some distance but then fell. - Let's see Zhora's benefit performance. - Give the way. - No. - Long story short, it all started with the fact that I noticed the enemies ... give me way, please. - You can still sit there. - Giving the way... ... roosters in the corner. And the men are those that give the way. So, gentlemen, do not swear. Otherwise, it will have to be censored later. There's always not a word but obscene. - Long story short, the enemies are evacuating. - I'm flying up here. They hear the drone. - Yes. Here it is, earlier. - Somewhere here you can see - they leave him and hide in the forest. "And they throw him under the sun?" Do you see he's running? And they threw him out. - Probably they told him to pretend to be dead. I don't know. - Good plan. "They certainly wouldn't have dragged the body." "But he's not well, you see, he's lying.&quot; Well, maybe unconscious. They hid in greenery pretty well. Fine. I think I'll finish off the wounded. -- Words not of a boy, but a man. - It yours? - He's also doing like this with his hands. Hop! Communicates. - Unclear. - Let's go. Oh-oh. -- Take that! - Look, cockroaches are moving. "Maybe someone got injured there. - Look, the cockroaches have moved, you see, they ran. But they didn't leave him, see? They were kind of waiting for him. - Yes, they wanted to pick him up. But everyone has already decided to leave. - Well, the second one... I have already lost them. - Wow! - Maybe. It was close to them. They were sitting in the bushes. You've seen? They were sitting. - Yeah. In general, the last one kinda limps. Well, then I lost them and dropped into nothing. - The day is not spent in vain. - Wait, it will be in a minute. - No, the second one is definitely missed. The wind was disturbing... He's already seen it. He spoiled everything for us. - We always said that &quot;tomato juice comes out of a person.&quot; - And Zhora: &quot;I finished off the wounded.&quot; - Death. Guts. Blood. Murder. "I finished off that wounded man. He is dead. I killed. I want to kill.&quot; - Dead one. There it is. Even if he's dead I will kill him again. - Listen, if he was dead "And they wouldn't sit around waiting for the drone to fly away.&quot; - They stupidly walk past them and no one drags them. Yes, it was a wounded scumbag. -- The lad? The lad, by the way, is a good word. - Replace an SD drive. - Corpses for them there ... Well, it's kind of a common occurrence. - There, during these days of the operation, there are probably eight corpses on the road. Just there... -- So why are they walking along this road? What can't move across the field? - It's hard on the field. Have you tried to walk around the field? - Listen, you will walk across the field, then Zhora will come to you when you can hardly walk. - Yeah. While you're barely walking... - Ato Zhora will arrive, he will ask ... "...who is walking around here?" - Of course, otherwise, there will be no frags ...