The President: Thank you Thank you very much. This is an incredible I would say that our economy very well -- is doing better Our employment numbers perhaps ever, but Reports just came out Black unemployment is the Hispanic unemployment, Women unemployment, It started at 19, went up Very soon it's going We're doing numbers like and we have some of the great who I'm going to be introducing And they're going to do so of the great But they understand full We've never seen a period The whole world is looking and the United States There was a period of time not so long ago. The United States If I might, I just wanted on immigration and And I'll say it very honestly Immigration and all of the problems because we cannot get them we cannot get them even to the And I say it's, very strongly, They're obstructing. They're really And they are obstructing. The United States will not will not be a refugee It won't be. If you look at what's if you look at what's we can't allow that to not on my watch. For the rest of the world, that's taking place -- this morning and you see. We want safety and we want If the Democrats would sit down we could have something good for good for country, good It could take We could have an We could have -- child separation -- we're stuck They're horrible laws. What's happening is And it can be taken care and we'll have safety. This could really be It could be something maybe just like they're watching how it's soaring. They could watch this. We have the worst in the entire world. Nobody has such sad, such in many cases, such You see about child separation; But just remember, a is not a country at all. We need borders. We need security. We need safety. We have to take You take a look at the that's been caused by without going We want a merit-based so that Boeing and Lockheed and all of the people the heads of every company, so that you can hire people on a you know they're coming in -- not based on a that snuck across And they could be and so much else. So, we want a safe with the borders. And that's the way it is. Now I'd like to -- (Applause.) -- thank you. Thank you. And again, we can do if the Democrats come Everybody wants to do it. We want to do it If they come to the table, we can do it So welcome to the third meeting I want to begin by Vice President, Mike Pence, And, Mike, I want to thank you to American I also want to thank Secretary Elaine Chao, Director Coats, and congratulations, Where is he? Where is he? Congratulations. You better do a good job. (Laughter.) I'll say you're fired (Applause.) You have a and you've loved this right Administrator Bridenstine: The President: He He did an awfully good job, Administrator Bridenstine: The President: Secretary Wilson, General Dunford, Undersecretary Thompson, and Acting Deputy Secretary Grady We're honored to be joined Brian Babin, Stand up, Congressmen. Please. Please. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause.) And a special welcome to a Does a great job as governor in the world, Alabama -- Kay Ivey. Kay. (Applause.) Am I doing Participant: Yes, sir. Governor Ivey: I better We love Alabama. I also want to recognize The first woman to command the great Eileen Collins. Stand up, Eileen. (Applause.) Great job. Great job. That's a lot of Along with legendary Jack Schmitt and Buzz Aldrin. Buzz has been a friend Jack, thank you very much. Thank you, great. (Applause.) And I also have a list of and presidents of these Wes Bush, CEO of Where's Wes? Wes, thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Wes. Gwynne Shotwell, Gwynne? Stand up, Gwynne. She'll end up running (Applause.) Bob Smith, CEO of Blue Origin, Thank you, Bob. I hear you're (Applause.) President and CEO, That's a combination of on the Space Launch System, SLS. I don't like when Boeing because the pricing only in this case. (Laughter.) I don't know. I don't love that stuff. We're going to have to your joining those two (Laughter and applause.) Oh, boy. Look at Dennis. Dennis is so happy. I don't like (Laughter.) Marillyn Hewson, who has at Lockheed Martin, Marillyn? Marillyn -- you have done. (Applause.) What do you for the space -- what Look at them; they're Oh, Boeing. (Laughter.) Oh, it's -- the pricing we want, huh? Dennis Muilenburg, A great guy. The head of Boeing. And, boy, have you done a commercial, military. Both of you. What a job Thank you. (Applause.) Stay apart. Stay apart. Don't get together. Stay apart. And, you know, just a are here And it's patriots like you why America was first in and why America will You know, before I got (Applause.) Before we they didn't have such Now they have plans. And it's great, not only in it's great for the This morning it came out is the most optimistic it's ever of our country. That's pretty good. Now, I don't know if I don't know if they go areas of a little bit earlier, or 200 years. But I will tell you, I like we have right now. So, it's a very I want to also say that too often, for too many years, our dreams of exploration and by politics and bureaucracy, So important for our psyche, It's going to be important But so important for right We don't want China and Russia We've always led -- we've gone having to do We're going to be We're behind you a America's vital interest to special interests in for the senators They would never do it. Right, Dana? But all of that We know that. My administration is as the world's The essence of the is to explore new horizons and But our destiny, beyond a matter of national identity, So important for So important. And people don't When it comes to defending to merely have an American We must have American So important. Very importantly, I'm the Department of Defense and the process a space force as the sixth That's a big statement. We are going to have the to have the Space Force It is going to So important. General Dunford, if you would I would be very Where's General Dunford? General? Got it? General Dunford: The President: Let's (Applause.) But that's the importance We're going to have One year ago, I revived and put exactly the right and that's our friend, Mike Pence. He feels very And in December, I signed that will return Americans to since 1972, if (Applause.) Always remembering but it's also about This is a great This time, we will do more and leave our footprints. We will establish a expand our economy, and build mission to Mars -- which is actually going And, you know, I've always seem to like rockets. So all of those rich guys that to launch we won't charge you too much. Just go ahead. If you beat us to Mars, and you'll be even But they do like Where's Eric? They do like rockets, They like those rockets. But you know what? If -- as long as he's an American rich person, (Laughter.) They can beat us. (Applause.) We'll save a and they can beat us and we're Don't worry about it. (Laughter.) But we'll be setting challenging old and we will be And we are making our -- available to these doing so incredibly by So, you're invited. The rent won't be high. I am instructing my the budding commercial We are modernizing They're way out of date. They haven't been changed And today we're taking one the power of American In a few moments, I will to federal departments They will work together to implement a for space traffic But don't let it get too We know about what's going rules and regulations. By the way, we've set the of this country in So, when I hear about (Applause.) -- a little bit tenuous. Be careful. Don't get too But we have. We've cut more regulations whether it's four years, in one case. We've cut more regulations in history. And I actually think that, I think that the may have even had more of an It's been incredible. We have regulation. We have a lot We have good regulation. But you don't need 20 years from building a highway. We can reject you in We have it down from down to two. We expect to get And if it's not good, But it's going to You're not going to go an only to find it's not Two previous administrations to develop a system to deal We are finally going It's going to happen fast. One year from now, our an important milestone in half a century since Americans and onto the moon. That was a big -- that In that magnificent moment, the American astronaut embodied the confidence of a cowboy, the ambition of a scientist, and the courage of a true, They bounded fearlessly into They did the impossible together, there is Americans can't do. When we get together, Now we are ready to begin of American space This is a very This is a very A new generation of young really challenge hard and their skill to work. And now we're giving them from which they can put Legions of welders and metalworkers, scientists and engineers stand new rocket and gleaming And that goes with all that we're building Our nation of pioneers still because we are Americans and the future belongs Once more, we will launch the sky and Once more, we will summon to tame the next great And once more, we will and that's what it is, beyond the Earth and into those but they will not be You're very You have a great, What you're doing has been even more incredible -- because we are giving you the likes of which nobody I am a big believer. You will go out there which is largely and you will learn everything And what you're doing is remember -- economically, In every way, there is Good luck, General Dunford I want to wish you a lot But that shows how Congratulations on your but you're going to have far Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mike. (Applause.) Okay, everybody. Here's a big one, right? Would anybody like (Laughter.) Is there They would be in big (The directive is signed.) (Applause.) Thank you, everybody. I have a few pens. Pass them around, okay. Thank you very Congratulations. Great day. Thank you.