Hey there guys, Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video we're going to be looking at how to control a light This is very useful, for example, when placing a light switch of a set of stairs, or at We're going to look at two as well as some different Now, the colour of the cables according to different standards. I'm going to be using for this video, but you should I just want to remind you that working with We're covering just the so please do not undertake unless you are qualified and competent. So, to control a light with two switches, we of course need two switches, which have three terminals on the back. I'll leave some links in the for where to buy these The name for these type depending on where in the world you are. The US/North America call But the EU calls these two-way switches. The switch can only be either up or down. But if we look at the back of the switch, then we'll see there are three terminals, and that means there's four ways for electricity to flow These will all depend on One terminal is called the common, and then we have a and another terminal called line two. Let's say we want to using two switches. I'll flip them over so you I'll also just rotate a little easier to understand. So we have the electricity coming in from the consumer unit and We therefore take the live wire and divert this into the We run another wire from the and connect this to the lamp. We now need to connect the two switches. So we connect terminal L1 of switch one with terminal L2 of switch two. We need to place a brown to warn that it is intermittently live. We then run another wire from and connect this to Again, placing a brown sleeve to indicate that this can be live. At the moment, the electricity can make it through switch but the circuit is broken at switch two. If we then flip the switch, so electricity runs and the lamp lights up. If we then flip switch one, so the lamp turns off. But electricity still flows to switch two where the circuit is broken. We could flip switch one or we can flip switch two, and So we can therefore flip to make or break the circuit, and thus control the light The second common way to control is to convert a one-way Again, we need two switches, to ensure that they have If your one-way switch then you need to replace this. So we cut the live wire feeding the lamp, and run this into We then run a grey wire from to terminal L2 of switch two. We need to place a brown to warn that this is intermittently live. We run a brown wire between of both switches. Then we run a black wire from to terminal L1 of switch two. Again, we need to place a to warn that this is intermittently live. Lastly, to complete the back to the supply of the light fitting. Again, using a brown sleeve to warn that it's intermittently live. The electricity can now flow, and it will pass through switch one and into switch two where If we flip switch two, so the electricity can and out into the lamp. If we flip switch one, we break the circuit to the light fitting so the lamp turns off. If we then flip switch two, and electricity will flow So the alternative ways to the conversion we just saw. But in this method, we run Then we run a brown cable over to L1 of switch two. Then we run the grey wire over to L1 of switch one. We need to place a to warn that this is intermittently live. Then we run a black wire of both switches. Again, we need to place a Finally, we connect the blue back to the light fitting. Again, placing a brown sleeve at each end. So to start with, the circuit is broken, so electricity passes through switch one and into switch two, but If we then flip switch one, and electricity can and into switch two, and up into the lamp. If we flip switch two, electricity just flows and doesn't reach the light. If we flip switch one, the switch one and over into switch two, across the switch, and where it can flow to the light fitting. On the third variation, being connected for this but we connect the live Then we run a brown wire to L1 of switch two. And we run a grey wire and L2 of switch one. Then we run the black wire And finally, we connect the blue wire between L2 of switch Remember to add a brown to warn that they are intermittently live. The fourth variation is very except that the black wire is connected between the two L1's of both switches, and the brown wire is connected Again, remembering to place to indicate that they intermittently live. Okay guys, that's it for this video. But to continue your learning, just click on one of the and I'll catch you there Don't forget to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and of course, check out TheEngineeringMindset.com