In 1945, the US dropped two nuclear bombs Second World War. 17 years later, the course of the Cold War. Except The explosion of Starfish Prime race that reshaped our perception crucial for understanding how we and why it's imperative no nation is I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. was, the critical lessons it taught us, and In the early 1960s, the US launched in outer space. Known as Operation Fishbowl, The military wanted to study the effectiveness and how a space-based blast might interfere operations on the ground. Scientists wanted the Earth's magnetosphere, and what kind Starfish Prime was the first successful blast kilometres west-southwest of Hawaii, a Thor rocket launched for the stars. That's 500 times more 27 smaller missiles loaded with scientific gather data on the blast and its subsequent the nuke finally exploded at an altitude of 400 kilometres - about the height of the What a sight it must've been. Ionized particles from the explosion collided creating widespread auroras visible across the below the explosion, the cloudy night sky of was as though another sun had emerged at 11pm. and streetlights across Hawaii were even knocked is important. The early 1960s marked one of the US and the Soviet Union locked in a fierce sought to outdo each other in military strength, The space race became a key battleground They successfully sent the first rocket Yuri Gagarin became the first human in space. fear the Soviets might develop space-based escalating after incidents like the Berlin Crisis, way to gain a strategic advantage in the Cold weapons, missile defense systems, and other Military planners were concerned about how these effects the detonation of such weapons might have they were worried about the electromagnetic pulse, An electromagnetic pulse is a burst of nuclear explosion, especially high-altitude generate powerful electric and magnetic fields disrupting communications, and causing widespread satellites, and radio systems. Back in the blasts produce EMPs, but the full scale well understood. Operation Fishbowl was a Launched from Johnston Atoll, Operation Fishbowl conducted by the US in the early 1960s. the US launched the remaining four The second test, eerily named 1962. The 20 kiloton bomb, similar in size to altitude of 147 km. This was rapidly followed Kingfish on November 1st, and finally Bluegill Triple Prime and Tightrope were both km altitudes respectively. Bluegill Triple Prime effects of such explosions in the mesosphere, test in the stratosphere. NASA defines space as these nuke tests weren't strictly carried detonated 95 km above sea level. But these paled The immediate impact of Starfish Prime struck awe of miles, a fireball over Hawaii, all happening when a nuclear detonation happens in space, you no mushroom cloud or double flash. There's just a a lava lamp, as charged particles are pushed field. These colourful auroras give high-altitude But the lasting effects of such an explosion are far from sunshine and rainbows. Starfish In 1958, US space mission Explorer 1 discovered regions of intense radiation. Today, we call who discovered them. These belts are made up of trapped by Earth's magnetic field. They act as a and cosmic rays, capturing high-energy The Starfish Prime explosion released such magnetosphere, that it altered the composition and even created artificial radiation belts that These persisted for up to a decade, shortened and interfered with telecommunications. They Britains' first satellite--and the first But that's not all Starfish Prime did. told you about earlier? Scientists but no one could have guessed Nuclear detonations emit gamma rays in all they interact with Earth's atmosphere, they ionise Since Starfish Prime detonated at an altitude of atoms in the upper atmosphere creating a cascade field, these electrons produced a rapid and At high altitudes where the atmosphere is thinner, would in a lower-altitude explosion. The EMP from damaging electrical systems far from the away in Hawaii, street lights went out, telephone were affected, showing how vulnerable Starfish Prime made the world realise It revealed how vulnerable electrical would be to a nuclear EMP attack. If added to the capacity to cripple enemy infrastructure Starfish Prime also released an isotope which was used to track the fallout and measure normally leave behind a characteristic localised were global. New Zealand rainwater was found Nature article attributed to Starfish Prime. These concerns about the long-term impact of space-based And imagine - Starfish Prime wasn't even the That prize goes to TEAK, from Operation Hardtack as big as Starfish Prime, and detonated at an and cut many trans-Pacific high-frequency Defense Nuclear Agency report on Operation normally ionized layers of the upper atmosphere The Soviets were also busy testing detonating seven space bombs over Kazakhstan their aims and effects were much the same as between 40 and 300 km, none were quite as size from 1.2 to 300 kilotons, about five times 1962, a 300 kiloton missile-warhead known as altitude of 290 km. The EMPs generated started a and blew over 1,000 km of shallow-buried These learnings had serious Cold War for international agreements to prevent nuclear Starfish Prime eventually led both superpowers One year later in 1963, the Limited Nuclear and USSR. It prohibited nuclear weapon and underwater to reduce radioactive fallout The Outer Space Treaty followed in nuclear weapons or any other weapons It also forbade nuclear explosions ensuring space remains a domain for peaceful Our modern world relies heavily on space-based navigation, communications, the internet, GPS, spell chaos for us below. Global commerce to a halt. Our electronics and power grids to their knees. Hospital equipment would stop to waste without proper preservation, The effects of a nuclear EMP would be far more our vital global systems and everyday lives rely We've established that various place today to ban further nuclear catastrophic events caused by an In 1859, the world's largest-ever recorded caused some pretty wacky things to happen. Northern lights were reported as far south people in the north of the US could read It threw sparks from telegraph equipment If a solar flare of similar direction, it could hit us with similar Fortunately, the chances of The more likely risk is a geopolitical one. vetoing a UN resolution against putting nuclear since speculated that Russia is planning on According to John Plumb, assistant Russia is developing a "concerning anti-satellite device that Russia is developing. This capability by countries and companies around the globe, as meteorological, agricultural, commercial, and This is in direct violation of which though still in effect, sadly doesn't These international agreements exist to prevent weapons. They must be respected to ensure all increasingly important for modern life, the Starfish Prime showed us the devastating reality crippled infrastructure, unleashing our atmosphere for years, destroying satellites This experiment was a turning point. From it nuclear and space age; space could be weaponized but all of humanity. This is why international space. These agreements are promises to will remain a place for discovery and This is why responsible, peaceful space continue to unravel the mysteries of inspire and unite humanity, without the Thanks for watching! If you liked this video, you may like my others about space history. the Space Race, and tried to go to A big thanks to my patrons and members. If you end of every Astrum video, check the links thanks for watching making this video required only able to do thanks to the consistency astronauts on patreon a huge thank you to like us to make more videos like this you join you'll be able to watch the whole video questions to our team once again a huge team meanwhile click the link to this playlist