Gene Kelly, the guy who keeps smiling will forever embody the carefreeness, This mainstay of Hollywood a dancer, a choreographer, a director, and above all, an innovator. We owe a great debt to Gene Kelly not only for dance, For really bringing it up to date Till then, white tie and tails, sliding across gleaming floors. There is an upper-echelon feel I think Gene was exactly the opposite, that he would wear a polo shirt and dance in his loafers. One of the ideas my father cultivated working class, middle class, in his film persona. I think this is why he's known as I think that's a very appropriate title He would roll up his sleeves so that people can walk out of the theater and think they can dance That also had to do with, perhaps, growing up Pittsburgh, an industrial was where it all began It's an amazingly long life He let us know what it was like It was fun. He lived in Pittsburgh and grew up there His father worked in a shop called phonographs. When he was a kid, His mother and she basically He remembers being made fun of, you're now going to dancing school, As a little boy he would much rather or doing other sports. When I was in high school, at around 15, and I was a junior in high school. They'd have high school dances Since I was playing football and baseball and I wasn't afraid of the remarks, I should say, this is a very good way and I learned I took a couple of dancing lessons and I found However, in 1929, on Black Thursday, The stock market crashed so the family My father came home from college and the whole family and that became Well, my brother taught me to tap dance which existed up until 1932, where they'd hold and whoever got the most applause It was really my father in Pittsburgh particularly. He realized that then he was never Broadway was the goal I think Broadway was the peak. It was a question of ambition and longing to have a bigger career. He had less money and he shared It was five bucks a month or something, Nobody wanted in spite of the fact I got a job as a dancer Nonetheless, he was able and met a young chorus girl, and they had a daughter, Kerry. She went to an audition at the age of 15 and a half, and the choreographer They fell in love almost immediately and had a very exciting with many friends in the theater world. Being in New York at that time and seeing what everybody else was doing, which I kept saying to my closest friends, Gene Kelly would find his style. In 1940, at the age of 28, In this rare clip shot by an amateur, we can make out everything from the reigning master of musicals, The way they moved was so different. Gene was down on the floor and was about the jumps where Fred was up on his toes Fred Astaire's tap dancing and the rest was moving, whereas my father's Gene Kelly was a sexual creature. Women who came to the movies knew By contrast, and gracious and well-mannered. A female viewer but she would save her body He came to us as a sexier His originality was rewarded. &quot;Pal Joey&quot; was a huge hit and Hollywood, came knocking in person, My father saw in which Gene Kelly and unknown He had extraordinary dancing abilities, and he also Gene Kelly had a natural ability in the dramatic scenes, that there'd be an opportunity so he signed him to a contract. David O. Selznick is not a producer and he's in the middle Gene Kelly waited and he waited when are you going to use me? Selznick was famous for being a man He made money by renting out his stars. At the time, the youngest daughter of Louis B. Mayer, and he told his father-in-law and apparently, my grandfather said, My father sold one half MGM said, we could buy the whole contract. My father said no. Maybe I'll still have some use for him, That was typical of my father, MGM hired him to play the biggest star of the day. He literally jumps off the screen. He has such confidence. Whatever part he's playing, He liked showing off. Judy was very supportive of him, She had been in front of the cameras She was very helpful to Gene Kelly for the cameras What hit us? He can act. He's credible. As an actor, he has a tendency After that, Musicals, of course, but also movies in which he doesn't dance. With his looks, he's comfortable The Nazis will be back. Hundreds of them next time. What will you do, wait for them? It seems so shocking as a musical star, This is a fundamental that people even question that. Musicals are lavish. They have a long period of preparation, They want value for their money. They don't want him They're paying for him, In 1943, MGM goes so far &quot;The Cover Girl&quot; with Rita Hayworth. From the point of view it was critical because not only was it the first time but he could do so many innovative things. In the &quot;Alter Ego&quot; number, and so he personified They argue and they fight. That is showing how Gene He's not just doing a theatrical He's in a way, a lot more emotional. &quot;Cover Girl&quot; for what Gene Back in Culver City, Gene Kelly shot &quot;Anchors Aweigh&quot;. A new opportunity for him to innovate. At the time in Hollywood, with putting together live dancers The idea was around and Kelly really wanted to do this and they really accomplished it There was something and yet playful with very hard work. That I think is one way You have to be tough. You have to work very hard as a dancer. Yet there's a certain lightness that you can never get because when the cameras start turning, That perfectionism with his partner, Frank Sinatra. Frank Sinatra was the idol and known for that However, when it comes time like &quot;Anchors Aweigh&quot;, to teach him Everybody who worked talked about how hard the work was, how relentless Most of them say that it was worth it. In two years, Gene Kelly However, as of December the 7th, 1941, the United States entered World War II. America served, People who were in the public eye, who were obviously athletic, were really expected to serve. When he joined the Navy, he wasn't worried that Hollywood was going to forget him. He was already established enough, He didn't have to do it, Men who had worked in the motion were assigned and other units of the Army Signal Corps, where they made thousands He was assigned to the film unit He made a number of films like &quot;How to Assemble and things like that. Many different training films. However, that became quite important He made a film called &quot;Combat Fatigue Irritability&quot;, from what we now call Come in. This is Lucas, sir. Sit down, Lucas. Thank you, sir. -Cigarette? What ship were you on, Lucas? The Montanan, sir. You were a fireman? I am, sir. -Certainly. Always below decks, That's why I'm fed up, nobody gets it. It's interesting furthered the opportunity for him to learn about because that is what he wanted to do. He wanted to have more control and it is where he's going to go Upon his return Gene Kelly buys a house A prestigious address They spent all their money on the house. My father, my mother, me, Carol Haney and Jeanne Coyne, sleeping on mattresses on the floor. My father built furniture. For many years Everybody was at our house and watching movies and having a big dinner It was a community. It was an artistic community. It's with Stanley Donen, that he'll enter becoming a director. For &quot;On the Town&quot;, their first picture, the two men won't hesitate The studio didn't want us The studio said, on the MGM backlot, but I said, no, and the smell The big city's well known hospitality and particularly sailors on leave in its many cultural points of interest. We shot there for about five days and the studio said, I screamed, yelled, pleaded, No, you have to come home. As if they were running out of money, I think &quot;On the Town&quot; in terms of the Hollywood musical, really opens up the cinematic experience. It gives it an authenticity and a realism. It gives it a whole new life However, that isn't the only novelty There's a great integration in terms of how they work with the story as it's time They have a relevance and an importance in terms of furthering Sometimes to me, To me, &quot;On the Town&quot;, of just enough dance It's like they didn't stop down and, Five, six, seven, eight. It just kind of evolved I think Gene was a master at that. This is Paris I'm a painter. In the wake of &quot;On the Town&quot;, Gene Kelly plunges with Vincent Minnelli. &quot;An American in Paris&quot;. A variation on the works Here again, He is able to dance He's not just this brash, He's able to meld and change his style depending on whatever type of emotional Paris is a mood, a longing you didn't know Paris is like love or art or faith. It can't be explained, only felt. However, the highlight of the film seventeen minutes This had never before been seen. Dore Schary had now taken We brought all the sketches up to him and said, Dore, we want to do this ballet, and when I described it he finally said, wait a minute. He said, I don't understand one word but you know something? It looks good and I trust you, people. He said, get out of here and go and do it. Gene Kelly worked day and night, On that sequence, the way the camera was used forward back, It was a master class Gene got his Honorary Oscar and directing, but also for advancing I think that's how it was phrased. I think the ballet if not the primary reason, I think it really elevated and brought it As is customary in Hollywood, it's the producer In this case, that's Arthur Freed. Thank you for my brilliant associates Vincent Minnelli, with real courage Thank you. Arthur Freed, already has another project &quot;Singin' in the Rain&quot; is actually built of MGM's great producer who in his early life He said, I want you to create a musical which was one of his most popular It had been used in other MGM musicals. Arthur Freed, the producer, -Can you use that number? He said, what will you do with it? I said, well, it'll be raining The number for &quot;Singin' in the Rain&quot; That I remember so I was around all the time and had a cold. The second day of shooting of the number, he had a very high fever, The way that he took he built into that moment and doing the circles that in that moment You're like, yes, of course in the circles. That's what we wanted in that moment. This innocence, this that he had because he was so in love. It's really a statement I think not only is that sequence but the whole movie is that way. What's great about &quot;Singin' in the Rain&quot; is that it is the musical However, the fact is, who hate musicals. It's a real audience-pleasing movie. It's a comedy, a satire, it's a musical, it's a romance. It got a lot going for it. Mainly it's actually really funny. In scarcely a year, Gene Kelly He's at the peak of his art, he decides to leave not just Hollywood, The surface reason that was given was that it was a great to them living in Europe. However, I think the real reason Are you a member of the Communist Party The question is, have you ever In the midst of the Cold War, the US is going through one anti-communism is raging. When it was announced that there would be hearings the Army-McCarthy hearings, my parents bought a television and they kept me home because they said, this is history. You have lived through this The Hollywood Ten was a group and directors who had been blacklisted and named I think Gene Kelly and Betsy Blair like Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall People don't talk because it doesn't fit His political principles were very central. Several times in his life, that could have risked his career. My mother was blacklisted officially and my father I think what he embodied for the committee to blacklist. Whereas my mother was an easier target. I think it's very noble and admirable on behalf of his wife at the time. I think it's to Gene's credit to move over there, more for her benefit. Which would have had a detrimental effect on his Hollywood career, certainly. With his wife, Betsy Blair, and throws himself that's entirely danced. &quot;Invitation to the Dance&quot;, a flop. The failure of &quot;Invitation to the Dance&quot; I think it was a blow to his pride, This tells the dramatic story for a beautiful ballet dancer. He certainly had a great capacity He loved playing, sports, food, drink, art and music. He was a person of great enthusiasm, very complex. He certainly had a capacity That's the mood he'll shoot upon his return It was also the time and getting divorced, so he is heavier in 'Brigadoon&quot;. He has more weight on him than usual. A courageous young fella he's fed up with a big city hubbub. My father was surprised that my mother However, it was what it was. For Gene Kelly, First of all, He started out when he was 29. Most of the stars He's not getting any younger However, the most important factor is the studio system Hollywood was undergoing Television had come in I think at that point, into Elvis Presley musicals, so that no matter how great he might be falling out of favor Well, I guess if you were starting out rock and roll Well, it's kind of fun. However, no matter they'll always be one That's the standby The artists had to adapt. Many of them My father did more directing. He did more straight acting. He did more television. For him, television is a teaching tool. The omnibus episode broadcasted in 1958, will allow him to explain his conception He really put forward very strongly the idea that an athlete is a dancer He proved it right there by having someone like Sugar Ray Robinson, who's a great boxer he shows you Now listen Sugar, what's the most important thing Rhythm man. You mean... You have this incredible dancing next to an athlete and you have this immediate connection of, dance is not a thing I do understand it, people dance I just have to have an eye for it. Now, Mickey Mantle That's what I mean. It becomes a dance. What he was wanting to do for America to take dance as an art form and bring it forward and give it respect. It wasn't something only for the elite, You didn't have to be educated Looking for a second wind, Gene Kelly to compose the temple of classical ballet Here at the Paris Opera, the staple Once in a while, Perhaps something in the Spanish style, but, before this, never jazz. In a way, Yes, every morning we did a jazz class, that was great fun. Lots of sport for everyone, What was the most important to him He always said, on the beat. He thought that we were always late. We shouldn't be before or after, He had an incredible ear with all the dancers of the opera. Everyone was delighted because we were finally than in the kind of stiff style of ballet, where the way you hold your back, your balance, et cetera, because you work the neck, everything As for the proximity with the audience, really go to them like for a musical. Seven years later, France once again Jacques Demy offers him a small role The &quot;Les demoiselles de Rochefort&quot; because it was part I've filmed in France before. I've worked three times in France, but this is the first time There's a big difference and for me it's a great adventure My accent is terrible, but it's fun. I think perhaps European intellectuals have a greater appreciation I think in the US it's mostly In Gene Kelly's career, &quot;Les demoiselles de Rochefort&quot; It will be his final appearance Do I think it was hard No, and I'll tell you why. Because he felt athletes They have a shelf life and he didn't want to be He didn't like to see He didn't want to be that guy Dancing is for young people, now I'm like an athlete now it's time to direct. In 1969, and entrusts him A super production There was a huge parade scene I was up in one of the offices of maybe thousands of extras and him with the megaphone and everything. That for me was was fascinating. However, by the time it's coming out at the same time Suddenly a big lavish musical like this However, it's nominated including Best Picture. I think, looked at it is really a lovely way on all of those grand Gene Kelly will then have to face The illness whom he married in 1960. My father met my mother and he taught her She came out to Los Angeles with my father. That's how they reunited This marriage will see the birth My stepmother, Jeanne Coyne, Well, for me, all my life I knew her. When she became ill with leukemia, because it was a time They both knew it was coming However, even at a young age, I remember when he told us He came in the kitchen in the morning but she died with a smile on her face When she died, he was grief stricken and he had two young children He turned down a lot of important movies and do things It was a bigger sacrifice He was a completely present, I can remember him teaching me teaching me to skate, swim, and trying to teach me to play tennis It's still why it's my favorite movie, is that roller skating scene, because that's kind For me, that's him. He taught us to roller skate If everyone could know I still love him so much. Gene Kelly's return with &quot;That's Entertainment&quot;. With special appearances Fred Astaire, Gene Kelly. A sort of best which he co-hosts with Fred Astaire. We thought that people over 35 and say, I remember those people However, strangely enough, children of eight, nine, ten, and they keep going to see the film. However, at the same time, The sets that are broken, not the same, It seems like people didn't quite realize It's a tribute to something that's dead. Soon, even his own house will be a ruin. At Christmas 1983, I went through a hallway the curtains are burning, I went up there thinking he was going I grabbed him and we watched from out front. We watched this house burn down He lost so many memories there. That was difficult. He gave me his Oscar after the fire He's like, here you go. I've never cleaned it, and I'll keep it like that forever. Gene Kelly will have his house Yet he's not at all nostalgic. On the contrary, he's excited He wanted to mentor the next generation Gregory Hines Young artists of all kinds would come and find him to ask his advice. There's a reason My father told him, your feet will show In 1990, at the age of 78, he marries for a third time At the beginning, because he would not be alone. Subsequently, it became quite painful. It was kind of a tough time because his new wife On February the 2nd, 1996, He was 83. When my father died, but they turned off the lights and they do that only for few people. Since Broadway is the great white way, it's symbolically saying Almost 20 years after his death, Gene Kelly today where his movies are regularly adapted In a way, this perpetuates but also his optimistic