Ly Seo May Hello everyone How is your day today Wishing everyone a peaceful and happy new day Thank you everyone for always caring about me and supporting me Subtitles: Click on the gear button Subtitles/CC to choose your language Hello. Is the work situation good? It's okay, boss. It's hot today, so I bought a few cans of energy drink. Can you share it with the workers later? Let's go inside and check and tell everyone to try to ensure progress. Please ensure the progress of the project and ensure labor safety for the workers. Try to urge the workers to work to ensure the progress of the project. The quality of the project now I have to go check on other projects. Me and Mr. Tuan divorced From now on, he has no right to disturb my life anymore. I will try to work hard to have a new and better life. This project's progress is very good. I urge you to ensure Tell me about the progress of the project like this. Yes, it seems like a Rat. What's wrong with you? Are you okay? I feel dizzy. You must have suffered from heat stroke. Please sit here and rest for a while. I'll go get you some water . Yes. Thank you, boss . You can't win against me. dirty things It seems that when I come back here, all the memories come back. This is where I first met Mr. Hai. I don't understand why today my heart feels heavy. There is an indescribable sadness. I don't understand why. When I look at Seeing him being close to another girl makes me feel sad. It's okay, I'm going home to eat now, but I think you won't be here for long. I'll try to earn money to find another place to live. Pictures I will never forget that photo. But maybe I can't go any further. I feel like Minh and Mr. Hai are living in two different worlds. Looking at Ms. Hoa being taken care of by Mr. Hai, they look like a very happy couple. happiness My fate has been so bad since May left, everyone I love has been deceived by her. Deceiving all the buffaloes, cows, pigs, and chickens, now we have to find something to do. I don't know what to do now, how do you think about hanging out with a rich man? Are you still sitting here? The other time you told me to follow you back, you didn't come back. I knew right away, what's that rich guy doing? He loves you as much as me, you've seen. Even though he's not poor, he still wants to go. Coupled with the Rich guy, he won't let him go, but he still comes here to sit. Since divorcing her. I got a beautiful wife with lots of money. Now I have a happy life. My wife is even more beautiful than you. If you want to come back, I will let you be my second wife. I will consider letting go of the past. It's over, just let it go. You and I now have no more relationship . If your life is good, I congratulate you and I... So do you want to come back and be my second wife ? I told you, now that you're coming back to be my second wife, I'll forget about the past . I'll let it go now. I think your life is too difficult. You and I have now resolved the divorce. You also have a better life. Now, please work hard to have money to take care of your grandmother. and my mother too , but looking at her like this I still feel sorry for her, so if she comes to be my second wife, that's all I can say, but my first wife is still the best. My fate is really bad because of those second wives. Donkey If May would come to live with me, that would be great. She's honest and works hard. Now I owe so much that I have to look for a job . I'm so annoyed. Playing the lottery without winning any profit, I have to look for a job. Hey, do we get more people to work here? Where do you come from to find a job? My house is far away in there. Can you do heavy work ? I can do it. Looking at you like this, I probably won't be able to work here. I can do it. Your face looks so deceitful. I can't accept you to work here. I have an old mother and several small children. Can you see if there is any job arranged for me to do? I can't recruit you here to do it. I can do it. I can carry cement and lay bricks, I can do everything right now my situation is very difficult. You let me come here to work and I can do everything Okay, come in here and I'll arrange the work for you . Yes. Thank you, go inside and get that car. Come out here and move the bricks for me. Yes , this car. Yes. Move this brick over there. Please work seriously. All people here are honest. If you don't take your work seriously, I won't pay you. Well, don't think you have a little money and you'll lose because you're being tricked by a girl. Otherwise, you won't be able to do something like this. If you're upset for a long time, you won't have to do it. work, right now I can push two brick carts but I'm so tired. Are you pouring concrete? Go to work, why are you sitting there ? Yes , don't be arrogant. I was cheated out of all my assets by a girl, so I had to work as a hired laborer. It's true that in times of trouble, anyone can insult me. Why do I feel so tired? It's been a long time since I had to do anything. What's wrong? What are you doing? I'm weeding . This vegetable garden belongs to you. This field belongs to me. Can you sell me some cucumbers? Then you can pick the cucumbers yourself. I'm pulling weeds Yes So you go over there and pick them behind the bean beds My friend Yes You just stay here and pick cucumbers I have to go home and look after the bamboos Yes So where is your house? My house is right there That's your house right That's my house, in a moment you pick the cucumbers then bring them back there I'll charge you Yes I have to go home now Yes Hello Yes I picked the melons Are you done picking melons? Yes. Ca n't you pick a whole basket? I've picked all the mature fruits, now only the young ones are left. Are your pumpkins ready to be harvested? About 2 more days to harvest. I can plan. So in 2 days I will come back to buy pumpkin tops. That day you just come back here and I will sell it to my friend for how much money? I take you 50,000 VND and I send you 50,000 VND. Now I have to take them to the market to sell. Please come in and sit down for a drink. I have to take them to the market right now. Then I will lift the basket for you . Thank you. I'm leaving in 2 days. Come back here to buy pumpkin tops. Yes. I'll sit here and wait for her to come home. When I'm stressed by work, I just want to come here to see her. All my tiredness and worries will disappear. end This is really a strange feeling . Where did she go? I've been here a few times but haven't seen her. I'll sit here and wait for her to come home . It seems like someone is harvesting corn. I'll go over and ask if I still see Ms. May here. Sister, are you harvesting corn? Yes. Who are you looking for? Can I ask? Yes , who are you looking for? Can I ask? Have you seen a girl still in that abandoned shack over there? I still see her there but she often comes back. very late It was dark before she came back. I came here many times but didn't see her. She went to work and it was almost dark before she came back . Yes. Is this your land? Yes. Do you come here often ? No. I've only been growing around here for a long time. I've only come back here once to check on the crops. Yes. Is that house yours? It's my old house. Do you often stay in that house ? Sometimes when I go to check on the plants, I just take a lunch break there. I don't stay here in the evening. This house is still livable. I'll ask you if you want to sell it. I'll buy it. Please let me ask if it's okay. Since you don't live here anymore, do you want to sell this old house? This is the land my ancestors left behind, so I can't sell it. So if you don't live in this house, can you rent it to me? I'll stay. come here and look after the crops for you. Why do you have to rent this house? I want to rent it so that the girl in the abandoned shack can come here to live. Because it will be very cold there at night and there will be wind and rain. wet Do you want to rent this house for a long time? I'll only rent for a while then I'll find her a more convenient place to live. Can you rent it to me? Yes. Then can you take me in to see the house? Yes , follow me. Yes. I'll hold it for you. Can you plant many kinds of plants here? Please come in. Yes Every time you come here I often take lunch breaks and cook here, so I still have bowls, chopsticks and pots. If you rent this house, just take the things to use . Yes. Thank you There are still many types of furniture. This house is still very good. This house was built by your ancestors in the past. My husband's parents lived in this house in the past. I find it very airy here. Sometimes when I come here to work in the garden, I cook lunch here and then go home in the evening. Then please let me rent this house. Yes. There is a water pipe leading from the rocky mountain here, but no one has used it for a long time. It's broken If you're here, go over there to fix this water pipe. I'll fix the water pipe later. Take a closer look. If possible, rent it to her. Yes, please let me rent this house. I'll rent the house. If you want to rent this house , come to my house right over there and I will make a rental contract for you. How much is the rental price of this house for 1 month ? I rent it for 200,000 VND . Your house is over there. I'll come out in a moment to get the rental contract. Wait for me here so I can go in and get your money. 5,000 VND. Wait a minute, I'll go get the money. Help me sit up. Let me help you sit up. What's wrong with your hand? Where is my house? I live near the foot of the mountain. You live far away. Goodbye. Where are you going? I'm going to the market to sell. I've been here many times but I haven't seen you. I thought you weren't here anymore. . Luckily I asked someone who was harvesting corn over there. She said you're still here but you often come back when it's dark. Have you been here long? I've been here for a long time. What are you selling at the market today? So. And can you sell it all? I sold it all . Have you been going to the market to sell things lately? I came here many times but couldn't see you Yes I think you've gone somewhere else recently I often bring vegetables to the market to sell What vegetables did you bring to sell today Ms. May Are you sad? How are you? So I'm okay. I look at you and seem to have a confide. Did someone bully you? No. Or did I do something to make you unhappy, so you're angry with me, right ? No. You are a good man, so everyone loves you. And around you, there are many good girls who are compatible with you. Cloud, I know that your life is still very difficult, not knowing that your relatives and friends are Do you still have much left? Just consider me as your relative. If anything happens, just confide in, share and let me know. During the past time, I have helped you a lot. I'm just afraid. is that your presence will affect my life, everything around me is good, but for me, I feel like we are in two different worlds. Clouds Don't think so much. Actually, from the moment I met you, I've had feelings for you. I know you're thinking about our family situation, but don't worry. I believe that I will protect and take care of you. If I can take care of you, just let me do it. Don't think too much. Today I feel very happy to see you again and will be even happier if I can be by your side. I just want life. Your life will be happier and happier in the future. Let me make it up to you, but around me there are many women who are better than me. My life has also gone through a broken marriage, so I feel I see you... don't think so much, it's over, I won't worry anymore, love is very difficult to say, no one can predict anything. But really, I really love you and want to be by your side to take care of you, so don't think too much, just let me take care of you and protect you. If anything happens, just tell me straight away. If there's anything sad, just let me know. Thank you . I never thought that after a broken marriage , there would be someone who loved me so much. I also didn't think that you would love me so much. I love you so much. Before, I only knew about work and never thought that I would love and cherish a girl so much and want to be by her side to take care of her so much . I have a surprise for you. What's going on? Please follow me. Where are you going? I 'll follow you there . What did you bring me here for? You're up here. Let me tell you . Come in. Hey bro, whose house is this? I see how this house looks like. There are still a few of the owner's belongings left here. The blankets are still left over there. I passed by here the other day but saw that this house was locked. I don't know who it belongs to , why did you come into this house? You go out here and sit and I'll tell you . It's cool to come out and sit here. I just came in to look for you but you weren't home. Then I saw a lady breaking tissue. Here, I went over to ask if I had seen you still in front of that shack. She also said she had seen me , but I often came home late and didn't know what light I was going to turn on. When I also saw this house , I asked Ms. Ty and told her that she liked it, but she didn't use the spring rolls and asked me to rent it so that I could stay here safer and avoid the wind and rain. For now, I Just stay here for a while safely. Then I will find another more convenient place for you to move to. Well, actually, I never thought I would have a vacation like this. V is with you. Thank you. Thank you, I don't have anything. Do you have anything left in the other shack? I don't have anything of yours. I still have a bunch of things that I need to tell you about. So we'll go over there to move back to this side. Move the pot with me and save Emi's money. I'll take that. There's also a water line over here, but it's broken. Wait a minute.