- [Falcon] We talk about of video games all the time. Frankly, it's an industry and missteps, but sometimes, there are absolutely that just don't quite catch on. Today, we're gonna talk that didn't sell well. Whether it's from the corporation or the publisher's perspective, or a game just not making its money back, there's a lot of reasons why some great games and we got interesting examples. So let's get started off &quot;Okami&quot; at this point is I mean, it was headed up by Hideki Kamiya. Famous game developer, leader behind things like &quot;Resident Evil&quot; and the &quot;Devil May Cry&quot; series. &quot;Okami&quot; was a great 3D, that people still love to this day. Its paintbrush mechanics (upbeat music) The game was gorgeous. The art style was unlike and it is still beloved to this day. Like I said, it has its I've seen people with tattoos People just love &quot;Okami&quot; and But unfortunately for Capcom, it seems like it just wasn't enough. This was from Clover Studio, the people behind the and &quot;God Hand&quot;, the same year as &quot;Okami&quot;. This 2006 game sold hundreds where it seems like Capcom was hoping it would sell millions of copies. Eventually it would go on to do so, thanks to the fandom really bubbling up and word of mouth online, but for years it was of a failure as much as people According to Wikipedia, called it the least of a Game of the Year award. After this, and &quot;God Hand&quot; Clover Studio and eventually including Hideki Kamia, Platinum Games and then They would go on to make &quot;Bayonetta&quot; and a bunch of other incredible games, but &quot;Okami&quot; was an interesting Thankfully, its legacy is strong. It's remembered more as a great game and not as a game that like sold poorly, or didn't hit expectations or whatever. (upbeat music) Next, over at number nine, &quot;Kingdoms of Amalur&quot; was a open world RPG that took was filled with tons so much so to the point to talk about it in this It is a pretty fascinating It was a massive project with writers, developers behind the team. This was supposed to be and people did really enjoy the game, even if it had its issues (swooshing) (character gasping) There are a lot of fans It got re-released eventually and saw a resurgence of popularity. Most people look fondly back despite all the drama. Still with that, according to Euro Gamer, the game managed to in 90 days from launch. And although the game that the game had outperformed apparently after all that big development, the game needed to sell quote, &quot;in the 3 million units This came directly from the at the time, who at that state had put significant investment into the game development studio. Like I said, it's complicated. This game did not sell enough to the point where eventually the had to declare bankruptcy Like I said, eventually would be like republished with new content for a new console generation And people still generally like it, but it is a shame that we never saw it become a bigger thing. - Well, that's it for you then. Better luck next time. - [Falcon] Next, over at number eight, we have &quot;Alpha Protocol&quot;. This is one of Obsidian's weirdest games. It's like a third person but it still has all the Obsidian stuff, great writing, questing, that changes the outcome of the game. - You check out your new home yet? It's got some perks you - Such as? - A computer with a you'll feel like you're - [Falcon] For Obsidian of RPG stuff to a just regular spy action game, it was a This game had tons of flaws, and it was kind of goofy but it is absolutely beloved. It's such a unique thing. There's no other games like this, that we've loved it for It stuck around in our memory. According to GameSpot, the games sold 700,000 copies, and then apparently the game's slow sales eventually ended up impacting Sega's like fiscal financial quarterly and they weren't happy. To them, the game and they announced straight up that there would not be a sequel to it. Still at the end of the because &quot;Alpha Protocol&quot; is out there and people absolutely love it. It was actually taken down for a few years, but and you can experience It's weird and it's cool, and even if people didn't - Who's that- ah! - [Falcon] Next over at number seven, we have the original &quot;Alan &quot;Alan Wake&quot; had a tough because it released the same So things kicked off pretty slow. According to NPD group, you know, the game had sold 145,000 where &quot;Red Dead Redemption&quot; was crushing with like 1.5 million sold. Obviously two very different levels of hype, but it was a slow start out which I mean most people or completely forgot about, And thankfully, even though things picked up. Word of mouth, good reviews, and people just maybe after finishing &quot;Red Dead Redemption&quot; led to the game really getting a boost. Thankfully, we now know from Remedy, the developers themselves, that after a couple of years, and &quot;Alan Wake, American over 3 million copies, making the game ultimately And thank goodness because and that game kicks ass, and frankly, Remedy is still - Alan! What are you doing? Stop! Put the light back on! - It wasn't true. Nothing - [Falcon] Next over at number six, if we're talking about that had a slow start, you but eventually picked up, we have &quot;Guardians of the Galaxy&quot;. This game, this third person Adventure Game is absolutely awesome. It's got heart, it's got it's got compelling levels, it's got a lot of really and although it feels a little bit like Marvel's &quot;MCU Guardians of the Galaxy&quot;, it does go out and tries It was an awesome adventure, that you buy, you play, you - Mantis! What are you? - Do you still have those suicide urges? - What? No. - Huh. And you thought joining Hi! Sun Lord, right? Is it Rockstar? - It's Star Lord. - [Falcon] But looking after launch people were able to analyze that like, the Game's Steam concurrent 11,000 players with that like you know, their last game, &quot;Shadow of the Tomb Raider&quot;, and there was a quarterly earnings report where Square Enix the publisher said that the game did underperform completely undershooting But this is another game fan praise, sales apparently picked up. A lot of analysts and pundits that it was the &quot;Avengers&quot; because they were so close together. And &quot;Avengers&quot; really kind of a black mark on it, a lot It led to a lot of towards a &quot;Guardians of the Galaxy&quot; game. And I even will say that didn't really sell the game exactly well, but again, thankfully the game If you look up more recent sales have improved. I don't know if we're ever but it's another one where Next over at number five, we This was going to be the resurgence, the revival of my beloved &quot;Splinter Cell&quot;, with a fresh new Sam Fisher and a little bit more of an With a lot of missions that Still it was a stealth You were running around with night vision goggles. And despite my reservations, it actually ended up Not my favorite splinter And I'm definitely still on my shoulder because of this one. But still fairly decent and Well, I guess my opinion because despite the game sales charts, Ubisoft that &quot;Splinter Cell failed to meet sales expectations. I don't know if all these massive demands of all their games that you expect every game but unfortunately &quot;Splinter Cell&quot; was another victim of this. And eventually we know around 2 million units. - Nice work securing the package. - Roger that. - It's not him. Confirmed Cobin was in here, Briggs. - Right place, right build, I assume, sir. - Don't make assumptions when - Sam, talk to me. - Your contact's been made, he's dead. - You got more militia en - Alright, I need options - Gimme a minute. - Oh yeah, it's on me baby. Pass the phone through the offset. I can hack this cheap bootleg crap easy. - [Falcon] So a pretty Obviously not our ideal but a pretty good game nonetheless. Unfortunately that And I wonder if this led or hearing from &quot;Splinter We know there's another one in the works. We know they're kind of Who knows when we're gonna see that, but I bet &quot;Splinter Cell Blacklist&quot; and the sales are to hearing much from Sam Fisher but I gotta say I really miss the guy. (electronic beeping) (gunshot) (intense music) (gunshots) Now down at number four, we another absolutely awesome for its narrative, its depth of story, the fact that it's trying to straightforward, third And that just ended up for the big corporate big wigs. According to them, not enough this game that everyone was talking about, this game that everybody loved. Yes, &quot;Spec Ops&quot; The Line&quot; that were, and I quote, from their publisher, Take Two. It was a third person shooter, you know, a military shooter on the surface. But it was really a story complicated themes. And maybe they started to realize this, because the game was marketed but unfortunately, I guess (gunfire) - Reloading! Take him out! (gunfire continues) Throwing frag! He's down! Hostile dead! - [Falcon] At least not in because it was lower than I really am running outta I don't have too much to say really. Other than that, guys you you supported a game that a game that wanted to be an action game, but really ultimately do tell a really interesting story. And what were you expecting this to sell like &quot;Call of Duty&quot; numbers? Come on man. Still, it's another one that a failure by the publisher I'm just glad it exists. If you never played this one, you should. You've probably heard a million YouTubers or game journalists or It's a good ride and Now, down at number another one that we've it's a good first person horror game that really nails the feel of &quot;Alien&quot;. The original horror classic. Unfortunately for the publisher Sega, the game did not sell enough. It's unfortunately kind of roped in, or packaged in with the financial failures of &quot;Sonic Boom: Rise of Lyric&quot; leading to Sega dismissing as all being weak in the sales department. But we know that &quot;Alien approximately a year after release. But still? Not enough I guess. What does it come down to? The money they spent on Did they expect a game based from the early eighties to and millions, especially kind of niche horror gameplay concept? I, I don't know, but jokes on them, they put out the money for it and it sold lower than their expectations, but hey, we still have it to play. Now down at number two, we The action adventure game from the person behind things like &quot;Rayman&quot;. &quot;Beyond Good and Evil&quot; to be the next big thing. It was fun, it was colorful, It was cool! People absolutely loved it. I mean, look today, people that sequel will release eventually. I don't think it ever But unfortunately the game for Ubisoft, weirdly enough, kind of set up a sequel, but the game apparently end up selling as well as they would hope. And critical reception doesn't The game was also meme'd to a whole thing going viral that the game was as a free gift in cheese packages. Like it was, it was a free pack-in for string cheese for kids. I, I kid you not, I guess every last dollar outta I don't know, it's unfortunate. Like I said, at least it but it's a sequel that like decades later. Now, down at number one, we have a more recent game from last year. It's &quot;Immortals of Avium&quot;. &quot;Immortals of Aveum&quot; is of wants in this hardcore gaming world. New IP, something that or a comic book, or a movie, No, this is a new adventure in a new world and it's a linear, straightforward with no micro transactions, no BS, but unfortunately not It was an a packed year for game releases. There were so many things that absolutely took the world by storm. Like &quot;Balder's Gate 3&quot;, I could go on. Unfortunately &quot;Immortals of and there was a whole studio Pretty soon after the game's release, the development studio had to lay off 40 of their developers, which was apparently specifically because of those poor sales. The people, the leadership studio had been pretty and eventually stated that it got a lot more sales and And that's great, because and price is probably what really hurt it. So dropping the price was but unfortunately it still was not enough, because as of right now what we know is that the remaining the remaining employees Possibly an unfortunate ending to what was otherwise a great game, and could have been the Still, at least we'll and you should definitely check it out. But like we said, those are 10 games that that didn't sell well, whether it was from just or publishers and just being like unfairly high. These are some games that There's plenty of other so let us know in the And if you loved any of these But if you like talking all you gotta do is click the like button. It really helps us out. And if you're new, consider subscribing, maybe because we put out new But as always, thanks for watching. We'll see you guys next time.