(upbeat music) - [Announcer] Today on Lan makes Bridget a foolproof challah, Jack talks about different types of flour, and Erin makes Julie a with raisin-walnut filling. It's all coming up right here (upbeat music) - Some bread recipes have a long history baked right in, like challah. It's revered not only for but also for its flavor, its texture, the beautiful braids and twists. Now, Lan's here, and all about her journey to that was respectful of history but approachable enough for the home cook. - I learned how to make challah by testing a couple recipes on my own but also by going to the experts. Made a trip to Rosenfeld's and there I met Mike Lombardo. He's the owner of the bakery, and he and his crew make And what I learned was, you need a dough that bakes up nice and tender and plush, but it needs to be firm enough that you can work with it while it's raw. - That's quite the balance you have there. - It is, it is. But we have a couple of in the Test Kitchen and it starts with these ingredients. I've got three tablespoons and I'm gonna add 1/2 cup of and then I'm gonna cook this until it becomes a thick paste. By cooking this mixture, I'm gonna stash that water in the flour. It'll be there to keep our bread nice and moist when it bakes up, but the dough's gonna be This technique, it's called tangzhong. So I'm gonna cook this mixture until it becomes thick and pudding-like. That takes 40 to 80 seconds. I'll stop every 20 to so it cooks evenly. So nice and thick, clings to the whisk. I'm going to transfer it to Since this is hot, I need to cool it down, and I'm gonna do it with some I've got one whole egg, two large egg yolks, 1/4 cup of water, two tablespoons of vegetable oil, and I'm just gonna whisk Now, this does two things. It cools that tangzhong down so that it won't kill our but it also loosens it up, into the rest of the - Otherwise, you might inside your bread. - Yeah, that would be no good. - So last couple of ingredients. I've got some bread flour here. This is 2 3/4 cups. 1 1/4 teaspoons of instant yeast. You could also use rapid-rise here. - [Bridget] Okay. - Just pop this onto our stand mixer. This usually takes maybe I'm mixing on low, and is a nicely incorporated mixture. As long as all the flour's moistened, I don't have any dry spots I'm just gonna turn this off. We'll let this rest for 20 minutes. This rest, this autolyse, will give the flour time to hydrate. It's been 20 minutes. Time to get the last two ingredients in. I've got 1/4 cup of granulated sugar here and one teaspoon of table salt. Now I'm going to turn this on, and we'll knead at medium speed until the gluten's fully developed. That usually takes nine minutes. - Okay. - That looks great. It's nice and elastic. It looks really smooth. I'm just gonna pull it off, and we'll have a quick check. Gonna give this a quick spray because I'm gonna let the No need to dirty anything else. - Nice. - I'm just gonna give this a quick knead to bring it together so and you can see that you It's not sticking to anything. Right in the bowl. I really wanna make sure that so I'm gonna give it a quick spritz and cover with plastic. It's gonna rise until it's so about 1 1/2 hours, depending and it's just gonna do its thing. - Okay. - Bridget, it has been an hour and a half. This dough has doubled in size. It's time to braid. - First thing, I'm gonna divide and I'm gonna do that by pressing it first into an eight-inch square, I'm keeping an eye out for air bubbles. Something like that will quadruple in size and you'll end up with which we do not want. - No one wants a hole in their challah. - Nope. I am looking for an So now we're gonna and then in half again to get four strips. I am making a four-strand braid. I'm going to roll this and once I get it to 16 inches, I'm gonna extend it by another I'm using this portion of my hands to just extend the ends a and the ends are nicely tapered, and this'll get me a nicely So I'm gonna repeat that Now we get to the braid. - We're gonna actually make and we're gonna let the tips Now, I think of this as kind of a clock. I'm gonna press this down so and doesn't move around as we braid. You're gonna wanna take the This 6:00 strand goes up to 12:00. 9:00 to 4:00 and 3:00 to 8:00. And that is our first set of braids. - And you end up with an octopus. - Almost. I will go ahead and neaten these so that they are perpendicular So again, it's 12:00 9:00 to 4:00, and 3:00 to 8:00. Straighten, and one more time. Down, up, over, over. And I'm gonna bring that down, tuck all of these ends together, and give 'em a nice pinch. - Look how cute that is. - Tuck our ends underneath, - Oh, my goodness. - [Lan] How great is that? - [Bridget] That was kind of unbelievable. - It's so simple, and it because that's a - [Bridget] It really is. - We'll just put this that is on two rimmed baking sheets. The bottom of this loaf tends to brown a little bit too fast. By stacking my baking sheets, that acts as an insulator. It slows down the browning Last thing, I wanna That's going to help it rise more evenly. If I didn't cover it, the and then you'd get some cracking. It wouldn't be very attractive. This is gonna double in size, the plastic wrap is draped so that it doesn't hold the dough in place or mush it into weird shapes. - Okay. We're gonna let this hang (upbeat music) Bridget, it's been three hours, and you can see this has It's about doubled in size. - Exactly. That is beautiful - Yes. But it's gonna be even I'm gonna do a quick test to make sure that it is fully proofed I'm gonna go in and gently and what I want to see is that but not all the way. - I've got one egg here. I'm gonna add a pinch of salt And I really wanna take my time doing this to get into all the The egg wash portions are and the un-egg wash portions - Yeah, that's one of the is that beautiful lacquered appearance. - Yeah. It's just so appealing. But you could also use and sprinkle, say, a or sesame seeds right on Think this looks pretty great. - [Bridget] You have done very well. - I'm gonna bake this in a 350 degree oven on the middle rack until That takes 35 to 40 minutes. - Oh, wow. - Wow, look at that! It is so beautiful. - It's got a beautiful, Only took maybe 35 minutes to get there. Just to be sure, I'm gonna take the I'm looking for it to be anywhere above 195 degrees. Bridget nailed it. So I'm gonna let this rest for about 20 minutes on this rack. It'll be just cool enough to handle. Then I'll transfer it to the wire rack, where it will cool the rest of the way. That takes about two hours. It's finally cooled. Let's dig in. Oh, look at that crumb inside! - [Bridget] I mean, it is so plush. - [Lan] It's pillowy and tender. - [Bridget] Oh, it smells so good, too. - Just a hint of sweetness. There's some beautiful The gluten and the structure. If you'd used all-purpose flour, you would've had a flat loaf. - Yeah, this'll hold up to some custard, whether you're in a French But it's not tough. And it looks like you have a little different braid going on there. - Yeah, I couldn't stop with the braids, and there's actually to create a round loaf. - You can get instructions Thanks, Lan. I am definitely - I can't wait to see yours. - So if you wanna make this beautiful loaf of challah at home, cook a little water and flour use our unconventional braiding and bake the bread on two So from &quot;America's Test Kitchen,&quot; an incredibly approachable, yet velvety, tender, plush, easy braid challah. And delicious. (upbeat music) - It's hard to think of an ingredient more important in the kitchen than flour. Without flour, there's no fried chicken, there's no Thanksgiving gravy, So here's what you need Let's start with flour simplest form, which is whole-wheat flour. I have here in front of me. It has a nice tawny It's ground from the whole grain. This has the bran as well as the germ. We use it in a lot of recipes specially formulated for whole-wheat flour because it absorbs liquid differently. You can, that said, replace a little bit of in a favorite recipe with whole wheat, no more than 50% or you So next up, of course, all purpose, and as the name implies, from cakes and cookies to pie dough. We have two options here. If you don't make a lot of bread, you may wanna go with the This is the Gold Medal. It has a protein content more protein means more chew Now, if you're somebody and only wanna keep one flour on hand, I'd probably go with the This is the King Arthur. Rather than 10.5%, it has so it does a little better Now, if you're a serious bread baker, you're gonna wanna keep all-purpose flour as well as a dedicated bread flour, because the protein content here is 12.7%, a lot higher than all purpose, and if you wanna make you really need bread flour. Finally, cake flour. It's got a much finer texture. We like bleached cake flour because it absorbs liquid The protein content Lastly, I wanna talk Now, I know you read a recipe and our recipes do call for cups, and you think it's fine to just use a cup. I'm gonna tell you nobody here uses cups in the Test Kitchen. Uh-uh. It's not that accurate. I'm gonna explain to you why. Our preferred method is So you dip the cup. I've got too much in here. I then sweep off the excess. Ideally, one cup weighs five ounces, and I only have 4.8, and you're thinking, The problem is, what if or three cups of flour And now suddenly, I'm an ounce short, or if I was an aggressive dipper, maybe I've got an ounce too much, and the texture of the baked So please, do yourself a favor. Do me a favor. Next time you're making a baked good, put away the measuring cups Thank you. (upbeat music) - Rugelach, those delicate rolled cookies, popular in Jewish bakeries come in two distinct styles. Now, one style is based on a yeast dough and it has more of a bread-like texture, while the other, which is is based on a cookie-like dough that's enriched with cream cheese, and that's the style that - Absolutely, Julia. It's gonna be fun. So what we're making is basically almost a cross between and so you have a lightly sweetened dough that's gonna be wrapped so jam, nuts, chocolate sometimes. Like, you can put anything in these, and they're fabulous. - We're gonna start over I have a food processor. We wanted a flakier texture, so we're gonna actually where the blade cuts the fat So I have 11 1/4 ounces I'm gonna add 1 1/2 tablespoons of sugar, and now I'm gonna add You need salt. The salt helps to bring Don't skip the salt. Now I'm gonna pulse this, just So we have two sticks of unsalted butter. They're 1/4-inch-sized pieces. Now I'm adding eight This cream cheese is and it's also gonna add a little tang. And last but not least, two Again, this is gonna add a and help to tenderize the dough. Now we're gonna cut so I'm gonna pulse this Pulsing is the key here. And count. All right? What we're looking for is the mixture to turn into the If it turns into a dough, I'm gonna give it a test. You want it to definitely so your test is to just pinch it together to see if it comes together. So now it's gonna dump All right, so now we're really gonna kinda pull it together and press it together, and I'm just gonna do At first, it appears like there's no hope. So we cut the butter in, but we still had little tiny pieces, and by just kind of pushing you're just kinda smearing that, and that's gonna give us even more flakes done in our cookies. So I'm just pressing this So I'm gonna cut this into quarters. - All right. - So you're just kind - Like a pie dough. - Yeah, and just kind of press it. We don't wanna overwork it, but we want it to come together - [Julie] Okay. - Okay, so we have all of our four disks and they're looking so now it's time to roll them out. - Okay. - Okay. - Hint, hint. - I gave you a rolling pin and everything. - Okay. I like helping. - So we're gonna roll these - All right. - We're gonna roll this and I typically usually roll things out between parchment paper, but you really have more 'cause you can actually see It's important to make that you roll out, you want it to be even, so I always like to run my hand over it because often the center than the edges and you just There we have it. So now we're just gonna off the top piece, top this and then this is the fun part. At least I have fun doing it. - That is kinda fun. - That looks great. - Now I'm just gonna put this on a plate. - [Julia] Okay. - [Erin] You gotta put - All right. Are you up for another one? - Oh, yeah. Once these are rolled out, into the freezer for 30 minutes. - Okey-doke. We are just about ready to roll. Are you ready to roll? - Am I ready to roll? You're always ready to roll. So we're gonna start off with I have my dirty food processor. - You sure do have a- All right, so now we're gonna process this until it's smooth, about 10 seconds. - Smells good. So now we have our smooth preserves. - Nice. We have one cup of sugar, and we're gonna spike it with - Ooh. - [Julia] That's a strong cinnamon sugar. - Yes, it is. So I'm gonna go grab the frozen rounds. All right, so we have our - Okay. - Yes, absolutely. You just wanna loosen and then put it back on the Now we are going to start I'm gonna add 2 1/2 tablespoons of apricot preserves to the center. We're just gonna spread this around. This is gonna be kinda like the glue for all of our other ingredients. Okay, so you're spreading it to almost all the way to the edge, but leaving about an 1/4 inch border, which will make it a little - All right. Next up, our spiked cinnamon sugar. So now we're gonna add two tablespoons and sprinkle it over the preserves. We have golden raisins here, one cup, and we have two cups of So we're each gonna take Next up, we're gonna add 1/2 Now, this is gonna be like the blanket. And now the next step here is, we're gonna actually press 'em in. That's it. Not a lot. So we're gonna cut We have a chef knife over there? - I do. So just cut nice wedges. - Do you want half first? - [Julia] All right, I think I got it. - Now grab your large offset spatula, and the goal here is to Pull it out. - Okay, so now we're gonna roll. You wanna roll tightly, but you don't wanna squeeze so it's like a nice balance. All right? - Some will fall out, but it's okay. So start at the thicker and then transfer it into parchment paper, and I like to put the point so it's right underneath the whole cookie, and the ends I like to grab so it's a crescent shape. All right, there's my last one. How are you doing over there? Those look good. - Those look great, Julia. I got better as I went - So these are the crescent shape, and I can also make a roulade shape. - Oh, nice. - So you can find both that and a few other variations on - Absolutely. So you up - You bet. So once we roll them and we're gonna freeze 'em for 15 minutes. But you can also freeze 'em for (upbeat music) All right, Julia, so these The next step before they go into the oven is to brush 'em with an egg wash. So I made an egg wash with two yolks and two tablespoons of milk, and we're just gonna brush them all over. Get the ends. not to get it on the parchment? 'Cause I can tell you right now, I'm getting it on the parchment. - [Erin] Some dribbles are totally fine. - Okay. So don't forget the backs and We're gonna bake these in an oven that is heated to 375 degrees on the upper middle and we're gonna rotate and they're gonna take - Oh! - Erin, they're gorgeous. Can you hear the sizzle? - You can see the sizzle! So one more step. We're gonna take the We're gonna take about a scant teaspoon and sprinkle it on each cookie. - Oh, wow. - Okay. You wanna do it while they're hot. - [Julia] Right, so that way, some of the sugar can melt into the dough. - You got it. Yep. Now that they have sugar, from the tray to our cooling rack, and it's a lot easier to Okay, so we're just gonna and then we can dive right in. It's time. It's time. - [Julia] I love that - Absolutely. I just gotta break this open. Oh, look at that. You can see the flakes of dough on the outside of the cookie. You can see those flakes, but it didn't crumble apart in my hands. It's holding together. - Mmm. - So good. You can taste all the from the filling, but it's a And the dough, the crust. It's part cookie, part pie dough. It is the perfect marriage - It's very bright, sweet, nutty, rich, flaky, crispy, crunchy, tender. - Erin, this really was fun to make. Thank you. This was a lot of fun. - To make perfectly tender rugelach, make the dough in a food processor using butter, cream freeze the dough before shaping, then fill it and freeze From &quot;America's Test Kitchen,&quot; a satisfying recipe for rugelach. You can find this recipe and product reviews from this season along with select episodes at our website, americastestkitchen.com/tv. - Thanks for watching What'd you think? - Well, leave a comment and let us know which recipes you're excited to make, or you can just say hello. - You can find links to today's recipes and reviews in the video description. - And don't forget to - See you later. - I'll see you later.