There was some degree I think there was also some degree that they weren't extremely forthcoming with the state of the game. The Cyberpunk 2077 story is very much kind of a story of everything they can and will go wrong in game development. What is this bug? Jack, his AI flipped out. It wasn't there before. Where's my gun? I can't shoot. The release of Cyberpunk 2077 in December of 2020 will go down as one of the most disastrous game launches in history, and it instantly rewrote the narrative of it's celebrated Larger studios with bigger to create the same quality The inside story of the making of Cyberpunk depicts a process marred by unchecked ambition, and a focus on marketing at When CD Projekt stock was at its high it was the largest stock Cyberpunk was supposed to This was a game that was This is a game that was from the makers of The Witcher Three. This was supposed to be the big and for it to become such a I think will have pretty CD Projekt's origins are somewhat unique in the games industry. In the West and Japan, the were dominated by games for and characters like Mario were becoming household names. The same was not true in a post Soviet and economically depressed Poland. Most gaming was done on PC's and sold in small markets You could go to the market down the street and buy and sell CD's, and these two guys of and Marcin Iwinski and Michal Kicinski to start selling CD's and with the people who made a which was kind of like the in the late nineties. It was never a business. It was kind of lifestyle. So we're actually pretty So you can kind of think you know, where Phil out of the trunk of his car, you know. You can kind of think It was, you know, just and then evolving that into CD Projekt, named for on from just reselling and Japanese made games but it wasn't until 2002 its own game, The Witcher. The Witcher is a huge, huge series, huge fantasy series in Poland, and so it was a pretty got the raise to make the video games. The Witcher book series as in Poland and as CD Projekt the video game series economic symbol for Poland, as well. CD Projekt Red had become this behemoth of an institution in Poland in the Polish technology scene because they were getting more worldwide attention than most Polish companies and in 2011, when Barack Obama came to visit Poland, the prime him a copy of The Witcher Two. I confess I'm not very but I've been told that of Poland's place in But it would be the launch that would elevate CD Projekt of Poland to representing the I mean really, the thing people look for first and foremost, I think, is that the game is just was just a phenomenal game. There's a level of just on making every side quest the dialogue, the character interactions, the different ways stories can end. They nail that. Other open-world games and the developers of them gave excuses as to why there couldn't be And The Witcher Three blew CD Projekt Red was beloved. They were seen as a to make what the player wanted and effort required to that really connects with And the winner for Game of the Year 2015 is The Witcher Three. The Witcher Three would go on to win over 250 Game of the Year awards, but along with being a critical success for CD Projekt, it was Estimates put the sales of Witcher Three at around 28,000,000 copies in 2019, a huge step-up considering by 2014 The Witcher and The Witcher to sell 8,000,000 copies. And with two large expansions CD Projekt also helps separate themselves from other AAA publishers at the time. And the Game Award goes to, oh man, I have to pay a That's so stupid that this has to, hold on, I got this guys, here we go. Other games, and the most to do this was EA's Star They got really aggressive in a game that already costs at least $60. You could have paid more if you bought the premium editions, but not only was it that they and trying to get you to spend money, but you could actually get Well, gamers kind of draw the line in the sand there and CD Projekt had done this phenomenal job of marketing themselves as We've said this a million We're gamers, first of all, and we all like to be treated fairly, so it only makes sense that as developers we apply the same principle to everything we do here at CD Projekt Red, of free DLC was an absolutely no brainer. They said, &quot;We're not gonna sell you DLC, that's like horse armor We're gonna just give you free stuff and then we're gonna sell big expansions as part of The Witcher Three.&quot; And not only were they really good, they were offered at a fair price. And this is a company like a company that and cared about its customers, to kind of screw fans over the way that fans see that EA and Activision and all the other big publishers do. With a critically and as well as the Goodwill all the focus would shift to CD Projekt's next It's actually funny. They first announced it and then they showed off of 2013 that was like the and it was all sorts of flying cars lots of stuff, until after The Witcher Three like building up this CD Projekt Red, though, wouldn't put out another trailer for Cyberpunk until 2018 at the E3 Trade Show. And they showed off a, it was like a two minute trailer of And then they showed behind the scenes for E3 attendees, for who could score an appointment in there. They showed this forty-five minute demo and it blew people away. Welcome to the gameplay demo walkthrough of CD Projekt Red's upcoming The gameplay you're about to see is from a work in progress Everything you see is Holy . This, if they can live up to what they showed me, it's game over. It all looked incredibly impressive. They had enough action, with just the right amount of tension. They touted how each of these NPC's, there are thousands of them, each one with their own daily We've greatly enhanced our to create the most believable city in any open world game to date. So, yeah, so people were by this demo. It won E3 Awards and just people left the theater just in awe. What they didn't know, of course, is that the demo was completely fake. Fake demos are common at E3. Studios put together builds of games that show off what they intend the game to be like, rather than the What was unique about this demo was that it was impressively long. It kind of plays into is very much a marketing driven company, and so demos were really, So it was really important blow people away, which it did, but that might've come at they could have been spending on the game. A year later at E3 2019, fans would get another big surprise. Whoa, no way! Oh, what! Please welcome Keanu Reeves. Of being there, of walking the streets of the future is really You're breathtaking! You're breathtaking. The Cyberpunk trailers beautiful lighting, really when it comes to the People were very excited to be immersed in this gorgeous cyberpunk world. They saw over 8,000,000 large amount for any title And you saw the stock price start to go up and up and up and the right, you know, pretty much in a straight line. If you just look at like like the WIG Index, when CD it was the largest stock in the index. And that was around the that the game would be Behind the scenes people that they were saying April. I don't think a single a person who worked on that game actually of coming out in April of 2020. So in April of 2019, I about the making of a game from BioWare that was and the article kind of And then afterwards, I started hearing from other developers that they said sounded a &quot;The deadline is unrealistic, things are floundering, a lot of problems, this sounds exactly like what you wrote about Anthem.&quot; Around that same time, I heard from the CEO of to reach out to me specifically CD Projekt Red had a especially during the Their management wanted for treating workers to go through Crunch, so Marcin Iwinski, who's the co-founder and came to me and said, &quot;Hey, I that we're not gonna force anybody to Crunch, that people will not have to work mandatory Over the course of reporting Bloomberg has conducted than twenty current and most of whom requested anonymity, so as not to risk their careers. CD Projekt declined to or provide interviews for this story. The company would end up delaying the game three different from an April 2020 release to September, then November, and once In order to meet the deadline, down the size of Cyberpunk's main city, as well as canceling some features. And while those measures said they were under significant former audio programmer to thirteen hours a day, five had seen friends with lost This was not a big secret was not going to be of thing happened with The of thing happens with a lot seem ready until suddenly Some of the best games ever made, like were created through this process. I don't know that it's the most efficient or the wisest way to make video games, but it's what a lot of people do. I think that management change it, or at least said but it has proven very when you make games in Game studios, some of them see Crunch as part of their core culture. That all of their games that they've made under Crunch have been successful, so it must be a core for creating good games, and We've run studies and seen that at eight weeks of the output of a professional is the same as if they were working so chronic overwork degrades to the point where then and overworking them is just getting you less and less productivity. And so these guys, the made The Witcher Three, were You could call it arrogance you want to call it, of and I think that like of confidence can certainly in this case it could also of blinded them to the reality, which was that this game wasn't going to coalesce. Cyberpunk was an ambitious project by any standard, but for CD Projekt Red, it was also a very large Cyberpunk was a sci-fi world, rather than a medieval fantasy. Instead of a third around combat with swords and shields, Cyberpunk was a first person shooter. Making Cyberpunk would in new technology, Games have to have a lot When someone talks particularly in their own about creating art assets and setting up quests, they're talking about building the rendering systems, and graphic systems and physics systems. It's a lot of low level work, and a lot of that low level and progressing of the game forward. Which is sort of like if while someone else was in front of you like laying down tracks, as you went. You're like trying to make is building the camera at the same time. It's very, very difficult and and makes things go very inefficiently and just hampers everything. And that's actually why prefer open offices. It's so that the team can see on and have a passive sense of the state of the game and how it's going. But in the final months of development, developers in Cyberpunk were mostly doing this development from their homes. Across Poland, all and bars, closing down with a ban on gatherings of more than fifty people. I think because of COVID, not just in terms of but also the communication side of it. And Quality Assurance is a that a lot of people don't talk about. QA testers help run the to figure out any issues it may have. Then they write report tickets and send it back to developers to fix. It's easy to underestimate the amount of time it'll take to fix There's a little song that I appreciate. There's ninety-nine ninety-nine little bugs, take one down, patch it around, 117 bugs in the code. Making that even more many different platforms Due to the delays the game for PCs and Google's new as well as the console the next generation PS5 and Xbox X, as well as the previous generation of consoles, the PS4 and Xbox One. And while the hardware and seven years old, they of console gamers, That is really, really and dealing with like optimization across the platforms can be And when you are a company that primarily develops on PCs and is used to making games for PC's, in the studio will be like the console versions, as And what we saw with the console versions, were just a complete mess, in October that the game had gone gold, meaning it was ready to there were still major Exhausted programmers would of these problems as they and CD Projekt did their best of the game would be seen So with the video game review process, you are sent, first, some guidelines. Here's what to reveal and what not to reveal when the game launches, what spoilers are and they give you these guidelines alongside an NDA or some kind of embargo. When I read through the I realized just how restrictive it was. So reviews came out a few days before the game came out but reviewers all caution that they said, &quot;Hey CD Projekt only let They didn't let us have access to the PS4 and Xbox One The thinking at CD Projekt was maybe, &quot;Okay, we have a patch didn't have access to, so we don't want them to show footage of the game before it's ready to go.&quot; And maybe they thought, they're gonna get a patch like so we don't want to talk about that. We don't want to show But no matter what the rationale was behind CD Projekt doing this, ultimately it turned into the true scope of the games problems being hidden. On December 10th of 2020 and it didn't take long for Oh, now it works. He T posed. Stop, T... Yeah, I mean obviously the of funny, but when it keeps happening it really starts to break your immersion. My car would spawn where and so they would like collide and then both cars would There are a lot of like people's quests ending unexpectedly, One common one was that to be just like with you on with you on one mission for the entire game and just inexplicably, they would just be around with you. One hilarious bug that I discovered when I first loaded up the game were tiny trees covering every I was playing through the prologue and there were just I did try Cyberpunk 2077 and for me it's as good as unplayable with that level of performance. There are segments where to thirty frames, but where it's clear the your fifteens and twenties, and aiming with an analog stake while and dipping, it's simply impossible. The experience in those last that Sony would take of removing the game I mean, the stock started and then a lot by a lot, you to a point, and then once we saw Sony turn off the ability to buy the that was kind of the drop Yeah, so about a few weeks the CD Projekt's Co-founder on a video and he spoke and tried to address of the things that people Please don't fault any of They all are incredibly Myself and the board are and it was our call to release the game. It was just kind of and apologizing, and vowing that they would fix this to regain people's trust, CD Projekt Red would in December and two more In their apology video CD a roadmap for their future plans, for both their DLC content although exactly when these things would come was a little vague. It's to be seen what they do. I mean, I think to save they can to fix Cyberpunk, dedicate to premium DLC is still kind of up in the air. We have to see what they say about that. Or do you kind of just do what and just move on what you're for? You know, at what point &quot;We're gonna nip this It's gonna be a lot of focus for a lot of investors in the next few months. There's a lot of precedent for redemption stories, in a pretty bad shape patched, updated, added to over time. We've seen it with No Man's Sky, we've seen it with Destiny, we've seen it with Final Fantasy 14, a One thing that they could do is, say, anyone who bought the game will get like the DLC for free There are a lot of things they could do, I think, to win back the fans. I think it's apparent of Cyberpunk 2077 and the reception of it that gamers overall about pushed back release deadlines, and understand that a game under Crunch is less likely to come out in the state that I make videos about these companies and it's not because I want them to fail. It's because I want them to get better. I hope CD Projekt looks at and just actually makes some changes. I'm going to quote Shigeru He's like the father of Super Mario, &quot;A delayed game is eventually good. A rushed game is never good.&quot; And this is a company that They had plenty of cash, to not do so will go down in