I think it's fair to say Mario Party has lost in the newer games. And while I'm not looking to course of the Mario Party franchise, I bring it around the middle of the series's lifespan, about team names, the titles you get when you put 95% of all team names can be categorized as either two characters, like Boo and Yoshi being known these two characters have. And the latter is names say about the relationships between these information here you never knew, so I suggest We start with Mario Party 5, the one that game are the standard Mario cast, so Yoshi, Wario, Waluigi and Toad, as well these henchmen of Bowser that are exclusive to the quite simple when we look at Mario and don't here and there. Combined with Luigi, it's Mario referencing the role Yoshi plays in the mainline which also feels appropriate. With Peach, Mario but I do find it funny that with Daisy, he makes things don't work out with Peach I guess. Also Acquaintances, which is a weird way to describe it is a reference to side games like Paper Mario, Luigi also has an interesting team name with Boo, to the then-new Luigi's Mansion. He and Daisy to describe their relationship I think, but once described using a bit of an awkward phrase. but Luigi and Peach making for a Green Escort better in Japanese and French, which calls them better. And this title is actually referenced which makes it go from the Improbables to The of words for Peach plus Wario, being Royal Pain, being the 'Extravagants', referencing the fact we look at Daisy, we find nothing special there are few very strange decisions made. Boo team in those languages, which feels fitting the opposite of timid, that's her whole thing. But it's Mismatched Pair, which is fair, but in other is something I didn't expect. That puts the story huh? It's about how Wario occupies Mario's castle all, was that all a setup. We may never know, for it. When we look at some remaining names for Koopa Kid is pretty nice. So far, every name with unlikely allies or something like that, but with Koopas and Yoshis are not that far removed on the highlight from this game, the first being Wario is just perfect. Love the references to their make up a duo called Pure Evil, which is a little why are they invited to Mario's party then? You're Mario Party 6 would keep the team names feature one additional playable character, being set of team names with everyone. Together which is a title I haven't heard of before, but Punishers, showing they were already powerful Toadette and Daisy are Shopping Buddies, which is Yoshi, she makes for the Racing Champs, which it might be a double reference to how Yoshi can while Toadette debuted in Mario Kart: Double Dash. Secret Friends. What the hell is Wario doing out finally, it's interesting to note that Toadette negative team name with Koopa Kid, being Potent she can also get along just fine with Mini Waluigi is Diabolical Duo? Maybe Toadette Following two back-to-back games featuring team However, just when it seemed this admittedly minor when Mario Party 8 released in 2007. Not only does everyone new names and adds new characters to the begin again with Mario, where it is interesting Daisy has been toned down. His English name with is still something akin to the lovers in Japanese though, removing any mention of potentially being now focuses on the fact they all have mustaches Ribs. No clue what that references, it seems like Dry Bones is an absolute goldmine for noteworthy Dry Thrones. It and Yoshi? Sky Bones. With Wario and Bone Heads, which also feels fitting. They team names: these reference the character's the two characters came together to think of but it does mean there's less mind-blowing one example is Yoshi and Daisy, who combine to I mean... I guess it's possible this Yoshi is, it one. Very interesting to look at in this game they were Secret Allies, how is that bond looking it's referenced now with the name mischief-makers. 8 actually adds more fuel to the fire that Her team name with Wario? Double Agents. C'mon, reference to Toadette getting along with Waluigi other new faces, Blooper, Hammer Bro. and Birdo most fall entirely into 'fun names but nothing who make for Creature Feature, referencing how Hammer Bro and Daisy, who are Barn who are usually the best of pals, but here exactly have positive connotations. Also funny Following Mario Party 8, team names would only when Mario Party DS hit store shelves. This game although it does introduce new team names to write home about. The majority of these noteworthy newcomers. There are still a few I to make Fungus Friends. Now, of course Mario is him a Fungus is a bridge too far for me. He and from their former lovers motive. Although I guess for Luigi and Daisy: the Shy Sidekicks. Again, how has this gone wrong so often? The only team didn't know yet is Wario and Yoshi, who are the would think of with that team name, but still. who make up the completely non-descript Purple of Mario Party DS's names boil down to. With that followed this, I think it's safe to say if you ask me... How else would we have ever known That's been all from me, but if you have any idea please let me know in the comments please consider giving it a like and subscribing Mario content coming up! For now, thanks