I was born in the village of Burqa, Nablus, March 1945. So that makes me about three years, more than three years older than the state of Israel, which was May 1948. I was born in our Biara, meaning farm My father and my mum and the rest of the family of my father, all living in the house together in our biara. My dad and mom were living in a small village, but it is about 6 to 7 kilometers far away from the sea. And they were having about 40 kilo or 4 to 6 acres in their area. When I was three and a half years old, Ben-Gurion declared about establishing Israel in Palestine. when I was born, there was always a bit of conflict because always we see people being kicked from their homes or leave the homes. They come back to their home and somebody else took the place and they have no right in it. So when I was very little, I remember my father staying home all the time. Most of the time, because what happened in 1948 there was a Nakba. People were kicked out of their houses in Palestine and some were kicked out of their jobs in Palestine. In 1948, the Jewish settlers start bombing Jaffa from everywhere. And the people of Jaffa haven't any weapon to defend themselves. I remember that the Israeli forces, they came to us and they bombarded us by planes and by tanks by the Israeli forces The people of Yaffa they run from place to place under this pressure, they started to push us by force in the beginning they use the guns and they use tanks. But when we reach around the board, they start to bomb us from plane. They started to escape to the beach of Jaffa, to escape by the sea, to Gaza Strip and to Lebanon. And there is already Greek ships waiting to help them to escape to Gaza and Lebanon. They separated the two groups right and left, the people on the right. They later under the force, they moved in direction of West Bank and some people of them stay in Qilia. When the Israelis occupied our city, our village, Kufr Ana, my dad was outside the village. He was with the fighters, with the resistance men of Palestine, my mother with small children. They left the city, the village. When the Israelis go into the area seen and Kufr Qasem and kill all the people, and we get scared, They start to drop a paper They ask us to leave from here, from the village. And of course the people get scared and left their village and go . And they asked us to leave for one week, After that, you'll come back and we didn't come back anyhow. We were going to Jordan. When we come back from the beach to our home, My father asked me to ask about what happened to our neighbors. and this home, the Sau'douni family, they killed the three brothers and one of them, he hold his child and he said to the soldier, to the Israeli soldiers, please don't kill me for the sake of this child. He said, you and your child. His child's leg was cut from the end, and he died. And when I go to their home, I saw their bodies still in the home. They go to the other homes. Other homes. Most of Khan Yunis men killed in that day. More than 700 people killed in that day. All of the children they became orphans. they killed the men of Khan Yunis city and they collected them in groups. Every group between 30-40 person. And they are ordered them to look to the wall and they shoot all of them. There is aunty of my father she lives in the area of Yaffa but I don't remember exactly the town the Jews came to the town and they killed everyone They opened fire on all people all people there passed away except two Her brother, older one, and her son. Before I left Palestine, there was Israeli's that scared us. They make Deir Yasin They killed most of the people there in Kufr Qasim they killed all the people, There is another village. they got scared, Every one, every father. He want to take his kids and go They came in the morning and they killed all the men They collected all the men in the area there is a big area in alma, and they collected all the men in there And they kiilled all the people, all the men in there They shoot them with machine guns and they killed them, all of them in front of everybody, i was witnessing that I was witnessing this, yes. My friend, Abdullah Hamoudi, he was 12 years old at the time. He was in a group. His teacher, Mr Alam Lalami, beside him, he said to him when they ordered them to look to the wall, he said to his teacher, They will kill us. Don't be scared. Come in front of me. And he put him in front of him and they start shooting him. Most, about 35 person killed, , but Muhammad was still alive When the killers moving in their car, he tried to get up his legs broken. He can't get up and is still moving on his back until he reached their home and their neighbor fixed his leg until he got to the hospital and he came to the school with sticks. And that still in my mind, from that time I can't forget, I still suffering until now. From what happened to our people in Khan Yunis city. Yaffa people, we have our registered biarat, or our lands over there. Up to now I have it. It is kept in one bank here. I kept all the documents given from my father to me, which is our wells in Yaffa. They stolen the land, they stolen the things. Yeah, but the document with us. Insha'Allah. In the future, when we back to our country, we can use it. We have a house in Yaffa, a house and land in Yaffa, not far from the water. It's called Hay Al-Nuzha When I went the last two times there, our land was not occupied by anybody and there was a a blue strap, white blue strap surrounding it like a fence. It wasn't a fence, just a strap they can demolish it. But I don't know why they left it. And other houses as well. For other people, they are all strapped with a blue strip, and they just kept empty. After one year they came to the camp and they informed the manager of the the camp to call my father. and they came and sat with him from eight morning up to two afternoon. They asked him about many things. Then my dad in a very smart manner. Simple way. He said Yes you are talking that I am sick, I am old and you want to give me the money for my land to have fun. What I will do in that money. I might die tomorrow after a month, a year, a llanos. God knows. So why I would sell my land and take that money and throw it. I don't want to sell my land. I will keep it for my children so that they can utilize it. He was thinking that we would return back to our home land in Yaffa, Kufr 'aana shortly He was expecting something. Liberation will happen, but he died in 1971. when I was all my life dreaming to go back to Palestine until today. until this time Before five years, I take my kids. I have three son. I go with them together to Palestine to show him our land, our house in Palestine. and the Israeli they all farmer they take our land and they work there when they share the car The man is come, stop and he said what you're looking for. I said, Well, I born in here and I media. And where is Hamidieh they changed about 70 years. His father come to Palestine, and he born in here and I, they kicked me from my own house and my land and yeah So when I remember that, I really shock. I really become very upset. My land is with others who came from around the world and not allow us to go back. And that's how the Israelis create their what they say, country. But inshallah, we will go back one day For the young ones, Never, never forget. Your freedom is in your heart. Don't be scared from anybody when you say the right word or the truth. Because this way, the truth will never die. And if it does with you alone, somehow Allah SWT is going to revive it again. all what I need now, if I can't go back or my Palestine to be free in my lifetime, to be free for my daughters and my grandchildren if Palestine gets back to us. I never say here 24 hour First one I go to Palestine and I die in Palestine. This is from my side. We love our country. it's very hard that you have to leave your home by force and we still remembering, I still remember my home in Jaffa. I was three and a half years old, but I still remember the home and the farm, and I hope to come back. But it's not easy. It's not easy to come back again because we haven't the power. But we hope in the future that our grandsons will have more power to go back to their homeland. And the God promised us with victory. And the victory will come, will come any time. The victory will come and we will return to Palestine