(keyboard clacks) - [Announcer] Previously - Our fourth game is called Hades. It's a narrative-driven in which you battle your way out of the underworld of Greek myth. - The thing we are trying that's new this time around is, like, a little bit of a new art style, but also which is super, super scary 'cause it involves putting into the open for everyone to judge, something that artists are inherently incredibly uncomfortable with. - [Voice On Computer] The gods are fickle. The gods favor-- - It is April 23rd. I have been sick for I am today working on many things (laughs) including rendering out a bunch of the voiceover that we've been recording with a bunch of different actors. I myself have to record which, we'll see how that goes, 'cause I am under the weather, and I need to finish, like, one and a half new pieces of music soon. (laughs) The update is coming out May 7th, so we have exactly two weeks. Of actual time that I can we maybe have, like, a week and a half. - [Voice On Computer] No. Blast. (lively acoustic guitar music) - Only on, I guess, Pyre did I discover that Logic had the feature where you could render a bunch a bunch of individual so that's been really helpful since then. Otherwise, I used to do them one by one. I pick the takes during where I used to have to selecting takes and comping stuff. We just pick the take during the thing, and then I have a friend who's worked on Pyre and this game, does all of the editing for me, so he takes, based on what we he takes that take, and cleans it up, and puts it on this track and he edits it to the proper format, gets rid of stuff. He'll get rid of it or if he has to, and then I and render it, like, all at once, and it just saves such a bunch of time. I used to spend so much time doing that. There was construction for basically the entire so Logan and I had to, like, okay, the hammering stopped, do a take. We're good to go here, let's see. (clears throat) Check. Hey, I hear my voice. Okay, let me just-- Down a little bit. I don't even remember what the last thing that we recorded in here was. I have no idea. Death area. So this is when I arrive after being killed by the (clears throat) (sighs) That's one bad bull. (sighs) (clears throat) (sighs) That's one bad bull. (sniffs) Ugh. (sighs) That's one bad bull. First take. 824. That was 823. 824. (grunts) I got the horns. (grunts) I got the horns. (grunts) I got the horns. (laughs) (grunts) Blasted ghost minotaur. (laughs) That's probably the one. (laughs) (coughs) Jesus. I'm also trying to get that I've just started to a place where I can record I need to have the form decided and ready to go by then 'cause I record drums at home 'cause I got an electronic drum set there. Right now, I have riffs I need to get better at so I can play them (laughs) well enough to sound good, 'cause I'm trying to write stuff that's slightly beyond of stuff I like to play It's like, I'm trying to than my natural tendency In an emergency, I can fake that by, you know, doing it in pieces, and editing it together, and recording it, and then speeding it up, but you know, I could but I want to try and do (intense lute music) Most of me checking out for inspiration and figuring out what the instrumentation at the beginning of the for the project as a whole, then from song to song. That's a big part of how I determine what a game is gonna sound like, where I try to have the some aspect of the world of the game. I ask myself at the beginning, what is the sound of this place? What are the instruments What does music sound like in this place? That's gonna be at least one component of the music that I'm making. (intense lute music) Pick it up from there. I still need to do a mix and Like, I've got all the stuff roughed out, but, like, all the pieces that's just like a synth pad, essentially, with some light percussion, and a little pulsing bass, like, all the stuff that plays while you are actually doing a run and going room to room. Then there is an acoustic folk of the thing, and then there's, the second part is the same in a intense, harder-rocking The harder-rocking thing is basically, that's pretty much done. I need to tweak the but I have, the acoustic part is not done, and the mix on the rest is not done. Here, let me show you just the-- (heavy metal music) Most of the pieces, I'll start This one, I wanted to because my goal was, like, whatever this is, I want it to feel rad when you're fighting a minotaur. Like, that's what I want. That's the goal of the piece, because I know you're gonna That's a big part of the new biome, so that was my main and with the next one as well. It's a little bit of a change of method, but it's been fun to sort and then extrapolate that back to a broken down, less (lively mandolin music) (soft acoustic guitar music) - It is April 25th, the second to last week of our which means that, in a week and two days, we will be releasing the Elysium update. It's the first week of polish, where the designers whatever changes they want to make, and the artists are now so that we may make it more beautiful. What we have found is, our particular schedule is for the art team and kind because we come at the end so any time scheduling it's always kind of often on the shoulders and the heads of the artists to kind of make it work at the end, which is not to say that and that they are conscious to make good art, but it where we are constantly constantly pivoting on the things that we think we're going to be doing because it changes daily. Just to make sure make sure we are going to be able to ship everything we said I look at a bunch of cells on my monitor, and I try to make sure there are not some weird dependencies that don't make sense, or some bottleneck, or something that we just given changing priorities. Yeah, so a good example of things that I'm watching out for are, like, Josh has a bunch of effects scheduled for Elysium enemies and the bosses that we have in there, but that's predicated on both and of course, the model being finished, so the whole dependency so I just need to make sure Josh isn't preemptively scheduled for that kind of thing, or if he's just going to even get started such to do something that he for Early Access. Yeah, so, pipeline-wise, we have generally worked so often, if not always, the art team is waiting on design to create a prototype That design then goes through which is Greg, it's mostly Greg's work. He delves deep into his creative recesses. After that, it comes directly to me, or whoever is going to and we work together with Greg and design to iterate on whatever piece It's essentially a big because we're trying to filter and negotiate the feedbacks between design, creative, and but it's a fun and harrowing process. What comes out the end when you take your time is a real sense of satisfaction that you found a cool creative solution that you wouldn't have originally That being said, I will mention that, in Elysium's case, one of the experience is due to the nature of our Early Access schedule. Design has actually not really as much as we'd like, so we actually had to do a lot of the concept before design had really but it's a different and it's hard to know what especially when so much of what you put in the is really just first pass. Being comfortable with that, and knowing that you will have time later to continue iterating, that's one thing, but also, you won't be able to iterate on 100% of things, so you can't on everything you do, 'cause that ends up being and we are a studio that - How y'all doing? - Great. - Yeah. Yeah, we're doing so good. For the camera, I guess, this is our meeting, our in this case, twice this milestone 'cause we have an eight-week milestone, where we're just getting together, reviewing schedule, insanity checking, looking at dependencies, making sure everything is In case anything is not running well, we will destroy whatever obstacles exist with our mighty artist pens. Okay, hey, hey, Josh. - Yo. - You're on camera. Usual and best case scenario is, I design something, and I make sure that it looks good in isometrics. The first concept that really, is the isometric drawing From there, if that seems to check out with everyone on design, we move forward, and I create orthogonals, which is just the front, and call-outs to whatever or may not make a lot of I have to problem-solve around, like, how do the joints work on this pauldron, and how does it actually attach? Then, from there, Paige just takes it, and she makes magic, and that you can look at, which is awesome. In more recent times, because of the Early Access process, I haven't had the luxury of so I have really just been sending her the isometric versions of the concept, and then really rough proportion sketches, and any call-outs for any part that may seem extra confusing. She's been working with that, and no matter what I she produces gold, so I guess that I should stop creating orthogonals, but I feel like it's my job, and I feel like I'm shirking I don't know, it's an industry standard. In Joanne's case, she has come in and really just taken over a lot of the duties of map creation, - I'm not sure if this is true, but I think maybe some people think that the maps are computer-generated. (laughs) They're not. Everything is hand-placed with love and care very purposefully for composition, lighting, color. I created a bunch of mossy assets, crystal structures, rocks, (laughs) - We basically decide, what of this particular area? What's the general tone of this area? What's the general palette and what is the fictional She's provided with all of and then she goes and plays, and has fun doing concepts, Then I just, over the shoulder, like, mm, yes, no, yes, yes, yes. From nothing to concept, After that, she has the go-ahead to start beautifying so she will do a prototype of a map, and we can take a look at what the translation of the concept into real map actually looks like. There's a little bit of course correction that happens there. The two weeks before the update where the most art is changed, and the most polish is put into the game. Literally, on Friday night, at 5:00 p.m., the whole game feels like it changes, you know. We ship the update the Tuesday after that, and it's like, there's for me to sit down and play with the game, and take it all in, and think until a little bit after that, so I'm actually in the process of doing that right now. All right, so my main concentration this time around is Elysium, of course. I'm playing just to review a A lot of the enemies, actually, have also just We had, actually, a little bit of a crisis earlier in the week. We had a play test on Monday, and one of the main enemies in the play test is this guy that we called internally the Shade, and he's this heroic warrior but the thing I forgot, or I didn't concentrate hard enough on when I concepted him-- Concepted? Conceptualized him was that We had a little bit of a crisis where the Shade himself, he was all black. In fact, let me bring him up so you can see the concept, Yeah, as you can see, he a dark, shadowy, Greek-ish figure, and he was actually concepted before anything in Elysium as far as the environment was concerned, so my attempts to predict let's give them these really so that they pop out from the background. As it turns out, Elysium is a lot of blue, and a lot of black of black in our game in general. It's still supposed to cavernous place, so what happened is, this enemy just basically got lost. There was the nuclear option of completely inverting this in case we couldn't find but as it turns out, you know, with a little bit of post-processing, which is a thing we do and a bit of a texture update to better reflect what was concepted here, it seems like it's going to be okay. We'll know in a week's time if it is truly okay, but my first time looking with his updated textures that are, in theory, better and more He's got this thing where, when you kill him, his and it can go back and possess and become a real boy again. We are also having similar problems with the little soul, which we call the Naked Shade, being visible and trackable during combat since it's such an important I don't know if we've but I think these guys are pretty good. Previously, I remember and it just being completely illegible. The character looked too He looked too similar to the background, but he's got this spotlight which was another one of our attempts to make him super visible. I think he's sitting in a He's not the most visible, but he's also not the most untasteful, and that's what's key. That, in a nutshell, is how (chuckles) - Okay, whoa, so I got a riff that I like that I've been trying to get better at playing that I want to have be the I was exploring it more last night. I think I've got a structure in mind. I just need to sort of track lay that down, and then I and have the structure of you know, before I do the drums. Then I'll just do a and comp together a good and that's the plan. (laughs) (intense guitar music) Yep. (intense guitar music) This is a weird guitar. There's certain sounds for other guitars I have, sound really terrible for this guitar. It's just, like, super (guitar note rings) But it can sound really heavy if I find the right thing. (intense guitar music) Is it metal? It's not metal. (guitar music) It's rockin', but it's not metal. Doesn't sound like it belongs in hell. Can always tweak it. (guitar note rings) I could always tweak the sounds, but I like to-- There's so many presets on here that it's actually just more practical to pick a really close preset just because there's so many options that, like, one of them's to what I'm looking for. Yeah, I've gotten a couple (distorted guitar music) Trying to see if I can get closer. (intense guitar music) Then this is a RAT pedal This is a flanger pedal. You've got all these pedals over here with all these different Visually, you can tell kinda what pedal they're actually modeled after. You know, like, this is and yeah, it's really easy to navigate. (heavy metal music) Gonna plug in my drums and get going here. The idea is, you know, the drums I have in there now are just to give me the feel of the thing. It's just easier to play to so I have this sort of temp drum track that I'm going to replace with a real drum track, have there be sections and add some live energy The way I've been doing it for Hades is, I'll perform a drum part and record the MIDI output into Logic, and use the Logic drum sounds. Then I can sorta put together from a bunch of takes, and sort of edit it as I see fit. For a while, you'll see me sucking, or just trying to figure The first, like, 10 takes and then, you know? Then I start to figure out, okay, cool, this part should be like this. Yeah, that's the idea. (drums click) (heavy metal music) That might be close enough I didn't nail everything, but got some good enough that I can at least start You know, during the less we have a system set up in the game where it can play any combination, essentially, of drums, bass, and guitar, so I need to have something happening on the percussion track at all times, but in the intense sections, we actually have all the stems active 100% of the time it's so I don't really need the whole time, actually, so it probably would be better to have some dynamic breaks in there, so I will probably keep It's a bit of a work out. Jeez. I wish we had more time It's really fun. It's more fun than doing exercise. (chuckles) (soft electronic music) - Yeah, my name's Camilo Vanegas. I'm the 3D artist and I joined the company in 2012, and I was the only solo 3D artist and animator in the company Transistor was a project that was my first project. It was basically a big about working in games, about production, about pipeline, about what it's like when people actually react in the video game community, but I do have, my heart is with Pyre, because it sort of was a point where I was feeling more and when I actually got to express more of the design and aesthetics that I love. Definitely Pyre is the one that I treasure the most, in that sense. Then this new project, for me, Hades has been different because, now, I have more We have Paige, and then with some of the work, so 50% of my time was just and also, the other part was continuing animating the project. - His perspective has been invaluable in the work that we've done to this point, and I'll be really excited to see what he comes up with next, 'cause I think he's a genius animator. One animator has done everything in our games since Transistor, and he 3D-models all that stuff too, so yeah, he's been a one stop shop. - I feel like I got very lucky. Not only is a place that they but also that you get to learn a lot. I got super lucky with having people like Amir and Jen that do, and then they kinda give Something that I'm gonna To me, I'm always gonna It's already part of who I am, so that's not going away at all, yeah. (dramatic acoustic guitar music) - So when it comes time for me to create a character or a concept, the very first line of defense our story guy, creative director, to make sure I'm gonna be taking into account all the factors that he wants so that he can tell the right kind of story using this character. The second step is to just go to good old google.com. In the case of Theseus, it's like, I'd like to know how he was written, and how he was drawn on Like, that kind of thing Even if none of it actually in my final concept, it's I think, to acknowledge, what was the actual There is a certain of the character that can't The minotaur is a really good example. When I did my initial research on him, you know, in general, when he's depicted, he's actually all man except That was one of the Do I give this guy hooves, or do I give him feet, because, is it weird for most of our players? Will they understand I also need to take into account how the character's going to move, and how they're going to interact with the world around them. Those kind of considerations are more for, you know, I probably can't on a shoulder pad because he needs to lift his arm really high. I can't give him big, floppy shoes because it'd be really hard to or it won't read well in isometric. - The art team and I don't have a lot of direct collaboration, but at the stuff that the art team is making, and looking at the concepts, and looking at the or looking at what the enemies look like, and all that stuff, and I'm trying to incorporate that stuff into the tone of what I'm doing. - I like asking Greg a like, what kind of food Does Patroclus stay up late at night, or is he kind of like a morning person? (laughs) Like, weird things like that can actually be really useful. I kinda even interface evenly with engineers and designers any time an artist wants to happen to this one piece of art in this one moment, usually, we can't get that done by ourselves, so we just need to put That sometimes goes to the engineer, and sometimes, we have to make sure it doesn't interfere with I guess that's just my way of saying I kinda talk to everyone. (laughs) - So today I put together the structure and the parts for this new I recorded a basic guitar track, and then tracked drums to that, and then edited those drums, and made a proper drum track. We're, like, a week and a I have a lot to do between now and then 'cause we can't put (chuckles) so I have to do That's sort of my main All the voiceover is done. The first piece of music is done. This piece of music is started. Probably won't launch but maybe I can patch it is what I'm thinking. We'll see. I'd like to launch it with the update, but I just have to, you know, everything needs sounds (laughs) That's the plan. I think it's really interesting working on something in Early Access, and it's super different. I think having people know what we're working on, and really changes the vibe, 'cause we get to see sort of people's reaction to the stuff that exists in sort of real time, basically, as soon as we release it, and maybe added a slightly different type of pressure to see that stuff in action, and to see people's reaction in real time. Shutting yourself away for three years and working on something that, you don't know if until the end of that period. I think having some indications that maybe we're on the right track here is sort of comforting. After only a little bit more than a year of working on a game, we got from people, which is really exciting, and invigorating, and yes, the sort of update cadence and having to keep putting out new stuff on a regular basis that but I think it also is exhilarating at least as much as it is grueling. It's downloading. - [Woman] Woo. - Yeah? Happening. - [Camilo] Have people picked up on it? - I don't know, but I am doing the update (chuckles) This is an update day dim sum feast, which we've done a couple of updates, and I think we should keep it going, because it's my favorite kind of feast. (woman laughs) (people chatter) - [Commentator] I want to believe we're gonna make it spar and - [Zagreus] Oh, wow. - Hold, fiend. You'll walk not one more step toward the light of day - Two against one, seems hardly fair. Ah, well. (snorts) Let's kill him and be done, king. - Theseus? The bull of Minos? You two are legends. I'd be honored if we had - Ah, a naked attempt to Defend yourself, you blackguard, and may the gods show you (minotaur growls) Where will the hell spawn? Not ready to admit defeat as yet. - Our latest update just went live. It is the beefy update. Includes a lot of new content. Biome number three, Elysium, the next level of hell or heaven, depending on how you Also, new bosses, new It was a really exciting because we had the chance of our early access updates to an eight-week cadence. We were finding the four-week cadence, though they worked, they a different kind of challenge as far as feeling like you were trying to ship something real good every month. That is a tiring process. It's like releasing a game every month. We tried out the eight-week cycle, and I thought it was really cool. I actually went on vacation which was also nice, It's out as of one hour ago, and people are playing it, Saw a couple people get and the minotaur, and someone so I was happy with that. (laughs) Yeah. (keyboard clacks)