Our world is dying. Or more accurately, it is being killed. Fish populations and marine ecosystems are industrial activity, such as eutrophication, overfishing wage scorched earth style warfare Forty percent of the planet's soil, so rich by industrial agriculture into lifeless dirt, Our avian, mammalian, reptilian, insect, and than half since 1970, and a quarter of all Collapse has been upon us for a long, long The flooding in Jakarta, in Pakistan, in India, the world are exemplary of that fact. We have known the cause, yet little has been Why? It is an undeniable fact that the primary on capitalism. Our overreliance on fossil fuels, our unfettered supply chains, the disinformation campaigns to collapse, and the lobbying efforts of fossil economic system, built on the concept of private Capitalism observes one constant, prime directive: Historically, from enclosure to colonisation has been what fuels growth. It is no different today, where capitalism ever-increasing quantities of nature and human Technological innovations have played a major growth, because new technologies have enabled of appropriation. And we continue along this trajectory, with production, and consumption for the sake of This system runs on the destructive ideology Thinking of growth as a damaging ideology Plants grow. Animals grow. People grow. But while it's true that growth is a natural Organisms grow up to a certain point and then Growth for its own sake is cancer logic--it's And yet that sick logic is exactly what the There's no such thing as too much growth, Every economy, every sector, every industry keep growing their GDP, no matter what, on This isn't just caused by greed, as some In fact, capitalism structurally incentivises into people's flawed perception of human There are structural imperatives to growth Let me explain. Capitalists own capital. Duh. Whether it's real estate, factories, machinery, the money they use to make more money. But capital that is stagnant is capital that So they look for things to invest in so that They seek out companies that have growing will grow year after year. If that growth slows down, they pull out and Companies that fail to grow will lose their in their power to maintain growth so that of how much havoc they wreak upon the world. After all, if you don't grow, you die. And if any barriers prevent that growth, you destroy them. Environmental protections are barriers, so Labour laws are barriers, so capitalists fight Protectionist policies are barriers, so capitalists The commons were a barrier, so they were enclosed. Indigenous populations were a barrier, so that became a barrier, they supplemented the All of these acts of violence opened up new all in service of capital's growth imperative. These days, we measure a country's "successful" GDP or Gross Domestic Product, first developed 1934 after the Great Depression devastated He developed an accounting system that would and services produced in the economy in one But even Kuznets was careful to emphasise whether an economic activity is useful and GDP is coupled to energy and resource use, and waste are churned out every year, devastating You can poison rivers and decimate ecosystems You can use child labour and abolish retirement GDP provides no indication of the costs associated sickness, social despair, and death that fuel planetary boundaries. And it also provides no indication of the monetary value. Self-sufficient communities aren't nearly on capitalists for everything. And yet, after the Bretton Woods Conference as the primary indicator of economic progress. When the OECD was established in 1960, its designed to achieve the highest sustainable mean sustainable in the ecological sense. The goal was to keep growing, indefinitely. And when growth began to slow down in the protections, and access to health and education high rates of growth, those barriers had to This rise took place not just in the West, powers intervened in the newly independent from centuries of colonialism. Structural adjustment programmes forcibly leaving them open for the exploitation of and money out of these countries than they These countries are also often blamed for real cause of climate catastrophe. But the global population is on track to stabilise, Not to mention, we know what it takes to stabilise and access to proper women's and children's In every single historical example of population The real issue lies in consumption, not population. To blame the populations of countries in the and capitalism is to compound a gross injustice. As hurricanes batter our islands, heatwaves and wildfires sweep through our countries, South has been truly apocalyptic in scope have contributed to the planet's current We are all suffering as a result of the enforcement and we all have a role to play in the transition healing of the Earth that will need to occur. But the blame does not fall on all of us equally. Especially not when the globe-spanning supply in the Global North leave human and ecological We know exactly what needs to be done in order we need to cut global emissions in half in 2050, massively scale down total energy consumption our urban and suburban infrastructure to eradicate as much as possible, reestablish millions ecosystems, completely overhaul industrial There is no green capitalism. There is no salvaging this planet under capitalism. Capitalism with renewable energy and electric We're not going to "decouple" growth If we treat renewable energy the same way growth in extraction and production capacities, continue to expand, fill our landfills, wreck and decimate the biosphere. Cobalt, copper, neodymium, silver, indium, in renewable energy, and if we continue along an explosive increase in mining, which will limited rare earth metals, but will also drive Cobalt mining in the Congo is keeping the production in the Andes has deprived farmers their crops and poisoned nearby freshwater Following the ideology of growthism will only to "clean energy" companies just as violent Nuclear is no solution either, considering up and running and the dangerous vulnerabilities weather conditions, a staple of our current Don't get it twisted, we do need technology against ecological breakdown, but not when economy. We simply cannot keep growing our economies, energy demand, while trying to heal the planet, exponential growth. It keeps us trapped on this death treadmill That's why, despite knowing exactly what catastrophe within our lifetimes, very little On the contrary, capitalists and politicians Growth that will create innovations that will allow us to counteract our destruction with Our rulers would rather attempt to manipulate the chemistry of the oceans, than give up Even if, and that's a big if, geo-engineering the fact that constant growth in material And geo-engineering schemes will not work. One of the primary methods of geo-engineering carbon capture and storage," featuring prominently in many governments' approaches to reducing The problem is that BECCS alone will not work the planet's crises, it faces the same issues of rare earth minerals that renewables face, of sucking up 15 billion tons of CO2 every the 15,000 new facilities around the world in time to make a difference. With so much at stake, it's not a gamble Yet it's a gamble so many have been willing logic that got us into this mess. The hubristic mindset that treats our Earth be conquered and manipulated to our whims. As something we are separate from and exist It's a manifestation of the ideology of of capitalism and the ideology of growthism We're taught to think of ourselves, of humanity The philosophical lens of dualism, developed Rene Descartes, places humans as subjects is an inert, mechanistic object for us to For capitalism to succeed, it not only needed us of more holistic ways of seeing the world. Capitalism had to see the downfall of animism. It had to render the Earth as a mere stock Animistic ontologies see no fundamental divide world. On the contrary, they recognise a deep interdependence fauna that constitute the Earth, in some cases And when you view the non-human creatures it fundamentally changes how you behave. It prompts you to enter into a relationship Animism has been disparaged as primitive, have come around to recognise that all of help us digest our food to the plants that over large distances underground, are all superorganism. Nature is not out there and apart from us; The story of animism and dualism is worthy to highlight that the dualistic philosophy has led to our ecological crisis. (skit) personal blog of Bill Gates. Because there's nothing more important than When I traveled through the Global South, countries so... poor. What is the core problem with countries like Haiti? It can't be a history of colonial and neocolonial The real issue is the lack of energy. In our foundation, we aim to create a world live a healthy, productive life--as wage of course. All these countries need is reliable energy call centers to make them healthy and productive, West, and joining such powerhouses of health, or Singapore. While my background is in software, not climate Again, I'm rich. I'm now super-focused working on global health, And I'm always trying to learn more. I know what you're thinking. Well, Bill, isn't your carbon footprint TRUE! But I am taking steps to reduce it. In 2019, I divested all of my direct holdings had money in coal companies in several years. In 2020, I started buying sustainable jet offset my family's aviation emissions. I'm not aware of anyone else who's investing See, it's okay to emit it, as long as I I know. The meaning. Of sacrifice. Look at how much I've sacrificed. Sorry, that wasn't very productive of me. We don't need degrowth. We just need a greener capitalism. It's not realistic to strive for real social Just make green stuff cheaper. GatesNotes, keeping you healthy and productive. A proud sponsor of Andrewism. [accelerated] While the segment was a parody, almost verbatim. We wish we were joking. [/accelerated] We need to recognise that we do not need the We do not need capitalism to improve the welfare In fact, the long rise of capitalism caused Capitalist propaganda extols the prosperity for the vast majority of the history of capitalism, it worsened it. Enclosure, colonisation, and slavery, the rise, all spread human suffering and created to depend on in order to push desperate people that their basic needs could be met. The real source of the recent rise in human healthcare, education, vaccinations, and safer do not require capitalism. You don't need a high GDP per capita to just need to establish institutions that prioritise The default assumption that growthism promotes reality, the vast, vast, vast majority of Over the past 40 years, 28% of all new income 1%. And that's just income. Half the global wealth is in the hands of It's time to shift our perspective from From the welfare of capitalism to the welfare To recognise that what we've come to consider destruction. We need to move away from the ideology of We need to dismantle the system of capitalism. We need to shift our priorities. We need degrowth--a planned, collectively downscaling of energy and resource use to the living world in a safe, just, and equitable The term degrowth has gotten some flack due poverty and deprivation, similarly to how dismissal of any form of labour. The English term degrowth arose out of the Paris in 2008. In French, they use the term la decroissance a river going back to its normal flow after While I believe it is important to present norms and it's best to use the established hence why I use the terms anti-work and degrowth, label and far more about the substance, so library economy. The aim is to build a new economic system. An economy that is under the direct control An economy that is organised around human accumulation. An economy that is distinctly ecological and Rather than operating within an economic system that need by producing for profit, we can meeting needs by producing for use, which use. However, there is a necessary caveat to this There are many parts of the world that live actually need to increase their energy use I believe movements in the imperial core must places to give reparations in the form of the people in these places as they work to to a healthier, more caring economy and ecology. The colonised people of this world do not as the places we consider "developed" To quote the Martiniquan intellectual Frantz "We must find something different. We today can do everything, so long as we obsessed by the desire to catch up with Europe. [...] So, comrades, let us not pay tribute and societies which draw their inspiration Humanity is waiting for something [other than] The onus is primarily on the Global North boundaries to scale down energy consumption. But how do we build it? How to degrow? Think about all the energy it takes to extract, world. Think about all the inputs and outputs that It's quite the energy-sucking behemoth, fuelling economic growth. We need to take on this behemoth and change To slow it down and bring it in line with It sounds difficult, because it will be, but put us on the right track. Here's a small part of what it will take economy: Household appliances, computers, tools, furniture, capitalism to break down and require a new of time in order to increase profits. Planned obsolescence actively stifles the need last longer and prevents us from being By putting an end to those deliberate manufacturing products, we can greatly reduce our material Next, we need to gut the advertising industry. Most advertising simply serves to generate and manipulate people into consuming stuff It's constant psychological warfare. It's no secret that I hate it. Everywhere you walk, everywhere you scroll, all trying to sell you something. It's constant noise and it's bad for us. Get rid of it. Shut it down. Thanks to the internet, we can search for ads, and in fact, ads make the search experience There are some beneficial ads, such as PSAs, Tear them down and watch consumerism perish. Another step we can take is to shift from One of the three foundational concepts in of usufruct, which refers to the freedom of and use, but not destroy, common resources For example, rather than each individual in electric drill, we can keep three or four serve everyone's need for a drill when they When we get rid of car-dependency, we can to serve needs that cannot be filled by bikes systems. And so on and so forth. Watch my library economy video for more information. Another way to reduce energy and material The way we currently feed the world is unequal, energy wasting, especially when current patterns food that's produced in the world being We cannot keep treating farms like factories. It is incoherent with the demands of the living We can either rapidly scale down to more localised systems, supported by nearby communities through hydroponics, cultured meat, and aquacultures agriculture systems until we run out of fossil starts succumbing to the greatest famine the It's our choice. I for one will be advocating for and trying as possible and fighting for whatever it takes more farmland and sequester more carbon to Lastly, we need to scale down or get rid of Agriculture was just one example, and even harmful offenders, such as the beef industry, the Amazon rainforest. Getting rid of the beef industry alone would of land, almost the size of Africa, and cut Factory farming as a whole is very environmentally We need to cut down on meat consumption and as much as possible. The pandemic has already shown us which industries The fossil fuels industry, the arms industry, go. Obviously. The automobile industry and commercial airline We can reduce all of these industries and goods, thereby reducing the stocks that support trucks, thereby reducing the amount of energy and operate all of it, all while directing actually improve human welfare. These steps to scale down total energy use groups and especifist organisations in mass and unions of all varieties, not waiting for Some of these steps may be achieved by concessions fuel us to go further still, not slip into are in direct control of all the spheres of Workers cooperatives, councils, and unions their respective industries, freeing more and bs jobs. Like I spoke about in my anti-work video, in work. Quantitatively, we need to cut down on the margin, because most work today is simply time-consuming. We don't need the 40 hour work week. Qualitatively, we need to take the activities and self-organise them, through cooperatives and community. We don't need bosses. The whole concept of full employment, which would be turned on its head. No one would necessarily be "employed" self-organisation everything that needs to engage in caring, learning, socialising, exercising, else. This kind of post-work, post-growth library of an irreducible minimum, which is the guaranteed life, the level of living that no one should their individual contribution to the community. This includes access to adequate food, water, internet, and transportation organised through assemblies. The commons can only succeed through collective this revolutionary transition to government Without a renewed access to the commons, a and creation of scarcity that allowed capitalism post-growth economy. The abundance of the commons are an antidote We can use community land trusts (CLTs), food cohousing cooperatives to lay the foundation is building its momentum. It's important to emphasise the social aspects Not only will we be liberating ourselves from but we will also be liberating ourselves from our technologies, education, identities, institutions, Our mindsets will need to shift, our relationships rapid transition may be disorienting for many, Believe it or not, the Earth can recover. Scientists have found that across ecosystems, forest to recover 90% of its old-growth biomass. That's within many of our lifetimes. In some cases, the transformation has even Rainforests in Costa Rica were able to regrow amount of carbon out of the atmosphere. If we act quickly, we can see change sooner Through degrowth, we can open and expand spaces So to summarise, my interpretation of degrowth idea that challenges the dominant growth imperative restructuring of the economy and downscaling economy back into balance with the living Degrowth means a reduction of production and from neocolonial exploitation in the Global sustainable path to human flourishing. Degrowth means decolonisation of lands, of Degrowth means the creation of open, connected, Degrowth means the establishment of autonomous spheres of life. Degrowth means an economy and a society that Degrowth means striving for a self-determined All power all the people. Peace.