In 1944, World War Two was Rocket ships firing, aircraft flying overhead. As the Allies waged total war This was a war in which all sides were learning as they went From the beaches of Normandy... The water was full of blood. The water was bright red. ... to the forests of Germany. I can still see all the dead lying there. Both sides deployed and sophistication. And this tank suddenly gives It's a very effective beast. This is the story of the Western Allies' final campaign, told by the men on both sides who were there. You did what you did. You fire and you maneuver. He was my brother. September 1944. The Western Allies were closing But now the formidable defenses stood in their path. So, the Allies came up with a daring plan to bypass the German defenses and cross the River Rhine in a single bound with the largest deployment ever seen. We all knew that market from the moment we saw the airborne going over our head. But the elite Allied soldiers sent into battle soon discovered the plan was badly flawed. it was a disaster, you know from beginning to end. And that it was never wise to underestimate the German army. You was in for a fight. No two ways about it. There were an awful lot of Germans in the Netherlands, and we found them. This is the story of Operation Market Garden. The D-Day landings of June 1944, had been followed by weeks but finally the Western Allies had forced the German German losses were enormous, 400,000 men killed, wounded or captured, as well as thousands of vehicles and heavy weapons destroyed. That September, the German army was still desperately and preparing for a final battle to defend Germany itself. But, just at the moment the the Allies were running In September 1944, a severe supply shortage because their supplies to the frontline from the Normandy beaches. The Germans knew about this and they knew that the Allied advance had slowed mainly because What the Allies needed to solve their supply crisis was a Channel port but they were either still in German hands or, like Cherbourg, had been comprehensively sabotaged by the Germans before their liberation. The Allied supply lines and could no longer deliver enough fuel and ammunition to frontline units to sustain the pace of the advance. But British Field Marshal had a bold plan. One which he believed would allow and end the war by Christmas 1944. Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery, or "Monty" had commanded all Allied land and the Normandy campaign. But now US troops outnumbered British and Canadian, it was no longer politically acceptable for a British general to command them. So, while he was effectively demoted to command of the 21st Army Group. Allied intelligence reports indicated that the opposite 21st Army Group, was lightly defended. So, Monty proposed that his force attack north from Belgium into the Netherlands, bypassing Germany's strongest to encircle Germany's industrial heartland in the Ruhr Valley, and pave the way for a He named his plan Operation Market Garden. But Monty would have to sell the plan to the Supreme Allied Commander, American General Dwight Eisenhower, who had his own plan for the advance. Eisenhower was content for political reasons to keep the advance more or less even across the front. This is the so called broad front advance, that everybody would share the risks and This is very much Eisenhower's style. But there simply weren't What Montgomery wanted was to divert the resources to a northern arm, the so called narrow front attack. and he believed that if this was done then he could get through to the Ruhr early enough to end the war in a matter of months. But if Monty was going for Operation Market Garden, someone else would have to lose out. The personal politics of Market Montgomery lobbied Eisenhower ruthlessly and without end to carry out this operation. Montgomery knew that would be taken away from the Americans, further South. And he lobbied Eisenhower and gave Montgomery Montgomery got his supplies as well as use of the an elite force of 40,000 British, American and Polish soldiers, ready to be dropped behind enemy lines by parachute and glider. Montgomery made these bold, ambitious plan that required clockwork precision. British Thirtieth Corps was to advance 64 miles along a single road to the Dutch town of Arnhem. But their route crossed including two major So, three Allied airborne divisions would drop ahead of the ground forces to seize key bridges along the route, including two major Nijmegen and Arnhem, before the Germans could destroy them or organise their defence. The bridges were well-defended to ward off Allied bombers, so the airborne troops were to land several miles from their targets and complete their approach on foot. The airborne assault was codenamed Market; the ground attack - Garden. The spearhead of Thirtieth Corps was the Guards Armored Division with 268 tanks, mostly Shermans. They'd be supported by the 43rd Wessex and 50th Northumbrian Infantry Divisions, tanks of the 8th Armored Brigade, and Royal Engineer bridging units. Airborne troops were under the Browning's British First Airborne Corps made up of British 1st Airborne Division, Polish Parachute Brigade and two US divisions the 82nd and 101st Airborne. The Royal Air Force and US Army Air Force would provide 1,500 transport aircraft and 500 gliders to get troops to their targets. Lieutenant General 'Boy' Browning commanding the Allied Airborne troops was Britain's senior airborne officer, married to the famous novelist Daphne Du Maurier. Seen by some as difficult to work with, relations with his American boss, first Allied Airborne Army Commander, Lieutenant General Brereton were particularly strained. In the run up to the operation, reports arrived that German SS Panzer units had been seen near Arnhem, the British airborne objective. British Intelligence Officer took the reports to Browning. The Corps Intelligence Officer, a chap called Brian Urquhart, he warned us that there were 2 SS Panzer Divisions, lined up from Arnhem to Zutphen, and, that he had warned General Browning about this and he said that Browning's plan for the operation would fail unless he altered them to take account of these two divisions. And Browning had told him that he was not to tell any of us about it And, and that he did not believe that the tanks really were operable because they'd If there were German Panzer units near Arnhem, the entire operation And Browning, and many others in were determined to press ahead. The Netherlands had fallen to German but since then, the country had by global war. It was just like peace. In Holland the world seems fine. The roads were great, loads of trees growing alongside them, alleys, so you could move along them during the day. We were safe from airborne attacks, at least that's what it seemed like. You weren't discovered as easily. But on the night of 16th September, British and American bombers struck German airfields and anti-aircraft positions across the Netherlands. At 9:45am the next day, thousands of aircraft of the First Airborne Army took off from their bases in England and set course for their drop zones. The vast air armada formed up in two columns, 3 miles across, and a staggering 94 miles long. There was still planes while men were dropping in Holland. That's how vast it was. You could actually step over from one plane to another to Holland from England. Johnny Peters was in one with clear views ahead. Right when we went over the North Sea, we could see the air There were channel men. So, it was very reassuring to see these air sea rescue boats in case we ditched in the sea. It was a beautiful flight, blazing sun, a huge convoy about 3 miles wide all full of planes. Extraordinary sight, wonderful sight. One of the largest gliders taking part in Market Garden was the Airspeed Horsa. A British design built mostly of spruce and plywood, its prefabricated sections were often put together The Horsa carried two pilots and 25 troops or loads such as a jeep Allied gliders were towed towards the landing zone by transport aircraft or bombers, then released to glide silently Although they weren't gliders did an excellent unit onto its target as often happened in parachute drops. As the first wave of Operation Market reached the Netherlands they discovered that plenty had survived the previous The ack-ack gunners firing in front of us, shortly afterwards a cry went up from the back of the glider, , "the tail's coming off". Now this was relayed from the back to the front. I was sitting at the And my sergeant was sitting opposite. And he relayed that back to the pilot. He sent Ralph Maltby to have a look. He came back. Big grin on his face say, the fabric's been hit. but the tail's not coming off". So, he sat down. We were very reassured about that. It was a narrow escape But as Johnny Peter's glider approached the landing zone, they came under more fire and the co-pilot was hit. I knew he'd died by the look Then you think to yourself well what would happen if the pilot get killed. None of us could pilot the glider. The German machine and they were coming through the glider and, one bullet, only one bullet, hit a bloke named Private Hughes in the leg. But we made a good landing. In most landing zones and caught off guard. Most gliders touched down Parachute drops went almost Of the one thousand transport just 27 were destroyed. We weren't under fire at all coming in. It was really nice. It was on a Sunday afternoon, about one o'clock, sun was shining, And, it was an ideal type of operation, I call it. The British 1st Airborne Division landed 6-8 miles northwest of Arnhem with near total surprise. It was a perfect summer's day, we landed with no opposition at all. The US 82nd Airborne, landing near Nijmegen, were immediately welcomed by Dutch locals. While we were picking up our equipment, civilians were coming out of the tree line and they're all speaking perfect English and I said to my buddy, "Are we They spoke perfect English. They wanted to tell us and we wanted to get them off the Meanwhile the US 101st Airborne landed further south near Eindhoven. Second Lieutenant Frank Gregg received a less friendly reception. I landed right on the drop zone, and it was filled with big Holstein cows, milk cows. And they panicked, of course, when all these And I'm thinking, 'Oh man I'd hate to have to write home from the severely wounded by a big Holstein cow, or something like that, or even killed by one,' because they were really The US airborne troops between Eindhoven and Nijmegen. The Netherlands had been under and the arrival of the Allied forces Especially for best organised resistance I got all my troops to the bridge, and about the time I got my foot on one end of the bridge, a Dutchman and a very pretty girl stepped on the other end. They were in, black leather coats like the Germans wore, and both carrying submachine guns slung over their shoulders, and I said, "I'm not sure these people are friendly." So, anyway, the girl came up, came bursting over toward me and said, "We are from the Dutch underground and we are here to help you I thanked her, and so forth. She gave me a briefing on the, that there were no enemy in town. It was clear of Germans The airborne part of the most troops had landed on or close to their intended drop zone. Now they needed to along Thirtieth Corps' route to the Rhine. But the Allies didn't A dash to the Arnhem bridge hit a German roadblock: most were killed or captured. The paras would have but it would be a hard slog. he dropped us 7 miles from the bridge and we were all carrying equipment and weapons. You can't run all the way, merely walking will take about 4 hours. Problems were developing elsewhere, too. North of Eindhoven, German engineers and Luftwaffe trainees blew up bridges over the Wilhelmina Canal before US Paratroopers could reach them. 30 miles northeast at Nijmegen, more bridges across the Mass-Waal canal were blown before the Back in Arnhem, British 1st Airborne was about that Major Urquhart had tried to warn of. Fortunately, One of the legends, should we say, about Operation Market Garden was that First British Airborne was dropping on top of two SS armored divisions, That is true in the sense that Ninth and were in the area but they had been so badly destroyed in the Battle of Normandy they were really only Germans called something about the size of a the Allies were taking a risk which really only made sense if the Germans weren't going to fight. And they did. Another surprise for British 1st Airborne was that they'd landed almost on top of German Army Group B headquarters from where Field Marshal Model would orchestrate a rapid German response. Model was Germany's and greatly admired by Hitler and other senior commanders for his performance on the Eastern Front. He had been nicknamed the Fuhrer's Fireman for his ability to salvage even when his forces The fact that he is a completely is summed up by many accounts and very hard against his own troops because he wanted to achieve things, but also very hard and and for that the people As German commanders planned they were handed a gift. In the wreckage of a German troops found a complete set of orders for Operation Market Garden. Model saw that if he could the British paratroopers at Arnhem would remain cut off, and the Allied operation would fail. He split II SS Panzer Corps into kampfgruppe, or battlegroups. Kampfgruppe Hohenstauffen was to hold Arnhem and its bridge against the British. While Kampfgruppe Frundsberg raced south over Arnhem Bridge to prevent the Allies The concept of battlegroup is a very specific concept that you could find in the The idea was that, whenever the need arose, you would form ad-hoc formations quite often of broken up formations or formations or taken a lot of casualties and form a new fighting body out of these. Improvised Kampfgruppe helped Germany make the most of its dwindling military strength and respond rapidly to new threats. We were told to get down there, they said we had to hurry. Destroy anything that gets in your way. And form a pocket with the others that arrive there. The swift German response meant Allied airborne troops were soon engaged in heavy fighting. At 2.35pm, the Allied ground attack began. Tanks of British Thirtieth Corps crossed the Dutch/Belgian border on the road to Arnhem. Working to a strict timetable, they needed to reach But the single road through open country was highly exposed. Within 10 minutes, they were hit by a German ambush, and lost several tanks. We were being fired on from the flanks as we pushed up the road. I don't know if you know Holland but it was then, just a series of country roads. There was nowhere to go. The tank couldn't go off the road, because Holland was built on water. You travelled on dyke And traveling on dyke roads in the dark and the wet is not very With air support from the British tanks pushed on, along what soon became Thirtieth Corps only managed to advance 5 miles on the first day, failing to reach Eindhoven, which remained in German hands. Just 24 hours into the Operation and Market Garden was Allied airborne units were now in heavy fighting for a series of bridges, that Thirtieth Corps would need for their advance through the Netherlands into Germany itself. The 101st Airborne Division had successfully captured The 82nd, tasked with capturing the bridges at Nijmegen, were just South But at Arnhem, About 5,000 men were scattered west of town, in heavy fighting with as well as the Waffen SS troops. Only around 300 men had the Arnhem road bridge, and were now dug in at its northern end, under the command of Lieutenant Colonel John Frost. John Frost was an experienced officer and one of the first to Parachute Regiment in 1941. He'd led daring missions into including the successful Bruneval Raid on the coast of occupied France to steal top secret Now he was in command of the who had got through to the objective. As night fell, John Frost radioed divisional headquarters that they had secured the He was ordered to hold his position until 30th Corps reached him. Around 9pm Frost was reinforced by a group led by Major Tony Hibbert. We had been ordered in the brigade orders that our job was to capture Arnhem Bridge and hold it for 48 hours until we were relieved from the south. We'd actually done the job, we'd captured the bridge, we held the north end of it which was the only bit that was necessary. On day two of the operation, Frost's small force remained dug in around the north cut off from the rest of their division. There were about nearly 600 chaps at, John Frost's disposal and he disposed them into a tight perimeter, but he could only go Then the paratroopers heard the sound It must be Thirtieth Corps We thought that the, tanks were in fact our own tanks coming from the south, the ones that were actually going to relieve us and, and, we were quite extraordinary, about a hundred and sixty people on the bridge and they all took off their helmets and put their berets on and came out to, to cheer them forward. And, of course, it wasn't until they came up to the top of the bridge that, we saw that they'd got the wrong insignia on. The vehicles belonged to When they realized the they tried to rush it, but the paratroopers were ready. And you could see the fear on their face what they were running into. We had 3 Para under there and they opened up and they, killed all those people that charged over the, the bridge. The German column was from small arms, anti-tank guns and the British army's the PIAT. For the first two years the British had a really But in August 1942 the Projector Infantry Anti-Tank or PIAT was introduced. It's an unusual looking weapon, and very cumbersome, it's very heavy. It's about It was really important that you got very, Ideally, you want to be to the side of it, or, even better, behind it. You'd then site it using this So, you'd pull the trigger, the spring would shoot forward, hit the detonator at the back of the bomb, the bomb flies forward, the detonator would ready for the next round to be put in it. One of the problems with it was that the tail end of the bomb was hollow, so it acted like a rifle barrel. So, it would then fire the remains of the PIAT Operator. So, duck out of the way They were incredibly effective. There were some Unit Commanders that said that their section carried. It was also successful. There were more tanks knocked out with PIATs than there were by On Day 2, major British airborne reinforcements set off from England, after a four hour delay This second wave had and, as they approached the they came under heavy anti-aircraft fire. Bill Higgs was one of the glider pilots. The Jerries had already sized out where we were the landing again was a miles. And, And, of course, they, the Germans soon surrounded it with their guns, and they were knocking and and as I was flying over the puffs there and a puff there. I don't want to say it was like clay pigeon shooting, but at first we just that this was what Not only were the British but, on the ground, already attacking the They were all around and they But I got down, by these trees and I thought so if I can get to the trees I The surviving reinforcements gradually assembled, ready to move out. But there was another problem. The commander of British Major General Urquhart, had landed on day one, but was now missing in Arnhem, which was swarming with German troops. To make matters worse, British radios weren't working. Frost's men at the bridge couldn't reach division headquarters, just 3 1/2 miles away, or core HQ near Nijmegen. When we got there the signals didn't work so that was a waste for a start. I felt that because I, to my men that, I wasn't doing my job. One of the things that caused Market was the complete chaos in most of the drop zones. Especially around Arnhem, the and so far away from their targets that they had little idea of In addition, their radios proved and so they couldn't and figure out what was going on. By the time of the Market Garden operation the radio sets that were taken to Arnhem, there were four different types and the set that was used between the companies and battalions was the wireless set 68. That was very, very similar to this 18 set which was the standard infantry radio set. It had lengths of copper aerial that slotted together. Wireless operators like having an enormous neon sign waving around, which wasn't very popular. There were many problems with the radio communications in Arnhem and a lot of those were The whole thing was a gamble and they gambled on the fact that radio equipment which would just about do the job. They gambled on the fact that they'd inevitably, being an airborne operation, they cut down on the amount of And the problem with that, of course, is once radio operators started becoming there were no trained Some of the radios had batteries which were disposable and obviously the problem with that is re-supply in the Other radios had rechargeable batteries, and again in a combat zone to gather radio batteries, get them back to a place But the big problem was procedure, in a lot of instances, they simply didn't follow The whole division changed but by that stage the divisional headquarters with the Brigade that was trying So, when they changed their frequency, there wasn't a hope of getting they'd got no idea that the Tony Hibbert set up 8 large wireless sets at his But the problem was that they had been set up really for work in the open and from the moment we reached Arnhem we were out of touch. While Frost and his men remained the rest of the 1st Airborne Division battled to reach them in vain. The casualties were starting to mount. You know, you was in for a fight. No two ways about it. And the Germans knew that they were reinforcing quicker than what we were. Our medics were filling up. Now and again the General would say. "Bloysie, go and see what the check is." You know, and you'd go in. Sometimes you'd shout to them And that sometimes you went in there and, and these chaps be You couldn't get any more in there. Meanwhile, 40 miles southwest of Arnhem, Thirtieth Corps had the Dutch city of Eindhoven, and linked up with the US 101st Airborne. Jubilant Dutch civilians cheered the British tanks half a day behind schedule. Their next objective was Nijmegen. But the city and its bridge When we got to Nijmegen the Grenadier Guards in but when they got there the American which meant they had An attack on the bridge would but there was no other option. On day 3, a combined assault by British tanks, infantry and US paratroopers attempted to seize Nijmegen and its bridge but ran into fierce German resistance. The attack failed. Back in Arnhem, Lieutenant General Urquhart had managed to rejoin his division. But breaking through to John Frost's men at the north end of the bridge looked increasingly unlikely. The rest of the division in the western suburb of Oosterbeek, struggling to hold its own position. Colonel Frost's force, just a few hundred strong, clung on desperately at the bridge as German attacks intensified. We were doing very well for the first 3 or 4 hours and then of course the Germans put their artillery units on the other side of the river and from that moment onwards artillery attack and on the next day they started to bring up their tanks. As the battle at the bridge the Germans sent a captured with a message. This engineer has come back over the bridge waving a a big piece of white. Waving it away. And he said, "oh the Germans, want a surrender sir". So, he said, I want two officers with a white sheet to come over and with no arms". "No sir", he said, "I didn't mean they want you to surrender". He said, "tell them to sod off". So, so he said, He said, "do you wanna go back?". He said, For all Frost's determination his fate and the fate of his men rested with Allied forces 10 miles to the south at Nijmegen, where the bridge remained in German hands. But the commander of the 82nd Airborne had come up with a plan. Brigadier General James Gavin had bene decorated for his role in the invasion of Sicily in 1943, made the night jump into Normandy on D-Day and just six weeks before Market Garden was given command of elite 82nd Airborne. He was an admired and charismatic leader who insisted that his officers be the first out of the airplane door and the last in the chow line' Faced with stubborn German resistance, Gavin proposed to have the 504th Parachute Infantry Regiment cross the Waal 2 miles downriver, so they could then launch an The crossing had to be made in under heavy enemy fire. Half the soldiers in the first wave were either killed or wounded. But with men across the river, the Allies could launch their simultaneous The Germans tried to blow the bridge, but the explosives failed, and the surviving defenders fled. The road to Arnhem was open but the Allied advance had been long and arduous, and they were now 30 Operation Market Garden's all-important timetable was in tatters. Ray Cumbley was driving one of frustrated by their slow advance. As we crossed it was almost dusk and we knocked two German tanks out, but then we were at a standstill overnight before we advanced the next day and, of course, when we advance ever, we couldn't do it and, of course, by the SS, there was no chance for them and we were, we were determined; but we couldn't. At Arnhem, Lieutenant Colonel Frost and his dwindling still clung onto the But as each hour passed, more German reinforcements and they were now under infantry and armour. The Germans, having dealt are now able to regroup their forces and together with tank support including Tiger tanks to launch the last and and quite quickly they then manage to overrun the British positions, merely because the British and supplies and because a normal paratrooper unit is not equipped to deal with German Tiger tanks. On 20th September, after holding the bridge Frost's men learned that there was no They requested a ceasefire to help with their enormous Brigade Major Tony Hibbert was an eyewitness to the grim scenes. We had over 300 wounded in the hospital and the building was on fire and the, the the flames were out of control. So, we had to ask the Germans not only for the ceasefire but to send, some of their men to help us get our wounded out, that took about two hours, And, and at the end of that time, the Germans had infiltrated the perimeter that we'd been defending. With no ammunition left, Frost's men began to surrender but some decided to try and held up in Oosterbeek, 2 miles west. There was no point in trying to defend the bridge. So, I split them up into parties of, ten. to try and make their way back to the main perimeter in Oosterbeek. But, there were, But, there were, well, there were we ran into Germans and, we were all taken prisoner. During the truce, the German commander sought out his British counterpart. Colonel Frost, he'd been badly wounded on the second day, was still able to talk. The German commander came up and said, "Colonel Frost I salute you. We've, we've just come back from Russia", where they'd been fighting for 2 years, he says and, he said, "I've never seen people, any people as brave as yours. I salute you". Which was nice. The courage and tenacity with which Frost and his men had held their ground had not been enough. Arnhem had proved a bridge too far. 21st September. Day 5. With Frost's command eliminated, Arnhem bridge was back in German hands. The rest of the 1st Airborne Division were dug in around Oosterbeek, on the wrong side of the river from British and American forces pushing up from Nijmegen But Thirtieth Corps' remained painfully slow. And now British tanks were taking fire from one of Germany's most lethal weapons. You were sitting ducks, as you might say, because the 88-millimetre guns, those were the anti-tank the German had. I think it was the finest gun ever for, for tank warfare, in particular. Facing the British armor attack is a very strong German defense in depth. They've got weapons like the famous PAK 43 anti-tank gun. That's It's an 88-millimeter gun and it can fire a solid shot armor piercing round that would penetrate one of the British Sherman tanks out to about two and So, you have the situation that British tanks had been knocked out and they can't even see the Each time a German anti-tank gun picked off the lead British tank, the rest of the column was until the destroyed Corps commander ordered his infantry forward. But they too ran into We were desperate to The Germans were equally determined that we would not reach them, that they would surrender before we had a chance to cross the River Rhine and, and get back to them, get them out. And so, it was a battle of attrition for four or five days. Thirtieth Corps was running out of time. At Oosterbeek the British Airborne were critically low on ammunition and water. Attempts to resupply them by air were only partly successful, with most canisters And they remained under relentless attack from all sides. We knew we were losing the battle because we were getting pulled into, into a perimeter. Getting smaller and smaller. So, we knew we ain't gonna win this. Thirtieth Corps began looking for alternative ways to reach the airborne troops at Oosterbeek. Their reconnaissance units, using small country lanes, found a route to the river that And at Driel, made contact with the 1st Polish Parachute Brigade, who'd been dropped as Over the next few days, Thirtieth Corps made several attempts to cross the river and link up with the paras. We sent the company above, 4th Dorsets, across the river to form a bridge head when the paratroopers were coming back, But as airborne resistance north of the river began to collapse, any reinforcements who made it across risked sharing their fate. I think they sent the and not many of them came back. They didn't all get killed It was increasingly clear had failed. The British priority became rescuing as many airborne troops as possible from The real issue on the ground at the time, was, were the Germans about to overrun First Airborne Division's positions with perhaps a resulting massacre. The British knew there They were afraid there might be a massacre. In fact, The Waffen SS troops with the way that the paratroopers that they treated them rather well. But, again, in the big picture it wasn't just about getting It was about getting much further north into Holland with substantial forces and that clearly was not So, the decision is taken to withdraw those forces across the Rhine, rather perhaps sarcastically The word came through they were gonna pull out at 11 o'clock at night. But, don't tell these Dutch people, because we think they're pro-German, because they live near And so, And so, don't tell them we're pulling out So, we were in this trench and, there were, oh, across the river the Royal Artillery were firing two guns on the extreme right and left. Each one was a tracer. So, we're told keep within them tracers, shelling outside there. And we got to the river at the church. Cross the river. And, now that was horrendous we were getting out. Apparently, they thought at across the river but then realised we were getting out. So, they shelled this place. That was the worst night of my life. And I have nightmares about that. Many of them. They managed to get across the Rhine that particular night which practically ends the and the Germans of course The Battle of Arnhem ended amid death and chaos, and a humiliating British retreat. The recriminations I felt ashamed that being English that we was losing the battle through incompetence The British performed poorly They were good soldiers. Oh hell, But, the command they were crazy. Dropping those people over there knowing that German armour was over there. The Dutch people told them and the British insisted Characteristically, Montgomery refused to accept any blame. Montgomery was an with a massive ego who had the habit, particularly after the war, of saying that he could and the enemy never had any say in it, he just carried out his master plan. He also said he never lost a battle. When asked about Market Garden it was claimed it was a 90% success. That was very typical of the man. Monty's master-plan had not got the Allies across the Rhine and into Germany, as promised, and the war would not Instead, Eisenhower's broad once the Allies had a crisis that had only been exacerbated by Operation Market Garden. Market Garden drew substantial amount of supplies away from other areas of the Allied front. Most importantly the like Patton's Third Army, were starved of fuel and had Market Garden also distracted of his responsibility. Most importantly, although the Montgomery neglected to capture the areas The Germans control the estuary and that meant that the Allies to bring supplies in for much Operation Market Garden was one of the war's great what-ifs? A chance to shorten the war, and so save many thousands of lives squandered through poor planning and in spite of the heroism and skill of many who took part. We jumped 17 September and we were relieved by the We just sat there facing Germany, just sat there 'cause it was, it was as you British say, it was a cock up, it was a cock up, it was a mess. Really. In September 1944, along the Dutch-Belgian border, the Allies began a desperate battle, to clear well-entrenched German troops rom a key strategic waterway. The Germans had been there for four years, they knew the areas wholly And regardless of what you hear, they were very formidable. Possession of the Scheldt Estuary was vital for the Allied advance into Germany. But German forces held both shores and would use every advantage Every time you made an blow the dykes and flood the land. It was strewn with mines, everywhere there was a minefield. The month-long gruelling would be Canada's bloodiest battle of WW2. This is the story of the Battle of the Scheldt. By September 1944, Hitler's Germany was That summer, Stalin's Red Army had smashed through German and advanced as far as Poland, and Romania. In the west, the Allies had liberated France, and were closing in on the River Rhine, and the German frontier. But then an Allied supply crisis brought the advance to a grinding halt. The Allied industries back home were producing enormous tens of thousands of tanks, millions of rounds of ammunition and millions of gallons of fuel. The challenge was getting all of those supplies to their frontline troops. The Allies had five armies in the field, two and a half million men, advancing on a broad But their supplies still came from their Normandy beachhead, 300 miles to the rear. Frontline troops were no longer getting to continue the advance. Modern warfare needs lots of petrol. Tanks gobble up petrol more than, than our cars do. This is where there about how the allied forces should because they were running out of supplies. Then, on 4th September, the British 11th Armored Division captured the Belgian port of Antwerp. Crucially, the British were able before the Germans could sabotage it. At first glance, it seemed as if all the Allied supply issues would soon be at an end. There are miles and miles and miles of docks there. Antwerp is the biggest, or was then, It was the biggest plum for the British Army. We had Antwerp and, our harbor was intact. There's still cranes and And most of the other places, like the other ports we took, the Germans had blown up the trains and stuff, But there was one major problem Antwerp is connected to the sea by a 45-mile long estuary of the River Scheldt, which was still heavily mined and defended by the Germans. The Allies couldn't until the Scheldt had been cleared. Once the Scheldt Estuary was cleared, the Allies could turn that which would be sufficient to supply pretty much their entire war effort for the remaining campaign as they drove into Germany. And, of course, The Germans had built on Walcheren Island, dominating the West Scheldt Estuary, and making it impossible for The guns along the Estuary were protected by thick concrete bunkers, almost impervious to air attack. They could only be across a landscape of with approaches covered and beaches strewn with This hugely-challenging assignment was given to the First Canadian Army, a multi-national force made up of two Canadian and two British Infantry Divisions, with one Canadian and one The army included Normandy veterans but their hard-won combat experience was now being diluted by the arrival of raw recruits to replace casualties. Some of them hadn't been in the army less than six months. They brought them overseas, crossed the Channel, and dumped them on us. As we were trying to whip everybody into shape, they didn't know how to load a rifle, they didn't know how to prime a grenade, they knew nothing about infantry work. In command of the Army Simonds was a born soldier who'd won the Sword of Honour An expert in the evolving his rise to senior command had been meteoric, was Lieutenant General Guy Simonds and a corps in Normandy. When his boss, Lieutenant General Crerar, commanding First Canadian Army fell ill, Simonds was the obvious replacement, and at 41 became the Western by 7 years. A very British Canadian - he had been born in Britain, his father had been an his Grandfather had of the East India Company. Very highly regarded by Montgomery, by Eisenhower and by Bradley, perhaps in contrast to the actual commander General Sir Harry Crerar, a Canadian who was found to The other way of looking at that is that they regarded Simonds as a good officer because he thought much That Montgomery found and so did many others. Simonds' job was made more difficult by fierce disagreements about The Supreme Allied Commander, favored an advance against Germany on a broad front. But British Field Marshal believed that a single would get the Allies to Berlin and end the war by Christmas. Such a move, if successful, would make German defenses along the Scheldt irrelevant. So that September, Simond's advance on the while Montgomery launched codenamed Market Garden. But Market Garden ended in disaster. The paratroopers took the bridges We took over from the American and the next one after that was Arnhem and that's the one they couldn't get. And that's where our paratroopers And, of course, they had Market Garden, They had that and that failed, so they said, "well, we've got to get Antwerp open". The failure of Operation Market Garden not only cost lives and resources. By delaying the Canadian the task had been The Germans made good use of moving thousands of reinforcements into position along the Estuary. By the time Montgomery accepted that clearing the Scheldt German defenses were more formidable than ever. That October, the Western Allies were relying on First Canadian It was up to them to clear German defenders so that the urgently-needed supplies and reinforcements could make it through Until now First Canadian Army's efforts had been overshadowed by events elsewhere but no longer. The Canadian plan involved four phases: Phase 1 2nd Canadian Infantry Division, supported by 4th Canadian Armored, would push north from Antwerp, to secure Woensdrecht and Bergen op Zoom, at the neck of the South Phase 2 3rd Canadian Infantry Division and 1st Polish Armored would eliminate German forces along the south bank of the Scheldt. Phase 3 Canadian troops would advance up before Simonds launched phase 4: an attack on Walcheren Island by land and sea. One of the biggest would be the treacherous landscape. The terrain was wet and boggy with open country crossed The land around the Scheldt was polder territory, this meant that it had been The land was divided up by dykes and between them it had been flooded by the Germans. They had flooded the land and you were in water all the time. the only protection you had was if you tried to get too high on the, on the what you call it, the dykes? Then you're a target. The dykes themselves like ramparts, about 14 feet high, and made ideal defensive With hardly any usable roads for tanks, the struggle for the Scheldt would be overwhelmingly Why didn't the air force Just flatten the place; you No send the infantry in there. Geez; terrible, terrible. More than ever, Canadian soldiers would rely on weapons and equipment they over the flooded plains and steep embankments. The Canadian Army in 1944 were equipped and armed almost and that went for the Every platoon, most men were armed with The section Commanders were all armed with Sten sub machine guns but unlike the German's, which was very, very beautifully made, high precision engineering, The whole thing made for 15 shillings. There were only two the barrel and the breach block. The rest of it just made out of But actually, they weren't that reliable. The main infantry support weapon was the Bren like machine gun. The Bren was an incredibly accurate, completely reliable and was quite capable of putting with a well-trained gunner. These weapons and tactics which had been honed in suddenly meant nothing in the fighting in the Scheldt because the land was flooded, there wasn't the opportunity for maneuver and the troops were funnelled through drainage ditches, through dykes and across causeways, so they were having to advance and on the other side the Germans knew exactly where they would be coming from. Those German defenders were being exhorted to ever greater levels of sacrifice by their Fuhrer, who had implemented a new strategy: the 'Festung', or Fortress City. Hitler designated certain areas and his goal was really to invigorate the defenders of those cities, to make them fight to the last man, to sell themselves as dearly as possible and really to destroy the usefulness of those areas in the process. He did this with a number of port cities, he did this with the and the goal was really as much as possible. But that summer, But that summer, the German in men and equipment, both in France and on the Eastern Front. It was now relying and second-rate conscripts. The ragtag mix of typified the Wehrmacht's 64th Division, defending the south bank of the Scheldt, was the strongest, with 11,000 men and a large number of heavy weapons. The three divisions of 67 Corps, holding the area north of Antwerp, were at half-strength, and most were poorly trained. While 70th Division, holding Walcheren Island, was made up of men who, until recently, had been classed as Previous fighting and huge casualties had inflicted so many that there were simply not able to find enough recruits to to refill their ranks. So, what they did at that particular time is that they would go into hospitals, to military hospitals, and also draft people who up to that point had seen, had been medically unfit and would draft them into specific units. You see what are called Stomach Battalions of men who were Ear Battalions of men who have ear damage or hearing or Foot Battalions. All of these are simply not as first-class infantry but as men who can still fight. On the 2nd October the Canadian 2nd Infantry Division opened the Battle of the Scheldt with an attack north from Antwerp. Their objective was to secure access to the South Beveland peninsula, isolating German forces from the Dutch mainland. But they would need the villages of Hoogerheide At first the Canadians overcoming sporadic German resistance and liberating several small villages on the Dutch-Belgian border. But as they neared their objective, they ran into a strong anti-tank ditches, and assault guns. It was typical of the well-planned German defences the Allies encountered throughout the battle. The Germans had lots of time to prepare for us coming. I can remember they even 264 or something, and that was the, the infantry would see that And they, would be able to, very quickly be And, so, they used to shell us but they had, On 7th October, bitter fighting erupted around Hoogerheide and Woensdrecht, with the Germans over the crucial access to South Beveland. The town of Hoogerheide which over, overlooked, Woensdrecht and, they had heavy artillery and mortars at a very, very short distance. You could see the, almost you could see the people The German 15th Army had clear orders from its commander: The people and Fuhrer of Germany were watching, they were told. The Scheldt defenses must be held to the end. That commander was General Gustav-Adolf von Zangen. An experienced officer who'd he'd been given command of 15th Army in the Calais region of France six weeks earlier. Despite heavy Allied attacks, he'd successfully withdrawn and established a around the Scheldt. He was a very driven commander and he made clear to his troops that the fighting in the utmost importance for the future conduct of war and the future of Germany. Contrary to the impression given by newsreel propaganda, by autumn 1944, German tanks were in short supply. The very few armored units would instead rely on simpler, but highly effective, mobile assault guns. At the beginning of World War II, the Germans have developed a vehicle called an assault gun or Sturmgeschutz and the idea is really you put a support howitzer in it with a superstructure on the top and that helps the infantry to attack prepared positions. After the invasion of Russia in June of 1941, Hitler makes a suggestion that the 7.5 centimeter anti-tank gun is added to the Sturmgeschutz chassis. And that changes the vehicle into a great tank killing weapon. One of the issues with it's low in profile that turret and that means it's an effective and it's also because it's smaller a harder weapon to hit. As the war progresses, the Germans are trying but they are losing some of their production facilities. So, a Sturmgeschutz, this extra armour that has is actually concrete, just to thicken the levels of protection for the crew inside. The problem of course is this, cannot be turned on like a 360 turret, so it's great in the defensive role but less good in the attack. The assault guns that stalled the Canadian advance at Hoogerheide belonged to a German Kampfgruppe, or battlegroup. The near complete destruction of of the larger organization of meant that there were a lot of units that were not with who they'd started out with, were not organized, had suffered heavy casualties, and the Germans found was simply to put them together into an informal group, a kampfgruppe, and send them back out to fight together. This particular Kampfgruppe Kampfgruppe or Battlegroup Chill, were named after their commanding officer, Generalleutnant Chill. The Canadian intelligence report classed him as a very skillful and They assembled a battlegroup, kampfgruppe, of about 3,000 men, consisting of remnants of 3 infantry divisions infantry division, together with a number of paratroopers and these 3,000 men became known as the German's called them, of the Scheldt estuary. They were the one of most powerful and experienced combat formations the Germans had and whenever there was heavy fighting, would be sent. Kampfgruppe Chill and launched fast-moving, hard-hitting counterattacks whenever possible. The Canadians suddenly found themselves in the hardest fighting The intensity of combat threatened to overwhelm some units, and for one regiment, would lead to complete disaster. The Canadian Black Watch had a reputation as an unlucky regiment. In Normandy, in one disastrous attack, it's two senior officers had been killed, and the regiment cut to pieces. On Friday 13th October, the same regiment was on a railway embankment held by paratroopers of Kampfgruppe Chill. It would go down in as Black Friday. They held the high ground on the right and we were in the, down in the, down on the flat lands with two or three polders as our protection. The Germans had the the last polder. They had the very last polder. And as soon as you put your head up there'd be a grenade come at you. And there was the railway tracks on the left with high ground there, which, they also occupied. Our purpose was to advance past those polders. Advance past those polders. Get to the railway station and cut off the enemy's movements on the road and the railway. We couldn't do it. We lost all those men. Black Friday 13th. The four attacking lost 150 men, killed, and the embankment One of the main problems facing which lead to these very high casualty rates is the fact that When C Company starts its attack, the preliminary bombardment comes in too early, and so it comes in 30 minutes before the infantry actually starts its attack which of course gives the Germans enough and prepare their weapons The Canadians attacked Finally, they fought their way into what of Woensdrecht. At high cost, the Canadians had cut off and the 15,000 Germans defending it. Meanwhile, Simonds had launched the second phase of the battle on the south west bank of the Scheldt dubbed the Breskens Pocket. The Canadians' first obstacle was the Leopold Canal. General Simonds believed the codenamed Operation Switchback, would take four days. It began on 6th October with an assault across the Leopold Canal. For some companies, in eerie silence. We were under orders not to shoot unless we were attacked, and we'd suddenly realised the Germans must be because they see us but they're so it was a kind of a silence on the canal. A few Canadian companies got across the canal But others were not so lucky, and ran into fierce opposition, taking heavy losses. Allied intelligence, it later emerged, had seriously underestimated the strength of German Slowly, on the far bank of the canal. Walter Balfour, a machine gunner with the spotted a German artillery observer, guiding fire onto his unit. So, I opened up on him with the bren gun. I had rolled down off the opened up on the I'm trying to cut the top of the dyke but, they saw two stretcher bearers, very cautiously wondering you know, they could get and didn't bother them, they said they went up to loaded a guy on the but that solved the problem for these guys who were on the bottom of the, the canal bank, that guy he was creating a lot of havoc, As the attack across the Simonds launched the in a daring, amphibious flanking attack on Hoofdplaat. The attack would be made with the help an extraordinary new amphibious vehicle, originally designed for a somewhat sunnier climate. This Vehicle is what is called a 'Buffalo' and it was developed from a design to pick up people in the Florida everglades. The idea being that it can float but it's also got tracks. The tracks were developed in a way that they have these scoops on so as they turn, they can propel a vehicle through water. Now the American military liked the idea and the British and Canadian So, to clear the Scheldt Estuary and the island of a number of operations took place and that's when the Buffalo, with its amphibious capability, its ability to take men across boggy ground, crossing rivers, dykes, even the open sea, it came into its own. But the Canadians had with the new amphibious vehicles, forcing the operation to When the attack went ahead it was a complete success, Canadian infantry landing virtually unopposed. The Germans immediately concentrated every available gun against this dangerous new bridgehead. Doug Vidler was a mortarman with the Canadian Highland Brigade. It was a bad night. We had been up all night. We didn't get to bed until eight o'clock or something in the morning. But it was around 11 o'clock a shell hit the top of our barn and, shrapnel and dust, And Bob was laying beside me and we were laying under a, a manger kind of thing, and the word went out, anybody hit? And Blackie said he was So, with that I shook Bob. I said, "Bob, Blackie's hit." And with that Bob rolled over. He had one little piece just one little piece He was gone. For three days, held onto their fragile bridgehead. Finally, tank destroyers and infantry of 4th Canadian Armored Division broke through to relieve them. The German position in the But the German commander even though many frontline units had lost two-thirds of their men, and most of the survivors were ready to give up. Canadian 3rd Division began a relentless, methodical advance across the Pocket, smashing any point of German resistance with concentrated Okill Stuart, a D-Day veteran, entered what he took to be a recently liberated Dutch village. Everything was deathly silence as I got into the town, not a soul, not a sound. And just behind me out of the windmill came the Bergermeister with and so I went over to them, "did you not get all out of your system when the &quot;Oh... you're the first one. The infantry were repulsed by the Germans, they're back a mile or so, you're the first one." On 3rd November, the Pocket finally fell, with the surrender of the and the rest of his troops. The Canadians were slowly tightening their grip on the Estuary, though at a heavy price. Now it was time to launch their final assault, on Walcheren Island and the coastal guns For both sides, autumn on the Dutch coast promised to be wet and freezing cold. There wasn't a guy whose main objective wasn't to find a warm, dry place, where he could have a good sleep. Never mind a German, where can we find a warm dry place to have a good sleep, we were all half-conscious. It was cold. There was ice forming Green grass covered in white frost. Soldiers fought a stay dry and find hot food. The Scheldt was freezing cold. The Canadians finding great coats, they're wearing balaclavas, they have leather jerkins on, anything to keep warm The Canadian and British rations weren't very imaginative, in fact nowhere near that the American army often had. Amongst the things they were ten of these biscuits, which was basically a bread substitute, and these could be broken and used for for making breadcrumbs and other things. There would be meat extract, blocks of meat, oatmeal blocks, there were two bars of chocolate, chewing gum, some salt. So, all sorts of things to make very, And you would cook these on a little hexamin stove which you which opened out like this. You'd have a hexamin block which is the fuel which would sit in the space underneath, and once you'd lit it, and cook it off. Another innovation of the time was self-heating tins of food like this tin of Mock Turtle soup and the idea here was that you'd take your army jack-knife, you would punch two lever off the cap and then light the fuse inside leave it for 5 minutes, and when you cut it open soup ready to eat. Added to the general was a growing crisis of combat fatigue. The Canadian 2nd and had been in almost constant combat since Normandy. And because of a Canadian law governing overseas service, they weren't getting enough The Canadian army substantial manpower issues late in 1944. In addition to the casualties during the earlier fighting. The Canadian army in Europe was built out of people to leave Canada and fight in Europe. Not everybody did that and that meant that the a shortage of people who were In addition to the shortage itself, the Canadians troops who beginning to get a little worn down. And there was no relief in sight. More and more Canadian soldiers began to breakdown under the strain, whether physically wounded, physically ill, or battlefield exhaustion. In the First World War they we called it battle fatigue. Guys got battle fatigue if couple of weeks after we get into action and were no good anymore, most of them, they sent them back to what they call, we called anyway, a sleep camp. And they'd give a guy a needle and put him to sleep for a day or 2 days and give him a chance to rest up. Keep him there for 3 or 4 Well the theory was, 2 trips to the sleep camp and but we were so short of men that I ever heard of, so they kept sending them back. And you know it was a damn disgrace. I had a guy who was a very close friend of mine, and a tip top soldier but once the mortar shells start coming in, he'd get up and and I'd have to jump on him and put him down and sometimes punch him out to keep him quiet. Despite the growing crisis of manpower, 2nd Canadian Infantry were now given another vital role to play in the third phase of General Simonds wanted them to attack west along the narrow peninsula, as part of Operation Vitality, ahead of the final assault on the coastal batteries of Walcheren Island. So, the weary Canadians prepared for another attack across the broken They would be facing Parachute Regiment. Many were as exhausted, physically and psychologically, as the Canadians. But even though the struggle to hold the Scheldt looked increasingly doomed, the Germans continued to fight doggedly. They had at least been safe from Allied air attacks thanks to heavy cloud and bad weather. But whenever the skies cleared, Hawker Typhoons and Supermarine Spitfires armed with rockets and cannon swarmed in to strafe German positions. John Thompson was the Canadian pilot of a rocket-firing Typhoon. To anybody on the ground it sounded like an express train coming. Particularly a salvo. And, the Germans, they were very leery about when they got attacked by Typhoons. They didn't like the noise. Several of the German prisoners would say well the noise of those In late October, the Allies used radio intercepts to pinpoint General von and sent four squadrons of Typhoons to wipe it out. The attack killed 74 German officers, and left 15th Army Headquarters in chaos for days. The Canadians hoped to take advantage with a fresh attack along the peninsula. They had learned the this time German defences were before the infantry went in under cover of darkness. We moved in there about and laid in a ditch, on one side of a road until about six, when we were told to charge, the charge was across of beet fields, flat as a pancake, nothing there but beets, and to take a dyke on the far side being held by the German. We hardly got across retreat back into the ditch because of the machine gun and the firing was so Somehow or other we worked our way across that beet field to the dyke at the end. There was very few of and we couldn't do much, but we spent the rest of the day throwing grenades back and forth. Germans on one side and, it was just murder, in the field hollering and yelling. The Canadian infantry struggled forward, and by the end of the first day, they'd breached the first and taken 120 prisoners. But the next obstacle the South Beveland Canal. The German defence in the South Beveland sector is centered around this particular canal. The canal is a big and makes it very difficult for And the Germans therefore include this as an integral part into Rather than tackle the canal head on, General Simonds ordered by the 52nd Lowland Division, using Buffalos to land at Hoedenkenskerke. At a stroke, bypassed the canal, and made it worthless The German troops hurriedly pulled back to Walcheren Island itself where they would make their last stand, protected by concrete fortifications and coastal batteries. Four weeks in to the the Allies were closing in on their goal. The naval guns of Walcheren Island. Blocking the end of the Scheldt Estuary was island of Walcheren. Walcheren was heavily it was basically very flat and low lying and surrounded by a dyke and the Germans had and guns emplaced Until Walcheren Island was taken, and its heavy guns neutralised, no Allied ships could sail and the advance on through lack of supplies. By now General Daser, commanding what 'Scheldt Fortress North', could call only on the remnants of 70th Infantry Division, the 89th Fortress Regiment, and two battalions of naval gunners. Their orders form the fight to the last man. Meanwhile Canadian commander Guy Simonds was devising another for the final assault on Walcheren Island. First the RAF would bomb Westkapelle, destroying the island's outer dyke and allowing the sea to Then he would launch by Scottish infantry and landing at Vlissingen and Westkappele. While second Canadian Infantry attacked from the east, across the narrow channel separating Walcheren from the mainland. Montgomery built up a massive assault force to take the Walcheren fortress. Lots of landing crafts, lots of buffalo amphibious vehicles and thousands of men. And the plan was essentially a replica of what had happened at Normandy on June 6th 1944. A massive initial bombardment followed by waves of landing crafts and amphibious vehicles to capture the fortress and finally open up Antwerp to Allied supply ships. The Canadians began their attack on 31st October. But reaching the channel, they soon found it was too deep to cross on foot, and too muddy for assault boats. The only option was to advance up the Walcheren Causeway, a single narrow road a mile long, connecting the island to the mainland. Company after company only to get pinned down by heavy German fire. They lined the guys up in rows, and send them across this damn thing, and you couldn't move, the Jerries were sitting at the far end, machine gun fire, they had all French 75-millimetre cannons shooting them like machine And they kept sending more and more guys, and we were giving covering fire. I smoked the can of 100 cigarettes in about three hours, believe it or not, just lighting one after the other, we were just changing barrels on the Bren gun. Between their guys a half a dozen guys or so to the far end. But that was it. With the Canadians pinned the success of the attack would depend on Simonds' The RAF bombing raid had been a success, blowing giant gaps in the dykes, and flooding the island. The way was clear for to strike at the heart of the When the attack went in, amphibious vehicles like this 'Buffalo' could go through those gaps and round the rear of the dykes and attack the German And the Buffalos because not only could they were armour plated on the front on this LVT-4 model buffalo and they were given guns, so it's got a 20 millimetre polsten cannon and Browning machine guns on it, that would help put suppressing fire down on the German positions as they come ashore and release the infantry to finish the attack. Royal Marine Jim Kelly was part of the Buffalo assault wave, but things didn't go quite to plan. They were put into tank landing craft and we got into the buffalos inside the tank landing craft, so that we were loaded inside the buffalo, but the buffalo was an amphibious, box. We came out the landing craft in this thing and right away it was bogged down in the water. We never got any further we had to get out and wade ashore. It was just the same, same old wet landing. A freezing cold day, 1st November. At Vlissingen, the island's main port, the Germans were caught off guard, and British troops But resistance intensified They were soon engaged that would last several days. Meanwhile off Westkapelle, a covering force of landing craft took on the heavy German shore batteries with rockets and cannon. They were taking on the batteries but it was a bit of a one-sided fight, that was, and they lost quite a few, but at least they did the job, they took the fire away from us. So that we were able to get in and get on top of the batteries. Under the cover of this barrage, the marines got ashore with only light casualties. On the beaches and dykes, they faced no more than sporadic resistance from the Germans. But occasional mortar shells, and mines, claimed a steady toll. German S-Mines, known as Bouncing Betties, were lethal. We'd actually go over the top, just come over the top of the dunes and then start trotting towards the, And take a chance on the mines. But what we used to do upskirts and at them, Because the faster you ran, if you stood on a mine the better the chance you because, it, took about four seconds to pop up out of the ground to about six foot high before it exploded in, in, in shrapnel balls. So, if you ran fast enough, you could get away with it, which you did, it worked. The fighting on Walcheren Island lasted 8 days. Then on 8th November, the Germans began to surrender. The next morning, they would come out with all their gear packed and their little haversacks and whatnot, and they'd come out and just surrender. With the German coastal Royal Navy minesweepers went to work, making the Scheldt estuary safe for Allied supply ships. On 28th November, the first Allied convoy to unload its precious The first ship to unload was from Canada. The opening of Antwerp was a serious blow to the Third Reich. The significance of is really underlined More V2 Rockets were aimed at Antwerp than any other place Antwerp was also highly significant in the terms of Hitler's The Ardennes' Offensive because the objective cut off the supplies and undermine the whole of the The Battle for the five-week campaign, led by Canadian troops, who paid a heavy price for their success. Around 7,000 of the 12,000 Allied casualties were Canadians. The battle cost the Germans between 10 and 12,000 men, and more than 40,000 prisoners. Victory transformed the situation for the Western Allies and ensured their forces would have the fuel and ammunition they needed for the final push into Germany. But it was a victory for which then and now, that their country never received proper recognition. The first ship up the Scheldt was a Canadian destroyer, and a lot of dignitaries somebody said "where are the Canadians?" Nobody invited us. Even though we took, did a lot in the Battle In September 1944, as American they faced a bitter struggle to break that stretched from the to Switzerland in the South - known We said to ourselves, the Americans have practically It would be the longest continuous battle with a devastating physical and This is the story of the By the Autumn of 1944, Hitler's Germany On the Eastern Front, Stalin's Red Army In the west, British and American-led and preparing to attack to break through into in the Allies' path known to Germans as the Westwall a belt of fortifications miles from the Netherlands The Westwall or, as the Allies called it, was a German defensive in the inter-war period on the German French to protect Germany It was only in 1944 that the that they had this problem was that the and they also hadn't Westwall offered a little bit but it was not the threatening defensive Very much as with the Atlantic Wall, or weaker, with fortifications on which they As the Allies drew near, hurriedly to reinforce the hey had the potential to - a fortified zone of concrete minefields; barbed wire; known as dragon's teeth I remember the Siegfried line very a lot of concrete waiting for somebody to attack, underground passages and they had a lot The Allies needed to bust advance into Germany's But to everyone's surprise, a US patrol approached Siegfried Line near the and found it deserted Within hours, they'd become the first US The commander of US Seventh Corps and drew up a plan to Line before the That commander was Joseph Lawton Collins was action in both the European having commanded an Battle of Guadalcanal, His division's nickname in the Pacific, Lightning, led to his own nickname, Just before the D-Day landings, gave the 47-year-old making him the youngest He was a very aggressive modelled himself to a certain and was one of the new much less methodical who were beginning to Collins' VII Corps was up General Courtney VII Corps had two highly experienced which had both seen Sicily and Normandy While the 3rd Armoured Division and was boldly and aggressively Collins turned to General to lead the attack with the division operating as The American combat started up in the 1930s, and it was at least in new requirements of The Americans discovered full sized divisions to do everything Or that full sized divisions didn't have So, what they started to commands which might draw from an infantry division, and put together units commanded by someone who could The initial American Siegfried Line had been Now 3rd Armored's two attack northeast near the Once the tanks had broken through, while 1st Infantry Division swung left to and 9th Infantry pushed into the Hurtgen On 12th September, began their advance With tanks providing fire support infantry working their pillboxes and bunkers and the Americans began fighting Over four days of combat, the 3rd Armoured fighting its way methodically But as US troops neared Stolberg, into a second chain of at the same time as they were hit There was even a rare appearance That's where I was bombed. there's not much difference hit the front yard only 20 to 30 feet I had only made it about half bombs hit and this concussion from it and against the wall and I turned around And I came out on the floor on my and the German woman after it was over with and course by this time - and grins or laughs like, and points at me, funny the way I came down that stair General 'Lightning Joe' Collins to charge through the Siegfried Line, its defences were But instead, supplies his men needed were to be diverted elsewhere After four days of combat, forced to suspend his The cause was a severe that even ingenious logistical Because they don't have enough the end of August establish which is they treat are railway, and establish a circuit at their height apparently, Down the road to drop off its load and And that lasts through into October But ultimately the Allies just with the fuel, with the equipment, they need to maintain the The Allies only had enough and priority was now Marshal Bernard Montgomery's This was a plan to outflank advancing through the Netherlands, and into Germany in a single, The plan relied on airborne troops seizing but Monty believed if it succeeded, The fall out was that Lightning Joe's would no longer get the fuel and ammo The Allies had handed exhausted one their new commander would use That new commander was a man so adept at fixing a crisis that Widely regarded as Germany's was also known for his and unsympathetic, no-nonsense He did an awful lot in reorganising units and And in this his experience because he had fought so many The fact that he is a completely driven, summed up many accounts that he was very because he really wanted to achieve things but also very hard and for that the people Model's Army Group B was the Belgian and Luxembourg The area around Aachen Corps of General Many of its divisions had been during the fighting in France and The corps' two panzer divisions could But through September, to arrive, and new Volksgrenadier Divisions In the autumn of 1944, the Germans built a new type of force and these The problem was for the Germans So, the Volksgrenadier divisions had so the manpower was quite in theory overcome that machines - in particular, infantry weapons What they also tried to have a very experienced around which you would then form people back from the Reich who in particular from surplus and from the navy that This was the theory. In reality, So even though on paper these in reality they were not as formidable, good as perhaps the standard Totally cobbled together You could see the different uniforms, was wearing an air force uniform, While US forces paused their Nazi officials began to evacuate now threatened by the Allied advance For Germany, Aachen had limited military Aachen was a deeply historic German city It had been in existence for It was Charlemagne's capital the Germans really treasured to their nation, to their history In addition, being attacked by the Allies of Germany herself was now under threat But Gerhard von Schwerin, already drafted a letter But he never sent that reinforcements are and a counter attack is ordered which then leads to rather heavy This letter, say, towards, or through the channels who basically wanted Schwerin persecuted and probably escaped that particular fate, Meanwhile to the north, Montgomery's Operation as British troops were to airborne units Lightning Joe's Seventh Corps needed to resume its attack on They'd be joined in the battle for September's advance by holding the 'Stolberg North of the city, XIX Corps launched its with the intention of US 1st Infantry east of Aachen, Nineteenth Corps' attack was But fighter-bombers failed to While the artillery's weren't powerful enough to They would have to be US Combat Engineers trained We'd take a, an Infantry platoon sheep and take the pill box, assault where we'd assault the back door flame throw into it, the 20 pound, And as soon as that charge Infantry run inside and And when they brought it out, bleeding from its ears and eyes And the Infantrymen all decided Using tactics like these, captured 50 German But it was slow attritional fighting, third day, On 8th October, VII Corps' 1st taking Crucifix Hill east of Aachen But as the noose tightened around the city, fewer signs than ever that the Aachen was the first and the population of German troops were homeland but German Both of those things made motivated to fight hard By the 11th of October, An ultimatum from the commander for the city to surrender, And so American aircraft pulverise German positions Most civilians had been evacuated, now trapped by fierce fighting American infantry evolved new They made use of their entire houses, if need be, The cut-off German defenders, 5,000 But without outside help, And so, east of Aachen, counterattack to try to break A regiment of the itself facing the latest more powerful than Despite the impressive German military stops making and they move onto an beast, the King Tiger, and that's built because Hitler which is even longer, even more powerful, Hitler's idea is that every year superior vehicle than whatever When Frank Camm arrived at the front, had been there when the I visited the engineers up there that could just run friendly mines and and stopped at each the basement of the and then turned around at back firing into building And they were so tough So those things were scary But the Germans only had a not enough to turn the tide of the battle Eleven days after the US ultimatum, city in ruins, It was the Western Allies' longest Both sides suffered with 3,500 German But the battle to break the and the next phase would prove an 10 miles southeast of Aachen, the dense pines and steep Efforts to break the line most gruelling and costly While Seventh Corps' 1st Infantry the 9th had plunged into area covering around 50 Corps Commander Major decided that if the forest it would give the enemy an his southern flank, But the American almost impassable terrain We, on the German side actually kept wondering why the Americans Hurtgenwald forest. They had a superiority From Aachen, with their tanks, they could in just a few days. But no, they were Hidden amongst the thick pine supported by minefields, The few routes through the forest wide One American unit anti-tank mine every In the face of such formidable defences, to advance just 3,000 yards at the cost of 4,500 casualties It set the pattern for as more and more units effort to bludgeon their In late October, by fresh troops of the in preparation for a new battle to break through The 28th Division had arrived in Its three infantry regiments had before marching down parade to celebrate but Hurtgen Forest the division had The 28th Division was to advance towards the next objective, It would make a preliminary Forest, to capture the important and secure the flank of the main advance This would be followed by the main attack, which would see Seventh Corps towards their objective - the But a US advance would threaten secret for a major winter offensive Unbeknownst to the Americans presented a serious The Americans captured Schmidt threaten the German build-up areas And so, the Germans realised they had and Schmidt itself against as otherwise the would become difficult, if not impossible The US 28th Division would face and its commander already had The Division was led by Cota, who'd become a D-Day legend after coming and personally leading a He'd won the Distinguished and two months later was given after its previous commander Cota didn't believe his strong enough to clear But his complaints fell on deaf ears, 2nd November, Many GIs advanced through We didn't of course know, where we were, Each of us was Which one of us is Is one of us going to get that Is one of us going to get an arm blown off We're going into combat and they're, One regiment immediately walked Another was ambushed by expertly and pinned down The Americans attacked, we were very well camouflaged and we were attacking in a fog and in these and they were just sitting in entrenched On the 3rd of November, Model, the German winter offensive immediately ordered At dawn the following day, supported by tanks of The single American battalion or anti-tank guns to take on the panzers, It was clear that the lose all its gains without But getting 35 tonne had so far proved impossible Army engineers were to make the forest trail using hand tools and a single bulldozer Three Shermans finally just in time to help fight off the But the lead US regiment assault by the best part The Germans retook Schmidt, held out in the neighbouring The forest was so dense it was so infiltration and squads of infantry General Cota, was struggling to hold issuing orders for unrealistic, We had been let down They simply didn't They'd wipe out a company and then do exactly the same before. They didn't Bad decisions led to Up to a third were classed as 'non-battle', included trench-foot, But combat took its toll in many ways and prolonged exposure to battle 26% of all US troops who served in combat reported sick with combat As more and more men broke rather than being punished they some of them were a lot of them were but the army handled them because they knew that this to every soldier eventually The other thing about combat fatigue and weren't dismissive or contemptuous To a certain extent "oh this could be me" So, they tended to treat those folks with a kind of rough kindness In extreme cases, drove some soldiers to Desertion was also a only US soldier to actually during the course of the And that was the result of this campaign The decision to execute by Eisenhower, deeply concerned by low Slovik had been part of which continued to struggle General Lightning Joe Corps to reinforce the codenamed Operation Queen on 5th November But bad weather delayed the preliminary The 28th Division were the brunt of the German Then, in the midst of the fighting, supply route through the there was a moment of We went to the Americans with a white flag, were on the other side of the river, Three times a day for five days, fighting and came together to Dr Gunter Stuttgen was a medic I had a bunker, and I always had who helped me take and then I had to make it clear and that they could go back They even devised a the Kall river without I went to the proposed that the Germans from 8 to 9 and you from 9 to 10 And we came to an agreement it was more like a game But the respite was short-lived On 16th November, sight, General Hodges ordered with or without the bombers Miraculously, the weather cleared at the last moment More than 1500 heavy bombers Siegfried Line defences and The effects were devastating, hit by the bombers the communication lines were cut and the effects on the morale, the inexperienced soldiers, Having said that, in the combat of the experienced German soldiers, there are a number of reasons for this, bombing wasn't all that and also a lot of the and their morale were not hit that badly and it's interesting raid even the Allied that the bombing had not In the aftermath of the bombing raid, launched its attack through, They'd have to fight their way through with the aim of securing new, the Roer River dams, the significance During the fighting the of blowing the dams The idea behind that was first of all, they would create a towards the Allies and hopefully But even more importantly it would create a bit of, you might say, widen the River Roer kilometres which made it very, so creating a rather severe water The Americans knew that but they had sort of lost to secure their flank General Hodges of the American Army wasn't the most intelligent, and he was having trouble in the process the dams US commanders finally understood that while the dams remained intact, But the shattered 28th Division Cota's men were finally I felt, oh my God we're getting out of this meat grinder And the next day we got on down the mountains, over the rivers, But for the veteran it was the start of their On the first day of Operation Queen, Where Harley Reynolds a lethal new German The Germans had developed a pistol that shot a grenade and they had developed was there all the time but never we'd And they had developed the. It was a flare gun Shoots a flare just boat for example if But instead of a flare it shot a, Now this is close quarters. You're was one wicked thing. And it was And they just slaughtered us It was 23 people that It took 4 days for the 1st at the cost of 1000 casualties Fighting the terrain as well as a American infantry about a mile and a half in five days American armour struggled in the muddy, What's more, equipped with hand-held anti-tank weapons So, the Volksgrenadiers They can creep up on tanks, and this very simple weapon, armour on the front or the So literally pennies out thousands of pounds All units in the Hurtgen Forest For those on the front line the Americans had given the forest a And with winter closing in, conditions were only I would have to describe beginning of winter back it starts with a very cold blowing Just here and there. But flakes. They're in that was all I saw of while I was there. We November 1944. The US First and Ninth along a 15-mile front through the Siegfried and then on to the Rhine itself On the southern flank of the advance, infantry were pinned unable to make any maze of ravines, Because everything was lying something snapping so they They kept making noises. There was always the sound of a be noticed by both sides and One US regiment lost and all three of its battalion commanders Losses were so bad that three or four commanding Many were well below half The need for replacements But when new recruits were sent to they often struggled to The American manpower failings of American the Americans rather the line when they and rebuilding them would simply send And this I.R.R. Individual system turned out to Among other things, it meant to veteran units who didn't know them, who had no chance to time, But the veterans weren't they were protecting themselves So, these new replacements would come out, the first couple of Cause they just didn't They didn't know what the gun was like compared to They didn't know how to And so not only would killed, One of the results of this in a kind veteran soldiers refused to even until they'd been with the veteran soldiers had some It wasn't worth getting if he was just going You know big boys don't cry and all and And that's the thing, we, we tried not get to know them by their first name, dead. And we're talking If we had an 8-man squad which is supposed Never had, never hardly ever They just, just killed us all the time In the last week of November towards Grosshau at the Eastern Edge American infantry faced of fighting through At Grosshau, made it up the trails Both were immediately knocked At Hurtgen, encountered craters and anti-tank mines the lead tanks were soon immobilised, But thanks to a sudden fighter-bombers were able to and US infantry The American advance was inching and still the Roer river And so allied commanders In early December, But there was no repeat of the The dams were made of packed earth, impossible to hit amid They would have to be Frank Camm's unit arrived at and quickly got a taste of the We had several different that first night of the 13th of December And our, some of our soldiers while it was dark, they came across a German the German trench when And the Germans would and they just grunted and kept on going. And they walked through So sometimes you they don't know who you are, Germans soldiers were and faced the terrifying That night I was alone, completely gone, I can only say, to put it simply - that US troops, firepower, while Hill 400 - a crucial vantage point - in a head-on charge After months of bitter fighting, Ninth Armies finally Siegfried Line defences, and a skilful German forced to pay an and still hadn't made the But as American commanders prepared for on 16th December, 25 miles to the south Hitler launched a surprise midwinter It was the beginning of Germany's last great and meant troops in the Hurtgen Forest would be left holding their At that point the Battle of the Bulge of 1944 into January of '45. They had all of our air support, It was cold and miserable, was a war in itself for us It was an indecisive end to a Hurtgen forest was setbacks for the Allies It was intended to really in that area, and it didn't do that. And, massive casualties fighting their way And, so, really achieve what and they lost almost, The defence of the Hurtgen Forest Because the Germans allies, the Americans, The Germans lose somewhere in whereas the Americans plus about 9,000 non-combat casualties So, some of the units have 25% for American Units So, at that particular level yes, was a victory, and the Germans were able to From an operational the answer is probably different, operationally it didn't whereas strategically effect at all, The duration and intensity of would traumatise survivors on all sides I can still see all the dead lying there American soldiers mixed up together. General 'Dutch' Cota's who'd been left out on were moved south to a quiet sector, But in a grim irony, Hitler's surprise winter Not until the Battle of could Allied forces along the and begin the final advance