It was the night of June 11th, 323 BCE in the city palatial floor. The echo of this ring was heard Hymns and from Sogdia of the Avestas to Egypt Alexander the Great, conqueror of Persia and one wept at the sound of the news while his Friends who was to rule after the young monarch's death? the strongest.' His wife Barsine held their son her pregnant belly, both hoping it would be their in Macedon, Alexander's sisters Cynane, Kleopatra throne, while in Babylon, his brother Arrhidaeas breath of the conqueror would only spell the end destined to usher four decades of war, intrigue fall. These conflicts would become known the usher in one of Eurasia's most vibrant epochs: the of our remaster of the Wars of the Diadochi This video is sponsored by our without whom our work would have been impossible. weekly and can currently watch the completed War, History of Prussia, Italian Unification Wars and the continuation of our Pacific War series. Crusades, Xenophon's Anabasis and much more are join their ranks via the links in the description access to all public videos, schedule, wallpapers, very active and much more. Thanks for supporting * THROUGH THE ARCHIVES: CONTEXT AND SOURCES: we must first discuss our primary sources. most of our information on the Diadochi Diodoros Sikelos. Diodoros Sikelos was from Sicily Historica is a significant work of universal the Gallic Wars. There are issues with his work, generally consider his work on the Diadochi to philosopher Plutarch wrote some stories relevant such as the Roman historian Justin or surviving allowed scholars to construct a rough chronology Another thing to consider is the nature of the as the main drivers of these conflicts. Macedonian the King to his Companions or Philoi, friends who military values dominated Macedonian life. Thus, of incredible wealth, like Persia, people who felt courtly values, ended up clashing with other in fighting with Alexander. The various parts of their own traditions and social structures, and kingship emulated Alexander for legitimacy, to continuity is a key issue for the Wars. The control in their courts and form government * NEKYIA IN THE ORIENT: THE COUNCIL OF BABYLON: met before an assembly of their soldiers the Partition of Babylon called by Perdikkas, over Alexander's Empire. Perdikkas, the son had placed the diadem, ring, cuirass, and robe a new leader. This immediately divided the room, that leader should be. One proposal by Nearchos, was to crown Herakles, the son of Alexander see if Roshanak's child would be a boy and let him instead proposed a rule by council. as unlike Alexander's pragmatic and ambitious into one universal monarchy, most of the Diadochi Ultimately, no consensus could be found, and general who fought against the Getae, said that Perdikkas because no matter which child ruled, he In typical Greek soap opera fashion, one random half-brother, Arrhidaeos, was already here and Arrhidaeos had some sort of mental disability to bouts of instability, many soldiers agreed he generals siding with Perdikkas and one of mostly circumstances, ended up joining the second faction forced to call for help from the Persian Epigonoi, A stalemate developed, and the next day, arrest Perdikkas. The faction who had all sided who had served under both Philip and Alexander to try to calm the troops, who did so by and Roshanak's child if it was a boy. The next where the soldiers expected reconciliation, the Persians arrested 300 seditionists. Meleager, fled to a temple but ended up surrendering to the the first of many such backstabs. The council that courtly powers: Arrhidaeas, now Phillip III, was was Regent, Seleukos was Companion Commander, Moreover, the massive realm Alexander most influential of the Diadochi. Antipater Lysimachos got Thrace, Leonnatos got Hellespontine Lycia and Pamphylia, Asander got Caria; and Ptolemy was given Egypt. Many local Persians the satrap of Medea who had once fought against many rulers in the east, like Oxyartes, the local autonomy and retained control of their leaders will become important in the ensuing ILIAD IN THE OCCIDENT: THE LAMIAN WAR: all this was unfolding. These were Antipater, who had been dispatched alongside Leonnatos to Macedon. It was then that simmering discontent Macedonians, erupted into outright revolt. Many idea of Macedonian Pan-Hellenism, and this had forcing the Greek City states to accept all many of their colonies. In addition to all this, Alexander as a God, which for Hellenes was seen Athens declared war and instigated a revolt. against Macedonian imperialism. Many other especially those in Aetolia and the northern popularity in the Aegean and in Sparta, which Leosthenes secured mercenaries with Athenian After a short and decisive victory the Athenian strategos went to the down the Macedonian General Antipater, who had put down the southern Hellenes' revolt. but we know that the Thessalian cavalry betrayed this chaos unfold, Antipater abandoned the THESSALIAN TITANOMACHY: THE SIEGE Leosthenes approached the city with his troops developed a three-tiered plan to induce Lamia's the city to challenge the opponents to a field phase too, launching daily assaults on the city stable, and the Macedonians had an ample supply consistently repelled. This infuriated Leosthenes, off all supplies into the city and ruthlessly to dig a deep trench and a wall to completely In response, Antipater decided to go for a he took his troops outside and raided the Athenian This attack was a success, and Leosthenes, the melee, was hit in the head by a slingshot. later. After this, the arrival of veterans Greeks burnt their camp and retreated. They then In this battle, the southern Hellenes with 25 thousand infantry and 500 cavalry. They who possessed 20,000 infantry and 1,500 notorious for their equestrian skills and good the southern Hellenes a slight advantage. After Leonnatos ordered his cavalry and phalanx highly successful against the Athenians due to the but the Thessalians pushed the Macedonian cavalry gain a positional advantage. This was to be during the commotion and died. The Thessalians Antipater arrived with his own troops and sought reinforcements and his own forces at the plain to gain control of the landscape and provide shooting at Niobe's children from the sky. POSEIDON'S WARS: THE BATTLES Despite setbacks on land, Athens had a massive though it did have issues with a lack of and ended up only sending off half of it. Kleitos the White, one of Alexander's which shifted the balance of the war at sea. no detailed account of the seaborne war, we know is that Kleitos achieved victory Echinades and again in another battle on the victories caused heavy losses to the Athenian THE LAST STAND: THE BATTLE OF CRANNON: their march into the rest of Greece, like Reinforcements from Krateros came to enhance they moved to the south for their vengeful rallied their troops and went forward to fight This is the last battle of the Greek Revolt that fate of Hellas. The Antipater and Krateros forces slingers and archers. The Allied forces included the Thessalians were confident in their own size, and endurance. Antiphilos, the put his cavalry on the right flank. Antipater put Antiphilos commenced the battle by sending the and after the conflict, the more robust and the Macedonians. The battle then continued with continued pressing and slowly pushed off the the battlefield. The anti-Macedonians managed to seeing that they were now without infantry allies, the Athenians surrendered. 500 Athenians and * MORPHEAS'S MIST DISPERSED: THE AFTERMATH: decided that the war was lost and thus decided to amused and refused to negotiate. Slowly, and each city surrendered separately. Left unconditionally. The punishment of the Athenians them led by a man called Phocion. Athenian her settler colonies, as well as pay a Macedonian guard was to be established to keep rhetoricians were to be arrested. One of them, rather than be arrested by his enemies. From would appear and disappear like shades of would make various declarations in places like or promise various factions freedom, control regimes. This is an important thing to consider city-states that they depended on whichever * THE STEALING OF THE CORPSE: CONCLUSION: Cappadocia, which is recorded to have had Eumenes. However, the courtly scheming among the grew amongst the friends and generals of the and Krateros began to see Perdikkas as a man with gain. In fact, after the death of Leonnatos, instead. This was orchestrated by an old player This was a major offence to Antipater, as his With Kleopatra as Perdikka's wife, first in line for the throne as Herakles and the and xenophobia meant that they were disadvantaged Antipater into Asia Minor in an increasingly Antigonos and Perdikkas. Perdikkas found Eumenes, as they all had proximal satrapies under a wildcard occurred. Ptolemy had arrived in an important location with bountiful grain wily master of Egypt had likely been a long while. To achieve the legitimacy to Alexander's body was in Babylon until be buried. Along the way, and we are unsure as the Chaos Snake Apophis and stole the body. He undiscovered. This was more an excuse for the Perdikkas to declare war. And thus, the First War soldiers were mustered as new rulers put Greek own ambitions. As the sarissae were rattled, the to see the impending doom. The Devas, Buddha and while Ahura Mazda and his Eastern Iranian brethren East, the Gods of Arabians in Nabataea gazed upon Ra and Osiris gazed on the Phoenician God one thousand Gods of Anatolia congregated and Illyrian divine neighbours. The wars of the different pantheons will take different sides. Our series on the Diadochi Wars will make sure you are subscribed and have pressed subscribing, commenting, and sharing - it releasing weekly patron and YouTube member ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals