- Today, I'm gonna show you It sounds fancy, but it's so easy. It's also creamy, cheesy, Check this out. (gentle upbeat music) (grunts) Hey, everybody. It's Natasha of natashaskitchen.com. Au gratin potatoes. It sounds fancy, but it's just basically It's really simple to make. It comes together pretty quickly, especially if you have the I'm gonna teach you to make au gratin potatoes. (laughs) It's fun to say, although If you know the right way to pronounce it, let me know in the comments. And I am so hungry and so let's get started. Also, if you haven't already, make sure you click below to subscribe, and when you do, hit that little bell icon so you'll get notifications Plus, we're playing a game. Let me know where you We've got him hidden. Just let me know in the comments Let's do this. We'll start Preheat your oven to Then butter a three quart Once that's generously Go ahead and grate the when you need it. You'll need two cups of That's about a six ounce block. Grate that on the large and if you don't have Gruyere, you can substitute with cheddar cheese. Now we're gonna make the sauce, and I like to do this in a Dutch oven because we need space to Set your Dutch oven or a and melt in four tablespoons Add a 1/4 cup of flour, and whisk that together for While whisking constantly, followed by the heavy whipping cream. Now add salt, freshly ground black pepper, onion powder. and garlic powder. Continue whisking until Then remove it from the heat and stir in 1/2 of your shredded cheese. Whisk that together until and incorporated into the sauce. This is a good time to taste the sauce and add more salt and pepper if needed. Our sauce is ready. I'm just gonna cover that and set it aside to keep it You can peel the potatoes, or if you prefer to leave the skin on, use a brush to scrub the Now you wanna thinly slice the potatoes, and there are several ways to do this. The old fashioned way and I love the santoku knife because it has the ridges in the blade that keep the potatoes Next, you can use a food processor, and this is actually my because it's super fast and Adjust your blade to a thin slice then feed the potato into the hopper. This will quickly give you You wanna make sure to get those potatoes to a thickness of 1/8 inch. Keeping them thinly sliced Now, last but not least, you and just set it to 1/8 inch thickness. I do like to cut off the tip of the potato and attach it to the food holder just to keep my fingers safe. Then, thinly slice your potatoes. I'll be sure to leave links that I use and love. You can find those in the recipe notes. To finish these off, I'm going because it really is my favorite. It's the quickest and feels like the safest I do love that on this you can adjust the blade to adjust the thickness of your slices. This literally slices in two minutes. And that is my food processor It is a great gift. If you don't already have one, you can put it on your holiday wishlist. All right, we're ready I'm gonna give it a quick stir 'cause it's been sitting for a minute. Now add in all of your potatoes. Stir the potatoes into You just wanna make sure that I like to get sauce between the slices. That'll ensure every bite Transfer your saucy potatoes into your buttered casserole dish, and spread them out evenly in the pan. Once you've flattened out the top, sprinkle on your remaining Adding cheese on top creates that seals in the bubbly Now, cover the top tightly with foil. This'll promote even cooking. And you wanna bake that in at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for 60 minutes. Next, you'll need to remove the foil and continue baking for or until the potatoes are For a golden brown crust, you can also broil for one Let that rest out of the oven (laughs) Where are my potato fans? (laughs) Ah, we love potatoes around here, and we have a lot of So if you love potatoes (laughs) this is sure to become a new favorite. And I'm ready to dig into this. But before I do, I do love to add a little just because it gives it pop of flavor, you know. (laughs) All right, here we go. (gentle upbeat music) All right, it is time to dig in. And good thing, 'cause I am hungry. All right, here we go. And So, I've got my big serving fork here. I like to get around the edges because it does form a which I love. All right. Oh, that cheese I am one of those people where there's no such thing Okay, and a nice big portion for me. And the potatoes are perfectly tender. If you cut them a little thicker will take a little longer in the oven so I like to cut them nice and thin. Cuts down the baking time. Okay, let's dig in. Oh, look at that. Just Okay, here we go. Here we go. The moment I've been waiting for. Hmm. (laughs) (laughs) Okay. Mmm, mmm, mmm, mmm. Oh, and that Gruyere cheese... I hope I'm saying that right. Gruyere? Gruyere. I don't know. Whatever. It tastes good. (laughs) It adds so much, like, It doesn't overpower the dish, even though there's a whopping two cups in this casserole, gratin. I think that means cheese, right? You know what? This is delicious. (laughs) I hope it becomes a new Creamy, cheesy, definitely holiday worthy. This pairs well with You can serve it with the or even a beef tenderloin, or chicken. I'm telling you, it goes well and it's so simple. I hope you guys enjoy this. And we'll see you on the next Now, I'm gonna go eat this. And let me know if you (gentle upbeat music)