. Today we will share pancakes with you. I mean, without exaggeration, it's not pancakes. You say Raki tributary or cloud between your hands. pumice feather iron. And this is the result that you will get without that, without getting tired. And without any effort. And any unit that is sick, for example, from its hands or its neck. God willing, my Lord will heal all Muslim patients. Any beginner unit and don't know how to massage. They went to make these pancakes and bring them as they are, and there is no good. Just be careful with the video, because in every recipe we say the most important things that I need to do. This is how you succeed in any recipe. We also try to give you alternatives so that you can get the same result. This recipe will be very suitable for virtuous hair. I mean, are these pancakes or these baked goods, you can marry them and they will come with a lot of girls. We only recommend you, I mean, in the beginning, if you like these pancakes and like them. Don't skimp on this like. Thus, we encourage and increase you more and more successful home recipes. Complete on our Holy Prophet, peace and blessings be upon him. Say in the name of God and upon the blessing of God, and let us enter into the recipe. We will manage very simple ingredients. Here I have a glass of warm water. We will also increase a third of the cup. I don't know a third. I mean, by eye, we divide your cup into three, and it is one part. I have big scoops of baking yeast . Big scoops of sugar. The cup that we serve recipes has a capacity of two hundred and twenty milliliters. Haylick. We will mix until our scars. This is yeast and this is sugar. As you can see the ingredients for the dough, they are very easy and available in any home. Here is the improvement of this dough, or the need for me? We will make this dough, the amount of oil. Dhoka, we run a cup of Atay. This is the cup for me to drink for Tay. We will build oil. I mean, you have full, this is the cup that came to your homes, this is the oil. If you don't have it, they will turn it into a cup of oil. This is the cup of two hundred and twenty milliliters. Haylick. We will also mix so that we enter this amount of oil. in these fluids. And we will start adding my oven gradually. I saw adding to the oven and adding a small spoonful of salt with it. After we weigh the oven for you, and how many cheeks for me exactly. I used these brands of my mother's. It means once we use multi-use. So that we can't find her, we use Mama. Here, I added small scoops of salt. We will mix here only with a spoon. This means that we do not touch the whole dough with our hands. In the end, we will feel the dough more, so we know when to put the oven on. Here, see the important point in this dough. Since without that we will profitto. So that we can get this texture and it will be like a soft job. We'll bake it for about a minute or two. I mean, this movement, and at this exact time, is what will make a difference for us in the final result. Or any dough for food, pies, or brioche. If you like, turn it on without kneading. And you were, for example, eyes that didn't want to be massaged, and you didn't have any excuse. For example, someone is sick, and it does not mean that you try to knead your dough while it is liquid. I mean, it won't be too liquid. The dough will be extra soft. I mean, a little far from the dough of the baghrir. Start blundering in it like this, with a scoop, with a scoop. And then add the amount of your oven. You see when you mess it up. After you start your guest in the oven. You feel that this dough will come to you light and young. Haylick. I mean, in the dough of the enlightened one. When we turn the dough soft. Either we mix it with that, or we mix it likewise, you will get a young dough. But I mean, here we will only serve with a spoon. Look. I mean, let's run some frina in the end. And we start drying the dough Diyala. But I mean, don't overdo it, your dough should be soft and stick to your hands. Here we circle the spoon. And I started to mean that we would dust a little bit with the oven from above only. Why don't you stick to Sabata? It means the dough is still soft. Here, don't tell me, do you want to see me, or not? I mean, when we catch up to an important point. If you make a difference in the result, you will succeed in the recipe. I mean, let's get lost in it and come back like this. To succeed in the recipes. I mean, Anaya, my main goal is that you try the recipes and succeed in them. Hani, I showed you the texture of the dough, we will bring another one. We'll run some oil in it and put a dough to cover it, it's good. And let it ferment until the volume doubles twice. I will open the bow for you. I mean, I'm sorry for the problem that occurred in yesterday's video of the Percox fuse. I mean, I had a problem with the sound. And for Hadak Albarcox. I mean, if I tried the recipe yesterday. I mean, when I downloaded the video, they saw it. And try the recipe. And they got the Berkooks, I mean, Bazaf. Pay attention to any pictures on Instagram, we will try to publish one or two applications for the recipe for you in the forum. Or maybe they told me that this broccoli might open because you didn't feel it. Here is a part of this video showing me the barcocose at the top of the screen. I will send you the recipe in the coming days, God willing. Here we will answer Libra and see what happened to me from the mouse. Because I didn't weigh her. I used a one kilogram bag. I have five and sixty-four years left. I mean, we almost used between a quarter and fifty grams and five grams of the mouse. It means close. Here's my dough after it fermented. Look. I mean, from the stage, we will use the oil. Because the dough is a little soft. Haylik tried to get most of the gas out. Likewise, I mean, we will put some oil on the work surface, so that it does not stick. Haylick. Here, we want to preserve the softness of this dough. We don't have to use a mouse at this point. Here look. I divided this dough, which contains about a quarter of a quarter and fifty grams of mouse, into six pies. I mean, they bring me medium-sized pancakes. If you like them, you can divide your dough into about an eighth of balls. I mean, in the holy month, you would like to take them as little ones. Divide them by wish. They come with two young men, and they come with good looks. If you like to double the quantity of the ingredients, double them, but I mean we advise you when you catch this cup of latte, so don't miss a bag of latte. Diro about a cup of Tay and increase the text of this. This means that you don't get these pancakes with extra oil. This note is very important. And try to take it into account. I mean, there is one of the recipes when you double it, so you can't double them, or you can't double them. For example, in this dough, you can't make a jug of kisan that comes from Atay. I mean, make a cup and a half like this, so that it doesn't last long. Times as well in desserts mean especially sweets. There is one of the ingredients, I mean, it doesn't dissolve, so it means that they are still. Hailik Shufu Taa dough. I put it on top of butter paper so it doesn't stick. And I added this paper to the butter, I turned it if the oil. If you don't have this paper, buy butter. I mean, only your Chinese. Try to turn it into a good amount of these, look, I mean, I saw that we also bake them with oil. Look because the dough is very soft. And try to make them medium thickness. I mean, don't make them too good and don't fear them too much. Also an important note. I mean, one pancake. When we bake them as gifts. I mean, directly put them in the oven. Kane me no no. You have to let them ferment a little bit, and put them in the oven. For example, these pancakes. I mean, I saw baking in them, and I saw them fermenting. We paint them more with eggs. We will manage the decorations for them from above. I mean, they will ferment at the same time so that I serve them. Likewise, I mean, with filming, I mean, maybe I will spend about a quarter of an hour in this stage, or not. One woman is in her home, which means five minutes to complete, because I saw that we were filming and she was serving your blessings. It means these pancakes when you complete them. Let them ferment. About a quarter of an hour. Not even twenty minutes if it's cold and they don't ferment for you a little bit. Increase, let them complete this wine inside the oven. Here I showed you the types of farms that I served with. Frankly, I used the most expensive types of farmage. I ran the mozzarella bun, or I also ran the cheddar bun. Or as you saw, I cut the pepper for green, the pepper for red, or the hot pepper into small cubes. This is how two young men come to us. If you don't have red peppers, you can cut tomatoes into small cubes and dissolve them whole. Let's go back to the Farmage. If you don't have a gift for the precious Farmaj, what do you do? If you have a private farming, my hero, or guide you to the farming of Labidon. Try watering it down with some milk. Add more if you crumbled it and try not to drain too much liquid, so it doesn't make it easier for you to squeeze over the pancakes. And turn it from above, normal. Lee like der be heavy as well. Succeed with this recipe. Dhoka like this, for example, if you were in the summer, they would ferment you with Khuff. So this is how we saw it in the cold. Let them increase fermentation a little. And then we will put them in an oven that is preheated at one hundred and eighty degrees. Normal we will clean them from underneath. When they are good, of course. We're back to red them from above. Here I tried to show them to you inside the oven. I mean, here, close to them, we turn them down and start red them from above. See how this house is. I mean, come, God willing. And I am pancakes and types of bread when we take them out of the oven. It means they are hot. We paint them with a light amount of olive oil. It means to provide them with moisture and increase their taste. It also means they help me with photography. I mean when we paint them with oil. Look, I mean, they look like a brilliant job, and their pictures come out in abundance. Ham rooster pancakes after Robozaoli only one five minutes. I mean, this kind of pancakes, so you can take it out to be soft. Yazid means that he relaxes a little and one five minutes or not. I mean, you can't hold these pancakes in your hands. You feel like it's a cloudy raki tributary between your hands. I mean, imagine their home during the month of Ramadan, and one is fasting. be hungry. I mean, with the coolest thing. Rani Shahi in you, so you can try the whole recipe. I mean look. You can find pies outside. Bhad freshness and Bhad brick. I didn't complain. I mean, one serves something like this in Daro, the dough ingredients are easy and simple. Kane changed your guidance a little bit Faraj me from above. And you can change it at the expense of your taste and at the expense of those in the house. God willing, the recipe will be to your liking and satisfaction. Don't be afraid of me with this like. This is how we encourage you and provide you with more and more successful home recipes. We have come to the end of the video at the end, I just have to tell you. Peace, mercy and blessings of God Almighty be upon you.