I'd like to begin this session by reading from the book of Genesis from chapter 9, beginning The Word of God reads: Now the sons of Noah who went out of the ark And Ham was the father of Canaan. These three were the sons of Noah, and from And Noah began to be a farmer, and he planted Then he drank of the wine and was drunk, and And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness But Shem and Japheth took a garment, laid and covered the nakedness of their father. Their faces were turned away, and they did So Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what Then he said: "Cursed be Canaan; He shall be to his brethren." And he said: "Blessed be the Lord, And may Canaan be his servant. May God enlarge Japheth, And may Canaan be his servant." And Noah lived after the flood three hundred So all the days of Noah were nine hundred Can we pray for a moment? Again, our Father and our God, we have been Now we ask that the same Spirit who inspired its contents for us, for our instruction, in righteousness. For we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Noah, of course, is the one who is described In the Old Testament, he and his family alone the earth as an act of divine judgment. He is one of the few characters in Old Testament He is described as being righteous. But in the passage that I just read for you, but more of his unrighteousness. So we are told that after the flood and the the ark and erected an altar to the glory He had spent many long months, perhaps years the greatest ship builder perhaps in all of But now he turned his skills to another vocation, He was a wine grower, and he grew his grapes but for the production of wine because he his own produce. And as a result, he became drunk, dropped And so he takes to his bed in his tent, and to his clothing or the covers that were supposed purview. And there in his stupor, he lay naked and Now one of his three sons walks in the tent and apparently was somewhat amused by it. He goes out, and he calls his two brothers, man. I mean, he's lying in the bed in there drunk This was hardly a giving of honor to his father. And the other two brothers, Shem and Japheth, Instead they had a sense of compassion for condition and were devoted to the purpose And so together they took a blanket, and they and walked into their father's tent backwards, pulling this blanket over the body of their head turned away that they not cast their Now we do know that in the Old Testament Levitical is a euphemism at times for kinds of incest, going on in this episode. I think the text is as plain as it sounds heard is what happened. That the problem here was not some kind of was trying to carry on, but it was simply of nakedness. Many, many years ago I wrote a book that the of Atheism. It's been reprinted since under the title this little book. In this book I have a chapter entitled "God At the time I wrote this book, I made a survey word gymnos, which is the word naked, and and concept is found in sacred Scripture. And the import of it, I think, is extremely And to get a glimpse of that, I want to go chapter 3, where we read this beginning... narrative, verse 25 of chapter 2. It seems like a concluding unscientific postscript It simply reads, "And they were both naked, ashamed." So we read that statement of our original woman were created for each other, and we're it. Now before I read what follows in chapter written by a zoological sociologist in the And the title of his little book was The Naked And in that book he indicated from a zoological of primates in the zoological world, and of differs from all the rest. A hundred and ninety two of those primates, sizes and styles, nevertheless are covered The lone exception to those 193 primates is so covered in hair head to toe, but rather is that he is garbed, and he alone among the Did you ever wonder about that? Every animal, every bird in the world that and they live in their birthday suit until And even the other primates that we've studied of these advanced primates, our ancestors forms of tools, just like our ancient cavemen But among those tools has not yet been found these primates, our monkeys' uncles, have They are perfectly satisfied to run around under their arms, while being completely naked the covering that God gave them in nature. But not so human beings, human beings in every run around almost totally naked in primitive because it is basically common to human beings Of course, human beings have a certain fascination indicates, and the screen venues and girly And the advertisement business in America about every product that can be commercially Nevertheless, in spite of this preoccupation today that everyone who is in here today is I haven't seen anybody walking around yet We're still wearing clothes. We had a fascination a decade or so ago of was called streaking, where all of a sudden would run out onto the field bare naked while But notice that even then it was call streaking, about being found publicly unclothed, naked, Now where does that all come from because of Genesis that when we were created, just not to be included, nevertheless we were made But something drastic happened to change all I've just mentioned of the universal desire in public situations to be clothed. And I think it's a wonderful thing that [laughter] But chapter 3 begins with the ominous Now the serpent was more cunning than any made. And he said to the woman, "Has God indeed the garden'?" And the woman said to the serpent, "We may but of the fruit of the tree which is in the shall not eat it, nor shall you touch it, Then the serpent said to the woman, "You For God knows that in the day you eat of it like God, knowing good and evil." That was the primordial temptation, the deification You'll be just like God. You're not going to die. This is an unjust prohibition placed upon He doesn't want to share His deity with will be just like Him. So when the woman saw that the tree was good and a tree desirable to make one wise, she She also gave to her husband with her, and And what happened with the first bite. Did they die? No. With the first bite, with the first act of in human history, the immediate consequence Listen carefully. Then the eyes of both of them were opened, sewed fig leaves together and made themselves The first experience of sin was an awareness within the heart of the sinner a profound nakedness of which they were now ashamed could And dear friends, from that moment to this the presence of God, seeking desperately to We are cosmic fugitives searching out the where we cannot be known. This is why John tells us that the reason is because we love the darkness rather than And what salvation involves is being brought we can experience once again the sense of You know, one of the things that frightens is the assault on the sacred institution of civilization, in fact in the history of the of people who decide to live together outside where covenants are made in the presence of People have a cavalier attitude where they without a sacred vow, without a sacred promise. People say, "What's the whole thing about It's just a piece of paper." It's not just a piece of paper. It's a solemn vow and covenant made in the as their witness can afford to be completely shame. And we've lost that holy condition that a place where His blessing is that here you without being concealed, without cowering curtains drawn, in the privacy of your relationship place that you can be as a human being, naked We've lost something extremely human and by the godless culture that promotes this So those of you who are pastors need to preach I hear people all the time talk to me about, I'm a member of this church, and I love every Sunday, and then we're going together just so cavalier about it. And I'm just saying, you're in the church kind of discipline, without any kind of admonition Shame on you. And worse than that, shame on your pastors, life. But again, that initial condition of being sin. And so when they knew that they were naked, They sewed fig leaves together, so that the were needles to make clothes. And so notice it doesn't say clothes, it said coverings. They weren't making these clothes because They weren't making these clothes because They were making these clothes to cover their They were making clothes not for adorning And then they heard the sound of the Lord day. Now listen, every time they heard that sound there in the garden paradise of Eden, the invaded, no evil had been made manifest, and And they would say, "The Lord is coming." And you could see the countenance of Adam in anticipation of the visit into their domain But on this occasion when they heard the footsteps Lord in the midst of the garden, instead of abject terror. And the only thing they wanted to do was to fast as they possibly could. And so Adam and Eve and his wife [sic] hid This is our original retreat from the presence from Adam to his sons and daughters to all sin. We are born with this desperate need to flee Nothing is more terrifying to a sinful human That's why we hate to talk about His holiness nothing drives us more deeply towards concealment That's nothing new. That's what happened with Adam and Eve. They hid themselves among the trees of the And the Lord God called to Adam and said to you?" Now if you that God didn't know where they were. He knew exactly the tree behind with they They had no hope of escaping from His gaze He knew what they had done, why they had done ladies and gentlemen, the first mission impossible to hide from Almighty God. What a fool's errand that is. We simply cannot do it. David understood it. He said, "Lord, if I... where can I flee If I ascend into heaven, if I make my bed And before a word is formed on my lips, You You just can't escape Him. Wherever you are, wherever you're hiding, And He doesn't just stand on the mountain You know, here you come ready or not in your He knows your hidey-hole. That reminds me of a friend of mine who was And after Saddam Hussein had fled from one my friend and a group of his troops were marching walking down the road and off to the side in the ground, and they went over to investigate. And they peered down, and in this spider hole, And my friend was involved in the capture You can't hide. There's no place to go. The darkness is not dark enough to conceal So God said, "Where are you?" And Adam said, "I heard Your voice in the What? "I was afraid. I was afraid of my Creator. I was afraid of the One who gave me this garden. I was afraid of the One who created my wife. I was afraid of the One who gave me my soul. I was afraid of the One who breathed life nothing but goodness. I was afraid when I heard Your voice I was afraid because I was naked, and so I And God said, "Who told you that you were Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded Well, you know what happened then. The man said, "The woman that You gave me, So God said to the woman, "What is this And the woman said, "The serpent deceived Then what comes from this is the curse of the woman, the curse on the man, and the curse You know, one of the phrases of the Christmas "far as the curse is found." How far is that? God's curse in this instance extends to That's why Paul tells us that the whole of the sons of men, as we live in a universe of the law of God. And then it ends like this, "And Adam called mother of the living... of all living." Now, do you want to hear the gospel? The protoevangelium would have been found serpent, the promise that God made that the the serpent while bruising His heel in the That's the first promise of the gospel. But the first action of the gospel, the first place right here in verse 21. "Also for Adam and his wife the Lord God Wow. What an act of mercy where the Lord God stooped These clothes that you've hastily put together leaves will wither and die and fall away? They're really inadequate articles of clothing. Let me do it for you." And just as God had made the coat of the deer to make clothes for His embarrassed, ashamed, Do you see how important that is for understanding God could have said, "Yes, now you're Now you're naked, and now you're ashamed. Too bad. You're out of here. No more Eden, no more paradise, and you can looking for a place to hide, but you will because you will find no safe place of concealment." No, the first act of redemption was God stooping Now take that motif, which I trace in this into this afternoon, trace it throughout Scripture, Go if you will to the worship of Israel in Go to Yom Kippur on the Day of Atonement. Go when the blood of the animal was carried into the Holy of Holies. What's done with that blood? Where does it go? There is a hilasterion. There is a katallage, a reconciliation on It's the mercy seat. And the blood of the animal is poured on top Why? It covers the law. It covers the judgment. An atonement has been made. A blood offering has been made, a blood offering is completely, utterly worthless. The author of Hebrews tells us in the New cannot take away sin. These were figures pointing beyond the bulls, the lamb to the Lamb without blemish who would would really cover our sin. The atonement of Christ is dramatized in this where the blood of Christ is shed as a cover. It's prefigured in the animal skins outside human beings from Adam on would look forward covered, not in part but in whole, so that we can be naked and unashamed. You know I said earlier that nobody in this knowledge of me is imperfect, incomplete. And yet I feel more safe in her presence than in the world. I can be naked in front of her. It's not always that safe, not always. About a year ago I was stepping out of the said, "Honey, I've got to say something." She said, "When I married you, I knew that in some kind of sport, but I never thought [laughter] It's not always safe. So I went to weight watchers the next day. Sumo wrestling. But you know, there's nowhere where I feel I come with nothing in my hand, no place to I know He knows me altogether, and it's I think one of the most penetrating books was Being and Nothingness by Jean-Paul Sartre, against the existence of God, which I won't But Sartre was obsessed with the idea that free functioning subjects, not objects. And the difference between monkeys in the and stand outside the bars and stare at the But if you're walking down the street and and start staring at them and staring at them, We have conventions in society where we know eye contact becomes offensive. You know, the number one phobia listed in of water, or the fear of fire. Do you know what the number one phobia is? The fear of public speaking. And one of the reasons of that is this, is speaking to you, everybody... most everybody in here is looking at me. You're staring at me like I'm a monkey And... and half the time you're woolgathering. You're not thinking about what I'm saying. You say, "Why does he buy those ties that Why does he... Why does he wear his hair that way? And maybe he ought to be a sumo wrestler." And if I knew all that things that went through run out the door and never try to do this And yet at the same time, one of the rules to maintain eye contact with the audience. And I remember when I was in school, in seminary try to drill that into the guys, and say, engaging them as you're addressing them. Sproul, disregard that." And I said, "What do you mean? He said, "You need to remove your gaze from to time because you bore a hole in their head You're relentless in how you do it." That that's the way it is. We don't like to be stared at, do we? Because when we're stared at like objects and we lose our subjectivity. And that's why Sartre said if God is omniscient, Beneath His gaze, we're reduced to objects. We lose our humanity. God is like a cosmic voyeur, looking through move. And he couldn't stand that thought. If ever there was a philosopher who sought Sartre. And when I read that in Being and Nothingness, experienced the benevolent gaze of God, has he was exposed in his sin and in his nakedness, said to God, "Oh, God, search me and know See if there be any wicked way within me. Purge me in the secret places of my soul." You see, that's the cry of a saint. That's the cry of a saint who has been clothed At the same time that we have this image, image of nakedness but also the image of the If I can look first of all at Zechariah. You know, I've written 70 some books. I don't know how many. I don't count them. I don't know who has the time to do that. And I don't ask you to read them all, just [laughter] I'm kidding, please. But people often ask me, you know, of all most important or which one do you love the And I say, "I really don't know, but it Priest with Dirty Clothes," because in that about the clothing of a priest where the prince garments of the priest. And that captures for me the essence of our And you know, one of the things for which he's written a lot of things, but nothing book on imputation. You know, in the last ten or fifteen years it can only be called so-called at this point, the doctrine of the imputation of the righteousness the perfect act of obedience of Jesus, which And when I saw that John undertook to write for that volume. And if you haven't read it, you make sure talking about here so much more thoroughly But the inspiration for my little book on book of Zechariah, from the third chapter me Joshua the high priest standing before at his right hand to oppose him." So he sees this vision of the high priest, of the messenger of God, the Angel of the it's Satan. And Satan is standing there to oppose this Now, what's the purpose of his opposition? What is it that provokes this antagonism from "And the Lord said to Satan, 'The Lord The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you! Is this not a brand plucked from the fire?'" Did you ever have a marshmallow roast when Maybe go out and sleep overnight in your tents the marshmallows and the hot dogs and cook And it's time to put the stick in the marshmallow, marshmallow off. And then sometimes your hand gets on the end and it's burning, but not only is it hurting, You've just taken a brand out of the fire. And God says to Satan about this priest, He is? He's a brand that's been pulled out of I've rescued this man from the burning. Of course, he's covered with soot. What would you expect after having been in Then we read, "and Joshua was clothed with He was clothed. He wasn't naked. But his clothes were filthy, filthy. Is that metaphor found elsewhere in Scripture? All of our righteousness is what? Filthy rags in the sight of God. And he's standing there in these filthy and spoke to those who stood before Him saying, And then He said to Joshua, "I have removed with rich robes." "And I said, 'Let them put a clean turban And they put a clean turban on his head, and And the Angel of the Lord stood by." Do you know that if you're a Christian this That He looked at us, looked at our nakedness, and saw filthy rags, rags totally inappropriate That's something else I have to say. It drives me crazy in this 21st century how They would never go to the Whitehouse dressed of the living God in the sloppiest clothes And they'll appeal to James about, you know. Hey, if a poor guy can't have a shirt, that's He's welcome in my church anytime. But you're not poor. You don't come into the presence of God Get dressed up or dressed down, but for heaven's into the presence of God. What's wrong with us today? We have no sense of who we're worshipping. We have no sense of the presence of God. And yet He's the very One who's clothed garments there is, finer than linen, finer of Christ. Turn with me quickly to Isaiah, chapter 61, the mission set forth for the Messiah that Remember in the New Testament Jesus goes to rabbi to read the text for the day and comment "The Spirit of the Lord God is upon Me, To preach good tidings to the poor; To proclaim liberty to the captives, are bound; And the day of vengeance of our God; To console those who mourn in Zion, The oil of joy for mourning, That they may be called trees of righteousness, And after the text was read, Jesus gave the down to speak, and He said, "Today, this What was Jesus saying? He was saying, "I am the One that Isaiah I am your Messiah." But if we go later on to the end of the chapter, I will greatly rejoice in the LORD, For He has clothed me with the garments of And He has covered me with the robe of righteousness. You know when I stand before God on the judgment out and as my defense attorney, He's going Boy, oh boy, to be covered with the righteousness that. As a bride adorns herself with jewels, As the garden causes the things that are sown So the Lord God will cause righteousness and This is our salvation to be clothed in the Let me finish this by doing something I never read poems like Ravi does. He's great at that. I'm no good at that. But I want to read a passage from this book Here it is, written by the 19th century Danish speaks to the ultimate of the New Testament, clothing that we will get that will be immortal, of nakedness and be able to freely enjoy the Kierkegaard celebrates this covering dimension Hear them please. Oh, sure hiding place for sinners, oh blessed learned what it means when conscience accuses punishment, and then wearied unto despair to be found. A man, even the most loving man can at the it to thee to make what use of them you aren't That only Jesus can do. He gives you Himself as a shelter. It is not just some comforting thought He It is not a doctrine He communicates. No, He gives you Himself. And as the night spreads concealment over become a covering behind which lies a sinful Through this covering justice does not break glass merely softened by refraction. No, it impotently breaks against this covering, He gave Himself as a covering for you and