Chris Anderson: So Robert think about how weird human behavior is, and how inadequate most And it's very exciting to hear him in public for the first time. Over to you now, Robert Sapolsky. (Applause) Robert Sapolsky: Thank you. The fantasy always runs I've overpowered his elite guard, burst into his secret bunker with my machine gun ready. He lunges for his Luger. I knock it out of his hand. He lunges for his cyanide pill. I knock that out of his hand. He snarls, comes at me with otherworldly strength. We grapple, we fight, I manage to pin him down and put on handcuffs. &quot;Adolf Hitler,&quot; I say, &quot;I arrest you for crimes Here's where the Medal of Honor and the imagery darkens. What would I do if I had Hitler? It's not hard to imagine Sever his spine at the neck. Take out his eyes with a blunt instrument. Puncture his eardrums. Cut out his tongue. Leave him alive on a respirator, tube-fed, not able to speak and then inject him that's going to fester and pustulate until every cell in his body until every second That's what I would do to Hitler. I've had this fantasy since I was a kid, still do sometimes, and when I do, my heart speeds up -- all these plans for the most evil, But there's a problem, which is I don't actually believe and I think wicked belongs in a musical. But there's some people but I'm against the death penalty. But I like schlocky violent movies, but I'm for strict gun control. But then there was a time and I had such a good time In other words, I'm your basic Now, as a species, we obviously We use shower heads to deliver poison gas, letters with anthrax, mass rape as a military strategy. We're a miserably violent species. But there's a complication, which is we don't hate violence, we hate the wrong kind. And when it's the right kind, we cheer it on, we hand out medals, we vote for, we mate with When it's the right kind of violence, we love it. And there's another complication, which is, in addition to us we're also this extraordinarily So how do you make sense our worst ones and all of those Now, for starters, what's totally boring is understanding Your brain tells your spine, to do something or other, and hooray, you've behaved. What's hard is understanding because in some settings, in others, it's heroically In some settings, putting your hand is deeply compassionate. In others, it's a deep betrayal. The challenge is to understand the biology of the context and that's real tough. One thing that's clear, though, if you think there's going to be or the gene or the childhood experience or the evolutionary mechanism Instead, every bit of behavior Let's look at an example. You have a gun. There's a crisis going on: rioting, violence, people running around. A stranger is running at you you can't quite tell if the expression holding something You're not sure. The stranger comes running at you and you pull the trigger. And it turns out was a cell phone. So we asked this biological question: what was going on What caused this behavior? And this is a multitude of questions. We start. What was going on in your brain And this brings us into the realm The amygdala, which is initiates volleys of cascades that produce pulling of a trigger. What was the level of activity But to understand that, What was going on in the environment that impacted the amygdala? Now, obviously, the sights, that was pertinent. But in addition, you're more likely to mistake if that stranger was male and large and of a different race. Furthermore, if you're in pain, if you're hungry, if you're exhausted, your frontal cortex part of the brain whose job it is saying, &quot;Are you really sure But we need to step further back. Now we have to look and with this, we have entered For example, testosterone, where regardless of your sex, if you have elevated you're more likely to think is instead looking threatening. Elevated testosterone levels, and your amygdala and your frontal cortex Pushing back further, where's the relevance there? This is the realm of neural plasticity, the fact that your brain and if your previous months your amygdala will have enlarged. The neurons will have become your frontal cortex would have atrophied, all relevant to what happens But we push back even more, back years, back, for example, to your adolescence. Now, the central fact is all of it is going full blast except the frontal cortex, which is still half-baked. It doesn't fully mature And thus, adolescence and early adulthood are the years where environment into the version you're going to have But pushing back even further, even further back and all the different versions Now, obviously, that's the time and that's important, but in addition, produce what are called permanent, in some cases, permanently activating And as an example of this, if as a fetus you were exposed to a lot epigenetics is going to produce as a more excitable form, and you're going to have But pushing even further back, back to when you were just a fetus, back to when all you were Now, genes are really but critically, genes don't because genes work differently Key example here: there's a variant of a gene called MAO-A, and if you have that variant, you are far more likely if, and only if, Genes and environment interact, and what's happening in that one second reflects your lifetime Now, remarkably enough, back centuries. What were your ancestors up to. And if, for example, they were pastoralists, people living in deserts or grasslands with their herds of camels, cows, goats, odds are they would have invented filled with warrior classes, retributive violence, clan vendettas, and amazingly, centuries later, that would still be influencing But we've got to push even further back, back millions of years, because if we're talking about genes, implicitly we're now talking And what you see is, for example, patterns across different primate species. Some of them have evolved others have evolved and floating there in between once again this confused, that has all these potentials So what has this gotten us to? Basically, what we're seeing here is, if you want to understand a behavior, whether it's an appalling one, or confusedly in between, if you want to understand that, you've got take into account to a million years before, everything in between. So what can we conclude at this point? Officially, it's complicated. Wow, that's really helpful. It's complicated, and you'd better be before you conclude especially if it's a behavior Now, to me, the single most important is one having to do with change. Every bit of biology I have mentioned here For example, ecosystems change. Thousands of years ago, Cultures change. In the 17th century, the most terrifying rampaging all over the place. This is what the Swedish They haven't had a war in 200 years. Most importantly, brains change. Neurons grow new processes. Circuits disconnect. Everything in the brain changes, and out of this come extraordinary First one: this is a man named John Newton, a British theologian who played a central role in the abolition in the early 1800s. And amazingly, this man as the captain of a slave ship, and then as an investor in slavery, growing rich from this. And then something changed. Something changed in him, something that Newton himself celebrated a hymn that he wrote: &quot;Amazing Grace.&quot; This is a man named Zenji Abe about to lead a squadron of Japanese And this is the same man hugging a man who survived And as an old man, Zenji Abe came to a collection at a ceremony there and in halting English apologized Now, it doesn't always require decades. Sometimes, extraordinary change Consider the World War I The powers that be so that soldiers could go out, collect bodies from no-man's-land And soon British and German soldiers were doing that, and then helping each other carry bodies, and then helping each other and then praying together, and then having Christmas together and by the next day, and exchanging addresses That truce kept going and said, &quot;We will shoot you unless you go back And all it took here was hours for these men to develop all of us in the trenches here on both sides, dying for no damn reason, and who is a &quot;them,&quot; who were using them as pawns. And sometimes, Probably the most horrifying event was the My Lai Massacre. A brigade of American soldiers went into an undefended and killed between 350 and 500 of them, mass-raped women and children, mutilated bodies. It was appalling. It was appalling because it occurred, because the US government eventually and appalling because it almost certainly This man, Hugh Thompson, this is the man He was piloting a helicopter gunship, landed there, got out and saw American soldiers shooting babies, shooting old women, figured out what was going on, and he then took his helicopter and did something that undid as to who is an &quot;us&quot; and who is a &quot;them.&quot; He landed his helicopter in between some surviving villagers and he trained his machine guns and said, &quot;If you don't stop the killing, Now, these people Same neurons, same neurochemicals, same biology. What we're left with here &quot;Those who don't study history What we have here is the opposite of it. Those who don't study the history those who don't study the biology from our worst to our best behaviors, those who don't do this to repeat these incandescent, So thank you. (Applause) CA: Talks that really give you those are some of my favorite TED Talks, and we just got one. Robert, thank you so much for that. That was amazing, and we're going to try and get you Thank you so much. RS: Thank you. Thank you all.