Since the dawn of humanity, men have dedicated their most beautiful temple to the sun and its divine light. This creative madness reached its peak in the Middle Ages with the Gothic cathedrals and their incredible architecture of stone and glass lacework. In 150 years, the builders of cathedrals cut, sculpted and piled up more stones than the Egyptians in 1000 years. Here are the secrets of this extraordinary human and architectural adventure. An era of all possibilities, made of competitions, innovations, intrigues, power struggles and drama. An era which left us the most beautiful masterpieces of all of Christianity. Since the Middle Ages, Gothic cathedrals have deeply marked the landscape of France. Over the centuries, historians and scientists have tried to unravel all its mysteries. However, these gigantic palaces of stone and glass are still far from having revealed all their secrets, and questions remain unanswered. It is said, for example, that Gothic cathedrals were the work of Freemasons. But where is the truth? Masons work in lodges away from prying eyes and ears. These boxes which are not accessible to just anyone. There is the desire not to show those who are not members of the brotherhood a certain number of keys to knowledge. For others, Gothic cathedrals are fabulous stone books on which alchemists have engraved all their secrets. It is often said that the Reds and Blues of Chartres are the work of alchemists. Notre-Dame de Paris is the mothership of alchemy. Was there a message to future generations? Highly possible. For Christians, the intervention of alchemists or freemasons in the design of cathedrals is only a fable. But the numerous supernatural phenomena that took place there over the centuries would be very real. We must believe. Now, to believe, and Saint Augustine already said this, you need miracles. This will naturally fuel the popular imagination and above all exalt the fervor of the faithful. Since then, these splendid divine palaces have been the subject of countless legends. The choice of their location, in particular, should not be left to chance. In the Middle Ages, religious buildings, and in particular the cathedral, were based on places with strong magical connotations. In Chartres, it was believed that there was a single crypt. And at the beginning of the 20th century, older remains were discovered. Here, we have walls which correspond to a Roman camp which dates from 0 to 400 AD. As for the mysterious inscriptions that adorn certain cathedrals. They are so many enigmas that allow all fantasies. The inscriptions are enigmatic and a lot of ink has been spilled. It was said that it prevented women from having miscarriages, for example, or that it gave extraordinary powers. Here is the astonishing story of the mysteries and legends surrounding the construction of Gothic cathedrals. An unprecedented architectural epic, dotted with ancestral myths, surprising hypotheses and well-kept secrets. Since the Middle Ages, the construction of Gothic cathedrals has fascinated by the number of mysteries they conceal. Much information regarding their design, decoration or even use has disappeared over the centuries. This is the case, for example, of the choice of their replacement. Today, most historians believe that sites were chosen based on available materials. To build a cathedral of this size, as you can imagine, you need an immeasurable number of stones. The choice of quarries is decisive for the speed of the construction site and especially the cost of the construction site. The further away the quarry is, the more time it will take and the more expensive it will be. But there may be another explanation for the choice of these locations. A more mysterious, more secret explanation. To discover it, we have to go back much further in time, from the 4th century AD. We are in 313 AD, a momentous date in the history of cathedrals. In a spirit of appeasement and harmony, Constantine I will authorize free Catholic worship. All subjects of the Empire will be able to practice the religion they want, honor the God they want, in complete freedom, where they want and when they want. This decision thus signs the official birth certificate of all the churches that we know today in Europe. And among them, of course, the cathedral. Many cathedrals, like that of Chartres, for example, are built in continuity with a sacred place which dates from before Christianity. Notre-Dame de Chartres is emblematic of this Christianization of pagan places of worship. This phenomenon is first and foremost the result of pragmatic reasoning. To succeed in its establishment and duration, Christianity must erase the traces of previous religions. There is the desire to convert the old world, to transform old energies into new energies. So, we built the cathedral, for example, on a temple dedicated to Mercury, or on one dedicated to Saturn. But according to certain hypotheses, this Christianization of places of worship could also have a much less rational explanation. Historians indeed affirm that by establishing themselves on the same sites as the Druids, the first Christians also sought to appropriate their mysterious power. In the Middle Ages, religious buildings, and in particular the cathedral, were based on places with strong magical connotations. Among the builders of cathedrals, we will find people who are naturally very attentive to all these invisible forces which can emanate from the ground, the earth, the water and which will make it possible to determine the favorable place to build the 'building. But what are these mysterious invisible forces? Where do they come from and how are they transmitted? These invisible forces are these telluric fields which are magnetic or electric currents which circulate under the earth's crust. The ancients knew nothing about these phenomena, but some of them knew how to detect them and attributed magical powers to them. The existence of these magnetic fields was scientifically proven at the end of the 19th century. Like any electrical current, they have a real influence on our metabolism. Magnetism can influence mentalities, can influence mood. So, from there, we can give a very simple definition of telluric energy as being an invisible energy, capable of modifying or influencing people's behavior. If they were incapable of explaining it rationally, the ancients knew how to identify these places which influenced the metabolism of the population. Hence the desire of the first pagan priests to build their temples in these precise places, considered magical. All these telluric forces will allow the faithful to be able to rise towards God with, naturally, the help of all the forces of nature. In the 4th century, when the Christian religion spread throughout the country, the first priests of course heard of the extraordinary properties of these pagan temples which nourished the spirituality of the faithful. They intend to benefit from it in turn to promote the rapid expansion of their new religion. We built the cathedrals, the churches one on top of the other, because the place which was chosen was depository, both of a history linked to the construction of an ancient, pagan temple, at the same time of an energy proven telluric on the site. So, rather than going to build next door, where, ultimately, we found nothing, it was naturally imperative to build the new building on this basis. This belief is at the origin of the halo of mystery which still surrounds the construction of our most beautiful Gothic masterpieces today. From the start of the first projects, the popular imagination has lent the architects of these pharaonic projects esoteric knowledge. In other words, secret knowledge reserved for a small circle of initiates who alone can decode it. Esotericism is quite simply the science of what is hidden, as opposed to exotericism, the science of what is revealed. This secret knowledge is essential for Christians who dedicate a mysterious space par excellence to it in each of their cathedrals. The entire cathedral is located in a place called the crypt, in Greek, cryptos, which means hidden, a place which, by definition, is associated with hell, with death. It is certain that for the people of the Middle Ages, there was a magical function in the crypt, an esoteric function which allowed them to remain in communion with the world of the dead. If the crypt is associated with death, it is because it evokes the tomb of Christ, the cave in which his body was placed after his crucifixion by the Romans. But it was also in this tomb that he was resurrected three days later. For Christians, the crypt is therefore an enigmatic place of passage, an occult gateway between the world of the living and that of the dead. In this underground place there are all the elements which allow the priest, the Christian, to be able to become aware of death and at the same time to prepare spiritually for this initiatory journey which is the journey to the beyond. In Chartres, the cathedral has a crypt of extraordinary dimensions, one of the largest in the world, after that of Saint-Pierre-de-Rome. It is truly a place charged with energy, charged with prayer. We are truly in the most sacred place of the cathedral. This unusual crypt is 200 meters long. These two galleries serve seven chapels. And she hasn't finished revealing all her secrets. The latest discovery is even quite recent. For a long time, in Chatre, it was believed that there was a single crypt and at the beginning of the 20th century, older remains were discovered. Remains that must be sought even deeper beneath the cathedral. They are of vital importance to historians. These remains allow us to understand how cathedrals are built. We will build by stacking churches on top of each other and often by increasing the built surface area. Gothic architecture, in a certain number of cases, will ultimately give a particularly exceptional scale to these key places. In this case, we now know that no less than five cathedrals have succeeded one another here. The first, of modest size, was built in the year 350. It was the subject of particular fervor, because its faithful could finally pray freely, without fear of being martyred by the Romans. Still in Chartres, another vestige also intrigues historians who are still wondering about its exact function. This well is very old. He is of Celtic origin. It is 2000 years old. Many legends were born around this well. One of them says that the bodies of the martyrs were rushed here. The presence of this well is proof that the very first cathedral was built on an ancient pagan site whose history helped shape the mysticism of the faithful. The Chartres crypt is not the only one that allows us to go back in time to the origins of Christianity. In Strasbourg, recent archaeological excavations have uncovered a buried place that no one suspected existed. This place is located very precisely under one of the adjacent chapels of the cathedral. These are excavations which took place in the 1970s and which allowed to rediscover part of the history of the cathedral. These excavations allowed us to understand that the cathedrals were built on much older remains. Here, we have walls which correspond to a Roman camp of the 8th Legion of Augustus which dates from 0 to 400 AD. The more we dig into the ground, the more we will travel through time. So, here, we have approximately 0 to 400 AD. And immediately to the left, here, we have the foundation wall of Werner Cathedral, in fact, which is dated, the first stone is dated 1015. And just after, just behind me, here, are the foundations Gothic buttresses , which date from around 1250 and actually support the walls of the Gothic nave. Originally, these crypts were sacred caves, cut into the rock or masoned underground. The first Christians persecuted by the Romans used it to hide the tombs of their martyr, around which they then gathered to pray. The tradition continued until the Middle Ages, as evidenced by the crypt of the Saint-Denis basilica. Saint-Denis refers to this Christian missionary saint from the 3rd century, martyred by the Romans. His head would have been cut off on the hill of Montmartre and he would have come with his head in his hands, led by an angel and a celestial light, to here, to this place where a first church was subsequently built in the 4th century. century which then gave rise to the burial of the kings and queens of France. There is among the kings of France, notably from Charles Martel onwards, the desire to be buried in Saint-Denis, all because to be buried next to a saint who has such notoriety among the French people, it It is also to show the king's desire to embody the true faith and then, most certainly, to give the people the possibility of imagining that this king, buried close to a saint, will also be able to access paradise directly. Because it was believed to be charged with mysterious energy attesting to the presence of God, the crypt was naturally the best place to offer them the guarantee of eternal rest. We are here in the archaeological crypt of the base of Saint-Denis, near the pit where Saint-Denis was buried. And around this pit, kings and queens fled and were buried ad sanctos, as close as possible to the Saint, in the hope of reaching paradise. Over the centuries, all the Capetians, i.e. 42 kings, 32 queens, 60 princes and princesses, as well as around ten servants of the monarchy, found eternal rest here. When the crypt is full, the tradition will be perpetuated in the imposing necropolis which overlooks it inside the basilica itself. The destiny of Saint-Denis was to bring together all these royal families to demonstrate in a concrete way the continuity of royalty in France. When we still visit this abbey today, we have the obvious demonstration of this with all the recumbent figures which recapitulate centuries of history. This mysticism which permeates the very foundations of the first cathedrals is inseparable from their construction. A construction at the origin of an astonishing legend, a tenacious myth according to which Freemasonry was born at the beginning of the golden age of cathedrals from the 11th century. If we believe this hypothesis, the Freemasons would even be the true architects of all the greatest masterpieces of Gothic art. This is a completely astonishing hypothesis because, in fact, the first Masonic lodge in the modern sense of the term was only born in 1717 in London. But if Freemasonry was born in the 18th century, why is Erwin von Steinbach, one of the main architects of Strasbourg Cathedral, sometimes represented as one of the fathers of Freemasonry? Who were the first Freemasons? Did they really build the cathedrals? To unravel this enigma, we must go back to the first construction site of the monuments from the 11th century. At the time of the construction of cathedrals, masons worked in lodges which were nothing more or less than spaces which were set up in the construction site, closed spaces in which they could transmit their knowledge and work on changing it over time. sheltered from view. There is the desire not to show those who are not members of the corporation, of the brotherhood, a certain number of keys to knowledge, because it is extremely detrimental that secrets or tricks, tricks of the hand are captured. These masons are much more than just stonecutters. They are engineers who work hard to solve complex geometric and mathematical problems in order to build bigger and brighter buildings. But what is the link between these traditional cathedral masons and the Freemasonry we know today? And why is Erwin von Steinbach one of the very few master builders whose name has been remembered in history? At that time, it was first of all the name of the powerful, the name of those who direct the bishop in his bishopric, who direct and pay for all this work. These are the names that will be noted well before the name of the architect. There are very few known master builders. It's more the sponsors than the architects. Even in the cathedrals of the Middle Ages, there is none that has left its name. So, how can we explain the curious notoriety of the Strasbourg master builder? Is Master Erwin the missing link between traditional masons and the first freemasons? The explanation may be found in the very definition of Freemasonry. The term freemason would therefore come from the English free mason, free masons, free to travel from site to site from one country to another to bring their knowledge of the art of building. Therefore, not to be subject to certain constraints vis-a-vis political powers or ecclesiastical powers. It is science in the face of the obscurantism of the Church. So, we are progressing in all areas. And this obviously goes against the Church. The essential difference between Freemasons and Catholics is that for Catholics, it is God who saves man. For the Freemason, it is the man who saves himself. Man becomes his own God. According to this hypothesis, it is therefore the refusal of the dogma of the Church which would be at the origin of the cult of secrecy of Masonic lodges. Because in the Middle Ages, daring to question the immanence of God was a mortal sin. Pretending that man can save himself is truly the basis of heresy. And in the Middle Ages, it was not a target for the stake until well before the Inquisition. At the end of the 11th century, for a mason like Master Erwin, it was therefore impossible to ostensibly display his convictions. Especially since all masons are not necessarily Freemasons. The risk of betrayal is permanent. To avoid putting their lives in danger, followers of this protest movement are therefore forced to adopt a highly codified esoteric language that only they can decipher on the walls of Gothic cathedrals. The Freemasons, to escape the control of the Church, will have an idea which is quite brilliant. They will use all the codes and symbols of Christians and Catholics by diverting them for their own purposes. But what are these symbols? The triangle, which obviously represents God, the Trinity. This, obviously, is present in churches. Among masons, it can also, obviously, represent uprightness and precision. So, in fact, the Freemasons, like the Church, will take symbols that are present in the Bible and simply, at a given moment, the explanations that they will give at a given moment, the amplification that there will be around this symbolism will take on a properly Masonic or properly Catholic coloring. Freemasons, for example, will use the square with the point down, which is exactly the opposite symbol of the Catholic Trinitarian symbol. So this downward square symbol is a symbol of anti-Christianity. In the same way, the circle, for Christians, is the most perfect figure. It is a figure that truly expresses the unity of God. The Freemasons, for their part, will represent the compass to clearly show that it is man who draws the circle on the plan of the cathedrals and not God. It would therefore be for fear of reprisals from the Church that the first Freemasons would have formed an occult society, with incomprehensible language, for those who do not have the decryption key. But for those who knew how to spot them, numerous traces of this esoteric knowledge were once visible behind the columns, on the stained glass windows or even in the statuary of Gothic cathedrals. Most of the signs inscribed by masons in cathedrals disappeared during the Revolution. But there are still a few remaining, notably the signatures left by the stonecutters, which are an infinity of small symbols. Everyone had their own way of signing and these are codes found in Freemasonry. These famous signatures of stonecutters would therefore be proof that Freemasonry was indeed born in the 11th century and that it developed throughout the golden age of cathedrals. But the Freemasons did not invent anything with their codified language. The first Christians themselves used this type of process to escape persecution from the Romans. And we know this thanks to the Sator square, a mysterious stone also called magic square. We find this magic square in several cathedrals. In Chartres, for example, there is a magic square hidden at the bottom of a well which is inaccessible to the public. We know that this stone is precious, that this stone will have to be made to speak. To do this, we go to Rochemore, a small Ardeche village located a stone's throw from Montelimar, where a clearly visible and particularly well preserved magic square was found in the mid-19th century. In this magic square, we find the following words: sator, arepo, tenet, opera, rotace. Roughly speaking, this means the project manager holds the secret of the lines or circles. And it can be read one way or the other. Whether it is read from left to right, right to left or bottom to top, the order of the letters remains the same. We call it a palindrome. A figure of speech which, according to certain hypotheses, would make it possible to hide other, more enigmatic messages. If we mix the letters, we also have Pater Noster, which is the beginning of the Christian Our-Beginning-Our-Father, and the letters A and O, which occur twice. A and O being alpha and omega, the symbol of the Catholic God. Because each line of the square of Sator would therefore directly refer to the god of the Gospels. We read Pater Noster, we read: I am the one who was there, who is there, who will be. The plowman keeps the world turning. It is God who helps me the world. You can read a lot of things there. It was in fact a magic square which served as a hidden, occult Christian symbol. That is to say, in order not to show the symbol of the cross, there was this sator square in which the word tes nets precisely draws a cross with these four T's, the tau therefore being one of the symbols of the cross . Dozens of researchers have attempted to find the exact meaning of the five Latin inscriptions depicted. According to some of them, for example, the inverted N refers to the fish, one of the first Christian symbols. But this interpretation is not unanimous. We will be able, from the words, to create a magic square with a religious, Christian, Catholic sauce. We will forget, in these cases, that Pompeii with two magic squares and long before religion appeared. If this magic square hidden in certain cathedrals intrigues archaeologists and historians so much, it is because to date no one has succeeded in breaking the secret code which will allow it to be deciphered. What's disturbing about this square is that we find it almost everywhere. So, was there a message to future generations? Highly possible. And the Nothing Christians are not the only ones to be captivated by this stone. Another very mysterious corporation was also very inspired by it. This corporation is that of alchemists. The magic square has always had an esoteric connotation. It was said that it prevented women from having miscarriages, for example, or that it gave extraordinary powers. The doors will open wide to enter the realm of fantasy and imagination. We'll be able to fantasize about that. In the Middle Ages, alchemists had the ambition to discover one of humanity's most coveted secrets. A formula that would change lead into gold. Could the enigmatic square of Sator have played a role in this quest? The alchemists would have been inspired by it to have practically magical protection. The square of Sator was a talisman, a pentacle, allowing them, like a prayer, to be able to realize the philosopher's stone. Everything that was mysterious could have inspired the alchemists, since they were constantly in the culture of encrypting their research. The square of Sator may have been used at certain times to signify the difficulty of alchemical work. To transform lead into gold, alchemists multiplied experiments throughout the kingdom of France. They experiment, test and work on the material tirelessly. This story of transforming lead into gold really made them fantasize. Not knowing what material was the origin of the philosopher's stone, they worked on all possible materials imaginable. So, little by little, he discovered the composition of these materials. Alchemist experiments would therefore have contributed to improving knowledge in physics and chemistry. So many scientific discoveries which would later prove very useful in the design of cathedrals. It is even said that alchemists actively participated in their construction. But what is it really? They worked on the colors of the stained glass windows. It is often said that the reds and blues of Chartres are the work of alchemists. The master glassmakers, necessarily, dealt with chemistry. The chemistry of colors was known to them. Necessarily also, these master glassmakers carried out research to find the most beautiful blue, to find the most beautiful red. So, it is likely that these master glassmakers practiced a form of alchemy. If the stained glass windows of Chartres Cathedral owe their fantastic color to the work of alchemists, would those of Notre-Dame de Paris also be imbued with their knowledge? Notre-Dame de Paris is the mothership of alchemy. Notre-Dame remains one of the special places for alchemists. From the Middle Ages, Bishop William of Paris, who was at the origin of these decorations, was an alchemist. So he had undoubtedly left some symbols there that could be of interest to great art. Notre-dame de Paris is a place that will attract alchemists. We know that from the 16th century, they met there to discuss and get together. And then, there will be a certain number of works by alchemists which will detail certain sculptures in their giving very precise alchemical explanations. On the central portal, these 24 medallions which represent religious scenes would in fact have a double meaning. Biblical for Christians and esoteric for alchemists. The walls of Notre-Dame de Paris would therefore be a sort of stone book with several reading levels. Of course, this book can be decoded on two levels. There is the level, I would say, of the open book, that is to say the religious book, as it should be, because it is still a monument also for practicing religion. On the other hand, there is also a second reading at another level. That is to say what I would call the closed book, the esoteric book. And so, we still decode the biblical writings, but at an alchemical level. A cathedral is there to save men. And in addition, alchemical symbols were put there, almost like a prayer, saying: You see, if you succeed in finding the mystery of alchemy, like a prayer, you will perhaps also succeed in saving your soul from this way. You have, for example, on the central door, the door of Christ, medallions on each side of the entrance which represent the vices and the virtues. But the alchemists said: There, there is another level of reading. Here, each symbol would therefore have a hidden meaning. This bird, for example, would symbolize the first step that alchemists must take to find the philosopher's stone. Like Notre-Dame de Paris, all the Gothic cathedrals of France would thus be gigantic treatises on alchemy engraved in stone. In reality, this fascination of Freemasons and alchemists for cathedrals is part of a tradition of secrecy initiated by Christians themselves. Because to develop the plans for their Gothic cathedral, the first project managers were directly inspired by a fantasized church, a masterpiece described in the Bible that God himself would have designed. The apocalypse of Saint John will enormously fuel the imagination of cathedral builders. We will find a lot of figures, measurements which correspond exactly to what we find in the Celestial Jerusalem of the Apocalypse. One of the models of construction is Jerusalem. Heavenly Jerusalem which descends from heaven in all its perfection and which is established on the earth. This Heavenly Jerusalem obsessed all the designers of Gothic cathedrals who wanted to faithfully reproduce it on Earth. It was she who convinced them to massively use the Ogive crossing to relieve the walls in order to replace them with luxurious stained glass windows which flood the nave with a magical light, hitherto unknown in Romanesque churches. In the Bible, the Heavenly Jerusalem, this vision of paradise, is described as a city of jewels, of precious stones. And so, all these shimmering colors will reproduce the image of this marvelous city, this heavenly city. There is something of the order of desire very deeply embodied in the description of the walls, in the description of the light which embraces this building. And it is for this reason that the Heavenly Jerusalem of the Apocalypse will become the model par excellence of the cathedral. This Heavenly Jerusalem of the Apocalypse is not just an allegory. The architects of the Middle Ages were convinced that the very precise dimensions mentioned in the sacred text were the key to achieving it. We still need to be able to decode its almost metaphysical symbolism. It turns out that in Revelation there are many figures that allow us to estimate the size of this heavenly Jerusalem, which therefore constitutes an ideal measurement. We will have the number 40, which is the addition of 28 lunar cycles and 12 solar cycles. And this number 40 can be found, for example, in the 40 pillars of Reims or in the length of the Notre-Dame de Paris transept. Of course, it is impossible to build a cathedral solely on the basis of a few values mentioned in the apocalypse of St. John. We try, despite everything, to have something that is not almost magical, almost, we would say, at least magical, dematerialized, to show that we are already a little bit in the afterlife, that we are in the world of the capital E Church and then quite on Earth. Paradoxically, in the Middle Ages, the most obvious manifestation of this desire to turn to the heavens went largely unnoticed by the faithful. And for good reason, at the time we did not have the means to fly over the buildings to admire their identical structure , perfectly visible from the sky, in the shape of a cross. Like a message addressed directly to the creator, the only one who can see him from his celestial throne. The most common plan for cathedrals is what is called the Latin cross, with a heart, a projecting transept, a nave with a more or less developed facade, which allows the cathedral to have the shape of the cross of Christ. This Latin cross, planted throughout Europe as proof of a triumphant Christianity and far from being the only mystical reference in cathedrals. Officially, the orientation of these buildings would be the result of chance. The architects would only have been concerned with taming natural obstacles to decide the direction and exposure of each building. But once again, this theory is not unanimous. The orientation of these prodigious mineral constructions would, on the contrary, conceal a precise meaning, a sort of secret formula which would allow the sun to transcend the monument. The place of Christian worship, cathedrals or other types of Church, is always oriented in the literal sense of the term, that is to say, towards the East and not towards Jerusalem. And this orientation is fundamental to understanding all the symbolism of the building. We start from the west, the entrance, the western massif, therefore the setting sun, the end of the world, the end of the day. And we're going to go back from west to east, that is to say from the end to the beginning. The sun will rise over the heart and all day long, it will rotate over this large, completely open bay which will illuminate the cathedral. And it alludes at that moment to a cycle which passes through death, but which, from death, leads again to life. And in the morning, when the sun rises, we celebrate the resurrection. This east-west exposure makes it possible to magnify the most important stained glass windows located at each end of the building, in particular the most remarkable of them: the splendid rose window. The facade is lit by the setting sun and so we often take advantage of this to put in the iconographic programs a last judgment, an apocalypse which, precisely, will glow, in a way, with the setting sun which will evoke the end the times. This permanent play with the sun's rays offers the faithful a fantastic colorful spectacle, constantly renewed. With an immutable constant, whatever the time of day, the light is studied to focus on the heart of the cathedral. This arrangement, whose symbolism is obviously powerful, gives the transept crossing a particular role. It is here that the deep heart of the building beats. Here where both divinity and humanity meet. Gigantic Latin crosses, the fruit of a finally solved enigma from the Bible which spread throughout the landscape. Stone palaces flooded with warm and magical colors. An architecture that almost seems to float in weightlessness. In a world where the laws of physics and geometry are still an abstraction inaccessible to the faithful, the creation of such a masterpiece appears as incontestable proof of the existence of God. Faith is the very condition of life. We endure epidemics, wars, massacres, we endure calamities, the precariousness of existence, the loss of one's children, always in the name of faith, because faith promises us a better world. But this better world is deserved. In the hope of accessing it, the faithful must embark on a sort of initiatory journey which begins as soon as they enter this temple of light that is the Gothic cathedral, a true link between men and the divine. The cathedral is first of all a sacred space, a luminous space, made sacred by the light of the stained glass windows. We enter, already in a certain way, we are sanctified, relieved of most of our sorrows, the demon being kept outside by the gargoyles who frighten him. Entering the church means going behind the facade, behind the representation of the apocalypse, and therefore we are already in the kingdom of God. We have crossed the threshold of the Church, we have crossed, as it were, the door to the earthly world. Once past the entrance, a long journey begins dotted with symbols that only the initiated know how to interpret. The faithful can be invited to walk, precisely, the length, if you wish, of the nave, which gradually directs them towards the choir, towards this sanctuary, as it is also called, where the mysteries of the worship. One of the centerpieces of this initiatory journey, which each faithful undertakes upon entering the cathedral, is of course the labyrinth drawn on the ground, directly inspired by pagan mythology. The medieval labyrinth, which can be found on church pavenants and which can be traversed on foot, has its origins in the labyrinth of Greek mythology. Daedalus, builder of this labyrinth, locks up the Minotaur, a bloodthirsty monster who feeds on human flesh. One day Theseus arrives, the son of a king who is one of those who were to be sacrificed, devoured by the monster, but he manages to kill him. It emerges thanks to Ariadne's thread, this means of saving one's life by getting out of the Daedalus. Like ancient places of worship, the theme of the Emperor's labyrinth. The mystical stage, Caesarity, the holy saint, was therefore also Christianized. But the mysticism remains the same: whoever manages to escape will be saved. The people of the Middle Ages This mythology is what interests us very much. Centuries later, he gave it a deep and purely Christian meaning. The Minotaur is Satan, but above all death, disappearance and nothingness. Theseus is now Christ. The Christ who, on Easter evening, crosses all of these complicated meanders, crosses hell, comes to confront and conquer death and offers eternal life to all those who have waited since the dawn of time. The Chartres labyrinth, located at the entrance to the nave, under the Gothic portal which houses the rose window, is one of the largest ever built. It extends over more than 261 meters. Today, we continue to navigate the labyrinth as we have for centuries. People in the Middle Ages used it as a real tool of resurrection. A way of believing that at the end of the road, there is the Heavenly Jerusalem, the place where God welcomes all those who want to come to him. It is for this reason that the faithful of the Middle Ages nicknamed these labyrinths the paths of Jerusalem. Only the cathedrals of Chartres and Amiens have preserved them. Elsewhere, the canons ended up destroying them, exasperated, it is said, by the permanent wanderings of the most fervent believers. But the success of these labyrinths shows that the recovery of pagan symbols and myths had a multiplier effect on the enthusiasm of the faithful. All these wonders, shrouded in mystery, impress and attract ever more believers to cathedrals. The revolution in Gothic art is therefore not only aesthetic. At the instigation of bishops who need money to finance their insane work, the liturgy, that is to say the way of celebrating the office in the heart of the cathedral, is also evolving noticeably. With the advent of the great Gothic cathedrals, we witness a transformation, a complete renewal of religious practice. The mass becomes a real spectacle. It becomes an immense play, with renewal of the liturgical furniture which becomes splendid. Everything is staged through the pageantry of liturgical outfits. We can also imagine the smells of the perfumes that we will spread as the ceremony unfolds. And then the light, the light that comes from several sources. Colorful lighting from the stained glass windows, of course. And then also the artificial light of all these candles which are put in abundance and more and more numerous each time we celebrate an important festival. The objective is clear. Every devotee should be impressed enough to join without question. He must blindly follow the progress of the services that the monks have designed for him, in his interest and for the greater glory of God. They are the initiates of this new Gothic temple. It is the monks who set the tone of prayer. The faithful learn their prayer by heart. It is transmitted by oral tradition and it is the canons who teach them. And they pray kneeling on the ground because there are no chairs in the cathedral. Besides, the only ones who have the right to sit are the canons. We see the stalls all around us. It is these chairs that allow the group, at the college of canons, to settle down and follow the services of the day. These stalls are placed face to face on each side of the choir, so that their occupants can respond to each other in a sort of dialogue. Prayer is a dialogue. A dialogue, yes, but only between initiates. The layman must stay away. The monks pray for the whole of society. Mass is celebrated in extremely closed hearts. The faithful don't see much. Most of the cathedrals that we can admire today have not preserved this kind of dividing line which once separated the nave filled with the faithful from the reserved heart reserved for the clergy. When you enter a cathedral today, your gaze looks very, very far, right up to the choir. This was absolutely not the case in the Middle Ages. At the time, a thick wall of wood or stone, richly decorated and carved, divided the cathedrals in two. So here, in Noyon, the choir was enclosed right here by what we called a rood screen. It is in fact a liturgical fence which cut the cathedral in two. And so, the place where we are Here, the choir, is the place where the canons met and therefore prayed. So everyone was completely cut off from the faithful who were on the other side. Noyon, a superb transitional cathedral between Romanesque and Gothic, suffered terrible damage during the French Revolution of 1789, during which its stone statues and its rood screen were ransacked. Fortunately, the latter has not disappeared. And thanks to the meticulous work of passionate medievalists and experts in heritage architecture, it is currently in full restoration, inaccessible to the public. This 14th century rood screen has been reconstructed here. So, as we can see, it is still very imposing and richly decorated. And we have on both sides, we are going to get closer here, an old small hotel, so on the western side, faithful side, for small masses or small offices. For major events or large masses, the officiant could climb to the heights and thus address the faithful on the western side in the nave. This desire to separate the members of the clergy from the mass of the faithful contributes to maintaining the obedient fascination of the latter. In a way, we thus distinguish those who know from those who do not know in the purest esoteric tradition of the first places of pagan worship. The faithful will not go to the sanctuary which is reserved for the clergy. The clergy is sheltered behind choir barriers. The hotel itself is often at the back of the church. The hotel is even surrounded by curtains, what we call curtains. But more and more, we become attached to what we see, what is happening there. And this is notably one of the contributions of Gothic architecture. So, it gives even more solemnity, mystery, in a way, since the faithful see that something is happening. They hear the rumors of hotel music , but they don't really see what's going on. And therefore, the faithful turns his gaze, finally, towards this light of the world which reaches him from the East through the celebration of worship and through, precisely, the word also of the clergy which is addressed to him from this heart of the Church . In the Middle Ages, the faithful did not attend mass, but they were invited to listen to the sermons of the canons responsible for teaching them religious history and indicating to them the rules to respect in order to lead a healthy and pious life. Now, to save your soul, you must have faith. An unshakeable, blind and permanent faith. And for that, sermons are not enough. The faithful must be able to rely on something stronger, a force that is both supernatural and incontestable because it is certified authentic by the Church itself. We must believe. Now, to believe, and Saint Augustine said this, you need miracles. Miracles. Enough to reassure the faithful about the existence of God. The miracle in the Middle Ages is nothing more and nothing less than the manifestation of the concrete presence of God in the lives of the faithful. And enough to reassure the Church about its ability to attract the support of the greatest number. It is a kind of curious cosmic furnace like the alchemical furnace which transformed lead into gold, the man in the street is transformed into a believer. This will naturally fuel the popular imagination and above all exalt the fervor of the faithful. In the time of the cathedrals, miracles were not really a novelty. Miracles were part of everyday life in the Middle Ages. We do not have the distinction between rational and irrational, sacred and profane as today. They are simply part of life. The most famous example of this presence of miracles in the daily life of men and women of this era is of course the healing of a nasty infectious skin disease of tuberculous origin which affects the richest as well. than the most deprived combined. There is a medieval miracle which is constant, lasting and which is the work of kings. This is because by the simple imposition of hands, they are cured of this cruel disease called scrofula. This royal touch, capable of overcoming festering wounds, is recognized by the Church as a miracle. However, the clergy is very cautious when it comes to supernatural phenomena. Exactly like today in Lourdes, for example, the Catholic Church, which has admitted very few miracles, is still obliged to accept several dozen, that is to say for inexplicable reasons. There are of course cures of illnesses, both paralytics, mute people, also a certain number of people who return from the borders of death, people who are very seriously ill or who were victims of an accident which should have been fatal. . In the 13th century, in terms of miracles, Chartres Cathedral had a reputation that went far beyond our borders. The building was said to have been the scene of so many miracles that in 1225, only five years after the consecration of the Gothic cathedral, the bishops decided to dedicate a book to it. The work, entirely handwritten at the time, carefully lists the most remarkable cases. Chartres has been preserved from the 12th century, the Book of Miracles, which will be called the 32 miracles of Notre-Dame and which will tell of the supernatural phenomena that occurred during construction. We have very strong, very certain testimonies from reliable men who speak of healing. One of the most famous miracles recorded in this manuscript is said to have taken place in 1216. A woman paralyzed in both legs, named Madeleine, is said to have felt an incredible flow of energy piercing her from side to side as she passed through the portal of the cathedral carried by his two sons. A few minutes later, she regained the use of her two legs as if by magic, or more precisely after having kissed the veil of the Virgin Mary, because this is where the secret of the miracles of Chartres would lie. Here, it is not simply a cathedral dedicated to Mary. It is a cathedral which is, let us use the words of the Middle Ages, her cloakroom, since she left her clothes there. Notre-Dame de Chartres holds one of the most important treasures of Christianity, the veil of the Virgin. It is also called the Holy Shirt. This is the garment that Mary would have had on her, tradition says, at the time of the annunciation and birth of Jesus. This mythical veil would therefore have been in direct contact with the child Jesus. No one knows what happened to him in the very early years of Christianity, but it doesn't matter. When it reappears centuries later , its authenticity is not in the slightest doubt. The Virgin's veil arrived in Chartres in 876. It was a gift from Charles the Bald, King of France, to the cathedral. He himself had it from his grandfather, Charlemagne. Its presence here explains why more than five cathedrals have been built on the same site since the edict of Constantine I in the 4th century. The relic of the veil fascinates the faithful as much as the Virgin herself. People come from very far away to offer him food, animals or money which make the bishop's fortune. The church is very successful to the extent that practically all the inhabitants, when they are not Jewish or when they are not Muslim, but there are not many in the West, are Christians. Nobles or commoners, rich or poor, everyone wants to make their pilgrimage to Chartres once in their life, in the hope of being the beneficiary of a miracle from the Virgin. There are kings, princes who want to make this journey at a specific moment in their lives. All convinced that in this particular presence, in this object which brings them closer to the divine, a special moment takes place. If all the miracles of Chartres are attributed to the Virgin Mary, not all are the result of contact with the relic of the veil. Several inexplicable events, described as supernatural, would have occurred at a very specific location in the cathedral that we ended up identifying. This place is one of the pillars of the building. Here, at Notre-Dame du Pilier, for centuries, people have come here to pray for Mary herself to intercede with her son. Here, as in the Middle Ages, people physically express their attention, their devotion to Mary. They touch the pillar, they kiss it. Pillar or veil of the Virgin, whatever it is, the relics are said to be true miracle workers. How to explain this magical power? The faithful are convinced that to bring about a miracle, one must get as close as possible to God. Now, in cathedrals, at the end of the nave, they can hope to touch the creator very concretely through the holy relics. The surge of faith in this Middle Ages was naturally accompanied by an immoderate cult of relics. A relic is an object that has been in contact with a saint or a fragment of the saint's body. And as a result, we will venerate a bone, a tibia, a skull, a phalanx that comes from a holy body or even a piece of clothing that has been in contact with it. Kissing a relic It is not so much kissing an object as kissing the saint who is behind it, he who is next to the throne of the Heavenly Father. And so, deeply hope that this saint will introduce you more easily to eternity. Pilgrims of great piety are ready to cross all of France to see them and, if possible, touch them. Their reasoning is simple. If a Saint can perform miracles, a fragment of his body, his tunic or even a simple object that used him can do it too. The bishop will make the most of it. The relic has a dual function. She is a tomaturge and tutelary. Thaumaturge, she works miracles. And then, she is tutelary, she protects. To the point that to build a cathedral, you need a relic. On the side of the building bishops who dream of ever taller, ever more sumptuous cathedrals, the exploitation of these relics is the promise of phenomenal income. We will organize ceremonies around the relics to encourage donations. Because who says pilgrimage, says offering. To do this, it is necessary to highlight a powerful saint who can be an effective intercessor. The resources generated by these relics are so important that bishops are sometimes tempted to abuse them. We must indeed recognize that we are going to exploit these relics in an intensive and sometimes somewhat excessive manner. But there are many other forms of miracles similar to those found in the Bible. Appearance of angels or saints, unexplained healing, resurrection from the dead. These strange, spectacular phenomena date back to the earliest times of Christianity and are presented as proof of the existence of God. Remember that the Gospel, for example, is full of miracles. The first one who is smiling, who was poorly done transforming water into wine. In a way, the building that houses the relics must itself be a miracle. An architectural miracle, ostentatious and astonishing. But in a society that is still largely illiterate, such a work can only have a limited resonance with a small circle of privileged people. To reach as many people as possible, we must therefore find another means of communication. And one means that is chosen is that of the image. The image actually allows us to speak to both the literate and the illiterate. Cathedrals in the Middle Ages are a book of stones. So, it's going to mainly tell the Bible. So, the illiterate, a priori, does not know how to read, but through images, he will be able to interpret, therefore read, the Christian mysteries. It was the only way for the people to understand the Bible, the liturgy and explain it like a comic strip that could be seen on the walls. The cathedral is a place of communication. Place of communication between God and men. A communication that takes place through images, which are a sort of shortcut for summarizing the text. So, if we look closely at the details, at the descriptions, it is very detailed and it helped to fuel the imagination of the population of the time. In addition to the magnificent work dedicated to them , the miracles of Chartres are an integral part of the grandiose decor of the cathedral. They are all brought together on an admirable panel of colored glass, known as the Stained Glass Window of Miracles. This Stained Glass Window of the Miracles of Notre-Dame attempts to depict a certain number of astonishing events which took place in the decades preceding the construction of the cathedral or during the construction site. This stained glass window is remarkable because it is one of the very first, in the history of cathedrals, to deal with the theme of miracles. At the time, such an achievement fascinated crowds, not only by the nature of its message, a miracle which proved the existence of God, but also by its breathtaking beauty. In fact, the wonder of the faithful, provoked by the abundance of sparkling colors, begins even outside the cathedral, on the square. Because in the Middle Ages, the facades of cathedrals did not at all resemble those we know today. Today, we see these immaculate cathedrals, all white, and we imagine them that way in the Middle Ages, when in fact they were nothing like that. Outside, all the statues were painted. This is what we are rediscovering now. We had forgotten it a little. These cathedrals were adorned with extremely shimmering colors which could even seem garish to us today, they were so dense in materials. And cleanings like those of Damien Cathedral have made it possible to find the polychromy, the original color, the skin, in a way even, of the primitive building. Restoration work on Amiens Cathedral took place in the 1990s. Thanks to the numerous traces of pigment found on certain statues, experts were able to reconstruct the incredible spectrum of colors used by painters of the time. An amplitude as colorful as that of a rainbow. The medieval painter, we must therefore imagine him in front of the wall, because he paints in fresco, literally, that is to say fresh paint. He prepares a coating on the wall and then he paints extensively with pigments that he has diluted with water, colors that he has ground and then diluted. And he paints. Here, for example, at the Baudieu portal, we can find at the level of the tympanum, at the level of the mouth of the leviatan, still traces of polychromy, as well as at the level of the clothing and the gaze of Christ the judge who dominates this tympanum. In Amiens, the most exceptional traces are found on the portal of the Mother God. It proves that these paintings were very carefully maintained. Restorers found up to 26 layers of paint on this portal which is dedicated to the Mother God. We understand that this color made it possible to make the characters much more expressive, almost alive, in the eyes of the faithful who discovered this Bible of painted stones in front of them. When in the Middle Ages, we colored the walls of cathedrals, we used colors which were related to the symbolism attributed to them. Blue, dark hues are supposed to express the world of night, the Old Testament, the world of darkness. The colors red and yellow are supposed to express the world of light, the world of resurrection. Realism was pushed to the extreme. Even the smallest details, like the pupils of each statue's eyes, were patiently depicted. Thanks to the meticulous work of historians, combined with the use of ultra-modern technologies, we now know what Amiens Cathedral looked like almost 800 years ago. All these colors are projected onto the statuary of the facade to the nearest millimeter, thanks to a particularly complex optical device. Today, when you look at the restitution of the polychromy, you see the cathedral as it was in the Middle Ages, in the same light condition and with the same colors restored. We have around 50% of the colors which were found during the restorations and there are around 50% remaining which were extrapolated from period documents. In the same evening, you can appreciate the cathedral as it was in 1220, but also in the 14th and 15th centuries, where the colors evolved, the colors even disappeared, were repainted in black, in grisaille, until 'to completely disappear to arrive at the current state. In the Middle Ages, from a character's tunic to the detail of their eyes, color is everywhere in cathedrals. A strong, assertive color, which must hypnotize the faithful by giving them an incomparable emotion. This is the case, for example, in Amiens, where the contrast is particularly strong with the working-class neighborhoods. We must imagine the shock of the faithful in the Middle Ages when they arrived in front of this painted cathedral which is the largest ever built in the Middle Ages, which borders the heavens. In Amiens, as in Lens, Noyons, Paris and Chartres, this emotional and visual shock, caused by the Gothic cathedrals, is a blessing for the clergy. It predisposes the faithful to easily integrate and then retain the message delivered by the Church in its sumptuous decorations dotted with colors. At the time, this artistic prowess was the pride of the bishops for whom owning the most beautiful cathedral was an end that justified all means, including the most inhumane. We have forgotten it today, but cathedrals were also the scene of truly macabre scenes. One of them took place in the 13th century, in Beauvais. That morning, an inmate came out of his cell under good escort. Who is he ? What did he do ? And why are they taking him to the cathedral? Certain situations on construction sites are particularly dangerous. When, for example, a collapse occurs due to a gust of wind and there remains masonry which risks collapsing, this is a task, indeed, which is crucial and at the same time as, no doubt, not many people want to do this. So, we ask one of the prisoners who is in the bishop's dungeons if he would like to gain his freedom by knocking down remains in order to begin the reconstruction. And if he fails in his task and loses his life, after all, there was no shortage of convicts in the Middle Ages. This is exactly what happened in 1284, just after the collapse of Beauvais Cathedral. This inmate is a man named Balbert, sentenced to 12 years in prison for the murder of a peasant. He has just been appointed to climb the building to the bell tower in order to clear it of the rubble stones remaining in suspension. Everything is falling apart here. The central vault and all the peripheral vaults. However, the rest is still in place. So, it is indeed a vertical collapse that is occurring. There are still a few elements that threaten to fall. So, obviously, it's very risky. Balbert is summoned by the canons to climb to the top of the cathedral under the both horrified and captivated gaze of the crowd who would not want to miss this spectacle for anything in the world. In this location, the gusts of wind are formidable. They are also the ones responsible for the collapse of the cathedral. Here, we can clearly see the very, very flat shape in the shape of a sail, a stone sail which faced the wind and which probably caused the collapse of 1284. There was therefore this strong hold on the wind and which was able to put into effect vibrate the top of the pile and unhook one of the buttresses. This winter morning in 1284, Balbert managed to overcome his fear of heights to remove most of the debris. As his mission is about to end, there is a fall. Balbert crashes several meters lower on the roof of the transept. This tragic story is not an isolated case. Like Balbert, hundreds of inmates died during suicide operations, transformed into mournful spectacles to build or repair Gothic cathedrals. Unworthy spectacles of which the Church would undoubtedly have liked to leave no trace. Unfortunately, historians' research confirms without the slightest doubt the reality of these practices in the Middle Ages. But for many other legends linked to these buildings, such as the supposed intervention of Freemasons or alchemists, the mystery remains unsolved. Proof, if any were needed, that these fantastic stone and glass vessels are still far away from being able to reveal all their secrets.