While Prince is rightly remembered for his for sometimes being temperamental, petty, That all led to some deeply personal grudges. From rookie pop stars to longtime rivals, A little thing like death couldn't stop Prince In October 2019, three years after his death, This wasn't just another straightforward rock We're talking about Prince, after all. The book incorporates his cartoons, unseen from his life written in his own personal One particularly incendiary passage comes &quot;We need to tell [music execs] that they keep our throats and we don't like it no matter This takedown must've been especially painful Back in 2009, she tweeted about how Prince for her. And in the aftermath of Prince's death in &quot;And just like that...the world lost a lot Rest in peace Prince! Thanks for giving us so much...&quot; What a way to ruin teenage dreams! Justin Timberlake's assertion that he was of people. The song was number one on the Billboard Hot for Best Dance Recording. But at least one person took issue with Timberlake's During a performance at an Emmys afterparty &quot;Whoever is claiming that they are bringing Timberlake fired back at the 2007 Golden Globes an award on his behalf. And then in February of that year he directly song &quot;Give It to Me.&quot; Even after Prince's death, his fans have refused In 2018, they called him out for holding a Park, which included alcohol, despite Prince's Timberlake ultimately paid his respects, though. During a 2018 appearance on The Tonight Show, of musicianship.&quot; &quot;The GOAT of musicians.&quot; In the 1980s, Madonna and Prince were two The two even dated for a couple of months pattern of verbal sparring. After their breakup, she reportedly screamed &quot;How dare you dump me. Don't you know who I am?&quot; She also insulted Prince's height, his outfits, They buried the hatchet long enough to record and Prince also played guitar on two tracks. But in 1992, his competitive nature pushed with their shared label Warner Bros. He won that round, signing a contract worth fell out with the label in spectacular fashion. This feud ultimately mostly settled into run-of-the-mill In 2016, Prince's backup dancer Cat Glover Madonna to star in his 1990 movie Graffiti because he couldn't deal with her. One meeting derailed into insulting each other's As Glover put it, &quot;This is what happens when you get two big It was jokey and serious. They're the same way.&quot; Most people have said something they'd like But most of us didn't say it to one of the Pink, however, does have that dubious honor. She and Prince met backstage in the late 90s, deal. Living up to her bold image, the rookie singer Prince responded by asking if she owned her of an artist's songs. He'd spent the early 90s campaigning to get gave him the chance under a new deal that When Pink said &quot;no,&quot; he told her to come back Not one to take a slight lying down, she told However, she later realized that he was trying When she appeared on the Australian radio &quot;I loved him, I totally loved him...Prince of sparkle this year, and it hurts my heart it.&quot; &quot;He was and will be forever amazing.&quot; Despite how the saying goes, Prince did not of flattery, as he was famously against other In a 2013 interview with Billboard, he specifically was included on a deluxe version of the band's According to Prince, &quot;Why do we need to hear another cover of a Art is about building a new foundation, not there.&quot; In deference to musical royalty, Maroon 5 Frontman Adam Levine didn't take the barb In 2017, he explained to Howard Stern that A mutual friend invited Prince to a casual it from a relaxed jam session into a once-in-a-lifetime Prince's house. Levine noted, &quot;My experiences with him were genuinely really In 2014, Levine had another crack at a Prince Prince was apparently less annoyed about live the ultimate lukewarm praise by saying, &quot;You getting it.&quot; &quot;Him saying that is basically to be exactly Flaming Lips frontman Wayne Coyne saw the His band's encounter with the prickly Purple Prince was scheduled to perform a set of four bandmates Wendy and Lisa and Purple Rain singer when Prince and his two security guards arrived They worked up the courage to give Prince's As Coyne recalled to The Independent, &quot;We were so thrilled at the possibility of But at the end of the night, the bodyguard He said: 'Prince doesn't want these.'&quot; Luckily, Coyne and his bandmates were able they found the whole thing hilarious. As Coyne put it, &quot;We loved him so much for being too cool for In 2011, Prince officially debuted his anti-Kardashian He invited Kim onstage during his Welcome when she refused to dance. A few years later, he doubled down on the episode of New Girl. The episode featured a party at Prince's house, gets some love advice, pancakes, and a makeover Shortly after Prince's death, Deschanel appeared No Prince party is complete without celebrities, shot cameos for the episode. However, Prince put the record scratch on After finding out about the Kardashians' involvement, &quot;And it turns out that someone from Prince's I hope it's not a Kardashian.'&quot; Deschanel's costar Lamorne Morris told a similar podcast, although he didn't mention the Kardashians As he explained, &quot;Prince shows up early, so he's sitting in and he goes, 'What are the blank blanks doing They said, 'Well, they're in the show. They've been invited to a Prince party.' He goes, 'They would never be invited to a The crazy real-life story of funk singer Rick direction. Both musicians released their first albums two years later when James invited Prince It was dubbed the &quot;Battle of Funk,&quot; and it The two would reportedly watch each other's James accused Prince of stealing his moves, He claimed that the musicians in Prince's down Prince's throat, making him cry. In his autobiography, James wrote that he wanted to give the comedian a hit song and, In 1982, when Prince refused to sign his autograph he assaulted Prince. The Purple One definitively won the Battle On the night of that fight in 1982, he met girlfriend and protege under the stage name Sinead O'Connor's 1990 version of the song people don't even know it was written by Prince Prince hated other artists covering his songs, and O'Connor has recalled having a very tense She told three separate interviewers that to his house in Malibu and turned violent She accused him of trying to punch her, and from him at 5 AM and knock on the door of &quot;We didn't get on very well. We tried to beat each other up.&quot; &quot;Really?&quot; &quot;We didn't get on too well.&quot; &quot;You tried to beat each other up?&quot; &quot;Well, it was more he tried to beat me up And the details of this story get even weirder. When O'Connor was interviewed by the Carver, Prince's death, she claimed that Prince beat and worshiped the devil, all under the influence If there's one person more frank in his musical be Rolling Stones guitarist Keith Richards. In 2016, Stones drummer Charlie Watts told for them at the Los Angeles Coliseum during Prince, being Prince, was wearing his trademark As Watts recalled, &quot;Mick [Jagger] and I both loved [Prince's we got him on our show. Of course, being Prince he duly went on in Which didn't deter me from liking him.&quot; Watts maintained his admiration for Prince, In 1988 he told the Los Angeles Times, &quot;I think he's very clever at manipulating I think he's more into that than making music. I don't see much substance in anything he By the time Richards published his autobiography He called Prince overrated, mocked his height, his presumptiveness. As he wrote, &quot;Prince has to find out what it means to be That's the trouble with conferring a title a prince who thinks he's a king already.&quot; Only after Prince's death did Richards appear &quot;A unique talent. A true original. So sad, so sudden and, I will add, a great We are all going to miss him.&quot; Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Grunge videos about your favorite Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the