Nuremberg. 1615. A mob is screaming for blood. Executioner Franz Schmidt knows only too well on the chopping block. This is going to be the Can you guess what utterly horrifying thing Franz it for later in the show. First, let's have a The Rats punishments during the Medieval Ages, some were a sadist would come along and devise a new method some men would literally cook up what they thought The best evidence we have of rat torture when human rights groups talked about South as a method of torture. In the 1970s, under on men and women along with a device called describe how that went down; no pun intended. in the 1600s, when an interrogation might take chest and starving rats being placed in the into the man's flesh, which was made worse There's also talk of this being done but with According to the book, "The Rise of the Sonoy was partial to rat torture during the The book states that Sonoy would put a put hot charcoals on the pot. The heat and there was only one way they could They would scratch and bite, and if the victim of them. It's doubtful they could have burrowed supposed to "gnaw into the very bowels of there was a huge chance of an infection at a But this was a small scale punishment. When ment business through torturous punishments, you Meet the Ming dynasty in China for utterly barbaric punishments, Could there be anything more brutal, being flayed alive? We'll let you decide Long before the Mexican cartels flayed Zhu Yuanzhang, was a passionate proponent of the call Flay-athons and slow-slice-athons. Just so it's not always easy to understand which In 1393, the Hongwu Emperor had 15,000 people named Lan Yu was plotting against him. The known as kinship extermination, so anyone many of them flayed and slow-sliced. The emperor's thought people had been speaking badly about him. again, some by slow-slicing, which took days The emperor ruled by fear and took drastic at least to us modern folks. On September 24, 1392, he created a new law. He said no men The punishment for this was castration, but also of the barber. The reason for fear that some of the people in his country But mere castration was being let off lightly. the Rise of Ming" by a man named Yu Ben, who his boss had 5,000 women, including one go just because he thought they'd been "His majesty suspected them of liaisons with flayed, stuffed with straws, and put on display. Making eunuchs was a punishment in itself, These men, who'd been castrated, often worked or even as part of the imperial bureaucracy. a lot of influence. Having no need for women, chosen as kids to work for the ruling they'd have their plums and pecker carefully The wound was then covered in herbs and other option, well, not an option for them, was their this was better in regard to the infection side of for the kid, who might die anyway. known as the Yongle Emperor, and If he had the slightest suspicion someone was usually by a thousand cuts - slow-slicing. man's family and relatives executed the same way. and servant girls to be flayed to death after one of his concubines had been having an irony it is that the emperors name, Chinese history texts say how someone was sliced In some cases, people could pay bribes to or they might be able to purchase pain over very quickly, but sometimes it would why it was sometimes called the "lingering eunuch Liu Jin, who, in 1510, was executed The news that spread out of Beijing was that by which time he'd been cut 3,357 times. The execution insulted him by buying a bit of flesh The texts say some of them took the parcel of Even if someone was only partly flayed, they'd than not, they'd check out way before that from given the person no longer had skin. There's ample evidence that Assyrian kings One of those kings once wrote, "I have and have flayed all the rebel leaders; I Like the Chinese version, there The Assyrians would usually start with the procedure. But one of the worst flaying the prolonged execution of a military In 1571, he was defending the city of Famagusta in Ottoman forces. Bragadin managed to cut allowed to walk out unharmed as long offered safe passage to the island of Crete. Lala Mustafa Pasha got into an argument with One thing led to another, and Mustafa had his after which he was imprisoned and left in the city was massacred. He and, in one final humiliation, he was dragged jeering crowd. This was later painted and If this couldn't get any more brutal, he was around. But that wasn't good enough for the and stuffed with straw. They then placed the through the streets, where people laughed at a Could anything be worse than Boiling which is why Roman emperor Nero did it to drums of oil. We also know it happened in the Henry VIII, wrote it into English law in 1531. punishment for people who'd been found guilty an authority or social superior, "Every person or persons which hereafter of the law of such treason, poisoning shall be committed to execution of death by boiling." it was like. He'd been convicted of putting up in the household of the Bishop of Rochester 17 people got really sick, and two people died. could have spoiled that yeast. Food in those days anyway, and under the new law, he went to the pan. who were sick to their stomachs. Some of "Let's stick with chopping off heads, "He roared mighty loud, and divers, women the sight of what they saw and were carried not seem frightened by the boiling alive, but Those words fell on deaf ears because a few months boiled alive at Smithfield prison for the same north of the border in Scotland, in a punishment a nobleman in 1321 named William II de Soules in black magic. As you'll see soon, accusing dark arts back in those days was a convenient involved a melody of terrifying tortures. lowered down, likely with a rope and pulley, or tar. If the liquid was already boiling, the Let's imagine the person was pulled right just as a young woman did recently when she fell "I was in the worst pain I've ever felt really compare it to anything," she said So, boiling was incredibly painful. First, organs started to boil within the liquids you were doomed, but for the minute you'd be Alas, boiling never really took and in 1547 during the reign of Edward VI, The stocks there weren't any cops. At least cops that we wasn't until the 17th and 18th centuries that which you could say was the Metropolitan Police In the Middle Ages, villages and towns watchmen who made sure bad things didn't happen you had a village chief and a community that Criminals were often branded for their So, when a thief had a big T on his face, or a around, and people were duly notified about this stocks, people knew what he'd done because of This was what we modern folks would call a England's Statute of Laborers, written in for "unruly artisans," which we guess would for pushing the boundaries. The question cabbages...You don't have to answer that. that bothered most people; it was the total you could take no more. If the person had really someone might bring out a pan full of person's head - not pleasant in a baking If you're wondering why we're putting this it's because we aren't done yet. Just think near you has been a total nuisance, bullying kids, everyone's nerves. Then the next minute, he's and you and anyone in your town can do what they happened in any modern country today, especially something really bad would happen. The same man might lose a nose or an ear. But worse would happen in a When someone was put in this contraption, didn't always happen if they took pity sometimes they didn't just throw mud or poop at Sometimes they stoned the person so many times meat. Victims were sometimes even killed. in the pillory, the records show of the populace... they pelted him to death." comparison to the punishments received by The Great Witch Hunt published a book that would lead to the torture some men. That book, Malleus Maleficarum, talks how to find them, and what to do with the witches wiki, written by a It was as if Ted Bundy had been asked to write the over 200 years, led to the brutal deaths accused of communicating with dark forces. which included having metal areas of their bodies. These were Sometimes their hands and feet bits chopped off them. Their blood was to their most sensitive parts. At times, to their legs and make them sit on It was a horror-show. Other those days were head crushers and knee crushers. These methods had the goal of maiming and result in the death penalty - usually burning at confessed because the very thought of having person to say they used broomsticks for their see witches on broomsticks today, but back then, Before the public even saw the accused women, a Witch's Chair. This iron chair would be burning the victim. Sometimes while strapped in to rip off their finger and toenails. Witch hunters popped up all over Europe, search high and low for dangerous women merely people who had unique opinions or possibly And let's face it, who wouldn't be mentally when women had enemies they wanted to hysteria by accusing them of being a witch. they said such piercing screams could only mean European torture Catch-22. If she didn't scream, the sound she made came from the depths of hell. In the 1600s, Matthew Hopkins became the for God, who asked English villages for six witches." It was a license to print money and Sometimes the women were taken from town to town witches would attract large crowds. It was travel from far and wide to sell their popular and they could do a lot of business. majority of the public would be down with They thought it was normal, and those that were because they could be accused of being witches. in the Market Square, and the mob would her. One old report noted that one day the eggs, and turnips, that could be bought, The 1563 "Act against Conjuration Enchantments they got the pillory, and for a second offense, meant being hanged in England, although, they were often burned at the stake. The being strangled to death first. Thousands I and later under the guy famous for the To give you an example of a witch trial under Denmark in 1590, his ship was caught in some killed everyone. Rather than blame the elements, close to the capital Edinburgh. his men soon got a woman named Agnes Sampson the ship. She said that she'd tied parts of a a sieve. She then ordered the cat bits to fall huge waves. She hadn't done any of this, of During the North Berwick witch trials, about but not before they were tortured. Sampson a metal head casing with pins that held down Unable to talk, she couldn't cast any more spells. she confessed to 53 indictments. Other women their fingers and thumbs crushed in a device Some were fitted with special named after the Spanish Inquisitions. Wedges crushing the woman's fibula and tibia. The witch trials in Europe are a good place Now we've talked about what happened for the worst kind of crime. March 28, 1857. A man named Robert-Francois torture almost three months after he'd To tell the truth, Damiens' attempt had been quite was getting out and used a small knife to King's fine clothes, but that didn't stop him he even apologized to his wife The top of the blade had barely entered his skin. worth it at all. It was very embarrassing for the Damiens was not all there mentally. He hadn't cause. He was just out of his mind, but his tried to ascertain if he was part of a bigger That morning when he was dragged he muttered under his breath, "La journee they crushed his feet inside a pair of Crushed feet would be enough to make anyone satisfied. They grabbed hold of his hand, the on the king, and dipped it in molten lead. nightmares for those that heard it. He still any names. The interrogator grabbed a pair of they were used to rip off chunks of Damiens' and barely seemed to register the excess The torturers were just getting started. Damiens most of whom were screaming for his blood, happened a month later at the Place de spectators gathered, giddy with expectation. cross. They cut him open again, tearing chunks oil as they'd done during the interrogation. all of his, albeit in agonizing pain. Entire used sulfur to cauterize his wounds. Damiens was The crowd's opinion started to change though. were starting to look concerned. Their became right hand and then used wax, oil, and sulfur to He was still conscious and looking at the a horse. But the quartering part didn't quite relieve Damiens' body of its limbs. People in the "O death, why art thou so long in coming?" Still, torso on a stake and lit firewood beneath it. Charles-Henri Sanson, it was a job well done. for taking off the King's head in the While Damiens execution was actually in the because it's one of the best-recorded examples. 1352 when King Edward III of England made it the just killing royals (regicide) but any major The reason it was invented was because the ruling deter people from committing the same crime. standard. The usual procedure was to hang but not far off. This was a mercy because the cut off the victim's manhood (women never got enough to see his punishment since the executioner He was then disemboweled, usually with the Next came chopping off the man's limbs and also stuck to a bridge, sometimes London Bridge if in stuck to bridges or boards in other of what happens if you go up against the state. clause that made thought crime an act of treason death of the king merited you being ripped apart. Italy, Russia, Poland, and more nations, the Brits some say terrorist, who we now associate drawn, and quartered in 1606. He apparently got The English didn't abolish the although the punishment was last used in 1782. despaired at what happened to Damiens, people Now for a punishment that we consider perhaps Poena cullei as "penalty of the sack," goes back to it was the statutory death penalty for the crime took this very seriously, given that murdering get him out of the family business. This was often had a deep mistrust of their upstart sons. a person in a leather sack. Then any number it might have been chickens or dogs, the sack was then thrown into a river where its sack was filled with water, and they all drowned. came up with this punishment. It sounds more like actuality, it was taken very seriously. Patricide of sons. It's no surprise they came up with what It was extremely humiliating having to scrap losing all your self-respect on the way. unclean, causing the gods to withdraw Cicero said this punishment totally removed other forms of the death penalty in ancient as a punishment for parricides, people who've "Corpus Juris Civilis," states that "sewn up in a sack with a dog, a cock, and according to Seneca the Younger, a Ancient Rome wasn't the Middle Ages, but poena known relates back to an alleged Jewish England, when a 12-year-old apprentice His dead body was later found in who'd done business with William, were blamed. ritual murder since many kids had gone missing. featuring an alleged murderous cult. Such theories such as in the alleged Satanic cults of the 1980s. and so a kind of witch hunt ensued. The became one of the reasons for the Jewish the "blood libel," which claimed Jewish folks as part of their human sacrifice ceremonies. the mobs from going out and grabbing the nearest "Life and Miracles of St. William of people in a sack and threw them in the river, was an impromptu punishment and sometimes This was never a go-to punishment in Medieval it in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries. got the sack in the 14th century for the book of the time, the Sachsenspiegel, stated commit parricides. Quite amusingly, is that the law had changed somewhat from the was optional to change the monkey for a cat. Of Ages Germany would have been quite difficult. and it was a-ok to throw the person in the river dying alongside a biblical beast was good enough. the water. A desperate-looking duo of a dog and who couldn't swim, drowned. The last recorded case of Zittau. The guy was put in the sack with a under the water in the river for 6 hours as by none of other than Martin Luther. was what you could call creative. This A drink of molten gold people of South America and you wanted to execute to steal all your gold, how would you do That's what happened in 1553 after the when the local Mapuche people got hold of the There are several accounts about how this bloody horrible. The first one states that they A grislier version of that was written by a chopped off his arms, roasted them on a fire, next account is that he had his heart ripped But if we had to choose an account, it would be de Lobera. This story says molten gold was instantly but giving him at least a couple of A few seconds is all he'd get since about 10 seconds. The thermal injury to death from pulmonary dysfunction and shock. tribe of Ecuador did the same thing to the the taxation of their gold. In these early of the victim burst. Centuries later, scientists but they wrote that "the direct thermal injury The question is, if you had the and extremely painful execution or a long and Buried alive and walled up and find instances of people being buried alive as state this happened during Mao Zedong's disastrous simply died of "grief" after being ordered to bury crime to be administered this punishment righ? But Mao's cadres weren't innovators. This brutal as far back as the Romans, but was also used Roman Empire. That book we mentioned earlier, punishment for a man that had copulated with a if the same crime happened and the girl wasn't a If you think that's brutal, in Augsburg in were found guilty of killing their master. The and the girl were buried alive. In the 1500s it happening to women who'd been found guilty of it seems after she was buried, she was although other cases don't mention impaling. covered in dirt, you wouldn't live for long, But if you got the coffin treatment, based you might survive around five but the good news for all you folks who of carbon dioxide would make you pass out, In 1915, in the US, a woman named Essie The dirt had already covered the coffin when last look at her sister. When they opened the We're telling you this, so you'll understand that small enclosure, you'll have plenty of time to would likely die from starvation or dehydration. it always makes a cool story when you tell of an old building. But it did happened. Vestal Virgins who broke their vow of chastity. only ten virgins couldn't resist the lure of In 1149, Duke Otto III of Olomouc in what a monk of touching his wife where only a likely a great big lie because not long after he took all of the monastery's money for himself. Persia, they discovered what was quite an original thieves buried up to their heads in the ground, throats lest they die very, very slowly. It was even killing them was considered "helping". and wrote, "From this Plain to Lhor, both were frequent monuments of thieves immured like offense... these are plastered up, all which are left out, not out of kindness, but and assaults of the birds of prey." dying and their servants or wives being buried British explorer said when a chief died, his four alive with him." This was supposed to be an honor, The practice was common in China when rulers and even administrators, were buried with afterlife. Although in some cases, the people, first. This was still hardly a gold watch One story states that Empress Shulu Ping and she volunteered to be entombed with him. She hands and buried that with him. Still, just for words later appeared in the book, "History and thrown into the mausoleum. According to that Her: "Do you miss the deceased Emperor?" us much grace. Of course, we miss him." She then said, "If you miss him, then go see him." medieval-age Chinese catch-22, we think one of the best there was, what the very The worst of the worst Franz Schmidt, was the executioner in From 1573 to 1617, he legally whacked 361 in all kinds of ways. What's great for us to rely on historians' accounts for what went of writing were later turned into a book. how he practiced a lot with his ever-sharp axe, kill executioners if they weren't pleased him a few swings to remove the head, they might of that happening to executioners in other cities. he managed 98 percent of the time. We should just to the same family as it was an odd job and made one day, they might be killing you. People but someone had to do it, so usually, Franz, like most Germans, thought keeping a best they were sent to the afterlife ASAP. After with Franz writing letters to their family. Franz he filled them with booze because, at the end stone to lose their head a lot calmer than a but he said most of them took death on the drunk. Franz said one guy tried to pee on the of his wine bottle even after he lost his head. extra money from torturing people during any scruples about this side gig. It was just a even for him, was sometimes hard work. It wasn't blessing in a way since death came quickly. He especially when the mob demanded no quick During the Holy Roman Empire, this was a very murderers, rapists, and arsonists. It wasn't quite did the public hate these kinds of criminals. broke people on the wheel. In 1707, a priest in "His cries were terrible. 'O Jesus! scene was much lengthened out, and of the he was just heard to say, 'Cut off my head!' said as much. If the criminal was accused the public demanded a slow execution. As lest they string him up by the neck. he'd start by bludgeoning the guy's feet scream. Repeat all the way up. In light of that Franz did to poachers or prostitutes Franz also said that sometimes during the the wheel treatment had already been ripped with and his feet broken in ill-fitting boots. He roundly hated in the town, so he took his sweet cudgel to break the man an astounding 31 at the feet and ended with the head. "Lord Judge, have I executed well?" executed as judgment and law have required." a good day at work for Franz, and the now-wasted Sometimes it was over pretty quickly, 1581, states in a matter-of-fact way: and had his arms and legs broken with a wooden executioner of Rothenburg then broke his raised upright, and he was left to die." and each and everyone slowly drifted back to telling stories of their favorite Now you need to watch "Absolutely Terrifying have a look at "Smallest Crimes That Will Get