I really didn't expect that his father is so cruel. The child will die for money. Boss, who are we really going to give him to so that his father owes us money? He is unkind and I am unjust. Everything goes as planned. You dig me out first and go to the front. Hey, you dead girl, where did you come from? Stop running. What's your name? Boss, they've run to the mountain pass. They're such useless things. Pull me. I'm sprained on my feet. Hurry up and catch up. Stop. Grab him. Grab him. Stop. It's so annoying that they have to bury her alive. The stinky girl is gone. Come on, come on. I can't run anymore. Leave me alone. You can't go away. They will kill you. Come on, don't make trouble with me anymore. I haven't eaten for a day and a night. I really can't run anymore. You can't walk fast . Remember what my uncle once said to me. No matter how difficult things are for you, don't give up. Those who persevere until the end will never do it. If you lose, go and stop making trouble. My dad has already given up on me. What's the use of persisting ? How can there be adults who don't want their own children? There must be a misunderstanding between you. There is no misunderstanding at all because I am not my father. He adopted me from an orphanage. I thought that as long as I worked hard enough and was obedient, he would love me as his own child. But I didn't expect that I shouldn't be sad. In fact, I'm not any better than you. I'm on my own today. People come here just because my mother doesn't like me, so I secretly came here to cry. You are not the biological child of your parents. I am the biological child of my mother. But because I look like my father, my father doesn't want me anymore. As soon as my mother sees me, I I will be angry that I have grown like this now. I think I will never get my mother's love in my life. I thought that as long as it is a biological child, parents will sincerely love it. It turns out that there are parents who don't like their biological children. I'm sorry, I don't. It doesn't matter if I say these words to make you sad. I'm used to it. I think we should leave first. If the bad guys catch up later, we will be in trouble. Remember, even if our parents don't love us, we still have to love ourselves. Let's go. I found it. I didn't find it. I didn't ask you knowingly. Look, I came back alone and you said I didn't find it. I couldn't figure it out. Isn't it just a pair of shoes given by a friend? Do you need to be so angry? There is something wrong with her. You need to educate her. Please, can you find someone? Good reason, you are so scolding and so sad. She usually smiles and is forced to leave home by you. I can't say any more. I will be angry. I will go. I will continue to look for her. I will go with you. Two people are better than one. I hope you will know how to care about her now. When you are in front of her, you should give her a little more care. Do you know how happy she will be? How happy will she be? How brilliant will she be? Okay, just wait at home and I will go find her anyway. There must be someone at home. Maybe she will come back soon. I am here. I am a man. Now we should be safe. The bad guys will definitely not chase us. This place is very hidden, right? Shi Mo Sheng. Ah, monkey, it 's okay, monkey. Don't be afraid. Monkeys are not lions. They won't eat us. Otherwise, let's find something to do. You're so wet. Oops, those boys will definitely default on their debts again. I'm sorry, you were here just now. Call me brave and let you know now that I like making money. Do you think I'm embarrassed? No, really. That's fine. I'll do a little trick for you. You see, you can watch The Three Little Pigs and the Seven Dwarfs. Then I'll If I draw it again for you, there will be a total of twenty people versus twenty people. Look, hello, I am the Three Little Pigs. Hello, I am the Seven Dwarfs. You come too. This is your weapon. This is my weapon. Don't come over. Don't come over. Don't come over. Come here. Don't come here. Any of you dare to come here. What's wrong with you? I didn't feel anything when I ran. Now I stop and I feel a little cold. What should I do if you have a fever? Let's keep running so you won't get cold. I really can't run anymore. You can't even run. How can you run without eating? Either you wait for me and I'll help you find some fruit to eat. It 's too dangerous. No, it's too dangerous. It doesn't matter. I'll just look around here. Wait and put on my shoes. Don't let yours go. My foot is injured. If there is a monkey, there must be fruit. When we eat cakes, sesame seeds will fall out. The monkey must also drop them. What is your name? I said, I don't know your name yet. I found it. I found the fruit. We have fruit to eat. Where are you running, that stinky girl? It's already dawn, but there's no news yet. Today is the day of my daughter's dance competition. I have to find Yu Fei first, and then I'll talk about Uncle Qiang, Aunt Ming, and Aunt Ming. What's wrong with Yu Yang? What's wrong with Zi Yang? I just heard from my neighbor on the way to school. I heard from my neighbor that there is something going on over there over the river. Tell me quickly. Yesterday, when Yu Qiang asked us all to look for Yu Fei, I thought of the possibility. Here, the children just don't listen to the old love and come here to play in the water. Sister Yu is here. Sister Yu, please take a look to see if this is Xiao Fei's. It's Yu Fei's. Yes, it was broken a long time ago. I haven't taken it to heart. Let's let. As soon as our family Yu Fei, where is my sister Xiao Fei's shoes? It's impossible for our family Xiao Fei to be so sensible. She wouldn't be so stupid and wouldn't do such a thing. I'm telling you, don't talk nonsense about our family Yu Fei. You must not be able to do this kind of thing. Yeah, I can't tell you. I can't tell you. It's just these shoes here. These shoes are here. But if the shoes really fell off, they should have gone home long ago. It's been a day and a night, not climbing here. Three rivers have drowned this year. Okay, stop talking, Xiao Fei, be careful, Yu Qiang, be careful, be careful, do n't pull me. Let go, don't pull me. Let go, Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei. Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei, you must not do anything stupid. Why are you feeling sorry for your mother and your mother? Isn't it just a drawing competition? You are so capable. Just draw another picture. You haven't seen your uncle become a big star. Why are you so stupid? Xiaofei Mom, do you know why I came so late today ? It's because the teacher came to talk to me. Because the teacher came to talk to me. She said she wanted to recommend me to participate in the painting competition. Mom, let me help you up. You don't need your help to get up. Are you sure you have everything? Don't forget your dance clothes and shoes. Don't worry, you have them all. Don't worry, you have them all. Did n't you just check them all? Have you passed? Wait a minute. There is one more thing. Zhang Ma, have you got the drink I asked you to prepare ? It was already prepared. This is not here. I'll take it and take it for a walk. Why are you more nervous than Xiaolin? I think you should just stay at home. Do n't go inside. Forget it. What's the matter? I've participated in every competition. Okay. I'm not nervous. Okay. Okay. Let's go. It's too late. Come on, get in the car. Slow down. Slow down, good boy. Slow down. Yu, I'm your uncle. Where are you? Yu Fei, come back. My uncle misses you. Yu Fei, be honest. Be honest . You have to rest assured. The nurse sister will give you injections and medicine in a while. You have to cheer up. You'll be fine. Come on. What's wrong? What's wrong? What's wrong? What's wrong with you? Where is he? I don't know. If you don't tell me, I'll kill you. Tell me, tell me. Tell me quickly. I don't know where he is. I'm here, bastard. Let's go. Aren't you hiding? Why are you still coming out? Boss, boss, hurry up. Oh, otherwise you are dead. Where can you run? None of you can run away. Bury yourself alive. Don't move. We are the police. Don't move. Don't run. You saved me. I'm very grateful to you. It's a pity that I still don't know your name. My name is Zhang. Hefan, I will come back to find you. I will definitely come back to find you. What's your name? Yv . The girl Yu Fei is eight years old. We can't find it no matter how hard we look. She just found this shoe by the river and filled in the information. Be careful. We will send someone to find Old Liu. Borrow a place. Old Liu will lend a place for the little girl to sleep. She is exhausted. No problem. Wait a minute. Xiaofei. Sister Xiaofei. Yes. Xiaofei. Sister. Xiaofei. Yes. Xiaofei. Bingfei Sister, yes, Xiaofei, Xiaofei, Xiaofei, you are a family of children, right? She is so brave. She is still a child and has to take such risks under the hands of two gangsters. It must be because your uncle usually tells you too many things about making movies. There are too many things to do in making a movie. Silly, that's fake. If you want to be a hero, you have to look at the situation. But no matter how brave or strong a child is, he is always bullied by his mother. He is always bullied by his mother. He is hurt in this way. The pain is unforgettable. It will be a lifelong shadow. If such a cute child is placed in someone else's home, it must be held in the hand for fear of falling, and held in the mouth for fear of melting. It's too pitiful. I said so much, but you didn't respond. I'm talking to you. I really don't understand what you can do if you care more about her and love her more. What if you give me a reason? Is your heart made of stone? Or is it because of the original hatred that you can't forget? But this reason is too far-fetched, okay? I sometimes I'm really wondering if you are her biological mother. The crew asked me to film a movie. I have to go first and leave it to you to take care of Yu Fei. Sister, don't hurt her again. She is really pitiful. Students, let's express our warmest feelings. Congratulations to classmate Ye Lin for winning honors for our school and winning the dance competition. Thank you, classmates. Thank you to the teachers and principal. Yu Fei. Yu Fei. Yu Fei. Where is Aunt Wang? Yu Fei. She is not here today. I won the championship in the dance competition today. I originally wanted to share it with her. Since she didn't come, I'll come find her tomorrow. Yu Fei, she won't come tomorrow. Yu Fei, she won't come tomorrow either. Why, why did something happen to her? Mom, wake up. Are you hungry? After cooking the porridge, Mom, I'm full. Thank you, Mom. I'll wash the dishes first. You sit down. I have something to tell you. I haven't treated you well. I haven't even really cared about you being well fed and clothed. You must hate me when you scold me so fiercely for a trivial matter . I have never hated my mother. It's just that my mother doesn't like me. I really can't like you. I'm sorry. I was too selfish back then. I shouldn't have kept you by my side. You should be given up for adoption. If you had followed those good parents back then, your fate today would never have been like this, or even worse than Ye Lin. Mom, I really never thought about comparing myself to Ye Lin. I was wrong that time. Now, don't be angry. Mom, do n't be angry. Mom, listen to me. You'll never talk about adopting me again, okay? I'm begging you, okay? Please, Mom, didn't you say that you crawled? Mom, didn't you say that you don't regret giving birth to me at all? What I don't regret is not this but what was that? I really don't know. This is not something your child should ask. Don't ask again. You are a well-behaved and sensible child. For such an irresponsible mother like me, you have never complained or resented me. So I can't keep you by my side to endure hardship. After thinking about it for a long time, I decided to hand you over to you. Dad asked him to take you away. Mom, I don't want it. I don't want to separate from you. I don't want to separate from you. You must not want me. You must not want me. You won't have a good life if you follow me. That's how I decided now. Just go to your dad, Mom, don't go, Mom, listen to me, listen to me, Mom, listen to me, I won't make you hate me anymore, okay, I can't possibly like you, do n't you understand, don't you understand? Mom, I will really be good from now on. Mom, I will be really good from now on. I won't talk back to you. Mom, I'm begging you. Mom, I'm begging you. From now on, I won't say anything or quarrel. Mom, I will listen to you. Don't do this, no, no, no, no, mom. I just want to live with you and my uncle forever. I just want our whole family to live together. Are n't we a family? Are n't we? Not from the beginning to the end. It's not you, it's actually you, it's me, it's me, me, my mom, mom, what's wrong with you, mom, what's wrong with you, you're fine, you'll be fine, you'll be fine, mom, hold on, mom, you'll be fine, go now. Mom in the hospital, please bear with me. I'm going to find someone to help. I'm going to find someone to help. Aunt, aunt, please save my mom. Uncle, come and save my mom. Uncle, I beg you. Please save my mom, my mom. She's dying. Aunt, my mom. She has asthma and is about to die. Auntie, come and save me. Mom, please be patient and watch. Are you okay? Mom, hold on. Sister-in-law Yu, let me go. Grandpa, I really treat Yu Fei as a good friend, so I gave her shoes. Unexpectedly, it hurt her. Her mother is still scolding her. I tell you, there is no need to be so upset. When I see her mother later, I will explain it to her in person. Okay, okay, okay, Lao Chen is coming soon. What happened to Lao Chen? What happened to Lao Chen? Grandpa, it's Yu Fei . Come on! What happened to Yu Fei? Grandpa, my mom, she's asthmatic again. Help, mom, get off, get off, get off, mom, mom, you'll be fine, hurry up, hurry up. Get in the car, hurry up, get in the car, go, get in the car, go slow, go slow, you dare to come to my territory to cause trouble, do you dare to come to my place, and make trouble, am I the one who is here? The lay disciples of the Shu Temple are really doing it. Okay, okay, do you guys come together or come one by one? What? Come on, hit one more, let me see, give me a beating, big brother, take it, take it, stop. Not bad. UITC 00. 22 40 Not bad. Next game, next game, UITC 00 22: 4 UITC 00: 22: 43: 03 Thank you, director VITC 00122: 440 It's really good for the director's hard work. You can give a good speech. I can become an instant hit. It's mainly because you gave me a chance as an assistant director. I can honestly say that you have this friendship for me. I will remember you for a lifetime. I really played you well. Slow down, slow down. Happiness came too suddenly. Who? Who? Don't you know I'm very busy? Hey, tell me quickly. I'm very busy. Uncle, mother, she's out of breath again. Hurry up. Come here, Xiaofei, how could this happen? How could this happen? Didn't you take any medicine? Did you not take any medicine? Which hospital are you in? Do n't cry. Don't cry. Uncle, come here right away. Well, you're waiting for the money. You haven't given me the money yet. Assistant director, assistant director, assistant director, I'm here. I want to ask you for a leave. I have an emergency at home. Can you let me go? Can you let me go? Are you kidding me? Your scene hasn't been finished yet. Your scene hasn't been finished yet. I know it's my sister who is in the hospital. My life is in danger. Let me go. I'll be back soon, okay? I'll be back soon, okay? Find someone else. Go find someone else. Stop fussing with me. Okay, stop fussing with me. Assistant director, listen to me. That's all I'm looking for. My dear sister, and my niece has no father. She can't live without this mother. I beg you, let me go, okay? This is your own housework. This is your own housework. You have to deal with it yourself. I 'm sorry. Yu Qiang Yu Qiang. Thank you. You are such a good person. It's admirable that you are so filial and strong at such a young age. I'm really happy for Ye Lin. I can make such a good friend like you. I can make such a good friend like you. Yu Fei, please stop crying. I believe it. Your mother will be fine, Xiao Fei. How is your mother? Do n't cry. How is your mother? Tell me, don't scare me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Ms. Yu's current condition is not stable enough. The doctor is rescuing you. Don't worry, you are. She is Ye Lin's grandfather. It is this grandfather who sent us to the hospital. It is also this grandfather who helped us pay for the medical expenses. Old sir, your kindness will be remembered by Xiao Fei and I forever. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. Okay, okay, don't be like this, don't be like this. In fact, it is the fate between these two children. Who is Yu Ming's family member, which one is Yu Ming's family member? I am a very dangerous patient now. According to the hospital's regulations, we issue a critical illness notice. What do you mean? He said my sister's life is in danger, mom, mom, mom, let me go, uncle, I beg you, mom, don't leave me. Please, please sign here. Please, please sign here. Xiaofei, Xiaofei, please. How is it possible? I was fine when I left in the morning, so why did it suddenly become serious? It's all my fault. My misbehavior made my mother angry. Xiao Fei, please stop talking nonsense. I really don't blame you. Your mother's health is not good to begin with. It's all my fault. It's not that after I talked back to my mother and then smoothed it over, I sneaked out and didn't go home. Then my mother wouldn't have worried about asthma. What I did wrong was me. Why did I get sick? You're talking nonsense. How could it be you? You're usually so good, so Well, you are usually so obedient and kind. God sees that you are so filial and will not let anything happen to your mother. Don't worry, listen to your uncle. Can you believe it? Your mother will be fine. OK, okay, mom. Don't let anything happen to you. I don't want to lose you. Xiaowei, listen to Zhang Ma and let's eat well. Don't be obedient. Look, eat. Eat. Okay. Be obedient. Do n't eat. What's the matter? Don't give things to others and you have to explain. How can there be such a thing in this world? This kind of thing is a shame. I prepared so many dishes for Ye Lin to win the championship in the dance competition. Mom, I want to eat sweets. No sweets are allowed during meal times. I have to eat sweets. I want to eat sweets. I want to eat sweets. Eat sweetly for me. Do you hear me? I want to eat candy. I want to eat candy. Mom, I want to eat candy. Okay. Okay. If he wants to eat, let him eat. You have the nerve to say it to me. Ye Lin insists on going to that wild girl's house. I won't let you. Didn't you agree like dad? You do n't just want to give it to me. How can we compare these different things together? Man Ping, what if you do it again? Don't tell me if you are so indiscriminate in pampering your children. Dad thinks Xiaowei is spoiled by you. Even I almost think so. My daughter has been spoiled since she was a child. Is she bad? How can you do it? All right? I'm already upset about going to live in the UK. Why don't you quarrel with me over such trivial matters? Can you let him eat sweets if he wants to? At least sweets have calories and it's better than an empty stomach. Ma Zhang, give it to him. What's the point of going and getting it? Mom Zhang, you didn't even listen to me. Are you receiving someone's salary? Go quickly. I am the father of the child. Do I even have no right to educate the child? Okay, don't cry. What's going on, dad? It's okay to quarrel and play. Dad, I'm sorry. I'm going back to the room first. Mom, Ye Lin, what's wrong? My dear, why are you crying? Tell your mother if someone is bullying you. Is that girl's mother bullying you? Tell your mother to stop talking nonsense. That child's mother's life is in danger, Xiaofei, are you tired? If you are, just take a nap on the bench. I don't want it. I have to wait until mother gets better. Then your mother won't get better until dawn. Wait until dawn. You are a child. I can't help but I'm really stubborn, just like your mother. How is Yu Ming's family? The patient's heartbeat has stopped. We are giving electric shocks. Be mentally prepared. Don't lock Xiaofei. Xiaofei, please let me pass. I still have a lot to say to my mother. Let go of my mother. Xiaofei really loves you. Even if you don't love Xiaofei, it doesn't matter. Even if you want to send me away, I won't quarrel with you anymore, okay, mom, I swear I don't want shoes. I will return the shoes to Ye Lin now. RESP Not Mom, Xiao Fei Mom, Xiao Fei Mom, please open the door. You will come back to life, right? Mom, please open the door. Xiao Fei, you child, don't swear. Your mother is only angry when she says it. She doesn't mean it. She will get better, she will get better. Okay, mom, please open the door, please open the door, I beg you, mom, you will survive, right? You tell my mom, the patient's family, the patient has passed the critical stage, the patient's condition has finally stabilized, so to speak, the condition has stabilized, that's really it. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Good bye. Good bye. Come in. Dad, what do you want from me? Close the door and come sit down. Just now I heard from Zhang Ma about the quarrel between you and Ye Pingtao. If this continues, I'm really worried that your marriage will be in crisis. So I thought over and over again that maybe if I didn't appear in your life, you wouldn't always treat him so arrogantly, and he wouldn't have to worry about me being so accommodating and tolerant to you. If these hidden worries are gone in the marriage, the children will be free of these hidden worries. I have grown up healthily. Dad, that's what you think. Why didn't you say it earlier? I didn't want to mention these words at first, but today I saw the sad and anxious look on that child Yu Fei and I changed my mind. I think it's better for us to talk clearly. Don't wait until you arrive in the UK and you will still have a knot in your heart. You will complain about why this father doesn't love my dad. Don't worry, I will listen to you and take care of the children. Live your own life and I won't disappoint you. I wo n't disappoint you. Go watch. Look at Ye Lin. Tell her that Yu Fei's mother is fine. I understand. You should go to bed early. You should go to bed early. Guan's mother hasn't gone to bed yet. Are you still worried about what happened in the afternoon? Don't worry. The hospital called Grandpa and told her about the girl's mother. It's okay. Of course, of course, sleep well. Mom, I want you to sleep with me tonight, okay? I want you to hold me so that I can fall asleep. Mom, Yu Fei, she is so pitiful. Her father doesn't want her anymore. Her mother almost died too. Mom, then you also come with me to the hospital tomorrow to see if her mother is okay. Is there anything good about this hospital? It's okay. Don't go to the hospital. Mom, my good mother likes you the most. Just go with me. Listen to mom. Can you go, mom, my good mother, go well and accompany you? But now sleep well, can you, my good mother, come and lie down, mother sings to you, good aunt, she is awake, uncle, aunt, mother is awake, you are awake, sister, it's great that she is awake. It scared me to death. You scared me to death. Did you know that you walked away from the gate of hell? Xiaofei, come here. Mom is awake. Come on. Sister, do you want to drink some water? Sister, do you want to drink some water? Xiaofei, get some for mom. Drink water. The doctor said that your condition has stabilized. You don't have to worry, but you still have to stay in the hospital for observation for a few days. Now your task is to recover peacefully, okay? Xiaofei, thank you, thank you for saving my life. She was crying yesterday. I have been blaming myself and blaming myself for saying she caused you to do this. I said no more, no more, but I don't believe it no matter what I say. I'm like a little lunatic and I can't stop you. Please talk to her. This is my problem, not yours. I don't blame your mother for your fault. I'm really afraid of losing you. Mom, don't want me. Mom, don't want me. Is n't this right? It's so good. Why do you say she is your biological daughter? If you don't love her, who do you love ? Mommy loves you. There is really no wind in the hospital. Why would you squint? It's okay. My child, your dedication and hard work are all known to me. But you are Yang Manping's daughter. Forgive me. I can't really like you. Now I can only Try your best to make up for the harm caused to you. I really don't understand why you insist on being friends with her among so many classmates in this school. She is a nice person. She is also very strong. Mom, do you know me? So what if she has the same birthday as her? There are thousands of children born on that day. You should be lucky to be reincarnated in our family. Mom, I know. Mom, I know soon. Mom is gone. Slow down. I don't even know what kind of disease they are visiting. Ah, come and eat a little apple. You are so stupid. Come on, Xiao Fei is also careful. I will come once too. I will come once too. It's time for Yu Ming to be alert and check up. It's time for Yu Ming to do a check up. Come on, get the wheelchair. Come on, get the wheelchair. Queen Mother Yu, come on. Come on. Mom, the elevator is here. Slowly. Slowly. Come on. Which floor is it? Grandpa said it's on the third floor. Look how happy you are. The elevator is here. Go slowly. Go slowly. Go fast. Hello, Mom. I want to ask about the asthmatic who was delivered last night. What room number does the patient live in? What is the patient's name? I only know that everyone calls her Aunt Ming. Aunt Ming, please help us check. Okay, okay, is your name Ye Lin? Yu Fei Ye Lin, why are you here with me? I'm here to visit your mother. Is she okay? She's much better. Thank you, aunt. This is the Poor Children's Fund from the last fundraiser. It's for your family's emergency needs. Take it. Thank you, aunt. I can't ask for this money. Why are you? Isn't the family very poor? Mom, because grandpa has already helped us once, so we really can't take any more. Thank you, aunt. Let's ask aunt to donate the money to people who need it more than us. It's quite ambitious. No wonder my dad does it. I like you. Ye Lin's mother is waiting for you downstairs. Don't stay too long. Yu Fei, I'm sorry, my mother. She actually means no harm. I know. Thank you for coming to see my mother. It 's just that she is undergoing a check-up now. It may take a long time before she comes back to me. I came back to pick up some data because I left some data behind, otherwise let's do it next time. Yu Fei, that's really unlucky. I'm leaving the country tomorrow and I don't have time to see your mother again. Why is it so fast? I 'm leaving the country tomorrow and I'm still thinking about it. When my mother is discharged from the hospital in two days, I will take the bag and return it to you. Why is your mother still angry with you? No, she is not angry with me. Anyway, I must return that bag to you. It does not belong to me. Yu Fei, don't you want to be good friends with me? Really, don't worry. We will always be good friends. We are true to our word. If you hang yourself with a hook, you won't become good friends for a hundred years. Slow down, slow down. All of this needs to be moved, right, right, right? Slowly, slowly, carefully, slowly, hurry up, there are valuables in here. You two must be careful. All inspections are fine. It's okay. Sister, it's okay. Sister is awesome. Please be gentle. You know. Let me just leave the hospital. The doctor said that you should stay in the hospital for observation and take nutritional injections. I'm already well. That's it. That's it. Sister, are you worried about money? Don't worry, I'll take care of this. You don't have to worry about it, mom. Don't worry, I have money, I have money, I can do it now! Go home and pick up Hongxiu. Go and do some adult business. You always ask for money. Do you have money? You want it. You are very heartless. Every time you eat noodles, I pay for them. How can I do that ? Last time. You owed me money for eating noodles, but I paid him back in the end. I did it on purpose. I deliberately didn't give him 30 cents. I put four slices of meat every time. Did you know that he put in three slices? He's getting more and more sneaky now, don't you? I understand. I can't be selfish anymore. Tomorrow I have to be discharged from the hospital and talk to Yang Manping to explain things clearly. Don't mess around. What money do you have? You're talking nonsense. Slow down. Put this in the trunk. Slow down. There are valuable things in there, you guys. Go to the front of the car and be careful not to run away. Xiao Wei disobeys me. Can you slow down and let me kill the horse? I will kill the king. Grandpa loses. Look at you. Look at how you won. Grandpa is so happy. Of course, I have never beaten Grandpa's obedience. Granddaughter went to England to study hard. Grandpa knows that you are very smart. When you grow up and come back, grandpa will let you take over. Grandpa will let you take over this position, this position. Pull the hook and hang yourself. You are not allowed to change in the next year. Mom, mom, what's the matter? I will return those shoes. Yesterday, when Ye Lin came to visit the doctor, I told her. Yesterday, when Ye Lin came to visit the doctor, I told her. Why didn't I know that Ye Lin came to the hospital yesterday ? At that time, my mother was still checking her health. Later, I forgot to mention it. But now Ye Lin has no way to come back. She is going to England today. England. What's wrong today? Mom, did you tell me what time the flight is? Mom, you can't leave yet. You haven't finished the dialysis injection yet. Go and help mom buy some food, okay mom, wait for me. I'll be back soon. I'll be back soon. Come on, really, I'm wrong. Can you forgive me for once? Your wife doesn't remember small people's faults. Please give it to me again. Is the opportunity good? I beg you. I can't wait any longer. I can't wait for you anymore. Can you personally lend me some money ? If you don't want to lend it, don't lend it. Parking master, Master Zhuo, when the car arrives in the UK, be good and don't let him talk all day long. English will become a fake foreign devil in the future. Dad, don't worry. Ye Lin won't forget grandpa, right? Xiaolin, grandpa loves you so much. You have to thank grandpa properly. I brought all your photos with me and I will hold them close. Remember your voice, Grandpa, I will call you often. Master, please hurry up. I'm really in an emergency. Master, God, God, God must let me catch up. This mistake can't go on any longer. Sister, Mom, I, Xiaofei, where is your mother? I don't know. It was strange that she was still here just now. vuuv00 nuUJ00 nJ00J00 Goodbye, grandpa. Goodbye, grandpa. J00000 J00000 Dad, please go back quickly. 6586 Pavilion car parking Yang Manping yours My daughter is here, don't go. Your daughter is here, don't go. Your daughter is here, don't go. Your daughter is here, I regret it. I regret it. Your daughter is here, my daughter . Give my daughter back to me. You are not allowed to touch a hair of my daughter. Otherwise, I will leave Zhang Jianjun without a son. What are you laughing at? I am not joking. Threatening me. My dad didn't even investigate the most basic information about the enemy. No wonder I was completely defeated. With this information, I I will read it and discuss it together at the meeting tomorrow. If there is a monkey, there must be fruit. When we eat cakes, sesame seeds will fall out. Monkeys must also be able to drop sesame seeds. I found it. I found the fruit. We have fruit to eat. We have fruit. | Eat Don't move. You are surrounded. Don't run. Don't move. It's been fifteen years and I still don't know your name. If I hadn't been sent abroad immediately, I would have come back to find you. No one expected that I would be dead when I came back. Quan Fei is sorry. I can't find the information from so long ago. Thank you. You're welcome. Silly girl, what are you doing? Are you still stupid and don't ask who the other person is? Will it bring danger to you? Just save every person you meet. What's going on? Here we go again. Someone must be scolding me. Time flies so fast. I'm going to retire in two days. I'm about to retire. I didn't expect to stay in this small kitchen for so many years. I remember that little one when you first came here. Yu Fei is such a little kid, following you all day long and chirping. You said that little clever girl can make money by eating green peppers and tomatoes. She is like this. Anyone who has anything to do with money has a special talent. Yes, and there is that painting. How good is the painting ? If you hadn't allowed her to develop in this area, she might be a great painter or designer now. Those things are unrealistic. It's better to be practical. Why are they not practical? You don't even know the society today. What is lacking is this kind of talent. Yu Fei has a boyfriend. I heard he is a doctor. When will he treat me to a wedding? Yu Yang is very busy as a doctor. Xiao Fei is still young. Let's wait until next year. When I get my pension, I can help Xiao Fei pay it. I paid the down payment for the house so that she can stand up straight and talk at her mother-in-law's house. Look, look, look, you still love her at this critical moment. I owe her aunt. I'm sorry. Since I made the decision that year, I cut off Now I shouldn't have any regrets about all my connections with the Yang family. Come on, come on. The special assistant is coming. The special assistant is truly worthy of being a golden bachelor. Yes, everyone wants to marry him. He will fly up a branch and become a phoenix. Don't put on enough makeup. It's beautiful, come on, come on, laugh. Listen up, everyone, don't put on so much makeup on your face during working hours. The diameter of earrings must not exceed 1.5 centimeters. The reason is that we need a shopping environment with excellent visual experience, so that no one can escape from the scene. I would like to thank you all for your cooperation. As mentioned earlier, the promotional activities of the daily necessities department have not been effective. The performance of the women's clothing department on the second floor last week also dropped by 0.3 percentage points. We have adjusted the counter layout of the store based on customers' shopping and consumption habits. Why? Our performance has not increased but has declined. This is because our competitors are aggressively pursuing low-pressure strategies. In order to defeat us, they do not hesitate to use cost-price promotions to conduct an analysis and comparison between the other party's customer- priced products and those in our stores. This afternoon I'm about to see the report, so you plan to cooperate with Anzheng Group. If you start a price war like other competitors, in the end, I'm afraid it will hurt both sides. So I suggest that the store level be separated from the other party. Only in this way can there be room for profit. But why is Anzheng Group? That old guy Yang Hua is not easy to deal with. Dad, although Anzheng started in the shoe industry, in the past few years, it has developed into the boutique industry and has become the leading old dog in the domestic boutique industry. If If we can bring in Anzheng, it will be easy to convince its excellent brands to come in. The chairman is really old and strong. His skills are so good. He just moves his muscles and bones, not to mention any skills. Isn't this Chairman Yang? It's such a coincidence that he has time to play ball today. Chapter Chairman, I am honored to meet you. Chairman Zhang, I am honored to meet you. This is the dog Hefan. This is the dog Hefan. Chairman Yang has admired him for a long time and dare not be Chairman Yang's ability and magnanimity. Chairman Yang's ability and magnanimity are what our younger generations admire. I hope to be able to cooperate with Anzheng. I hope to be able to cooperate with Anzheng and study hard with Chairman Yang. It's too polite. An old man like me who is about to retire has nothing worth emulating and learning. C. Our way of doing business is The main thing is to devour the whales. We all have different ways of doing things, so it's better not to work together. Director Yang, rumors stop at the wise. Don't listen to those rumors in the market that will affect our cooperation. Rumors stop at the wise, but there is no wave without wind, you say. At this age, you said that if you really end up like Mr. Liu, it's ridiculous. Sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's as difficult as the legend says. This old guy is difficult to deal with. But we can find another way. I just heard him say that he was retiring. There must be some mystery in this. Hefan, go check it out and see what's going on. The chairman seems to dislike the Zhang family and his son. Zhang Jianjun's eyes are too cold. What's wrong? Good thing, there is also his son. I think it is too deep. It is better not to deal with these people. When Ye Lin comes back, these people must not forget to remind her that she is the chairman of the board. After the young lady graduates, she will be a family. Your son will be back soon. Chairman, your house will be even more lively by then. I've been looking forward to this day. This family is so lively. You said how wonderful it is. Yes, Chairman, get in the car. Chairman, you are back. Just now Miss Manping sent you a message to wish you a birthday. I know, just call her back tonight. Chairman, today is your birthday. Let me help you cook a bowl of birthday noodles. You don't have to be alone and there's nothing better to do. U#f f l#f I'm old, I'm old Uf i f #f t#f I've been solving this move for several days #f I just can't solve it f l#f f Who has touched my move l#f How come I wish you a happy birthday? Happy birthday to you, grandpa. Happy birthday. This is the longevity noodles I cooked for you. You, your grandpa, I miss you so much, so I worked day and night to write my thesis. Three days ago, the professors unanimously agreed to let me graduate half a year early, so I hurried back to pack. After more than ten hours of luggage booking and flying back, my mother said that the whole family would come back after she had packed up the UK. No wonder Manping told me on the phone that she wanted to give me a dog gift. Me, me, you, you all know today. Just hide it from me. Did the little miss say that I want to give you a surprise for the chairman? Let alone the gift from the chairman, we are also looking forward to it. Grandpa, whether it is playing chess or doing homework, I have done everything you asked me to do back then. I can finally come back and live with you. Grandpa misses you so much. What a good boy. This is for grandpa. This is the best gift for grandpa. Thank you very much for your money. I will definitely pay it back to you right away. Goodbye. Who else did I not borrow from? It seems that there is only a principal from the high school and a former boss. I haven't seen this friend for fifteen years. You should just forget about me. Chairman, good chairman, good chairman. Let's introduce him. Let's introduce him. This is the president. Manager, this is the business manager, this is the business manager, Ye Lin. Please give me more advice. Hello, I will learn from them in the future. Please give me a lot of advice. They are all seniors. I will learn a lot from you all in the future. You are really young and promising. Chairman, please stay away, Secretary Gao. Fan's special assistant is waiting for you. I understand that Chairman Yang is willing to see me. I'm really sorry. Our chairman has also arranged to inspect the normal work of the factory tomorrow and the next two days, so I really can't spare the time to meet with you. I understand, but I I still hope that I can hand this cooperation plan to him in person to show my sincerity. Our chairman has made a special statement and we must not neglect Zhang Te's help. As for the part of the plan, we will have to wait until we and the marketing department study it together. I can make a decision and I will give you a satisfactory answer when the time comes. Sorry to trouble you. Sorry, I can't visit Chairman Yang in person. Please be sure to convey to me, as a junior, my determination to sincerely ask for help. I didn't expect Ye Lin to be so beautiful. Yes, I heard that she got her master's degree half a year early. The chairman loves her so much. Now that she is back, sooner or later, she will hand over the company to her. Yes, chairman, hello, you have expected it. Mr. Zhang, don't give up your attitude of having to see you easily. He is well- known in the business world at a young age and naturally has his own merits. Just tell me how to handle it. It's Mr. Zhang, this is you. She is very good at checking out the information you want and she is very detailed. What about the other one? Have you found the person you are looking for? Mr. Zhang, Mr. Zhang, the clues you gave me are too few. Don't be anxious. As long as I have clues, I will tell you right away. Thank you, let's go. It's time to go, silly girl. Do I still have a chance to meet you? I want to see you and thank you in person. What should I do? There's still so much left. Who's here again? Who is scolding me? I really hope the boss is willing to lend me money from my It will be deducted from your salary. Don't worry, I will definitely reserve a seat for you. Boss Yu Fei, I told you that the pet dating business you launched was very popular and many customers rushed to sign up. That's great. I was just thinking about this. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, let me criticize you, sit, sit, sit, boss , sit, sit, sit . Yu Fei has gotten a lot more business since you came to this store. I know you have a way with animals. He is also very good at dealing with customers. Thank you boss, just say that witch. If you weren't so angry with her, she wouldn't come to our store to buy things all day long. Is it just to talk to you? I don't have that much thought. I just don't want to talk to others. It's just a fight. It's just a fight with others. All in all, I must take good care of a business-minded employee like you, so I made a decision. Starting from next month, I will promote you to the store manager and give you a monthly salary of 3,000. Why are you unhappy? You are not the boss. You think so highly of me and it scares me. You have to have confidence in yourself. You are a capable person and you will be successful if you work hard. I don't want the shoes anymore. I will return the shoes to Ye Lin today. P What's the drawing competition? Mom, please wake up quickly. Even if I have to be a useless person for the rest of my life, I'm willing to do it. Xiaofei, mom, did n't you just say you come to me if you have something? Yu Fei is fine. Wait until I think of it and tell the boss. Hello, you. Good boss, help us Jiajia, come and take a bath. Come on, please, please, please. This is Ye Lin saying that her family is going to live in England. She wanted to keep this as a souvenir for me, so I took it. I'm back, Mom, what's wrong? Are you feeling uncomfortable? I'm fine. I'm just fine. Why is my chest tight? From next month, I will promote you to the store manager and give you a monthly salary of 3,000. I will take you to the hospital. No need . Mom, I'm worried about your body. If you are really worried about my body, don't stop. Drawing these made me angry. Mom, I just saw these beautiful shoes in the window. I just drew them casually. I told you I don't like you drawing, especially drawing shoes. Why? Others say I am very talented. I can be used as a gift for this thing. Do you want to eat? Look, your uncle was also told by others that he was talented, but it turned out that these words killed him and he has accomplished nothing until now. So I would rather you live peacefully and stop thinking wildly. I understand. I forgive you. I have to do this because I'm really afraid that your talent in this area will have anything to do with the Yang family. Uncle Hu, you have to remember that your hands should be in a bow shape and the palms of your hands are hollow. Pat Mother Hu like this so she won't hurt me. I'll demonstrate it to you once. It looks like this. Doctor, I'm really sorry. It's okay. It's okay. Just take it overnight and wash it. Come on, Mom, is it more comfortable like this? You have to remember. You have to remember that your hands are in an arch shape and the palms are empty. You have to remember to pat like this. I have never seen such a stupid patient and his family members have taught him several times and he still can't teach him well. If it weren't for fear of affecting his attendance, I would really want to curse Dr. Xia. Do you want me to help you? No, I can do it myself. You can tell me what to do. You are so polite. You are so dirty just for the sake of the patients. By the way, the hospital is right recently. The hospital is promoting one of you resident doctors to be the chief physician. You must have heard some rumors. I heard that everyone said that he will definitely do it. You are the one who said that. Other doctors are also very good. A doctor like you who cares about the disease and takes care of the patient will not be promoted. Who will you be promoted to? Brother Yuyang, congratulations to you. Why? I know you changed your schedule for me because I am afraid that you will be hungry. I specially bought some snacks, come here, come here, let's eat together. I prepared a lot. This box is strawberry flavor. You're welcome. This box is Yinli flavor. It's very expensive. Head nurse, do you want a piece? You don't want it. I would be embarrassed if you came with me like this in front of so many people. Ever since fate arranged for us to meet last time, I knew that this day would come. When did you say when to meet your parents? We have to catch up. I told you that I have. Girlfriend, can you please be more clear-headed? But my aunt has also explained that Yu Fei is not your girlfriend. Don't worry, I am not such a mean person. Everyone has the right to make friends before marriage. As long as you make it clear to Yu Fei, I will It's Liu Xiaohui who doesn't care. No matter how you please my mother, I can't like your brother Yuyang. If you reject me, you will regret it. Do n't you want a promotion? I can help you. I can help. I'm sorry. I want to rely on you. I don't want to show off my wealth in front of me. Brother Yuyang, Brother Yuyang, Brother Yuyang, it seems that I can dance well. Let's go shopping for a while. When we are tired, let's eat. Think about what to eat. I have to eat well this time. Why are you walking here again? There's a long way to go from the school entrance. I'm used to you walking this way as soon as I leave the kitchen. I don't even understand why you love watching that little girl dance so much. Come on, let's go quickly. Okay, let's go, hello. Is Aunt Ming here? She asked for leave and just left. Thank you, uncle. What should I do with the account? There is still so much money to pay. Please come out. Liu Xiaohui, I beg you. I have a very important time during this time. Things need to be dealt with. Don't bother me anymore. I thank you. I can't help it. I want to negotiate with you. I want to talk to you. I want to talk to you. Do you hear me? Yu Fei, please give me a price. How much do you want to let Yu go? Brother Yang's emotional affairs are about your love. I'm willing to spend money. You stop, at least kick your eyesore away first. As long as I don't have you, sooner or later, Brother Yu Yang will choose me. Brother Yu Yang will choose me. Don't think so. I don't know that you've been borrowing money from others everywhere recently. Seriously, instead of bowing down to others, why don't you drive back with me and I'll give it to you? Wouldn't it be great if you crawled and I gave it to you? I advise you to give up as soon as possible. Do you deserve it? Brother Yuyang, you are not worthy of Brother Yuyang, who has no money, no education, no background, no money, no education, no status, no background. Even if it weren't for me, sooner or later, Brother Yuyang would dump you. Brother Yuyang will dump you too. What are you doing? What are you doing? I don't even feel sorry for you if you throw it away like this humble bag of dog food. Liu Xiaohui, don't go too far. Is it important to have money? You can humiliate people if you have money. In addition to giving you a vulgar body, what else can money give you? Yes, I don't have money, but I will never give up my feelings because of money. If you have the ability, you can make Yu Yang like you. Then you don't have to spend any money. I just don't. I am convinced of such an ordinary woman like you. Your mother is still a vegetable aunt. Why does Brother Yuyang like you? Liu Xiaohui, are you embarrassed or not? You are so old, but you still do things like when you were a child. I tell you, even a passerby like me can see it. It turns out that Yu Fei is better than you. Yu Fei is better than you. If that person named Yu Yang really chooses you, that would be unconvincing. Who are you? Do I know you? Fifteen years ago, you were not convinced that I danced better than you. How are you? I dance better than you. Do you want to compete now? Ye Lin. You saved me fifteen years ago and now I'm giving it back to you. You're back. You're back. You're back. Finally you're back. Great. So happy. So good. I'm so happy. You haven't left yet. Do you really want us to join forces again? I'm so happy. How are you doing? How are you doing? You're so timid. You were not afraid before. Now you are. Being bullied by her, I just don't want to quarrel with her. Too happy, just sit down and I'll call you. He will be very happy to see you. Good grandpa, grandpa, grandpa, why don't you arrange for such a dirty child to come over? Drive her away, hurry up, I'm sorry, I will work for my uncle. Dad, if you have something to say, why bother taking out your temper on this child? It's so dark and raining. It's so dark and raining. It's not dangerous for you to walk back by yourself. You will be sick. Besides, you are also my invited guest. I should send you back. Is Yu Fei really you? Is it really you? Grandpa, look at you, I don't even recognize this child after so many years. Grandpa, you are the same as before. I haven't changed at all. I haven't changed at all. Come on, sit down, sit down, sit down. This child has been there three times in a row. But Mr. Yang refuses to see you no matter what. I never imagined that there are seniors in the world who want to see you but don't. There are also people in this world who I don't want to see, but I have to see them. Who is it that makes seniors so embarrassed? I rarely look at you like this. It seems that there is a lot of news. It must not be a business matter, because even Director Liu If I stabbed you to the point of jumping off a building and you were still calm and collected, then it must be an emotional matter. It must be an emotional matter. You acquiesced, senior, and I have been with you for so long. I have never heard you like anyone. Sometimes I still I wonder if you have fallen in love with me. Do you want to play ball? Just be honest. Is that unknown past of yours caused you to be too deeply hurt or did you give up watching football all the time? This is to remind you that there is something wrong with you. When you talk too much, you have to pay a heavy price for picking up the ball. It's my fault. Little Miss, Little Miss, are you going to the branch? Yes, wait a minute. I'll bring the car over. No need. I can just go by myself. But the chairman, he But if Secretary Gao goes out with you, I will only be served well. It doesn't help me at all. Just let me go by myself. Okay, I understand. I will tell the chairman now. By the way, you can just call me Ye Lin from now on. Don't call me little miss anymore. You are much taller than me in terms of position. Okay, I know. I'll go first. Goodbye, Miss Ye. Hello, it's you. I am Zhang Hefan, special assistant to the chairman of Yuanfan Group Zhang Jianjun. You are Yuanfan. People in the group, what can I have? Two cups of coffee. One cup without half sugar and one cup without milk. Okay. Please wait a moment. We were only together for twenty-one days in the summer three years ago. Do you still remember that I like half sugar and half milk? Sorry, it was me in the past. The bad things are over, right? Have you found those eyes? Have you found them? Back then you said my eyes were very beautiful, very much like you looking for a long-term friend. I should have become aware at that time, but I was still stupid. I am deeply invested, but I still invested stupidly. I only know a person named Lawrence. Teresa, please call me Ye Lin. That name has passed with that relationship. Do n't worry, I'm fine. Let's go straight to the topic. The purpose of you looking for me is our company. I really sincerely want to cooperate with Anzheng Group, so I hope you can persuade the chairman to not miss this excellent business opportunity because of his prejudice against me and my father . At least we should sit down and have a good talk. As soon as we talked, you already knew Grandpa's personality very well. Are you still unwilling to give up? Or are you still unwilling to give up? You will never give up until the end. You will never give up until the end. Just like you did to that girl, and that girl is the same. Lin, I don't want my appearance to make you misunderstand that I want to take advantage of your past friendship. I'm sorry, I shouldn't have come to you. Mr. Zhang, I've already read your plan. It's really good from the company's perspective. I should cooperate with you, but will my grandpa be willing to see you just because I said these things? I'm not sure. Just wait for my news. I'm sorry. I'm fine. I'm sorry. Your eyes look like an old friend of mine. What did I do wrong? Why should I do this? You're not wrong to break up with me. What's wrong is that I am. I'm too selfish. I shouldn't. I shouldn't look for her shadow in you because your eyes look like hers. So I'm just a substitute, right? You've never loved me, right? Right, Teresa? I'm sorry. Let's stop here. While you still don't love deeply, while I'm still sensible, how do you know that I don't love deeply? How do you know? How do you know? How do you know? I'm sorry. Why? What should I do? There's not enough money No, no, you must not borrow money from Ye Lin. Little Pig will find a way, right? We will definitely find a way. Let's go. Why don't you, it's such a rare thing, come here in person. Little Pig, go for a walk and you'll be back soon to ask for it. I'll call the little girl Chuan who went out. They should come back early. Let's take it slow . Okay, okay, you can watch as you like. The boss is back. Yu Fei is Xiaozhu's boss. Do you know that today, Xiaozhu learned a new trick? Following the dance last time After the dragon dance and the lion shook its head, it was even more powerful today. It was even more powerful today. First it was picking onions on dry ground, and then it was doing backflips for two and a half weeks. Do you think it is very powerful? Boss, are you okay? Boss, are you okay? What's wrong with your hands? Why are your hands shaking all the time? Are you sick? Are you sick? Why are your eyes still blinking? Should you go to the hospital? Should you go to the hospital? My boyfriend But I said that this is a sign of a stroke. By coincidence, we met again when the owner of the little piggy Yu Ji was there. I didn't expect you to be the pet shop clerk who secretly taught the little piggy tricks without telling the owner. I shook hands and fell to the ground pretending to be dead. I could barely bear it, but It's like dragon and lion dance. It even reverses in the air. This is a bit too much. How can I survive? Please clarify for me. I am sending it to a pet shop to bathe and walk, not to a training center to learn skills. I tell you that as smart as it is, I I don't understand why you have to raise it like a pig. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, she's joking. Yu Fei, what's wrong with you? You hate Liu Xiaohui the most, but he's still doing well. It's so disgusting, boss. You don't know that there are so many things that have happened between me and him. I'm sorry, we don't have any personal grudges. No matter what misunderstandings you had about me before, please remember clearly to me that I didn't raise it to learn some tricks to please people. Then why didn't you think of that? When you named it the Three Little Pigs, that name made people laugh even more. Did you know that it was as smart as a five-year-old child, like a five-year-old child every time someone made fun of it? It will always have low self-esteem and lack of confidence. You, as its owner, do you know that I teach it these tricks not to make it please others but to improve its self-confidence? Do you understand? It is my freedom to choose a name for it. It is none of your business. It's none of your business. Employees like you who don't know how to respect customers seem to me to think carefully about whether to change the pet store. Don't threaten me with this matter. I tell you that if you are not a customer now, the biggest thing is to quit. The worst thing is that I will resign. Yu Fei, please speak up. Why are you doing this? Boss, this thing is my fault. This thing is my fault. I already had a reason to resign. Now it just strengthens my determination. I don't want to embarrass you. Strawberry people, what are you talking about? Strawberry people are like you, people who think they are beautiful but will rot when touched and have no ability to withstand stress. I tell you, if I were a strawberry, then you would be a durian. How many stores have you visited these days? How's it going? It's not bad. By the way, grandpa, you said that you would like to invite some acquaintances to your house for a casual meal on the day when your parents come back. I would like to invite Yu Fei. What do you think? Of course it's good. It seems that grandpa likes Yu Fei very much. The ancients said that it is a good idea. Her eyes are so beautiful. Looking at her big, clear and bright eyes, I know she is a good, upright and kind-hearted child. Grandpa, what can you see in my eyes? I can see that you are absent-minded and looking for an opportunity to speak to me. What should I say? Originally, I wanted to visit all the branches tomorrow and chat with my grandpa. It's not bad these days. Let's talk about Yuanfan Group's plan. I have already seen it. I think their proposal is indeed feasible. Let's talk about it. Now in the city. As the white-collar class increases, the consumer market cannot be underestimated. If Anzheng is willing to develop in this market, just like many major international brands setting up sub-brands, I believe it will not affect the purchase intention of our Anzheng consumer group, and it will definitely affect the growth of our company's performance. It is helpful. Your idea coincides with that of some people in the company. But even if we really want to develop this market, we can choose other companies without having to cooperate with Zhang and his son. Grandpa, I understand your concerns, but there are many in the mall. You have to be a thoughtful person. Today we can dodge them. Tomorrow we won't be able to dodge others. Grandpa, just take this time as an opportunity to train me. Let you teach me how to deal with these people. Xiaolin, you are so trying to make this happen. Is there any other reason behind the matter? Grandpa, please rest assured that I am completely considering the issue in the interests of the company. Of course, everything depends on the terms of cooperation between each other first, but no matter what, let me listen to what they have to say first. Listen to you, if we meet him, will he have a bad face or a bad mouth ? What does durian mean ? Think about it for yourself. I will never praise you as the king of fruits, right? Every girl I know has met him. You are either fascinated by you or frightened by your coldness. But she is the only one in this pet shop who actually doesn't take you seriously and scolds you three times in a row. I don't understand. It's a pity that she has resigned now. Otherwise, I have to go to her and ask for an autograph to feed Mr. Zhang. My grandfather has promised to meet you, but it is still undecided whether it will happen. Do n't worry, I will do my best to show my sincerity. No matter what Is this thing going to work ? Thank you for helping me with this business. There is nothing to thank you for. Maybe you will regret it after hearing my conditions. Thank you. As long as I am willing to talk, it will be good. Let's start. I will be at my house on time. Goodbye. The call from Miss Ye said that Director Yang has agreed to meet the senior. Congratulations, senior. Congratulations, senior. It seems that the charm of the senior has been restored to Miss Ye. Remember, business and love are two different things. Don't confuse them. You know, I'm a fool, Uncle Xiaofei. Yu Qiang is a big idiot. I'm looking for a day job and I can't figure out why. You're so stupid. Uncle, I've raised 20,000 yuan here. I've raised 20,000 yuan here. Oh my god, where did you raise so much money? Just leave it alone. Tomorrow I will give them 20,000 yuan and the rest will be asked for a few days of grace. Then you don't have to worry. Xiaofei, thank you. But it should be me who goes. No, I'm afraid they will embarrass you. Look, you said it as if they don't. It's no good even if I'm going to embarrass you. I can't drag you down anymore. At worst, I'll let them beat me up again. Anyway, I've been a group actor all my life and nothing else is good. I can withstand beatings. Uncle, don't advise me. I'm responsible for the consequences. I have to do something myself. If you really want to do something, just promise me something. You said you should stop putting your band-aids on your eyebrows. That would really be unlucky, haven't you? My uncle did it for me back then. You gave up a great opportunity about my mother's illness. You didn't even complain about anything. It's been so long. Don't mention it. I know what you care about most is that my mother and I asked you to exchange success and fame for this family affection. You would never I'm happy, so I'm the same as you, so don't say anything to drag me down. My niece helps my uncle. It's natural for sheep to eat grass. Sheep eat grass. In the previous life, you were a sheep and I was grass. You ate me, so God has mercy. I feel that I have done good deeds and given me such a good niece. Is it something like that? I'm going tomorrow. Don't argue with me. Mom, why are you coming back so late? There is a large-scale event in school tomorrow and there is a lot to prepare for. By the way, Yu Qiang, you have tomorrow. Go to school and help me. Shall I go? What's the matter? Are you in trouble? Mom, uncle, is he afraid that his eyebrows will frighten the children? Should I go with you ? Are you still allowed to go to work tomorrow? I resigned. Why didn't you say you would do it in the first two days? She must be very happy, so just quit her job. Anyway, I can't stand the stench every time I come back. Is there any job that will smell good after you finish it? Tell me, I sell perfume and sesame oil. Come on, right? It's just your uncle who doesn't. It's only because you are a good example that you, my niece, ca n't do anything. Tell me what kind of job you do. Don't talk about your sister who has been working for more than a year. In fact, she is doing it for her uncle. It's not my own fault. I'm always unsure of you. Don't explain to me anymore, Xiaofei, Yuyang's mother won't let you open your mouth and stretch out your hands. Besides, a woman must have a job of her own. That way, when she gets to her husband's house, she can have a strong waist and won't be looked down upon by others. I know that I am I will look for a job again. I will also look for a job. I'm tired. I'm going to rest first. I'm sorry. It's okay. I'm happy. I don't know how the conversation went with my uncle. Xiao Fei, hurry up. There are still many things to be warned about. Sister Wang, the soup is ready. It's not here. Come on, be careful. Mom, the child is burned. Is it okay? Mom, are you okay ? Are you burned? It's okay, just burn it. I'll rinse it with cold water and it'll be fine. It's okay. It's okay. Hurry up. It's really okay. It's just a little burn. There are so many people and such a big scene today. We didn't make any mistakes. Mom, are you tired? I've been busy all day. I'm a little tired. I'll give you a hand. Does it still hurt when I go home? My hand is fine. I was occasionally bitten by a dog when I was working in a pet store. It's much more serious than this. It's fine. I'm here. I've been in the kitchen all my life. I know better than anyone how to guard against such danger. Don't pounce on me again. You know, Mom, you've been tired for a long day. It's been a hard day. Otherwise, I'll rub your shoulders again. I learned something new last time. This is a trick that I think is very useful. Mom, what are you looking at? Go in and see, Mom, what do you think of men's clothes? This suit is good. Let's buy this suit for Yuyang. It's a gift to celebrate him becoming the chief physician, right? Miss. How much does the suit cost? It's 3,000 yuan off. Why is it so expensive after 3,000 yuan discount? Mom, I think it's better to forget it. Don't buy it. No, you have to buy it. I'll go get the money. I'll put it aside for a while. Isn't that true? It's too expensive. There 's no need. Mom, forget it. Mom, there's really no need. No, no, no, I have to buy it. Thank you for coming. Please go slowly. Xiaohui, I really cost you money today. I bought so many things for Yu Yang. Do n't say that for Brother Yu Yang. It's as it should be. You're so polite, Xiao Hui. Regarding that matter about Yu Yang's promotion, Auntie, don't worry. The director is a very good friend of my dad. As long as I tell my dad that Brother Yu Yang is the person I want to marry, that's all. There's no problem. Mom, let's go back and let him try on these clothes. Why is it you? Yu Yang's mother. What a coincidence. You guys are also here to go shopping. Yu Fei and I are planning to buy a suit for Yu Yang. Don't bother me, Brother Yu Yang. I have bought all the clothes from head to toe. I have bought them all. You want me to introduce you. This is Xiaohui. She is the future marriage partner of Ning Yang in our family. She is also the only daughter-in-law I recognize as Mayu. Yang, he doesn't know about this. I'll explain it to you later when I go back. As the saying goes, it's better to choose a day than to hit it. I think we should take this opportunity today to make it clear. I will never let Yu Yang marry Yu Fei. I think you should talk to your daughter about your intention to let her die as soon as possible. Young people's feelings are not something we, the elders, can have the final say on. Let's not get involved and let them decide for themselves. Of course you want to be high-ranking, so of course you say so. I, a mother, must consider my son. Yu Yang's mother, when Yu Yang was admitted to medical school, you came to lend me money to pay his tuition. That's not what you said. You said that as long as the two of them were interesting, you wouldn't. If you are against it, please stop using the past to weigh me down. The medical expenses our family Yuyang has given you over the years have even covered the money. Maybe there is still some surplus. That's right, you mother and daughter are clinging to Brother Yuyang and won't let go. Do you want to live a good life in the future? Just tell me how much money you want and I will give it to you. Liu Xiaohui, how many times have I told you that relationships cannot be bought with money. I said yes, it is okay. There is no money in the world to buy it. Can you afford the promise and trustworthiness of this couple if you don't have enough money? Let me tell you, if Yuyang betrays us for money, he will also turn against you when he meets a rich girl with more money. You are ruthless, take care of your own daughter. When the time comes, I will end up having an illegitimate child like you, and you will blame us. Mother Xia, my mother worked hard to raise me. Her dedication to me is no more than what you did to Yu Yang. You don't have to like me, but please don't humiliate me. I can tolerate whatever my mother says, but I can't if it hurts you. Xiaofei, look at what this looks like. You're so rude to your elders. Just because of that, I can't. Let our family Yuyang marry her Xiaohui, let's leave. Mom, I'm sorry because I have wronged you because of my affairs. Back then, I exchanged the two children. I thought that when Manping's child was tortured for his life experience, it would give me the pleasure of revenge. Who? I know that the pain in my heart is the same, but it's me who should say I'm sorry. It's me who gave you such a small mistake in life. Don't worry, even if it takes everything from me, I will return you a piece of happiness. Mom, please don't say this. I feel even more guilty because there is no one at home, no one is leaving, and you still act? Didn't the little girl agree to pay back the money today? Oh, can you please go out? My mother is not in good health. Don't mess around with us. We can't hurt our family. What kind of business? This old boy cheated us out of fifty thousand yuan. For fifty thousand yuan, the little girl said help. He still only sent 20,000 yuan. What are you talking about? Didn't you say it was 5,000 yuan? Why did it become 50,000 yuan ? Yu Qiang, your brother is not living up to expectations. In a moment, you will close the door and come to beat or scold. That's your family matter. I don't care. No, but before that, why don't we pay back our money? What happened? Nerd, help me. I won't pay him back a dime of the money he owes you. If you have the skills, skin him alive. Don't be embarrassed. Mom, mother and daughter, please stop talking about how many problems we have helped him solve for so many years. I can't say anything this time. I can't say anything. Aunt Ming, what's wrong? Sister, get the medicine. Sister, is everything okay? Don't pretend to be dead. Don't think this is the case. Just don't pay back the money. What else are you thinking? You have to force someone to die. I beg you to get out of here. Mom, are you okay? Mom, take a deep breath. It's okay. It's okay. I'll give you one more day. Why don't you hurry up? Come on! Come on! Mom. I think it's better for you to call an ambulance first. Sister Gungun, I'm sorry, Yu Yang, my mom, is she okay? She hasn't had asthma in all these years. She should be okay now. It should be okay now. Relax, Aunt Ming. What's okay? Nerd, you'll be fine later. What should I do if she gets sick again after leaving? Sister, let's go to the hospital, okay? If I don't want you to leave, it will be fine. Get away. I don't want to see your mother again. Stop being like this. Xiaofei, stop talking. It's all my fault. I deserve to be taken care of. Mom, sister, please don't be angry. Your health is important. Uncle Qiang, Uncle Qiang, Uncle Qiang, everything is okay. How did Yu Yang and Yu Fei find my uncle? I've searched all over and found no one. Where will he go? He doesn't have a penny on him. No. I have to look for him again. Yu Fei, Yu Fei, what will happen if you find Uncle Qiang? Even if you find him, he will feel very shameless and won't come back with you. You might as well let him calm down outside and explain to her. What you said is not wrong. Uncle Qiang should be punished. Yuyang, do you know who you are talking about now? He is my uncle. He is the person who loves me most since childhood. Without him, there would be no me. Do you know that I only know that you have always been there before? I'm helping him. Without you, there would be no him. I don't want to tell you this now. I'm going to find my uncle Yu Fei now. Don't stop me. I'm thinking about you. If you continue to control it like this, it will be in danger. You are too selfish to say this. Okay, it's selfish of me, but to me, you are the person I care about the most. I don't care so much about other people. According to your opinion, should I give up family ties for money? Then will you give up our relationship because of money? Where are your feelings? It's impossible. Where did you go? But it has already happened. Liu Xiaohui paid me to give up on you more than once. This afternoon, your mother even insulted my mother in public. Do you know that if it weren't for the stimulation of this series of things, my mother would She won't have an asthma attack. It's because of this that I apologized to Aunt Ming. Don't take it to heart, Mom. Can you? Since we were young, the two of us have suffered a lot for money because our family was poor, especially since I studied in an aristocratic school. I've seen other people's faces. It's you who helped me all the way so that I can survive until now. Do you know that, so I promised myself that I will only be good to you in this life because only you are the only one worthy of me doing this. But Yuyang Yufei, do n't worry about the future. Everything will be different when I become famous, Yu Fei. This is the second time I see Yu Fei being bullied by Liu Xiaohui. I never thought that money can hurt people so much. Now I can finally understand why Aunt Ming was so against me and me. Yu Fei has made friends with people who have no money. They have been humiliated because of money. Why don't rich people worry about money? Xiaolin takes this opportunity to remind you that the people who are close to you are doing it for your property or for your property? The question of sincere dealings with you will eventually become a question that you ca n't get rid of in your life. Grandpa, this is how I came here. I know, Grandpa, I understand what you mean. Miss Ye Lin, someone came to see you. Is it Mr. Zhang? Isn't it Miss Yu? I'm sorry. I came to you to discuss it because I had no other choice. I want to ask you to borrow some money. How much do you need? 30,000 to 30,000. Okay. I don't have any cash with me right now. I'll finish things in a while and we can go get it together, okay? Do n't you even ask? Why did I say that this is important? This is very important. We met just a few decades ago. Yadao, you don't worry that I have bad intentions or that I simply do n't have the ability to pay you back? You ask this because you think I am You don't have the ability to judge or have confidence in yourself. If you were that kind of person, you wouldn't have hesitated over whether to accept a pair of shoes from me. Nor would you have refused without hesitation when my mother wanted to give you money. I know many people. You will change your character when you grow up, but I know you don't. Why can you be so sure of a person who will defend his feelings and defend his mother's dignity to the death? What reason do I have to not believe it? I'm sorry. I didn't know what happened to you and Aunt Ming yesterday. I saw that I wanted to come forward, but I was afraid that instead of helping you, I would harm you. Great, thank you. Ye Lin, thank you so much. If there is any place where I need my help in the future, I will be able to do it. No matter if it is Dao Shan Xia Huo Ye, I will definitely be willing. It's really embarrassing for me to go to the police. Where can I go? On mountains of knives and seas of fire. Anyway, thank you. It's great. Okay. Okay. I can't breathe. I can't breathe. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Director After long tea, I opened the door and made an appointment. Is it inconvenient for me to be here? It does n't matter. Chairman Mr. Zhang is here. Chairman Yang, Chairman Yang, why is it you again? Why is it you again? You guys know each other. Grandpa doesn't know me. But We're familiar, but who are we? Chairman Yang, this Miss Yu and I had a little misunderstanding before. I'm sorry, grandpa, because he has accumulated too many personal grudges with this person before, so he is a little emotional. So I'm a little excited, but I don't want to affect the business discussion between you two. Yu Fei, you go upstairs and wait for me. Yu Fei, you go upstairs and wait for me for a while. I will come over to your grandpa. I'll go up first for a while. Chairman Yang, for me. My misunderstanding with Miss Yu, I still hope that I can make peace with you. I still hope that I can make peace with you. Mr. Yu Fei is a very kind child. I have never seen her treat others like this. This is really strange today. I would like to hear what she said to you. As for business matters, we can talk about them later. It's not that urgent. You said, our company still hopes to cooperate with Anzheng Group, but because of Hefan's poor handling of things, you misunderstood and you misunderstood. I apologize again. Come visit you again in a few days. Slow walking is a calm young man. Grandpa, grandpa, grandpa, grandpa, what's the matter with you? Grandpa, grandpa, how are you? Grandpa Yu Fei, don't panic. Lie down quickly. What's going on? Grandpa, grandpa, Zhang, Ma. Here comes the medicine, grandpa, grandpa, hold on, grandpa, just hold on, we're almost there, grandpa, just hold on, we're almost there. What's going on? O, what should I do? Grandpa's face is getting uglier. Grandpa, hold on, be careful with Yu Fei. Come on, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Uncle Li in bed 6 will arrange a physical examination tomorrow. Mother Lin in bed 7 Please ask the nurse to pay more attention to her condition and be careful when walking. Do n't pay attention to him. Who doesn't know that he is deliberately trying to be promoted to chief physician, but there is no hope without you. I think he is jealous. It's okay. He shouldn't be that kind of person. You just walk and watch. A little casually, it's Shishibao. The dean and the leaders are very panicked. It seems like something happened. I heard that some important person is sick. They should rush to deal with it. Let's go. According to the computer tomography data, Chairman Yang Is it an acute myocardial infarction? Does a myocardial infarction require surgery? Mr. Yang is already old and I'm afraid he won't be able to withstand the pain. Fortunately, it was handled properly and the myocardial function has not been damaged. Currently, he only needs to be treated with thrombolytic agents. Please ask Ms. Ye. Don't worry, we will do our best to save Chairman Yang. Thank you everyone. Wear the air conditioner. It doesn't matter. Now the only person your grandpa can rely on is you. What will happen to him if you fall?