I feel like growing up in Dublin if that makes sense. Because there's a new Irish or Nigerian and Irish as well. So, I Dublin is famous for its pubs, live But how do young Dubliners feel about their city? Meet Tobias, a 23-year-old intern, Today, he'll be giving us a I still live with my family and there's I have a sister, I have a little brother I just realized I'm quite tall. So I'm going to bring you guys up One day, when I'm working full time and me and my partner, we're saving Dublin, we might rent in Dublin, who knows? Recent studies have determined that the average age Irish adults move out Morning guys! This is my car, I call her Pearl. you'll see this very noticeable &quot;L&quot; licensed driver at the moment. currently have my driving test day booked But of course, you know, it's not for everyone. You don't have to drive, especially live like 40 minutes from the city center, This is more so for getting to parties or events In Ireland, teenagers can get But public transportation is On his way to the bus stop, Tobias Get a nice rock like this, you tilt it it bounces off... let's see what we can do. Well, you know! I think, you can come here to clear like... it's a 5-minute walk from my house. And of course, it's a very Anytime you go on to a different street on the the bus station in Irish and in English. About 40% of people in but proficiency drops significantly after age 18. Tobias learned Irish in school Working at RTE, the national broadcaster, he's Like, I was raised with Irish, it's my I'd say 90% or so of my friends Wherever I go, any group I'm with, I always find Irish and know about the history and all. but it definitely is growing. When you see so much It's starting to make a comeback essentially. And that's obviously great to see because you You don't want it to be just lost That phrase &quot;Tir gan teanga, tir gan anam.&quot; &quot;A country without its language is a Tobias is an intern in RTE's commercial video editing and other creative projects. But right now, it's time for lunch. Turkey and potatoes for EUR7.95. I'm It's quite interesting because usually, I don't because my mom probably made something But you guys actually live alone in accommodation, so it's competing for fridge space and I always have a bit of almost like resentment for when people live at home and Over 60% of 18 to 29-year-olds cost of living are their biggest concerns. I have to say I love going out in Dublin. Of course, you can't talk about it without it's entry into a club or a bar, especially Sometimes it's annoying always having but that's just the way it is. I just maybe don't do it as Irish people drink, you know, in primary But it kind of does happen quite early on. So I don't know. rite of passage just to even socialize here. if you haven't drunk with a person, you might The legal drinking age in Ireland is young Irish drinkers is beer. friend Leon for a pint - the two are We founded the organization four years We saw a massive movement kicking off anti-Black racism, but it was very US centric. to talk about the Black experience here. that we see in Ireland is the &quot;where are &quot;no, where are you really from?&quot; there. And it's like, no, come on. You don't have to tell me that you're Irish, like it's that's something that's a microaggression It does make you feel like you have even though like this may be all you know, There are eight members of In Ireland, over 67,000 people identify as Black or Black Irish -- a number Being Irish doesn't mean you have It doesn't mean you have to be just born you can be Irish if you are a part of In 2022, 7 in 10 Irish people moving abroad for a better quality of life. Ireland is a good country They have good hearts, they are good I might be in Ireland, I might be in America, I don't know. I'll be doing something