Hey there, guys, Paul here In this video, we are gonna be looking at how a thermostatic expansion valve works. We'll be covering which refrigerator where to locate them in the system, what the valves look like, what's inside them, how they work, and what happens if they fail. Now, I just want to say to Danfoss for sponsoring this video. Danfoss have so many that work in the air conditioning If you're watching this that you need high-quality on a regular basis. And you should definitely look Their line of products are delivering exceptional as well as a wide capacity You can find out more about the Danfoss in the video description below, or by visiting TXV or Danfoss.com. The thermostatic expansion and called just thermal expansion valve, but both of these names are a bit long, and engineers like to find shortcuts, so they'll often just or even sometimes, just TEV, depending on where in the world you are. I've always known it as the TXV, so I'm going to refer to So, where do we find the TXV? Well, the thermostatic expansion valves are used in many refrigeration systems, everything from simple split units all the way up to big chillers. Small refrigeration units, such typically wouldn't use a valve, instead, they would use a but we'll look at that in another video. Now, it doesn't matter which type of expansion device is used, it can all be found in the same location, which is just before the evaporator. Now, there are a lot of different designs for this valve out there, I've just got some In fact, let's show you So, this is the setup for an and it has two expansion valves because it has a large cooling coil. The valve sits on the outside of the AHU at the evaporator entrance, and it meters the We'll have a look at exactly But you can see here the capillary tube runs from the powerhead all the way down to the sensing bulb, which is located at the evaporator exit, and that is measuring the So, let's just look at the main components inside the thermostatic expansion valve, and then we'll have a look at how the expansion valve works and why. If we pull apart the then we're going to see the the valve body, which holds the components and has an orifice inside to control the flow of refrigerant, then we have the diaphragm, which is a strong, thin, flexible which flexes to apply pressure, then we have the needle or pin and seat, this moves up and down to restrict the refrigerant's flow path, the spring which counteracts and we've also got the sensing which causes the valve to open or close. As you can imagine, there are a lot of for how these valves work. I'm just going to stick with to help you understand the So, how does it work? Well, as we saw in the real-world example, the valve sits just before the evaporator and holds back the high from the condenser and can pass into the evaporator. The valve decreases the pressure to allow the refrigerant to For example, we're used to water boiling at around 100 degrees Celsius, That's because most of so the air around us is compressed by all the weight of However, if we went higher say to the top of Mount Everest, then we would find that the water boils at only 70 degrees Celsius, And that's because we're higher up, so there's less atmosphere above us to push down on the water, The boiling is essential for as it will reabsorb the and carry this away to the compressor. Also, just remember that the refrigerant has a much lower boiling point than water. The high-pressure liquid is which causes a pressure reduction, and as it passes through here, and the rest will remain as liquid. It's similar to water bottle spray nozzle. As you pull the trigger, is forced through the small orifice into a much lower pressurized atmosphere. This causes the water to become This mixture of liquid-vapor refrigerant is sprayed into the evaporator, where it will absorb heat which surrounds the pipe. In this example, the fan is blowing air As the refrigerant passes and is exposed to more thermal energy, it will cause it to undergo and will then become a saturated vapor towards the end of the evaporator coil. During this change, there will be little to because of the latent heat, and instead, it will increase The refrigerant will continue and when it does this after it will then start to This superheats the refrigerant vapor, and the sensing bulb is monitoring this temperature So, let's have a look at an example. Let's say the cooling load increases, this will cause more and the superheat will increase, causing the refrigerant temperature to increase at the evaporator exit. We need to decrease the superheat, and we can do that by to flow into the evaporator. So, the pin will need to open more to let the refrigerant pass through. Inside the sensing bulb is a which is separated from and constrained in a closed system to the area of just the bulb, the capillary tube, and the powerhead. The sensing bulb detects which causes a small internal to also boil and evaporate. Because the refrigerant is it will cause the pressure to increase, and this pushes along the capillary tube up to the top of the expansion valve. This pushes down on the diaphragm, and that pushes down on the and allows more refrigerant The valve will adjust to so that the force on the diaphragm is greater than or equal pushing in the opposite direction. This allows the correct which decreases the superheat at the outlet, and the and equalizes it. If the cooling load then the superheat temperature will reduce. The sensing bulb will to reduce the refrigerant The refrigerant in the capillary then flows back towards the bulb and the main valve begins to close. The superheat temperature will also start to rise as this happens. Eventually, the valve equalizes out, and the correct amount of refrigerant will flow through to match Now, all of this happens automatically using this type of valve, There are other electronic which can provide even but we will look at that in a later video. So, what happens if the valve fails or the wrong superheat settings are used? Well, if the valve didn't it could let liquid refrigerant and into the compressor. Compressors hate this because liquids can't and so the compressor will (explosion). Well, maybe not to that extreme, but the liquid will damage it, so make sure the superheat Okay, that's it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. I also just want to say to our friends at Danfoss I'll just remind you to thermostatic expansion valves You can also find more information in the video description below. If you like this video then please don't forget to And if you have any questions, leave them in the comments section below. Also, don't forget to Instagram, and Twitter, TheEngineeringMindset.com.