If you've ever wanted to try to make intimidated by the process, well, because I have perfected the simplest It is such an easy recipe, Hey, everyone. and today we are going to be Now, I know sourdough can be very intimidating and sometimes very tested for, like, over six months now Now, before anyone goes off telling me that this is not how you do it, this technique. This is just my version. This is what my family loves, it works for But if you want a complicated one, There are so many different But if you want a simple version, So the first thing you want Now, if you don't know what a starter is, You can make your own, It takes close to a week, if not more, from the start to finish And you're not always guaranteed that it's going to turn out right, I've bought a few different brands, and so far my favorite one I'll make sure to link to that down below. It has been the best starter. It makes amazing bread. Now, before I show you how to feed You will need a kitchen scale. This is an absolute must. When making bread, you want very precise So this recipe makes one loaf. So for one loaf, you're going to need Just add it right into the cup or I just used a mason jar, and then you're And I keep my starter in the fridge, I took it out a little earlier, I made sure to warm up You don't want to go over 110 degrees. Add that right in, mix it up, give it a good, thorough mix, And then you want to mix And before I cover it, I always make sure to scrape down just so it's nice and clean, so you get And before I cover it up, I always It gives me a better idea. Like, it helps me gauge So once you've got your rubber band on there, you just want to cover it, for about 4-8 hours Now, depending on how warm or cold it is in your home will really change up the I like to speed it up a little bit it on the proof setting, If you don't have that setting, on and it just creates a little It just helps it rise a little bit faster. Once your sourdough starter has doubled in size, you will see that it's nice That's a good sign that it's ready to use. Now, you want to take out a large bowl, and then add 100 grams of that active Now, if you're off by a few grams, It's no big deal. Once you've got everything in there, you want to add 350 grams of warm Then you want to mix it And I like to use this tool to mix it up. It does a really good job, but if you don't have it, After the sourdough starter and water are all mixed up, you want to add 12 grams And once it's all combined, The dough will feel pretty wet at first, But after a while, it's going And I switched over to this scraper as best as possible, and it just All right. Once you don't see any more patches You want to cover the bowl with some plastic wrap or just a kitchen towel, The dough will look very rough and shaggy, It will continue changing Now, after the 30 minutes have gone by, this is where we start So to stretch the dough, you don't even All you got to do is just pull the top and then grab the left side, then grab the bottom and the sides, pull You did your four little pulls and stretches, and your dough is Now you want to cover it up again You want to repeat this step for a total I'm sorry, but you cannot skip this step. This is really important. As you stretch the dough, it builds the strength of the dough, And you will just see after every 30 minutes, once you stretch it, And it's just really important because it'll hold up its shape, and as it bakes, You're going to get those nice pockets of air, and it's going to have You just can't skip this. It's very, very important. Now, after you've stretched the dough for the 6th time, you want to give And this is where you can take Just transfer it onto a clean, work surface, and then you want to It doesn't matter how Just, I don't know, like, yay big. Once you've got the rectangle, and then you want to roll it up Once it's all rolled up, just kind of form the dough into a nice, At this point, your dough is ready And I use these baskets right here, and I'll make sure to link But if you don't want to buy a basket like this or you don't have one, I have a great Just get any kind of bowl that's And this is about eight inches in diameter, and it's about 3 3/4 inch tall, And all you got to do is use a kitchen And I recommend that the towel has kind I don't know why, but it does a better I've tried a more like, If you have a raised towel, Now, before you put the dough into the bread basket, flour and rice flour, I know a lot of people are probably thinking, like, why can't you Or any kind of flour. It does not work the same. I've tried it and it's just not the same. It still stuck. Yeah, I've had my dough stick in here, it out, and I had to pull all It was the ugliest loaf ever. I was really upset. So sorry, but bread flour I highly recommend the semolina It works wonders. Once your bread basket is thoroughly dusted, you want to gently And then you want to dust a little bit extra semolina and rice flour on top, you don't want anything to stick to it, You definitely want to dust the sides and the top pretty well My bread basket came with this little, But I still do it just in case. You never know. Once you've got your bread covered and it's in the basket, for about 8 hours, I find that the easiest way. Forget about it. Now, in the morning, you plan to bake it, it to come to a little bit You don't want it super cold So before you bake your bread, you want to make sure to take your Dutch put it into your cold oven, and then turn You want the Dutch oven to be very So while the oven is preheating, paper, place it on your work surface, Just flip it over onto the parchment of the parchment paper, And this is where you You can do a cute little design. I just kept it simple and just did, The point of this is to control where the air expands, because if you don't put on the side or some weird way, So do the slits. If you want to get fancy, you can do lots All right. Once the oven has preheated and it's ready to carefully open up the lid and then by gripping the sides of the parchment And then you want to bake it still at 450 After the 30 minutes have passed by, carefully take off the lid and bake I've had times that it takes 15. It depends on your oven. If you like a little more brown, leave it for 20 and by that time, It's going to have that beautiful crust. And the crumb is just so It is so good. I hope you guys enjoyed And if you did, please hit that like button, notified every time I come See in the next video.