Not many bus drivers can boast on every trip. According to Luis, arriving safe and sound is something of a miracle. We have a problem. but it's still broken. We'll have to return without any brakes. Without brakes, without a clutch, It's a bravery that he shares as well as the slight madness to drive their village truck of the Amazon rainforest. It's out of order. Especially with the journey ahead of us. Everything is wrecked. The door hit the pool of mud We're going to clean it We've also had to remove the bumper. When we find ourselves we take it off so it doesn't break! In the big potholes, Leandro and his father could give up, They're on a mission due to the difficulties of the journey. They're the last remaining company at this time of year. During the wet season, they are pushed to one side. As for us, we never give up. The Brazilians often say but that the Amazon rainforest The majority of the roads have been secretly mapped out and other gold miners. Yet over time, these roads have become essential for those It's dangerous here! In the Amazon, if you don't work together, So if you need a helping hand, He would be lucky The road Luis has taken is from the rest of the world. Without his group of friends, the bus would be here rotting away You have to be a man here. If you don't have the motivation Youhou! During the Monsoon Seasons, the makeshift tracks collapse In the Amazon, the word&lt;i&gt; fear &lt;/i&gt;seems That's Amazonian adrenaline. Fear is nowhere to be seen. The rich vegetation of the forest The Native Americans' warning call The bus station in Humaita to the brim with travelers. Luis has only sold 15 tickets, It cannot be denied the route leaves a bitter taste I'm going to see my parents. I haven't seen them in one year This route scares me. I've already done multiple round trips and I still haven't managed The last time, Well, it's raining, No problem, I promise! Unlike his childhood friends, Leandro, the son of Luis, He had much better. At the age of 12, I learnt to drive trucks From a very young age, and so it was easy for me to learn. Driving is our passion we ourselves still drive... Leandro refuses to entrust The 700 kilometres of tracks awaiting them He takes 18 hours in the dry season, whereas he takes twice as long We're entering a whole different reality! No more tarmac roads. Attacked from all sides the maintenance of this highway on the Brazilian government. Constructed in the 1970s, If you accelerate in this mud, So you need to go easy on the pedal... A four-wheel drive bus. The vehicle soon discovers its limits. The greatest risk is skidding I have to try and stay If I slip too far, Six brawny arms against ten tons of steel. The match is already lost. Their goodwill remains, In the mud, I have to force So it heats up fast. The 300-horsepower engine is Leandro must quickly save it. Where's the cable? Over the course of the journey, the father and son They're pouring with sweat. It's a guy thing. You have to be a man. If you don't have then don't do the trip to Humaita. It's a battle, We've arrived at a rickety bridge. When I crossed it three weeks ago, a truck had fallen there. The bridge collapsed as he went over it It isn't certain whether this bridge In fact, the tricky part is yet to come. In order to not wear You have to watch out for tiredness, the journey is long and it's vital On average, I need four assistants And there aren't many of them. Leandro and Luis and they're already delayed by half a day. The father and son take it in shifts to make up for lost time. Well, that's what they hope. The Amazon rainforest That is to say, it makes up 12 percent This great expanse could not remain Since the 1960s, they've been relocating A land without people This slogan has attracted The majority have become farmers, Thousands of makeshift This is the case Juina. It's quite strange here. It's half abandoned. You'd think we were in the Wild West. All that's missing There still are some. They're no longer Manuel is a castaway, stuck in the middle Impossible for him to escape. Indeed, the village is cut off Do you still have petrol? There are three stations here, Due to the problems on the way here, the tanker truck I was left several days without petrol. For going around the village, His biggest concern is focused elsewhere. Hello sir. How are you? How are you sir? Is the river rising or is it going down? It's rising? The road has been submerged. Torrential rain has caused the river Manuel, the taxi driver, for eight days in Juina. Yesterday I made a mark It has risen 15 centimeters There is actually another route but the detour is too long. You need to allow 1300 kilometers, as opposed to 150 kilometers For now, it's impossible Six years ago, Manuel and his taxi so it wasn't a question The cost of the hotel and restaurant This time, with the help he called a farmer We've been stuck here for eight days Now I have to pay up. To pass, the guy takes 40 euros from us. For two cars, it's 80. It's going to cost us a bit of money, rather than wait and run the risk If it rains, it'll be worse. In any case, there's nothing reassuring especially the wooden trailer. It really worries the two men. This wooden beam must There was a screw here, We're going to pull it, You have to improvise to make it across. The question is whether the weight There are 1500 meters and a bridge to cross blindly. It's dangerous. The bridge is here, on the left, Twelve cars will carry out this journey We just have to wait Inside there's a chainsaw and an axe. Everything that we will need We'll keep moving altogether in convoy... It's better this way, because the adventure for Manuel, the taxi driver, Apparently, Luis and Leandro's bus They're situated here, barely more than half of the way. The sun appeared for a few hours On the other hand, the ruts still remain The door no longer opens We have to jump out the window to get out. Over here! It's firmer here, No, over there, go and see. The other cars went past here, Over there, the mud is soft. We'll go through here. You have to get out of there fast It's okay. The rivers that run or rather, the trail, Are we using two cables? It's tiring because the rain It's hard to operate the winch It's exhausting to travel in this rain. But we have to remain we have to always tell ourselves Keeping up the morale Apart from that, what could they do? The rain beats away at the road It's becoming impossible to keep moving. Now I'm going to call he lives a bit further away. Upstream, the road is even worse. We need him. The farmer had, however, assured them We're going to put the bus over there. To get out, It would be great If we skid into the ditch, If the bus falls to the bottom, It will remain there until the dry season Sixty years and still going strong, In comparison, At around 2:00 in the morning, The crew then take without waiting for the tractor. The adrenaline from this victory This bridge is badly designed. In order to move, we'll have to cut out from both sides of the bridge. Damage to this bridge Why don't we cut that way? The construction was intended but certainly not for a bus. Now I think that it's going to work, If you pull a bit, Move slowly. Carry on like that... Let go of the winch! It's worse here, boss! At around 5:00 in the morning, but the men throw in the towel. They're going to spend hoping to see All the drivers who travel wonder what they could possibly They give the road many names, or even the road of sorrow. At around 100 kilometers ahead of the bus, Marco obstructs the traffic with his truck He's waited four days for the workers a little further up I took a run-up from over there. I skidded all the way to there, I stopped I slid too far, I've burnt out the oil That would make matters even worse. I'm waiting for the tractor to come It's a mess, and a big one at that! Ten or so truck drivers wait patiently These mosquitoes are killing me. Just look at me, and I've got nothing You could at least put some trousers on! Because of the mosquitos and other bugs tonight I've had a bit of a fever. At around 10:00 a.m., Will he be the bearer of bad news The guys told me they will come So this afternoon? Where are they? The bulldozer is there, You have to fend for yourself. It's only there for taxes. We're living on a knife-edge If you get ill, you die. No ambulance The men are done in. With nothing left to lose, they're going It requires perfect coordination, without which, the trucks will We're going to attach they're going to pull together. That way they will have enough power. I hope that it will work. My truck isn't really stuck in the mud, it just won't attach itself See how we're so much stronger Unity is power! It's great! I made it! We've cleared the road. Well, now, the drivers still need help, four days behind Marco. In the Amazon, if you don't work together, So if you need a helping hand, The drivers' cries of joy The noise of engines Like that of the excavators, the destruction of their habitat. Many of the roads Covertly dug away at by lumberjacks Gold miners also devastate the forest poisened by cyanide, which is used Every day, mourn for their forest, We are worried that the pollution One day, we'll no longer and the soil will be contaminated too. It's already heading that way. At some point, life is going to stop According to Pablo, the white man is a curse on them. All he does is destroy things, and he clouds For me, for my children, I don't think it's good Our life is inside the forest. We are peaceful, we enjoy nature, We're better off here than in town. The white men's outfits attract our sons. They are interested their means of communication. It's completely different, Therefore we run the risk of losing The fight is unfair According to the NGO WWF, over half of the Amazon rainforest Headed for Aripuana, and the other passengers have now been driving Everyone thinks their problems Their problems await them, The extremely humid air erodes the wood. There are rarely bridges in the Amazon It's going to get past. All you have to do This part of the road No less than 30 bridges mark the route, and they're more or less all Eduardo has already borne Last year, I fell off the bridge It was more or less The bridge wasn't very wide, it was damaged and badly built, One of the pillars collapsed I got out through this window, and the other passengers It's really a big drop, but it's enough to hurt yourself All it takes is to lose concentration My car fell. I miscalculated and the wheel slipped. We pushed on and we made it out okay, As long as their car is running, against the incredible optimism Last night, it rained a lot. The pipes couldn't handle it The pothole must be at least three meters. We're going to have In the Amazon, the drivers tend to say that makes the problems. So in their eyes, This time, the solution It's going to be difficult, the planks Wait! On the left! Further to the left. Yes! There we go! All the cars get through Now, just the most delicate task remains. This seven-ton truck This plank worries me. This truck is a problem. It's too heavy. The other cars are fine, We're going to need to reconstruct otherwise, it's likely to fall But God is with us, so... Thank God, the truck made it through! It was the heaviest That's Amazonian adrenaline, Half the time we are faced Eduardo, Manuel, the taxi driver, will arrive after ten hours on the road Fate seems to favor Luis and Leandro, After spending the night the long-awaited tractor has arrived, that the tractor must tow them Anyhow, they've been on the road Two hours later, The rescue cost them some of their profit, Very good! We always find a solution. We've never remained stuck on the road, We may arrive late, but we arrive! It takes a lot of time. If the road were good, And for this, At first, they were counting on 18 hours. Manaus is still and a major obstacle Unfortunately, the tractor Here is the famous swimming pool. Everyone talks about it. This crossing is the part In my opinion, it's going to take more The hull measures twice the length Anyone else would admit defeat, yet Louise and Leandro It's too risky for the bus, so we gave up. We surveyed the depth the water will drown out the engine. If the water gets in, that can destroy it. If so, the situation Stuck on the bus, in the middle of a pool of mud, It's too deep over here. Yes, but over there We can drain it to lower the water level. Do you think that we can drain it away? We're going to try to empty the pool by digging a trench The water levels are going down. Except there's one small problem. The rain fills the pool We're going to dig a hole on the side Are you going to look for a tractor? You stay here We need an engine to pull us. If the tractor tows us, The tractor is about 12 kilometers away. Good news, the tractor is here! We hope to get to Manaus. We're betting Remarkable passengers. Four days of hardship As for the drivers, to a certain extent. Let's go! We'll start again, The front wheels The father and son And now what do we do? That's going No, it won't. I'm telling you that the cable The father is stubborn, Young people aren't always wrong. Now we're stuck in the mud. We'll end up spending the night here. They should never have put Look at that huge rock. Give me The front wheels are blocked These serve as remains of the past just 30 years ago. We made it. Let's go! Each centimeter is a victory, In any case, getting the bus from the pool I'm happy, everything's going well. Exhausted, the father and son in the forest. On the morning of the fifth day, the passengers' smiles More than four days traveling. Four days where I could have made I'm going to spend only 24 hours The road finishes here. Now, all that's left to do where a lovely paved road But that was without expecting Running out of petrol, at a roadside service station. As it skidded, it burned up Two sleepless nights. This has got to stop, It's hard to imagine to head to Manaus after four days The most remarkable thing is, once more, on this relentless adventure. I'm so excited to be in Manaus. Thank god we arrived safely. It gets worse each time, Our goal is not to make a profit. Whether it be 38 passengers, If they need to travel, According to an Amazon proverb, for the blood of fighters, Luis and Leandro They must now face up with the next round of passengers.