- In this video I'm gonna show you why not giving a fuck, will make you way more irresistible, will magnetize your energy in a very powerful way. And I'm gonna show you exactly Now, the first thing to is that when we talk about understand that people come off more needy. People that value other people's they are emitting out where they really, really give a shit about They really, really care if other people are giving and because they are because they are seeking and they want other people they then put these things on a pedestal. And what ends up happening is from that they then end Now, the degree to is the degree to which you The more attractive you will But neediness stems from giving shit about the things that do not serve you, about giving a shit about things that are literally having you put other people on a pedestal. I said, pedestal, this 'cause some of you sometimes correct me in my YouTube videos, but I don't care. But I did, I do acknowledge For this though, there's a book, it's called, &quot;The Subtle And it's a very powerful book about all the things that we The things that we're And it shows that in life, we are going to be attached to something. We are going to value something. Most people though, are valuing things that their parents valued. And that's the only My dad was a nice guy. Still is a nice guy. And part of being nice is some people look at that and go, well, Being nice though, a lot of times is I'm because there's conditional energy there. And if I'm nice to you, then you're gonna be nice back to me. I'm going to avoid tension and tell you what I think you wanna hear, even though it's not maybe as long as in exchange, you're nice to me, because I don't want you to be not nice. So of course my dad then attracted nice at all because that My stepmom's narcissist, mentally, emotionally and that I think it was the polar opposite. That's why he attracted it. And then in my life, what I of valuing other people's approval. Other people's validation. I had to let that go and realize it doesn't actually serve me, because the thing is, is when it comes to when it comes to being a when it comes to validating or wanting the validation, the idea is that if I am this way, then I will get these things in exchange. But that is what repels love. That is what is actually It's trying to manipulate people and see, the thing is when you're a nice guy or a people pleaser, you because narcissists are also manipulative. So one's manipulating to get, say, I give you this and in exchange, you will give me validation and approval. And the narcissist says, or gaslight you into giving me what I want and to take I'll take it. And they're both formed Now, the reason I'm sharing this is because the difference is in the value, what these people value. If somebody values they will change themselves in order to get that in exchange. And if somebody values being certain, of these are by the way there's an insecure feeling there. And in order to compensate, One tries to control by being nice and giving, in exchange because you if you started giving somebody something and you wanted to exchange, you wanted them to approve of your validating and they don't do that, you're probably gonna But I was nice to this person, and they were not nice back to me, but maybe that being nice, wasn't actually authentic, right? So when we talk about attachment we talk about giving a shit. If you give a shit what people think about you is because you value You may even internalize and say, I am what other people think about me. So the key to this is becoming One of the reasons you might value that, a lot of times this is the case , is because you craved that You may have craved your mom or your dad to validate you, your siblings to validate you, to accept you, to approve of you. And because they didn't, one thing that you are now to get because you're trying to close the loop from childhood. So not giving a fuck is literally about becoming aware that at you may have valued this thing. And you may have also in order to get your needs met, in order to not be abandoned. So I'll say I'm not gonna get abandoned or rejected by other people. So I'm gonna be perfect. I'm gonna be the way The challenge is, is that's because everyone has a And then you end up abandoning yourself to make everybody else happy. So the answer to a lot of in the video is that the a shit about things that your parents gave a shit about that you oh, I need to care about this too. And realize that what this really is about is this is messed up values. It's having messed up values, where you value things of that are causing you to then be in this little bubble where you're trying to avoid rejection. You're trying to avoid, honestly, you're trying to avoid being vulnerable. Showing the real you. One of the biggest in my life is when I about what other people thought, and started caring more I started caring more about I realized that the nice guy was not living in integrity. I was being inauthentic. If somebody wanted me to to a different state or something and I didn't want to or I I didn't even see it but eventually what happened inside my own body. I started saying, what do I wanna do? And then I had to be vulnerable sometimes. I'd be like, listen, I Or I can't because I'm busy And as I started to be it was a totally different ballgame. People started to respect me more. I felt more in my own And I started living by higher ideals. So really when you give a shit, realize you're gonna You're gonna give a shit about something. So put that something into For example, I used to live by the values of approval and validation, being a nice person, being a nice guy, giving a lot of value because that meant I was finally worthy. Even sometimes in making YouTube videos, I had put so much pressure on me to make so many YouTube videos, because I need to be valuable to the people that watch me They're gonna stop watching my videos. I need to be valuable because So in a way I was trying to compensate for a feeling inside of myself, where I felt like maybe I'm not worthy. Maybe there's something like I have to overcompensate. And as I became aware of that this was rooted in not out of who I am, but what I do. And what I had to eventually hey, I'm living by the values and seeking that value And I'm abandoning myself in the process. And what I'm really trying to avoid by doing this is avoiding I was like afraid of what other I was afraid that I'd be judged and that ended up becoming something that was something that I would value and then I become aware of it. And then I said, you know what? I'm gonna live by my own integrity. And that meant for me, I'm going to live by vulnerability and even if that means I have to say things or be a certain way that That's an example that I share. Even as I share this with you right now, I'll share with you something Just as an example, to share with my audience. Back in the day, I used to be vegan. I, for years was actually vegan, where I would only eat vegan food. And what ended up happening I noticed that certain parts of my health, certain things about I wasn't as optimal. And I eventually made the choice to start eating meat, again. I first started eating fish and chicken and then even more recently, but as of the last two or three years I ate a lot of bison and that's I don't, remember, back in the day, I used to share my food on my Instagram and stuff like that. I kind of stopped doing to really give a about what especially knowing that a lot of my audience may be vegetarian or vegan. And they may judge me, because I'm not that way anymore. But in a certain way, what I'm learning to do is really detach, because I have unconditional I don't expect everyone acceptance of me, but at the same time, I don't judge people, whether So I just live by that integrity. I live by that integrity, that knowing, that maybe I, doesn't. So I live by that integrity and knowing that maybe not everyone else is gonna hold onto that same thing. Maybe some people are like, Oh my God. But guess what? That would be conditional if I did. Does that make sense? It'd be conditional. If I was like, you need to be which is a lot of times Not all of them, but many if you do this or ashamed the opposite of what I believe. However, and not that I'm trying but I have friends that were vegan for 15 years and their has fallen out now and weird health, biological So another reason why I made that switch. Not that I need to justify it, maybe now you're just but I'm aware that that for of something I wanted to share with you. I didn't, even, by the way, when I started this video, I had no idea I was gonna share that, but I wanted to not only the concepts I'm sharing about, but also bring you through my own process. So you can kind of see how that works. Because I value vulnerability over the validation and that are watching, knowing that there's a may not even be as many as I thought, but I know back in the day there was this guilt that I had around not being vegan anymore. So I just didn't share my stuff on it. 'Cause I didn't wanna a lot of times, people that are vegan, they may really not like it And some people may even that if you're a spiritual person, then you live by this ideal. And what I've learned is just to go according to my own rhythm, And that has changed so much in my life, since I have been living by and authenticity over that and the way I'm showing up right now, by expressing that to you right now, is a way that I'm doing that in my life. Now, when it comes to not giving a shit, it's about becoming aware of your values, letting go of the past you and not falling back to the old self. And one of the most is to have accountability. That's why I dunno if you've ever seen it, but I have these 21 day through 21 days of transformation And there's accountability, those things you actually But over the course of 21 days, your whole entire identity transforms. Now, something I've done is into a monthly container called So if you wanna join a community of like-minded people all focused on wired in the most magnetic, authentic without falling back to the old patterns, we do that through weekly where I go live every week, I bring people on, I coach people live. And then also we have that we get into share our goals, to share what we're learning, And it's been a complete game changer. I've opened. It's only been open three weeks from the time of recording this video. But if you wanna join the highest vibrational become the highest vibrational most magnetic you without falling then click the link below or go to www.magneticmastery.com, And also, if you want a video that's gonna show you the five secrets to letting go that make you magnetic AF, this is the best video to watch now. Watch it right here. In this video, I wanna share you five five secrets to letting attractive and that will And when you start applying because you start realizing and you start letting