The SpaceX Crew Dragon is the first spacecraft from a private company to In this video, we're and see how it works. Then we'll see the launch pad, the journey into space, and how it docks to the Dragon, SpaceX, you are go for launch! We're about to learn of engineering that has To solve these challenges, solving skills that take time to develop. This is why I'm glad to by brilliant.org. With Brilliant, you can learn math and You can actively try things out and understand why things Maybe you're a professional up your skills or maybe you're still in grade school and want a Brilliant has thousands from in a variety of different areas and you can learn anytime, anywhere. I've really enjoyed because you get to see things in a way that just won't You can try everything for 30 days by going to the first 200 people will get 20% off Brilliant's Annual Premium membership. The Crew Dragon is a This means it's capable of It was created by United States private company called SpaceX. The company has its headquarters Up until now, space by government agencies who have billions of dollars to spend. SpaceX is really the first through this barrier. They develop both rockets and spacecraft on their own, but of course NASA is now under the largest customers of SpaceX. All right for some background, this is the International Space Station or ISS for short. It's been in use since the early 2000s and it must be continuously going to and from the station astronauts could launch on either the United States Space Shuttle or the Russian Soyuz Spacecraft. The space shuttle is It was retired in 2011. After that, the Soyuz was the There was no other spacecraft into space. The year 2020 changed all of this. The Crew Dragon flew astronauts once again from American soil. The Dragon Spacecraft has First came Dragon One. This was a cargo spacecraft to and from the ISS. It had more than 20 flights This version of the spacecraft Only cargo. Then came the Dragon 2. This has two versions, the Cargo The Crew Dragon can carry Cargo Dragon looks very similar, but it can only hold cargo so it doesn't need life support, aboart engines, or controls For this video, we'll be That's the part that's most exciting to me bringing humans into space. The Crew Dragon is This is the capsule and this is the trunk. The capsule is also known Inside, there's air to breathe and they keep the temperature nice and comfortable for the crew. This is the nose cone. It's closed for the launch but they will immediately open This exposes some sensors, thrusters and the docking mechanism to the ISS. The Dragon capsule has 16 Draco thrusters. 12 of them on the side and then four more up towards the top. Draco thrusters are used of the spacecraft. They're also used to change so they can reach the ISS at the beginning of a at the end of a mission Additionally, there are and these are significantly more powerful. If there is an emergency on the launchpad all the way up until they are in orbit the super Draco engines can On the bottom is the heat shield. This will protect the crew as they enter the Earth's atmosphere at the end of the mission. At one point, SpaceX had and extend them through the heat shield. This is so that the capsule This would've been really neat to see. However, due to cost SpaceX turned away from this idea and decided to do a like other NASA spacecraft The bottom half of the There's room for cargo in here and it helps support the spacecraft. During the launch, the has the radiator panels from the spacecraft. The other side covered in This generates power The previous version of Dragon had solar panels that This can be problematic if so what's kind of nice to on the side just point it towards the sun and you've got power. The trunk stays attached It's only detached at the very end. About an hour before splash down the trunk does It will fall back to the Earth and burn up as it enters To enter the capsule, The Dragon capsule was designed to fit up to seven people inside. However, NASA has chosen to This leaves more room to carry The Crew Dragon has been The seats are customized to the body of each astronaut and Compare this to the Soyuz spacecraft which well see for yourself. There's not a lot of room in there. If I had the choice, I would Once the astronauts are fully strapped in these seats will be rotated. The Crew Dragon can be controlled by the three touchscreen displays. Up until this point, most of physical buttons, lots of knobs, switches, and dials. SpaceX has decided to go with There are a few physical controls just in case the panels fail. Most of the flying is done autonomously which means most of it is done All goes well. The astronauts won't need to do much. Inside the cabin are several and if you need to use you can use the toilet We don't know too many details here but let's just say privacy Right in the center is the docking hatch. This is where the astronauts on board the ISS. We'll talk more about The bottom part of the capsule is referred to as the service section. This has more electronics and SpaceX designs their Space is hard. The harshness of space and This usually means that a or at least that's how You have to build a new one each time and this costs a lot of money. With the Crew Dragon Capsule, it's designed to be reused. There are handful of vehicles and they each have a serial number and they have a name as well. As of February, 2023, some of these have been And Endeavor has been flown three times. The first time a Crew with a crew on board is May of 2020. There were two NASA astronauts on board that successfully docked to the International Space Station. Since then, the Crew Dragon not just from NASA, but there was a flight of four civilians called Inspiration four and also a flight from called Axiom Space. At the time of of this video, there are more missions planned as well. Things are definitely changing The Crew Dragon is launched which is also made by SpaceX. This rocket gets its name from Star Wars. That's pretty cool if you ask me. The launch takes place at This is launch Complex 39A. It's where some of the taken place, but now SpaceX gets to use this launchpad and it looks just a NASA has always transported to the launchpad. This is called the rollout. SpaceX has decided to do things just a little bit differently. Right next to the launchpad is the horizontal integration facility. The Falcon Nine Rocket and Crew Dragon are assembled in the horizontal position. Then they are slowly moved on top of the transporter erector. Then it's slowly lifted up This usually takes several hours. The Russian Soyuz rocket is They've been doing it so this is nothing new. It's just a bit different from does things here in the US. On the day of the launch the astronauts get into And then drive to the launch pad in a Tesla model X. Elon Musk founded SpaceX and Tesla so it's only fitting that astronauts ride in a Tesla on their way This is the fixed service structure. The astronauts ride up an then walk across the Crew Access Arm At the end is the white room. Several technicians will be into the capsule. This is called crew ingress. It's the word they use to into the Dragon capsule. There are four seats. We have the commander, pilot, and then two mission specialists on the very ends. Once they are all strapped in, the seats recline their laid back position ready for the launch. The commander and pilot are now in a good position to use They're in their seats about 45 minutes before the launch, the crew access arm is retracted. 35 minutes before the launch, the propellant begins loading Falcon nine is a two-stage rocket. The first stage is powered That's also why they because there are nine of these engines. The second stage is powered by a single Merlin vacuum engine. They call this a The goal is to be fully reusable, but we're not there yet. The second stage is not reusable or in other words, it's expendable. We don't have an easy way to The first stage, however, is reusable and in just a minute I'll show you how this works. So our full rocket stack here, the only pieces that are and the first stage. You can sometimes tell if the because it won't look quite as new. The most exciting part of (inspirational music) Something you'll hear the word nominal. They'll say, we have a nominal launch or a nominal separation. This is a very good word to hear. It means that everything The first stage shuts off at This is called MECO or main engine cutoff. Then the first stage separates. Then the second stage fires up. This is what gets us into While this second stage is firing the first stage makes its The first stage uses cold gas This is called the flip maneuver. Grid fins also come out The first stage will so they will have a drone ship waiting at just the right spot. The entry burn helps to slow This only uses three And just moments before touchdown, one more engine lights and then the landing legs are deployed for the final touchdown the drone ship can make so this first stage can be The second stage is going into orbit around the earth. This is called orbit insertion. Second stage cuts off at This is called SECO or Shortly after the second stage separates as we talked about earlier, It makes its way back down to the earth and burns Now keep in mind, that a lot of these events The Dragon spacecraft, it's on its own. Now the nose cone opens up to expose the docking The crew will also be Once in orbit, it's time Most missions take around The Draco thrusters are raise the orbit and close the distance to the station. To attach a spacecraft to the station, they do it in one of two ways. One is called berthing and the other is called docking. First let's talk about birthing. This is what the original or Dragon 1 would do. They would fly right up next to it and the station's robotic arm would reach out and grab onto the This is called berthing. We just need a little help Docking is similar but this time the spacecraft can do it all on its own without the This is what the Crew Dragon does. It's called docking. Let's take a minute to The Dragon spacecraft will dock towards the front of the station. This is called node two Attached to it is the or PMA for short. There are three of them. PMA-1 is in the middle of the station and then at the front is PMA-2 and PMA-3. The space shuttle actually This was back in 2011. Since then, they've added the or IDA for short. This uses the newer Dragon is also using. So Crew Dragon is able to dock Most of the missions so far have docked to the very front of the station. In preparation for docking crew, Dragon will extend the soft capture ring. Crew Dragon Spacecraft of waypoints and these are points in and complete checks to ensure that the spacecraft is in good condition to proceed with docking. First we have Waypoint 0. This is 400 meters directly below the ISS. Next is Waypoint 1. This is 220 meters directly They will line up along the docking access always pointing the capsule Then they will slowly This is 20 meters in As it slowly moves in you can see the Draco in line with the station. Once confirmed, then the but moving only at a few Once within five meters they have what's called chop If any aborts are needed at this point it will be done completely Next, the soft capture makes contact with the station. This is called soft capture. We've connected with the station, but it's not complete yet. The ring slowly retracts This part is called hard capture. The 12 hooks will latch to It will take about two hours First, we fill the vestibule with air. That's the area between the right inside the Once the temperature and then the APAS hatch can be opened and then finally the Dragon hatch. Now it's time to say that are already on board this station. (inspirational music) My name's Jared. I create 3D animations to show Click the cards to watch another video or click here to subscribe. Thanks for watching, and (inspirational music)