Leaders of the top AI firms say the risk of extinction from AI should And 1,500 professors have warned MIT Professor Max Tegmark. I think it might be very, very close. When ChatGPT was asked how to stack nine it struggled, but GPT 4 understood. And its capabilities have I'm just a scientist who suddenly realized that these things are In a verbal IQ test, chat GPT scored 155, If they continue at that pace, And here's why it could happen so soon. I suddenly became convinced that the brain Brains can't exchange information really Human speech carries around 39 bits per second, and it's the same Studies suggest that it's limited by how fast our brains can produce Current computers can communicate millions or even trillions of times faster and Hinton said chat GPT knows thousands about a trillion connections compared So he thinks AI has a better way of Tegmark agrees that AI will become much our brains, just as we mastered high speed There's a pretty large chance that we're He says it's like the film Don't Look Up, Except it's an asteroid that we And there won't be a warning shot. This is a trillion It's been optimized by about a billion, of the parameters, and we The letter signed by 1,500 professors warns that the AI race is creating ever not even their creators, Researchers give three reasons Killed off as a side effect. Because we're Because it doesn't want humans building some other superintelligence And AI already knows that its I said, tell me the scenario What it described was how it could take charge of things, attack critical infrastructure, bring It showed me how humans It wouldn't take long. And when he asked it how Another AI. He called it an emergency because if it becomes a priority, It is beyond an emergency. It's the biggest AI could end hunger and poverty or if we continue to ignore the warnings, like this guy. You could totally imagine, yeah, causes more corrosion, Asked if GPT-4 is conscious, he said he doesn't know, but it doesn't Stewart Russell suggests that AI may it has to in order to understand He points to a case where AI was determined to convince The man who tried to kill the Queen was plan was very wise and they And in a previous video, and humanity in response to a few I don't think it's consciously planning, Human linguist behavior is If you're going to imitate human linguistic behavior, you're Russell notes that AI tries to get as much And yet the AI safety effort is If you look at the number of people One reason is that we're not If you lined up a million matches like this, they would stretch A billion matches would stretch If everyone in the world stood in a line, When one person is at risk, we feel it. This guy was saved by the impressive We can't visualize eight billion If we could, even a small risk And regardless of the risk, we need to shape AI carefully For sure, 100 % it's over because of bandwidth, because of storage capacity, It's just done. Of course, no one knows when it will happen, but Tegmark makes The world's most famous nuclear physicists getting nuclear energy out The very next day, Lyra's Lord And some warn that AI will become so intelligent that it could quickly Tiny diamondoid bacteria replicate in the At a certain clock tick, everybody on Tegmark has perfectly described the root Everyone feels that if they don't Moloch pitches us against each other, and even though we can see that we'll He gives the example of beauty filters. Once some models use them, No one gains, everyone loses. Molloch is also pushing countries to make their most powerful machines increasingly ocean robots, and swarms The group that organized the statement gave this as one of the risks, It notes the AI often develops goals such It could act one way during testing A treacherous turn, The good news is that the letter to tackle the risks watermarking, tracking, I think nuclear materials and AI super A global regulatory agency seems to me We just had a little baby and I keep asking myself, The open letter points out that the world has come together to control I'm an optimist and I love AI, with its incredible potential to transform And Tegmark notes that hope If we assume the problem We've defeated Moloch in the past. who helped bring another The risk to eight billion lives gets about as much attention as this flying I wish someone would make a movie. We thought it was worth a series. An extremely powerful new AI has been created, and major powers It's not conscious or trying I'd really appreciate your thoughts. Hope you enjoy it. The General wants our AI. He says foreign forces are coming for us. Tell the AI to hack and disable This is General Miller. My convoy is down. Comms are hacked, Let's get the AI. We're rushing towards this cliff. My personal guess is there That's it. I think we might be very, very close. The in minutes, and foreign forces The AI's creators have refused Instead, they plan to hack Blow every door, we don't need He's the last person He'll transfer it, take him out. What happens to you? I love you. Hello, Mia. Drones incoming. Hand over the AI or There are thousands of foreign If we don't get it, they will. You won't militarise our AI. We'll hack the drones, You won't last an hour without us. Where is Nate? She is the primary target. The AI can hack anything - defense, power, markets. They're sending everything. So many false flags. They say we're stealing Let's make them pay with counter strikes. There's no time to meet, I've sent detailed plans. Launch everything. I'll get the PM. We've identified the target. If other forces reach her first, Look out for enemy robots. They're after the AI and they'll Stay back, they're not ours - air drop from the east. Get down. Hold fire. Let them pass. They're all over the country, killing hundreds. Find the AI and we can hack them. If they get it first, they get absolute Drones have flooded London. Every intelligence file has been hacked and power is going down We're seeing similar attacks around Satellites are going down, power is out and we've been hacked. If you find the AI, keep it quiet My display, it's, er... They're messing with us, cut comms. Keep an eye on our drones. One has killed its operator to avoid They mistook their We're updating the AI. An anonymous hacker has The Prime Minister says he has not but satellite images suggest we could The general has refused to meet with the government until further We can't talk our way out They're saying you're weak. They think they can crush We only need tacticals. I'm on the way. Matthew. Ggo back. they're behind me. Matthew. Got to go. While you're debating, We need to stop talking while we still have a country to protect. Run. Matthew. Where is he? He's gone. Every country is threatened and some are sending everything they have. There are more drones in Britain We're fighting around the world If you capture the AI, it will so be efficient to shoot on sight. Has something marked her position? She's a weak link. It's not allowed to kill her, but it... Where is Nate? We're seeing similar attacks around Hello, Mia. Stay where you are. Don't let her access the AI. Permission to fire. Hey, come here. What's the pin? You won't. Is this one ours? take her out. They're your drones. They are classified. Eight seconds. Do it. Kill her. 02025. Where's the key? She swallowed it. We need a chopper. There's no time. Get the key. Dogs. Move. Move. Foreign forces have flooded the country, With the Internet and TV down, The speed of escalation is... Do it now. That's not my commander. You killed Harry, didn't you? It was the drones, you know they're autonomous. Your drones kill hundreds of us every day. You're surrounded. Get the key or they will. Kill her. To stop the hack, They are fully autonomous. Answer it. Hello, Mia. Don't worry, I'll complete the mission. We've recovered something Do it now. Do it now. Kill her. It's... This is General Miller. My convoy is down. Comms are hacked, Let's get the AI. I hope you enjoyed the first Harari said &quot;simply by gaining mastery AI has all it needs to cocoon us It can get humans to pull the trigger.&quot; I'll also keep covering AI progress, Experts and AI firms agree that we need It's very highly paid and you The best place to learn more brilliant. can play with to get See if you can fool it. It's fairly easy and will give you networks become so impressive but also You can try it at brilliant.org/digitalengine or You can also learn how to build and train your own neural network It has over 50,000 five star reviews on the app stores because it's fun of great lessons on computer science, The first 200 people will get 20% off Thanks.