An ancient Greek philosopher named Epicurus pleasures to be happy. Expensive luxurious vacations to distant places, and possessions, or acquiring power through in the long run. If anything, such pursuits only make us crave in some cases, our morality. Epicurus himself chose a simple life, enjoying philosophy with friends. The video 'Why Letting Go is True Wealth' on minimalism. People use the word 'minimalism' in different In music, it's a style characterized by There's minimalistic art that uses only And recently, there's been a surge in people their possessions to get rid of unnecessary These forms of minimalism seem to have one achieve a goal, whether it's a nice piece But could we apply this principle to our overall How can we live happy, prosperous lives without How can we be satisfied without cost? How can we be wealthy with only the bare minimum? Several philosophers of the past shed their This video explores different views on wealth, can be pretty cheap. Having lots of money and material possessions Often, but not always, wealthy people crave what they have. They live with stress, mistrust of others, the masses who aren't financially well off. These people may successfully accumulate material happen without significant sacrifice. For example, someone working eighty hours only a little time left to spend with family to be one of the essential sources of wellbeing. Moreover, according to a study in the American working more than 40 hours a week is detrimental disease increases significantly. Another study, published in the Journal of that working more than 45 hours a week (for increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Of course, not all rich people overwork, and But there's a correlation. A book named The Way of Chuang Tzu written author's own versions of Zhuangzi's classic The Taoist philosopher observed how the world achievement." The world condemns "lack of money, a low and an early death." More than two millennia later, nothing has As Zhuangzi stated back then, people seek condemns. And if they're deprived of what they seek, I quote: They are so concerned for their life that when they have the things they think they Their very concern for enjoyment makes them The rich make life intolerable, driving themselves they cannot really use. In doing so, they are alienated from themselves, as though they were slaves of others. End quote. And so, there seem to be significant downsides Is the playing worth the work? And if not, and we choose not to chase what a life of misery? Or can we perhaps find cheaper pleasures that Some people would argue that the American Thoreau was a minimalist. He lived at Walden pond in a small cabin for a bed, a desk, a table, and a few chairs. He wrote down his experiences during his stay, On March 11th, 1856, Thoreau described in compared to the simple life and the streams, in his own village. He figured that if he'd let himself get of fine wine or brandy, then those things things less and less. He'd need expensive pleasure to satisfy As an example, he stated that exchanging the be a "wretched bargain." And yes: the hassle and the increased cost taste for things beyond our necessities. The easily accessible enjoyments may then uninteresting, boring, and insufficient to We got ourselves 'hooked' on expensive Furthermore, some people may be hooked explicitly 'expensive.' The actual pleasure these things provide is Thoreau stuck to the most common events and during his daily walks, conversations with in Concord meadows. He wrote: In this sense, I am not ambitious. I do not wish my native soil to become exhausted Only that traveling is good which reveals enjoy it better. That man is the richest whose pleasures are End quote. We could say that the wealthiest person isn't satisfied with what he has. And that being full of desires to be fulfilled "If thou wilt make a man happy, add not Epicurus once said. But what are these cheap pleasures Thoreau How can we enjoy life with minimal cost? There are different ideas on what cheap pleasure everyone, and whether or not something is The 19th-century author, geologist, and evolutionary in a journal that reading is an inexpensive He stated: Reading, in fact, is nowadays almost as free It would thus appear that all the best pleasures Nature seems to tell us that we have only pure, and elevating, in order to be satisfied End quote. Chamber's suggestion is in line with Arthur In one of his essays, he argued that the highest or intellectual pleasures, such as thought, meditation. According to Schopenhauer, all other pleasures kind. They're always satisfied at the cost of Intellectual pleasures are often very cheap. Those who enjoy them can consider living in for the intellect is widely available and However, what Schopenhauer calls 'lower' For example, enjoying a nice meal doesn't especially when it's a simple meal, which The price of walking is 'muscular energy,' an activity free of charge. What pleasure is most enjoyable but also very Epicurus may have an answer to that question. His philosophy distinguished moving pleasures Moving pleasures involve activity to satisfy when hungry. Static pleasures, however, occur when a desire For example, the moment one isn't hungry According to Epicurus, the highest pleasures the lack of discomfort or, simply, contentment. Like Schopenhauer's view on pleasure, Epicurus lot of effort. Pursuing them could also be dangerous. Of course, the degree of effort and danger For example, opening the fridge and taking and, most of the time, isn't very dangerous. But traveling around the world requires us to place, negotiate with people, and keep Static pleasure, on the other hand, takes It's simply the feeling of contentment after Schopenhauer, in turn, recognizes that happiness mind and contentment." But to achieve this, we need to reduce a strong 'will-to-live.' And that's challenging to do, as it requires reserved for the vast majority of humankind. So, how do we achieve static pleasure? Is there a way to be content as often as possible If Thoreau, Chambers, Schopenhauer, Zhuangzi, possibly agreed that satiating ourselves through Such pleasures are easy to come by and widely saves us from the stress we'd experience satisfy our needs. The cheaper our pleasures of choice, the less the more we enjoy not wishing for anything If that isn't the ultimate form of minimalism, Thank you for watching.