- These are the most Scary. - Oh my gosh. Number 20 is being a courier. - I can understand why that's dangerous. Whoa! - Who said she had to, oh my gosh. - Yeah, she's making this - I feel like they have like biking lanes and stuff like that. Like no one's forcing - And then the person's Oh my God. And she's like dodging traffic. - Weaving in and out, okay. And at number 19 is a lumberjack. - Okay, I can understand lumberjack. - If anything, I'm surprised this isn't - Well, he's higher, but not on the list. - Yeah, yeah. - Oh my god. Oh my God! Douglas fir. - The only thing holding - The robots are taking our jobs. Dang it! No, it strips the tree. Yeah, whoever made that's a genius. - I know. of like 40 people with like three buttons. - That was insane. Robots are coming! At number 18 is fighter jet pilots. Yep, I agree. - Why is this one dangerous? I don't get it. - Oh, you don't understand - Yeah, this is just Microsoft - Uh, who's gonna tell him? Wait, what? - Yo, they're like - That's insane. - Wee! - I could never land a plane. Dude, it looked like he Those things have incredible brakes. - At number 17 is search - Personnel. - I can't speak. - You can't. - Put that in. It's funny. So I assume this is like a pickup of some people on some mountains. - What gave that away? Was it the mountain or the pickup? - I am tired of your crap. - You know what? I'm tired. - Helicopters in and of Now imagine landing with one wheel on the side of like a Why it so close to the ground? - Because he is rescuing somebody who needs help by the water, man. - Oh my gosh. - Oh, I saw this on the He's rescuing somebody that, like, apparently their car got flooded. - I don't know if I'd want to be rescued like this if I'm being honest. - Did you see the one where and then they had her in that bed and then it just started, wee! - But no, seriously, I'm If someone tried to save me I'd be like, &quot;Nah man. Just leave me to drown.&quot; - Like planes make sense, but - At number 16 is mining. - Wait, Minecraft mining? You can get arthritis. - Yes, our gaming channel is the 16th most dangerous - Yo, I get why it's dangerous because you can just die at any point. The earth could just be - They have to mine in crevices like that? - Yeah, dude. Look at that! I would die. - Yeah, like movies and stuff always depict mining as but- - At number 15 is body guards. - That is a dangerous job. Whoa! That guy's the worst He was like, &quot;All right, Hey look, it's Jake Paul and the classic gotcha hat meme. - If we're trying to represent how big a bodyguard's danger is, I don't know if a clip from gets that point across. Doesn't look very dangerous to me. Up next is boxing. All right, who's winning? Call it now. Blue shorts. - I'm gonna pick the other shorts. - Might have been a bad pick. He's kind of wobbly. Dude. - He was like, &quot;I don't - I don't know what than boxing honestly. How is there 12 jobs more dangerous than just getting punched - Because when you're and it's your job, you know it's coming. - Still, statistically getting punched in the head. - Statistics schmatistics. - This list doesn't make sense. - But when you're just dumb people can come at you at any angle. Oh, diver. I thought it's a driver. - Wait, let's go back - Oh, it does. - It definitely says diver. - I'm like, how is driving for Uber Eats more dangerous than getting - Look, we can't read. It's fine. - Commercial diver in at number 12. - Ooh, the poop diver. - Is that sludge? - I don't know what that is. - I don't either. Oh yeah, underwater welding is Something about using fire underwater is dangerous apparently. Oh, and then sharks. You have to deal with sharks just checking out what you're doing. - Imagine doing your but then a shark at any - That'd be like if you just and every now and again a lion just walked in - Coming in at number You can't convince me is more dangerous than being a boxer. - Apparently if there's - Oh my god. - He was quite angry about that. - Yeah, there's gonna be The 10th most dangerous job in the world is being a skyscraper worker. - What? I don't get it. What's so dangerous in the air on a small pipe? - Yeah. Honestly, this doesn't - This is so safe. Oh look, that one's wiggling Completely safe. That's how you know they're secure. - He's not strapped into anything. - He really wasn't. He was carrying the strap. - There's no amount of money in the world that would ever make me do that job. - $38. And coming in at number nine, bull riders. - All the other jobs have been, like, beneficial to society but dangerous. But this one's just dangerous because, oh god! He got flung like a rag doll. - Oh my gosh. Many questions are A, why is this a job? B, why is this a job? - C, does he have medical insurance? - Coming in at number eight is astronauts. That should be number one. Hurling people thousands of feet, if not miles, in the air. - Are they going to space? - Wait, is that how they go to space? Hold up, hold up, hold up. Is that what it looks like? - Oh, sorry. I'm allergic to space. - I was having a moment. - No, I'm sorry. I didn't know space was in this. - Oh my gosh. Dude, look at that. It's just a dark void of nothingness when you look to the right of the planet. - Are we gonna go to space, by the way? - Working on it. All right, deep sea fishers. - This isn't your normal sea fishing. This is deep. Yo, people die all the they just swap in new people. Holy crap. - I'm glad I have a captain that when a big wave comes &quot;All right, I'm gonna navigate it,&quot; he just goes, &quot;Get down!&quot; - Can we all just agree crabs aren't worth these people dying over? - I'm willing to stop eating crabs if it means they don't have to do this. - I am willing to stop eating - Oh my god. That fish was like, &quot;Oh, Caught you lackin'!&quot; Yo, he threw a ladder at that - Lemme see. - Yeah! - No, the fish threw it. - Oh my. &quot;Oh, you gonna catch me?&quot; Flung it! - All right. Power lineman. - This is actually a very dangerous job. My uncle does this. - Why haven't you retired your uncle? - He's not actually my uncle. We call him uncle. - Okay. - He's backtracking. - We used to hang out with his kids, so we called him Uncle Randall, but I know somebody who does this. - Thank you, okay. - Yo, that's called a hot stick. That's why it's called a hot stick. - Why? So it tests if it's electric? - Yeah, so see- - See, if that hot stick wasn't there that arc would've caught him instead. - Coming in at number four is demolition. I don't understand why this 'cause it's not like you when you blow it up. - Yeah, I mean, is it danger? Well, okay. I guess- This is just being a YouTuber. - That is pretty dangerous - Coming in at number - A firefighter is always going into fire which is dangerous. Always. Is that just part of your normal job? You just being on fire? - You're like, &quot;Hey bro, spray me down. I'm on fire again.&quot; - They were way too nonchalant - I would put it higher to be honest. Why do people chase storms? - For weather and for excitement. I mean, you'll understand When you become a dad, there's something about wanting to go outside and observe weather. You just sit on the porch Storm coming.&quot; - Oh my gosh, I've seen- - Oh snap. Does he get back in the car? - And number one on the - What? Oh yeah, this looks dangerous. Yeah, that's pretty dangerous. I mean, I understand why it's dangerous, but I don't feel like a lot Well, I mean- - There's probably a reason they put it number one on the list. Is he running away from lava right now? - Yeah! It's lava. Of course he's running away. - And those are the 20 most If you don't hit subscribe right now I will literally punch you in the face. Goodbye.