When it comes to char kuey teow, people immediately think like Chinese style char kuey teow Yeah, yeah, yeah. But this one is so good too. Its only 5pm but its sold out already finished 2 Char Kuey Teow pls Shoplady:2 plates? Shoplady:Do you want spicy? Yes spicy please Having it here? Shoplady:Take a seat I'll bring it over to you later Sit down first? Shoplady: Go ahead take a seat I'll bring it over later this is almond ice try it try it is it good? it tastes like almond ice cream is it good? yeah it is good it is the first time I have tried it real almond yeah Wow interesting.. is it okay? is this almond milk? almond milk is it good? it has a strong scent a strong smell Ladyboss: RM18 Okay, we waited a long time for Okay, we waited a long time for this. Really Everytime we're here its always crowded Always crowded queue so long The prawns are Fat &amp; juicy! I can't wait any longer, I'm going to just put it in my mouth. I don't know what is the difference between the regular not famous shop and this particular one. You don't know what's the difference? I don't know. There's a difference for sure, but I don't know what makes the difference. I don't know what makes the difference. I don't know what makes the difference. There's a difference, right? Char(wok) smell It's just everything. All the ingredients are on point This one is right... Now it's the son cooking Now it's the son cooking Last time was the dad and actually I don't know, many people say that like quality drop or whatever But I still feel it's okay. It definitely tastes better than your average Would you have it? You came to this shop when its run by current uncles dad? Yeah Do they keep the taste the same? Well, that's difficult to keep the taste. generations For me it just tastes similar only lah It's like difficult to find really good Char kuey teow in KL Just like I don't know what the difference but it's so good When I come to Penang, this is like literally the basic. You have to eat this at least one time. The smell is different. The smell is different. The smell is different. The smell is different. It's like as soon as you put it in your mouth, it's a little spicy. Char smell, it's a little salty, it's a little greasy. It's not that greasy. Eventhough its oily, but it doesn't feel like disgusting. Oh yeah, and also this one This one muslim people cant eat it ah This is Chinese sausage. Non-halal Non-halal, but it's delicious. Very very delicious. So delicious. So delicious. Let me try to explain Lap cheong(sausage) taste It's a sausage, but it's sweet, but it's not a sausage texture. It has a kinda springy chewy texture There's nothing similiar to this in Korea No, it's not. It's not like ham. It's not ham. It's not chorizo. Chorizo is the most similar thing to this. Yeah, yeah, but it's still a little bit different. Chorizo is salty, but this is not It's a little sweet. It's just a pig taste, pig smell. How much is this? Rm9 Rm9? Isn't it a bit expensive? It's a bit expensive. But It's okay. Even the prawn is huge Yeah. The important thing is that still maintaining using the charcoal to fry that's the most important thing Why? Other shops they don't use charcoal? anymore? I mean there are some shops that use charcoal but I don't know why it doesn't taste like that like that Even though they're using charcoal it doesn't taste like that Maybe this uncle skill! He's like a machine Yeah this is really machine, like robot Imagine how tiring it is for the uncle The whole day he's just like frying like that Customer keep coming in Penang is nice! Penang food hunting is really fun Thats what I think about Penang ah Just come here to eat only ah So happy that theres much more food for me to explore People always say ohh Penang nothing Penang nothing Penang got a lot of things, its food Wheter youre a foodie or not The person who likes to eat, there are many things for you to do I think it's really foodie heaven One shop to the other shop, it tastes a little bit different A little bit different, so you have to try it Or maybe I like this shop because lil bit more like that A little bit more like this And also, And also, We can taste this, the char kuey teow taste when he is cooking The next generation may be no more Yeayeaa thats why Many famous shop like that They won't pass down to the next generation So this is only chance I think all the pasembur type, maybe you can pass down to the next generation Because it's just fried items So as long as you know how to fry, you know the technique, everything is okay Char kuey teow depends on the person The person depends on the person so like if let's say like a regular char kuey teow in KL is like 7/10 out of ten how much would you give this one out of ten? nine point five nine point five because the shrimp is The prawns is much bigger than KL ones and a little bit salty and I like it I like it to be a little bit salty and like lap cheong really yummy here for me I I like that everything is as well balanced. There's no one weak point This char kuey teow the egg is good the veggies fresh I wish that more cockles How about you? I wish that we had five plates of this right now That's all that's all I wish and I wish that it was free! Then i'll just eat all of it Hello! Today we'll try something that I never had before Its my first time having this type of Char Kuey Teow Lets go! Penang! Actually, here is Kuala Lumpur. Haha. Ikr Ah, so basic one is RM7, big one is RM8. If you add more ingredients, it's like RM2 more. I wanna tambah seafood. Tambah seafood? Okay. Should we go for two char kway teow or one char kway teow? What do you think? I want my own one. You want your own one? Alright, let's just go for two char kway teow. One tambah seafood and mine, I want just regular one. I want telur mata too. Okay. Everything tambah Everything tambah? Okay. One tambah. You order. Biasa or what? Yes, regular. Regular one is... Tambah seafood &amp; telur mata For 1 Pay now? Shop lady: You having here or take away? Eat here, eat here Drink? Teh Ice? Teh Ice? Teh ais satu Yeah One, one You can have a seat first we bring food to you So this is the famous basah style. What is basah? Basa is like wet in direct translation. Wet char kway teow. Easy to understand right? Yeah because like Chinese style char kway teow is not wet at Yeah not wet at all it's I think tambah seafood and telur mata was good idea. Let me try Yeah damn good this one. Yeah serious. You should try it. You should try it. Okay This sauce is so good. Oh yeah by the way this is my first char kway teow basah Oh first char kway teow basah ever. Its actually so delicious! This is... So creamy! It tastes nothing similar with Chinese style char kway teow Ah no, it's not the same at all I think it's a different dish It is of course a different dish It's just the name is similar because it's char kway teow But actually the smell is quite But actually the smell is quite similar So like char kway teow basah You can only find it in Malaysia Of course! I mean this style of char kway teow is more towards like Malay style of char kway teow Malay local people style of char kway teow Their char kway teow is always like wet wet like that With a lot of sauce and eggy sauce This is like in a way showing how campur the culture is over here Oh yeah, it's very mixed Oh! It's like supposedly char kway teow is like Chinese food But it's like you know, other people who live here We adapt the food and a little bit adjust to the local taste Malay people style they like a little bit like this type Umami right? No, look at the shrimp One, two, three, four, five There are five shrimp in here In Korea for this price do you know how small the prawn is? They don't give you this much I think the biggest difference between Chinese style char kway teow and this one Of course is the sauce It's the broth So umami Yeah, very deep taste I think it's because of the fish, sorry the prawn The prawn head, the juice inside the prawn head They fried together so the thing came and mixed with the sauce together BAAAAM If you rate this shop's Char kuey teow basah Personally, personally, this is just my taste I like this shop the most In terms of like Char kuey teow basah This is my favorite That's why I brought you here But I just like a long time never come here Because it's like I don't Because it's like I don't really live near here at all But you're right, the more I put it in my mouth, the umami from the prawn... You can taste it, right? Yeah, it's really a seafoody taste. Maybe it's because I added seafood I think we gotta promote this char kuey teow basah more because like since... When it comes to char kuey teow, people immediately think like Chinese style char kuey teow Yeah, yeah, yeah. But this one is so good too. Yeah, this is nice too. That's why it's like you need That's why it's like you need to have a Chinese who... to have a Chinese who... I eat both so I can tell you that I can confirm that this one is so legit. That's why I brought you here all the way because it's really good. So worth it, so worth it. Worth the drive or not. Showing my love. Thank you. This is a nice place to come for a date also to be honest with you. Yeah, vibe is nice. And there are many kitties but so cute. Cat lover paradise. between the Penang one and this one. Which do you prefer? It's difficult question because it's not the same dish. It's like you ask me like... Sushi better or like Korean style chobap better or something like that It's impossible to answer. Gimbap better or sushi better is different one. That's why that's that's my point. You know when we make this kind of video, we're not trying to like compare which is better which is worse. Everybody yeah taste is different. But both can be delicious, you know nothing wrong with both being delicious. You know what? I don't really crave Dry noodle personally, but you know, I'm not a big fan of wonton noodles. So I like soupy soupy style like saucy style. So I prefer this one. Nice and easy to slurp it down right? What about you? I personally I think I prefer The Chinese style dry one, but this one I crave it too or once in a while I crave it too. So that's why I'm saying like I like both but personal taste I like the Chinese one more. But if the chef is not good, I think I prefer this this shop. So like is it difficult to find this quality? The It's quite like this delicious I think it's hard to find actually because I I had the others before and it's not like It's not close to the shop the same way we had to go to Penang all the way to try that guy's frying but same thing you have to come here to try this one. It's pickled. Oh, yeah. It's not just chili. It's not just chili You eat it with your little bit little bit like you get sick of that oily taste sick of that oily taste All right I gotta wash