Pablo Prado: How's it going, everybody? I am Pablo Prado from Kandy Let me show you guys real quick how I lay out these graphics on this 1962 convertible. The base is gonna be the I like to use the silver base The silver base is always gonna give you the most vibrant color. The silver flakes is basically You're gonna see all the glitter, all the flake dancing in the sunshine. Once the flakes are sprayed out, the next step would be You wanna make sure all that metal flake is buried underneath to I'll come back the next day, and I'll sand that down flat to pretty much eliminate any of the texture left behind. I basically start off by Basing off that centerline, I'll start my design and using reference points, such as taillights or certain body lines, once I lay my first line out, then I build off of that to kind of develop the When you lay a design out, let's say you lay a square out, I mean, you can lay and be done with it. And for me, I like to to that main shape. I'll go ahead and lay within that certain simple design to kind of, just to give it that more detail to the design. Once I have my initial design I'll go ahead and lay on top of that area, and I'll trace it out with a pen. Once it's traced out, I'll go ahead and flip the template, or the stencil, over to the opposite side, and I'll go ahead and cut it out and outline it with my tape Once my tape design is all masked out, I go ahead and start which is the waterdrop effect. First off, what I like to do is lay a clear base coat, and that's gonna make my water bead up on the surface. So, as you can see here, I'm spraying at a low angle. So that way the waterdrop captures just the overspray part of the paint. You go ahead and let that sit overnight. Once you eliminate all the you're able to put a That's gonna basically lock So, up next, we're gonna I go ahead and mask out certain sections on top of the waterdrops, and I'll go ahead and just So, the next paint effect is gonna be called the And I just basically create somewhat of a streaking effect just by smearing it So, what I like to do around the edges of the paint effects, I like to darken up the What that's gonna do is just basically give it a little bit of a shadow effect. So, once the paint effect is done, kind of check out which areas are gonna take the solid color, which areas are gonna have candy fades. I kind of plan out which So once I figure out what colors I'm gonna do in those areas, I go ahead and unmask those areas and begin to lay out the which in this case is the candy apple red. And then I'll add the next color, or the next form of laying the paint out, whether it be filling just adding paint along So, in that area right there, I'm just fading out a little out onto these 3/4-inch strips to kind of make it look like some spears are coming out from Once I fade out the color, I go ahead and go back over it with a little bit more candy to kind of give it that little depth. This stage right here, we're unmasking the next level over, and we're gonna be basically as far as with the candy paint. We're gonna be fading out some candy paint along these edges. I'm basically using the masking tape just to kind of give me in the pattern design. In this section right here, a, basically, traditional and we're gonna be fading in a real light candy color along this edge right here. And we spray out the color We'll go ahead and remove the next layer of 3/4-inch tape and add another pass of candy paint, lightly fading, just right The main purpose of this is to fill in this empty section right there. So, once we got all of our color laid out, it's time to do my favorite part, which is the unmasking part of it. It's basically like a sneak peek into what the final So, this is basically the same process that gets repeated on the rest of the car and on the different sections of the car, the hood, the trunk, the sides. If you guys wanna learn just go ahead and check out my website, Kandynchrome.com.