Five years ago, 346 people crashes that happened Indonesia and Ethiopia. Both planes were Boeing Then this past January, yet another catastrophe Alaska Airlines 737 Max shortly after taking off Nightmare scenario for The clothes on one child This was no surprise. Unfortunately, mightily with had over 20 production You know, it's hard to No one was seriously but the blown off panel that some headrests and the cabin. Fortunately, two seats next to the I saw the picture, but what I really saw was I imagine every human understands the severity There was a time when Boeing, I'm not going There are passengers who on Boeing airplanes. The Department of Justice investigation into the and the Federal Aviation found dozens of problems manufacturing process. It just raises issues Boeing. What's going on? of problems over the last need to get our arms Boeing announced major Ceo Dave Calhoun, who was company out of the Max announced he'll be of 2024. We have another mountain Let's not avoid what Let's not avoid the call We will get through that. to the board to do Boeing's stock has also It hit an all time high crash in Ethiopia pandemic, and is down My sense is until you get will probably be stuck in And you know, the key the multi-billion dollar all clear and we just CNBC explores how the 737 what the future holds for The official 737 place in the new final January 17th, 1967. The first Boeing 737 Over the last few the twin engine many evolutions. Of the been over 10,007 37 flown over 30 billion The plane is so popular 737 takes off, or lands If you've flown, you've in your life on a 737. It's one of the most airlines around the The commercial aircraft Boeing and Airbus. Together, their planes aircraft flying last The two compete on jetliners, especially the 737 and A320, which of the global fleet. In 2011, Boeing was under launched an upgrade to plane called the A320neo, Engine option. The plane and could save airlines American Airlines and at the time, was ready to Airbus and told Boeing it to win the airline over. Boeing took a lot of this aircraft, and those Boeing in its behind. Designing a new airplane and billions of dollars Boeing decided to new engine variant, which and called it the 737 It's a very simple reason Re-engining, essentially been around for decades. It's cheaper. So instead designing a plane from made some changes to the planes to market faster on orders to their rival, It offers four different Max, seven, eight, nine, The Max eight received During development, the nose tendency to extreme maneuver. This led to the design of Maneuvering Augmentation System, or airplane's nose down in Indonesia and Ethiopia. Mcas was activated after sensor data. It nose downward until it Pilots on both flights system, but both ended in Pilots of all Max planes MCAS existence until two crash. It wasn't until nearly five months later, grounded. The grounding longest in aviation A report from Congress management and regulatory and the FAA. It detailed what it picture of cultural will take a long time and thoroughly resolve. In the five years since, trying to recover, but another damaging hit door incident. It's a different set of wrong, not putting in In one one sense, the more simple where the the system issue that they in many ways more just a fundamental design When the first series of killing 346 people, denial of any problems. The most recent problem, stepped up to the plate is a problem. We have to to fix it. And they've While Boeing and the FAA aggressively to the Max audits of the accident problems. Preliminary panel that flew off the missing four key bolts. Boeing has also said that that has documented the and getting closed, while on that plane. The FAA production audit where both Boeing and AeroSystems allegedly manufacturing quality The fuselage of the 737 company in Wichita called No relation, by the way, There were issues beyond January 5th flight. There drilled holes. There were were not up to standard. Spirit AeroSystems used to Wichita. Boeing spun off AeroSystems to improve That puts the financial AeroSystems to build the possible cost. Clearly, this has come in terms of quality About 70% of Spirit's from making parts from customer, and then about Boeing is now looking at Some say like it'll give control or a little bit supply chain. Experts also suggest the post-pandemic could be Quality. And it's not a particularly post-Covid There was a lot of well, you have a wasn't experienced where variables going on within where, you know, quite something off and it system. That's where you have been caught by the question is, if that hasn't been caught? Boeing has also been under production. The company aircraft, but has 4,752 This has caused a number airlines. Some of Boeing's biggest scale back their growth United is pausing pilot months. Southwest some of its flight the planes are arriving I'm disappointed that the do keep happening at I'm disappointed in that. Southwest and United have planes in their fleets, planes has had a ripple Airbus, meanwhile, has at Boeing's market share. Boeing had a big increase planes in 2022 to 1,314 had over 2,000 orders It has delivered more orders for the fifth In the late 1990s, Boeing Douglas. It was an which made commercial MD 80, as well as space There is a belief that the shifted since this merger profitability, as opposed excellence. I think one of the big, that was moving the away from any of the big After the 1997 merger, headquarters after 85 Chicago and more recently 27 years later, experts that merger for the more My assessment is, you way back to the McDonnell started a change in If I were. Making recommendations to yeah, sure. Management Puget Sound region, their site, and in fact, they factory floor at this kind of back in order. Many of Boeing's other problems. They've faced faced quality control Profitability, of course, going to be a profitable don't believe you have buy. And airlines have airplanes a lot more Boeing had already been more airplanes. It has a backlog of over its leaders don't want to Airbus, which had a planes at the end of You really only have two commercial airplanes, and Will Boeing turn itself Most certainly it will. Um, it's going to take The eyes of the airline Boeing and the FAA to production are produced Two months after the out, the National Board chair criticized of cooperation in the Max Boeing CEO has said that addressing the quality it's their main priority are waiting for their The 737 Max nines have the Max seven and ten and are years behind rigorous testing other Max issues. We've considered multiple We look at every manufacturers are also aircraft and delivery. production issues. We've Boeing's production that in 2022. And so that will even bring it up a little I'm disappointed. And is they're not only our they're one of the most country. They're States. Some of Boeing's best frustration at the We've heard from United saying, you know, stop plane that isn't even the ones that you can fly tomorrow. Southwest's CEO. This is a CEO that runs one of Boeing's best Boeing needs to become a That's very strong Southwest Airlines. Boeing has replaced the airplane business, Stan and will now begin a CEO CEO Dave Calhoun. I want somebody who knows long cycle business like It's not just the airplane, it's the airplane. It'll be a $50 Despite significant experts still say it will to get back to its once safety over profits. Product life cycles can be investor base that wants You know, maybe this and the two are investors have to be back seat while the quality compliance. You can't force the everything else. So how My guess is it's going to What's a while? Probably Boeing has a very proud I certainly hope to see the magic that the Because to be very regain that focus, not think, win more orders, potentially weaker such as Comac from China. We are at the early stages view, an Overexercised Overexercised Boeing to calm it down. We're of the issues that either importantly, our own attention, and we'll get That will happen.