Imperial College, London 1968 Brian May and Tim Staffell, two long-time previously played in a band together, decide May would play guitar and Staffel would play They placed an ad for a "Mitch Mitchell/Ginger College student named Roger Taylor auditioned They named the band Smile, and soon began Soon, they got the attention of the American in 1969. They recorded three songs at Trident Studios Meanwhile, Staffell's friend Freddie Bulsara, become Smile's biggest fan. He was at all their shows, and kind of like However, Staffell didn't like the direction a new one called Humpy Bong. Brian May and Roger Taylor still wanted to lead singer. Enter Freddie Bulsara, who enthusiastically Bulsara convinced them to change the band's The next year, he would change his own name Freddie sang beautifully, but wasn't big a bassist. The band went through three before John Deacon at bass but also at tinkering around with After that, Queen practiced relentlessly. As a four piece, they played their first show By that point, they had already recorded a record labels with it. Using his graphic design skills, Mercury designed of its members. Those two lions represent Deacon and Taylor, Cancer, and the two fairies represent Mercury, In 1972, the band got their first break thanks They got them a management deal under Neptune One of the biggest perks was access to Trident in the world at the time. The band got lots of quality time learning studios and recorded quite a few songs with The next year, Nepute Productions got them On July 13, 1973, EMI released Queen's self-titled Elektra Records released it in the United It was a mix of heavy metal and progressive generally loved it. However, the lead single, "Keep Yourself failed to get much mainstream success. In November, Queen went on their first major After that tour, the band went right back for their second studio album. EMI and Elektra both released those songs The album ultimately also didn't do that this iconic picture of the band, taken by Also, the album featured the band's first Rhye." Why was the song a hit? Well mostly because back in February the band the Pops after David Bowie had to cancel. Yep, they were a last-minute replacement. To promote Queen II, the band went on their In April, they went on their first-ever tour However, in May May, er...Brian May, that and Queen had to cancel the rest of their The band decided to record some new material May had also developed a stomach ulcer, and record his guitar parts, so producer Roy Thomas Finally, May was able to join the band in time in the bathroom between takes. Poor guy. Regardless, they eventually finished what album, Sheer Heart Attack, released by EMI The album was a hit both in the United Kingdom the lead single "Killer Queen." Sheer Heart Attack definitely had catchier the progressive rock of their first two albums. That said, by this album Queen had developed the musicianship of the four members, the Mercury, and the advanced and innovative production. Sheer Heart Attack also featured the hits Oh, and the album's song "Stone Cold Crazy" By January 1975, Queen was now in the mainstream, United States as headliners this time. They sold out so much that they had to add one day. The band dressed up in elaborate costumes In April, Queen arrived in Japan with more Throughout the year, the band tried to get which was kind of screwing them over since first three albums. They finally split with Trident in September also happened to be Elton John's manager. Meanwhile, they had been recording at various album, A Night at the Opera, named after the Supposedly, it was the most expensive album $425,000 in today's money. They multi-tracked the heck out of it, and other in a way not done in recordings ever singing higher parts, and Mercury everything They used a wide variety of instruments and The songs were complex, yet The most epic of epic songs recorded for the If you've never heard this song before, now. It's only six minutes. Just come right back. Welcome back. Uh, yeah, like I said, the song was nearly label executives and friends of the band were will never be a hit." The band disagreed, and Mercury snuck a copy Kenny Everett, only if he promised not to Wink wink. Oh Everett played it alright. 14 times in 2 days. And everybody loved it, and it ended up being the UK's third-highest single of all time. Queen even made a music video for it, which Keep in mind that this was seven years before EMI and Elektra released A Night at the Opera By Christmas, "Bohemian Rhapsody" was there for nine weeks. Another stand out hit from A Night at the Queen went on another world tour to support bands in the world. On September 18, 1976, the band played a free over 150,000. It was organized by Richard Branson. Yes, THAT Richard Branson. Meanwhile, Queen had also been recording what at the Races, named after another Marx Brothers It was the first album in which they completely Released again by EMI and Elektra on December hit. It featured the singles "Somebody to Love," Lover Boy," and "Long Away." Critics generally praised it, and today it's Queen toured to support the album for the This was the tour in which the crowd began songs, and was the inspiration for two new Those two songs? "We Will Rock You" and "We Are the Champions." Today, the two songs, which of course are released together and radio DJs just started two of the most famous songs of all time. They are especially known as sports anthems. EMI and Elektra released the band's sixth 28, 1977. Other than "We Are the Champions" and the singles "Spread Your Wings" and "It's This album saw the band abandoning their symphonic hard rock roots. Yeah, 1977 was an interesting year in music. That's the year when punk rock exploded turning against progressive rock bands like they had such popular appeal. This might be why critics at the time were However, today many argue it's one of the The band once again went on a worldwide tour By this tour, their shows were more spectacular and crazy costume changes. From July to October 1978, they recorded their Jazz had a more lighthearted feel to it, and today: "Bicycle Race," "Fat Bottomed However, when it was released by EMI and Elektra One famous critique came from Dave Marsh of had become too elitist, saying "This group and who is inferior. Its anthem, 'We Will Rock You,' is a marching you. Indeed, Queen may be the first truly fascist Other journalists criticized the publicity to promote the album. But it wasn't just critics. Band members Roger Taylor and John Deacon turned out. That didn't matter. They were probably at the height of their to tour around the world. On June 22, 1979, EMI and Elektra released recorded from the European portion of their On October 5, they released a single for the Freddie Mercury made the song as a tribute than ten minutes. It's basically a rockabilly song, and sounded Strangely, the song ended up being the band's 100 in the United States. Meanwhile, the band was continuing to experiment They began using synthesizers. Hey, just in time for the '80s! All this experimentation led to their most album, The Game, released by EMI and Elektra In addition to "Crazy Little Thing Called Me," "Play the Game," and "Another of the best bass lines in music history. The Game was both a critical and commercial In fact, it went on to become their best-selling "Another One Bites the Dust" eventually and it even became a crossover hit, getting Singles chart and the Disco Top 100 chart. Disco? Yes, disco. In September 1980, Queen performed three sold out shows at Madison Square Garden in New York City. Meanwhile, the band had recorded their first Featuring the single "Flash," EMI released 1980 and Elektra released it in the States It was their ninth studio album. In 1981, Queen toured South America for the In fact, they became the first big rock band They played to 131,000 and 120,000 on two They played to a crowd of more than 300,000 On April 6, 1981, EMI and Elektra released While Queen toured throughout most of 1981, Specifically, Mountain Studios, in the small favorite studios over the years. Well guess who showed up one day? David freaking Bowie. In October, a Queen jam session featuring which today is considered one of both Queen's ever. They quickly recorded and released it on October It immediately was a worldwide hit. That same day, EMI and Elektra released Queen's featured...uh...their greatest hits up to Now, this is not your typical "greatest It eventually became the best selling album-not in the UK. Queen's Greatest Hits album has basically It has spent over 900 weeks on the UK Albums weeks on the Billboard 200 chart. Go ahead and check your parents' or grandparents' It's there, isn't it. In 1982, Queen decided to stick with synthesizers Hot Space. Released by EMI and Elektra on May 21, Hot the band's earlier music, not only embracing and even dance. So...um, yeah this shift scared some fans Those who only adored their more familiar Still, millions bought the album and the radio singles "Body Language" and "Staying Hot Space had "Under Pressure" on it, Oh, and Michael Jackson, who by this time Space as a big influence for his own album, You've heard of that one, haven't you? For most of the rest of 1982, Queen toured On September 25, they performed on Saturday show. However, by that point their popularity had over the next few years they would focus on In 1983, however, they took a break from touring Freddie began to record a solo album, and In April, Brian began recording, joined in Alan Gratzer, Phil Chen, and Fred Mandel. The result of these recordings would end up released on October 31, 1983. By that time, the band had reunited to record The Works, released by EMI and oh...this time...CAPITOL The Works saw the band bringing back at least yet still incorporating an electronic sound. The Works featured the singles "Radio Ga to Fall," and "I Want to Break Free." The music video for "I Want to Break Free," controversial in the United States. MTV even banned it. Goodness, MTV. I thought you used to be cool. Anyway, on June 25, 1984, EMI, Capitol, and second solo album, Strange Frontier. Two months later, the band went on tour to feature Spike Edney on keyboards. On April 29, 1985, Freddie Mercury finally the help of Columbia Records. 1985 was the year for gigantic shows for Queen. In January, the band headlined two nights Janeiro. They played to 300,000 fans each night. And then, the biggest and most famous Queen On July 13, 1985, the band performed to one An estimated 1.9 billion people- 72,000 of performance of their greatest hits at Live for those affected by the Ethiopian famine. Queen was the highlight of Live Aid. Freddie's call and response "Aaaaaaay-o" Round the World." Today, it's regarded as one of the greatest The Live Aid performance re-energized the September. Over the next few months, they would record A Kind of Magic. Meanwhile, John Deacon started a band called broke up. I guess they weren't immortal after all. EMI and Capitol released A Kind of Magic on Much of the album is part of the soundtrack Singles on A Kind of Magic included the title The album was a commercial hit, but received The tour to support the album, which was another final tour with the band. In April 1987, Mercury found out he had HIV, and leads to AIDS. At the time, having AIDS meant you usually were still trying to figure out how to treat After Freddie told his bandmates about it, The general public would not know about Freddie's For the rest of the year, the band pursued Freddie recorded with the opera singer Montserrat Roger Taylor started a band called The Cross. In January 1988, Queen returned to the studio, become their thirteenth studio album, The Coming out on May 22, 1989, it featured the and "Scandal." It was the first album released in the United released it again in the United States. Critics were again mixed about The Miracle, By 1990, the public seemed to know something The band had made fewer and fewer public appearances. When they did appear, Freddie seemed to be However, Freddie insisted it was just because In November 1990, Queen ended their contract recording deal with Hollywood Records. Hollywood caught the band up to modern times, Meanwhile, Queen had been recording new stuff This would be their last time recording with And yet, one song they recorded during this people don't know about, the epic "Innuendo," they ever recorded. This would be the title track for their fourteenth Records on February 4, 1991. In addition to the title track, Innuendo featured Days of Our Lives," and "The Show Must Oh and don't forget "I'm Going Slightly Critics mostly praised Innuendo and fans adored It was the band's most successful album The music video for "These Are the Days appeared on camera. On October 28, EMI, Parlophone, and Hollywood ended up being one of the most successful On November 23, 1991, Freddie Mercury confirmed Within 24 hours of releasing that statement, on as a complication of AIDS. While the world mourned Freddie's death, Shortly after Freddie's death, the band On April 20,1992, the remaining members played Awareness, a benefit for the Mercury Phoenix Various rock singers sang Freddie's parts, to an audience of around 1.2 billion. That same year, Bohemian Rhapsody went to the song was featured prominently in the film Meanwhile, Brian, Roger, and John had come before his death. They added their own instrumentation and ended That would be Made in Heaven, Queen's fifteenth and Hollywood Records on November 6, 1995. It included the singles "Heaven for Everyone," Will Kill You." The album kind of did feel like heaven. It was so happy and carefree. Critics generally praised it, and it proved body was deteriorating, his voice and songwriting In the following years, there were many, many lots of side projects and collaborations, and Roger Taylor. In 2001, Queen was inducted into the Rock In 2004, the band was inducted into the UK Later that year, Brian and Roger announced the next year, with Paul Rodgers, who founded Freddie had loved Paul as a singer, by the John Deacon would not be involved with the But Spike Edney would. Heck yeah, Spike. Queen + Paul Rodgers would be a thing over an album together- The Cosmos Rocks, released Paul and Brian and Roger split ways in 2009. That year, Brian and Roger began working with a liking for singer Adam Lambert. The three hit it off, and Queen + Adam Lambert They've played hundreds of shows around 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, they recorded and it was a minor hit. Today, Queen is just as relevant as ever before. They remain one of the biggest and influential Some estimate that the band has sold around Their musicianship is mostly unrivaled. They further helped progressive rock, hard and over the years developed a completely They constantly pushed the envelope, yet still There will never be another Queen, and Queen Long live Queen. So what's your favorite Queen song or album? Which band should I cover for this series Let me know in the comments below. One more note...I should also mention the which captured much of the band's magic. It was actually a film more about Freddie know there are parts that are historically Regardless, I recommend it purely for the up with and made music. Thanks for watching!