[volcano rumbling] [narrator] Volcanoes are sleeping giants. Woe betide us should they awake! Millions of people live in their shadows and very close to a looming catastrophe. But even giants, far away and Looking at history, we come to understand that active volcanoes also need to be Volcanologists, they all want to learn in order to save lives in the future. In a way, they are like [narrator] [lightning cracking] We can`t always predict these events. People will die! [theme music] [narrator] More than 14 million people live here. But few of them know has shaped this city's destiny. History shows what's in store Because, no matter how far away In the year 541 A.D., A foreign plague decimates Millions of People die. Emperor Justinian and An invisible foe Your Majesty... A pestilence has spread to the city. What do you plan to do? Those who are righteous [official] The city is full of corpses. What is the true reason? [suspenseful music] [narrator] The answer to this riddle might and more than 3000 kilometers [propellers whirring] A small international team of researchers has put up their tents They are here to research Johannes Freitag hopes to retrieve information from the ice on how the climate has changed [man] Good to see you! [narrator] Greenland is an inhospitable place: even in summer the temperatures But here, far from civilization is the perfect place Because the ice here is very thin 100,000 years of climate history in only half a kilometer depth. The exact location If there are any anomalies it needs to be relocated. [Johannes] Here you can see the melted layer. It's re-frozen melt water from last summer and so below here, there's massive ice. [narrator] It's important not to destroy them An annual layer So the researchers But the work has to be broken off The drill can't heat up The layers have been reached Does the ice give any indications Go! Thirty... fifty. [narrator] The electrical conductivity confirms the suspicion: in the 6th century A.D., There was a sudden increase [Johannes] It is quite high That equals about two years. We don't know the time period because we don't have of the age of the ice. [lava crackling] [narrator] Volcanoes are fed Driven by this heat, magma rises out of and accumulates under its thin crust. The molten rock also transports [lava crackling] [low rumbling] Could the mysterious epidemic stand in close relation Before the city was struck by [indistinct chatter] [narrator] There are precise accounts [man] For months the sun has been weak, [ominous tone] Everyone fears it might never come back. The wine is sour, and the harvest is lean. There is so much snow [narrator] It is as though hell Historian Mischa Meier has analyzed the accounts to understand what exactly During the 6th century A.D. the population is already very wary This is due to a fatalistic that was quite popular back then and to a sort of that fostered any thoughts Any sign would do. And this unusual weather [narrator] Scholars had predicted to occur at the beginning And every change in the environment was seen as a sign [faint indistinct shouting] And indeed, change was coming but much different [explosion] They are testimonies Its cause: a seemingly insolvable mystery. The earth itself Because volcanoes spew out not only ashes but sulfuric gases as well. During massive eruptions they catapult sulfur as high as Once there, the sulfur mixes with water. [ambient music] This creates a layer of clouds that barely lets in any sunlight. A more recent example In 1815 in Indonesia, [loud explosion] [indistinct shouting] [ominous tone] It's actual eruption In this short time, ashes and ash flows But its cloud claims many more deaths By this time, the world that the word about the catastrophe Shortly afterwards, The clouds color the sky a deep red. There are breathtaking sunsets that have been captured by William Turner and are preserved until today. But this beauty What follows are cold spells, bad harvests and the biggest famine The number of victims of Tambora's On a global scale, the volcano probably than the eruption in Indonesia. In Germany, many people The ice cores from Greenland are analyzed in the Alfred Wegener Institute Will the suspicion of a volcanic eruption the century of the mysterious disease, There are hundreds of samples It is one of the largest Until now, the volcano that poisoned hasn't yet been found. [Johannes] We want to reconstruct to piece together the puzzle. That is why we have ice cores [narrator] The analysis of the core the traces of sulfur At the same time the cold spell a previously unknown volcano with a cloud of sulfur. But the scientist have a suspicion... could it be that, within a few years there wasn't just one [ambient music] [saw buzzing] And indeed, the laboratory analyses show there is another indication of sulfur. A second volcano had poisoned the climate And the epidemic follows this eruption. The eruption left traces [ominous tone] The volcano that spit them out must therefore be found in the middle: In El Salvador, hidden away from The traces of its last eruption have long since been overgrown Robert Dull has specialized He is convinced that the Ilopango is responsible for the climate chaos and he is looking for evidence The volcano is basically the lake. What you see here that was erupted all at once when this volcano erupted So instead of having a single vent where lava would come up And all of that material [narrator] It buried the entire area Volcanic ash doesn't have It is finely scattered rock. The force of the explosion and turned it into dust. [ambient music] If we find an ash it's very exiting for someone like me because what it tells us and that it was erupted explosively It might have been a day, but a huge amount of material Which tells us of the strength [narrator] exactly what happened during the eruption. He interprets the geological traces, As long as the giant is asleep, Even back then, [suspenseful tone] Its magma chamber lies underneath. The pressure in it slowly increases The gases that are freed Steam, created by the heat settles over the landscape like fog. Until suddenly, like the cork of a bottle of champagne. [loud rumbling] [ominous tone] [people screaming] As the eruption column pyroclastic streams flow over the earth. The ash clouds, destroy everything in their way. Not only do they but they flow through the valleys And there's some estimates that they float up hill sides, according to geologists So you can't outrun these events. You cannot outrun a pyroclastic flow. You can't hide from a pyroclastic flow. You die in a pyroclastic flow. [loud rumbling] [narrator] It's unlikely, that anyone survived this inferno. [ominous tone] Today, only the ashes show [rumbling] The size of the eruption... by measuring the thickness, but as it gets further and further away, the more accurately we can estimate [narrator] In order to discover one can't solely rely The ship 'Meteor' carries a team that will examine the ocean floor There is a steel pipe which is supposed to be That way, it is possible to extract but only if it doesn't hit a spot The gravity corer has to until it reaches the seabed. At a speed of one meter per second, Time and again, previously unknown volcanic eruptions: important information, the impact of volcanoes The actual success But at eight in the morning, The drilling has succeeded. The drill sleeve contains everything that has swept over the ocean floor Volcanologist Steffen Kutterolf from all over the world. He is eager to discover the frequency [Steffen] we examine in what direction Only with the information one is able to make other predictions like the volume that came out [narrator] other than sulfur, ash can be It is like a finger print: every volcano and In the GEOMAR institute in Kiel there are samples The ashes of the ocean floor to a particular eruption. Steffen Kutterolf has brought in of the Pacific Ocean floor, The type of crystals in the ashes alone, The volcanologist has a suspicion: the mineral is typical for the last The exact composition reveals that Even though he has found them on the Pacific Ocean floor. [ambient music] By doing so, we could place and that had previously been undiscovered in correlation with Now, we have a result of an expansion Which is about four times [narrator] This proves that catapulted more ash and gas than any other volcano has Today, buildings cover As a matter of fact, the capital 16 kilometers away No one is prepared Especially not on the scale of the amount of ash The country has other, There are, however, of 100 kilometers around the volcano. Anywhere between North America, no country is more densely populated What does that mean? There is land scarcity. There's not enough room So to think of moving even to ask people to move off the flanks is very very difficult, [helicopter blades whirring] [narrator] to examine the early eruptions Robert Dull wants to get an impression He hopes to find regional indications because the dispersion of the ashes reveal which areas [helicopter blades whirring] Generations have settled in this area without even knowing about The giant has been dormant and no one remembers the big eruption. [suspenseful tone] Was it really a trace of sulfur from here [Robert] If you look across this valley now you can see it's a broad, that's quite rich that's fallen over thousands of years and developed into rich agriculture soils. So you can see why people were attracted [narrator] Agriculture has erased This makes it the exact time of the eruption. Volcanic ash is made up like stone or fragments of glass. Their age is indeterminable. Robert Dull has to rely on that died during the eruption. Wood is a great help here. It was carbonized in the scorching ash but didn't burn up completely, That is how it is possible to narrow down [Robert] It's a time capsule. It's a precise moment in time So when we dig these pieces of wood out the smallest pieces that we find the big tree trunks that we find any piece of wood can then directly be associated [speaking Spanish] [narrator] These are rare moments of joy because the carbonized wood that steadily decompose over the years. The trees' time of death can be determined by measuring the decomposition [men speaking Spanish] These samples have helped us narrow down to more like 20 years. And we've really been able to pinpoint and say, yes, Ilopango was not it happened in the early [narrator] Following the eruption, that reached all the way Once there, In desperation, people turn to religion. Emperor Justinian to appease the alleged wrath of God, More and more residents fall sick and die. The disease spreads from Asia all the way through the East Roman Empire Its trace goes all the way to Munich. In the suburb of Aschheim so many people died that several bodies But here, time has erased The only surviving evidence could [ambient music] Holger Scholz, of the Institute for hopes to solve the riddle Special suits protect the samples Because one skin flake alone to soil the last DNA samples The scientists manage to isolate It belongs to a bacteria that caused in the history of humankind: Yersinia pestis or the plague. [Holger] The cooling off lead to the further weakening There were extreme famines and that meant Even rodents, that are an important retreated to the cities, and that is obviously how humans came [narrator] The Plague's bacterium The connection to humans Once the flea changes its host, And the risk of an infection increases with every animal There was terrible hygiene. And all that furthered the expansion cost the lives of millions of people. [narrator] Far away, the Ilopango Famine ensues. The population becomes The disease can strike anyone. It blurs the lines [indistinct chatter] Panic and chaos ensues. There is no more food. The emperor can not uphold law and order. The fact that the emperor himself obviously increased And if one was seeing this it was clear that the emperor And therefore was losing [narrator] Even the emperor, who was is struck by the plague. [dramatic tone] In view of the span of a human life volcanic eruptions that trigger So rare in fact, But they have nevertheless In 2014, danger came very close. The Bardarbunga volcano in Iceland had been belching out lava And it still pumps about 35,000 tons No one knows yet, and when it is going to come to a halt. The volcano is located Once the lava comes too close to the ice there's a possibility If this were to happen, And Iceland is close to Western Europe. The sulfur could make it even without such an explosion. One look into history The winter of 1784 was one of In the following spring, melt water The flood breaks bridges causing There are severe floods Cologne reports a water level The highest water level ever measured. [ominous tone] Even at the start of the eruption, John Grattan, has assembled accounts [John] On the 23rd of June, 1783 people across Western Europe Forest have been stripped to their leaves and there is an intense smell [narrator] The cause of the disaster a giant gap in the earth that produces more than Within 8 months, it releases approximately which travels to Western Europe [John] There are very clear descriptions of an uncomfortable pressure, of mysterious agues and fevers of outbreaks of terrible diarrhea; [narrator] There are theories that imply that the Laki eruption is co-responsible Ever since then, Laki has been dormant. But what would happen Today, the atmosphere is a lot more Calculations show, due to the effects of dust particles. Industrial plants and traffic not only through emissions but also through Volcanic gases would burden Scientists have calculated there would be 140,000 The purpose of the Federal Office of Citizen Protection is to organize quick aid Christoph Unger is in charge He and his coworkers develop strategies to prepare for multiple Are we prepared for a volcanic eruption [ambient music] At the moment, we are not preparing for that might reach Germany. [narrator] are comparable The onset of a cold spell as the example of the Munsterland shows. In 2005, there is a snow storm Power poles fall over under the weight and there are entire stretches of land Two hundred and fifty thousand people some even for several days. And that was relatively harmless. A black-out of a larger area [Christoph] No radio, no TV, no computers there is hardly any cash left, Gas stations need electricity Security systems wouldn't work. It would have a huge impact [narrator] In the last years, with cold weather and high water levels. But not to the extent as after In such a catastrophic case, the danger What would happen We have a problem of supply, There would be very different in vulnerable institutions where there wouldn't be And there's even the question Who will receive This would lead to an immense impact [ominous tone] [narrator] The residents of Constantinople And not knowing the cause of the disease More and more, It isn't just the people that fall sick but the system itself Panic ensues. Civilization unravels. [indistinct yelling] There simply wasn't enough population to protect these regions and these cities because the plague [narrator] And it isn't just The plague kills soldiers and tax payers. Trust in the power of the state Even after 100 years, the empire cannot [indistinct shouting] And that is how might have also heralded Since the time of Emperor Justinian the world population has grown And more than half of them trade and telecommunication. Can you protect all these people against There are about 1500 but only 100 of them are under And the last eruption But even if the volcanoes an eruption is still hard to predict. [ambient music] Even experienced scientists In 1993, an international team on the peak of They are in good spirits. Nobody seems to be bothered by the mist [rumbling] Suddenly, the volcanologists Rocks and small particles One part of the group There is no hope for these nine people. Others are severely injured. A joyous trip has turned into a nightmare. [explosion] Only two months later, This time, it also hits that was seen as secure, So even in modern times even in the developed world The level of preparedness is not adequate to handle such a large, sudden event. And and no matter how many instruments and measuring earths elevation as it rises we can't always predict these events. [narrator] So even if scientists know that do they know the course of the eruption? In 1980, Mount St Helens through several small earthquakes. It is located on the West coast of the USA close to the major cities Richard Waitt, of the US Geological As so many others, he was convinced [Richard] By late March this word 'bulge', So it got big enough that many people suspected at some point What was expected though was that there and that there would be a warning [narrator] and drew more and more But then, Mount St Helens erupts An earthquake lets The mountain explodes, Mud and small stones [low rumbling] No, that was not anticipated. It went over one ridge and just kept going out and out I don't even know how far it went, And nobody anticipated anything like that. [narrator] Ash clouds and mudslides Fifty seven people die. Among them are scientists that The surrounding area is covered in dust. Five hundred and forty million tons are dispersed over an area [neighs] Only weeks later, There is a huge hole in the volcanic cone. The desertificated area is over 600 square kilometers large. As a comparison, was about 10 times as large. So we do know that predict... but we've never been tested We've never had near a densely-populated So what happens What happens Will our technology be good enough [narrator] There are more than located close to an active volcano. That means there are about living dangerously close to these giants. There are already 37 million of them in the shadow of Mount Fuji. Its last big eruption happened Geologically speaking, If it were to erupt its ashes would destroy The situation in Seattle Scientists see Mount Rainier that could erupt at any time. Even in Europe it's dangerous. Mount Vesuvius alone But there's an even larger The Soufrier Hills volcano, the capital of can provide a glimpse of an eruption happening close to a city. Before the city was buried there were 4000 people living here. Hardly anyone has stayed. Today, Plymouth is a ghost town. Volcanic eruptions are a global threat. But their awakening also offers Because with every one of these eruptions One such example is Mount St Helens. Even if every giant is unique a few of the results taken from here can [Richard] Here is a birthplace to modern Especially, some of This landslide, I mean, there's probably that have had a landslide I mean, this is what opened the door [narrator] Only a few years ago a young geologist It enables us to predict Today, experts from fly to the top Down here, it's about But on top, the scientists have to Angela Diefenbach The most important point for her is that the method is simple, flexible and affordable enough where a lot of volcanoes You can use a point and shoot camera You just wanna make sure So you don't want-- like a GoPro Camera wouldn't be that good because you would have a lot and that translates into your model. [helicopter blades whirring] [narrator] Currently, there is a plug This so-called lava dome is dangerous, Any change in the surface could be a sign [soft music] Angela Diefenbach shoots her photos [camera shutter clicks] The brilliance of the idea is that the photos form a basis an exact 3-D replica of the volcano. If she then compares the smallest changes This method can even be applied Because it is often in the last moment how the giant is truly going to act. This particular lava dome because it erupted very slowly and But other lava domes either from big explosions And when they collapse, which are very dangerous to people. [narrator] Mount St Helens But there are many sleeping giants that can hardly be researched. There is huge, seething lava lake in the Democratic Republic of Congo, The Nyiraongo, lies in the middle of And even if the giants like the Tavurvur in Papua New Guinea their load of sulfur This is why Angela Diefenbach's It helps to assess the risks. But scientist can nevertheless They cannot stop [suspenseful tone] In the midst of big cities, But history shows [volcano rumbling] [narrator] Volcanoes are sleeping giants. Woe betide us should they awake. Millions of people live in their shadows and very close to a looming catastrophe. But even giants, can suddenly come alive. Looking at history we come to understand also need to be reckoned with Volcanologists, They all want to learn in order to save lives in the future. In a way, they're like [narrator] [lightning cracking] We can't always predict these events. People will die. [narrator] Few know that this huge lake Archaeologist Payson Sheets is eager to find out how civilizations In order to do that, he is going to conduct research the volcano right directly beneath him. A thousand five hundred years ago this was much as it appears now: but the magma, pushed up through a vent, caused a colossal steam explosion and volcanic ash and changed El Salvador from a lush, tropical paradise, to a desert, a white desert overnight. [narrator] Let's go! [narrator] Its crater is 230 meters deep. That is twice the height Its sides are steep and are strewn with hot springs. There are indicators that new magma In some spots, The volcano is still active. The majority of dormant giants Sometimes for so long How do people react in view Payson Sheets delves deep The traces of this past catastrophe It is the quest for the power Robert Dull, has researched the scope There is a very large magma chamber And one of the wonderful things is that, unlike that we're used to seeing, um, the magma chamber down below... The lake itself is showing really almost the entire size I expect that an eruption will happen It's happened over and over again and it's likely to happen again. [narrator] if you want to know how civilizations Because El Salvador hasn't just been the area has also been populated Joya de Ceren is located 35 kilometers The small Mayan town as to how people have lead their lives For one thing, the village isn't located It is actually constructed on top of it. The results of his excavations here make Payson Sheets believe to have found what a life with a sleeping giant More than 1000 years ago, Their village was destroyed If you dig here, you dig through several ash layers that were produced by the sleeping giants. Volcanoes in a place like this and some very detrimental aspects. The beneficial ones and volcanic ash weathering In this case, the soil's recovered people came in, two hundred, maybe 300 people. But look what they did. They built this gorgeous, delicate, [narrator] The shaman is an intermediary She is asking for good harvests The shaman here can handle but when the eruption occurred, The problem is that if you're standing this far away from me shouting, The sound from the steam emissions from the very beginning The loudest sound [volcano erupting] When they inhale that cloud it coats the inside of their lungs and they have about a minute No more oxygen gets to them. It is a very painful death. [narrator] This story illustrates: But Payson Sheets believes reaches far beyond its ash. In Mexico, 1200 kilometers away, Whereas villages have been built in very close vicinity, life here seems to have Today, the city in Mexico's high plateau &quot;the place where humans become gods.&quot; The only thing that this high culture But the most monumental The pyramid here measures 65 meters. It is the third tallest in the world. This huge city of many of Mexico's civilizations. But its downfall remains a mystery. Above ground, no stone is left unturned. So the secret of the former metropolis The exploration of Teotihuacan There are neither decipherable scripts nor other accounts: Archaeologist Sergio Gomez is hoping to find out more about fourteen meters below one of the pyramids. He follows a tunnel under the Temple of the Feathered Snake. The pyramid devoted to one of It's a rare find. In 2003, Gomez discovered a shaft, Since then, he has been trying to Camera robots give the researchers of what awaits them [robot's motor whirs] Not only did the inhabitants but they also sealed it [man speaks Spanish over radio] [narrator] Without pack animals and wagons they put a tremendous effort into hiding a construction that was supposed to After a few attempts, the robot succeeds and advances into the first segment The images show to serve an earthly use. It is part of a type of underworld Its purpose however, At the moment, to better understand One of the main theses that I set up is that we will find the grave, or the human remains, of those that stood in close relation or political system of Teotihuacan. [narrator] Meanwhile, the team has An imperial grave, however, But the tunnel contains countless clues; 75,000 objects have been recovered. And they can be read like a book. Caribbean conches, statues, Mysterious sculptures with ornaments The inhabitants must have been in contact But few of the found objects The most bizarre find: ritualistic knives Teotihuacan was the most important In between 100 and 500 CE, it was the center of a huge, that was governed from Teotihuacan. Furthermore, Teotihuacan was, the most important holy city that existed and that had ever been [narrator] just 45 km from the capital. It is known to have served as a model Today, over 20 million people live one of the world's largest. It is the economic, cultural, and it continues to grow. Especially in its wealthy center, one can easily forget the danger It's a normal day Everything seems to be more important than a preparation Modern symbols of wealth and power even though both Teotihuacan are surrounded by volcanoes. The pyramids and towers of glass Mexico is in the hands Craters rise up everywhere. In some areas, This volcano named Xico But magma is seething underneath it. It can find its way to the surface This is the largest daisy chain The country lies on the so-called a fissure line of the tectonic plates Nowhere are there more volcanoes, Only 50 kilometers from Mexico City one of the most dangerous volcanoes, Its active signs are constantly monitored: seismic waves, It became active again in the 1990s. Currently, a so-called &quot;lava dome&quot; Should the volcano stir, Ramon Espinasa is the vice director of the Popocatepetl Observatory. He tries to foresee the time Once lava is spewed out, Because it is very slow-flowing lava it doesn't flow downhill but stays in the area forming a hill This dome seals the shaft but also the release of energy. That is why this energy until it reaches and to catapult the dome into the air. [volcano rumbles] [narrator] Any movement of the volcano In 2000, a big eruption announces itself. The formerly peaceful, sleeping neighbor The residents of the surrounding villages even against their own will. But El Popo quiets down again... only to awaken shortly thereafter. The constant to and fro Once the alarm sounds again, Psychologist Esperanza Vazquez is a researcher for the It is her goal to make the population of the warnings given by geologists. To this end she examines the relationship They look at it and say, And even if they're not thinking this way the volcano still plays And some studies that I've conducted show see the volcano more as a legend... as a part of the landscape. Their image is a lot more positive who see it as a threat The locals see it The volcano is like a relative to them. [narrator] How do the residents in the cope with the threat of an eruption? Is the threat even taken seriously? Those are questions that wants to find answers to. They are important to determine the best way so they can be evacuated The psychologist especially wants to Shut off the water, turn off the gas and switch off all electrical devices and put on protective glasses so I won't breathe in any ashes I think it's better A dormant one can also erupt at any time. But with an active one at least you know about it and you can prepare better for it. [narrator] People all over Mexico are aware of Just 230 kilometers from the capital, there is a village church [rumbling] Its history shows just how fragile In February 1943, the ground starts to rise and then burst. A new volcano is formed Within two days, its constant eruptions that it rises up to a height of 50 meters. A year later, it is 336 meters high. The lava destroys everything in its path, Ten years later, the volcano falls silent, These past eruptions in the course of Mexico's history. In the 4th century, for example the shaft of the Xitle with a single, long-lasting eruption, Eruptions such as these The Xitle lets an area disappear under its ash and lava. The city of Cuicuilco The residents have to leave their land, taking only meager belongings Only the pyramid defies destruction. Today it is located in between the university Entire districts of the modern metropolis Where did all these people go back then? Sergio Gomez has traced and came to a surprising conclusion. What is remarkable is that all of them Their path leads directly to Teotihuacan. This has widespread consequences. The eruption of the Xitle volcano has dramatically changed The social and economic history Cuicuilco and the rising city Teotihuacan has therefore and could establish of economic and social connections. It was able to spread its rule [narrator] Several volcanic eruptions With the arrival of the refugees, as more and more people But what makes the city so attractive? One of the reasons In Teotihuacan, The residents carry the old cults as if they wanted to confront with everything humanly possible. The priests don't even meant to protect the city But the idea that nature can be will soon be proven wrong. Even today, the danger is far from over; How do you live with How do you cope with this constant threat? No one trusts Too often, they warned that didn't happen in the end. Therefore, many turn to ancient knowledge. For shaman Epifanio Alonso with living in the volcano's shadows. We always trust in God first, always. The volcano is the place It is the place Here, we pray to receive everything everything we need. [narrator] Volcanoes represent Their power reaches beyond human control. That is why they continue to be seen For me, it is a church. A church into which I am telling you this I have seen what it looks like That's how it is. And we climb up there because the volcano protects the seed. [narrator] Even today, by performing rituals. Prayers and offerings for security and prosperity. And there is, indeed, because earth of volcanic origin These are ideal conditions for plants, as well as livestock farming. In the area surrounding the volcano, a few centimeters underneath the soil As soon as the giant sleeps, the ash turns into the most fertile soil But the price is high. The Popocatepetl has catapulted stones several kilometers away. In case of a big eruption, there would be an ash column reaching fifteen, 20 kilometers high. All of this material would then fall back that would cascade down towards the surrounding villages. [narrator] These pyroclastic flows are the biggest Barely noticeable at first, But they soon pick up speed at up to 400 kilometers per hour. [rumbling] It is highly dangerous In the 1970's, Katia and Maurice Krafft were real celebrities Risking their lives, Even today, this is still the only way How exactly do pyroclastic flows behave? What makes them so dangerous? In 1991, the Unzen in Japan It is one of the most dangerous The Kraffts are just a few meters when the pyroclastic flow reaches them. Both lose their lives. [low rumbling] At the Smithsonian Institute one scientist has managed to in the laboratory, at a safe distance. Benjamin Andrews didn't have to He creates artificial ash clouds They behave just like real flows, [Benjamin] This is just a mineral talc. And its been smashed and sorted So it really is like using baby powder, Except that we buy this baby powder instead of 800 gram bottles. [narrator] The size of the particles, their weight, Here, in the laboratory, the scientist He creates obstacles on a miniature scale, What makes the flows Pyroclastic flows are very dangerous they are very thick, And these currents, they look fluffy, Instead, they are of ash and rocks and pumice and all of this has the effect and everything in its path. [narrator] A laser light makes visible If they are relatively cool, Benjamin Andrews He wants to know whether And indeed, once a hot pyroclastic stream Instead, ash and gases rise One thing that our experiments here can do better, or more informed, risk maps based upon how far do we think How might those pyroclastic flows or interact with a river valley? [narrator] The local authorities are trying to find safe ways using these investigations. It's been 2000 years It would be negligent to forget about it. On the contrary, the more time that has passed the more likely a new one is to occur. Tension increases Once the instruments sound the alarm, Cenapred to el Popo, [narrator] Smaller explosions can always be the beginning This is Popo calling Cenapred. [narrator] The preparations Nonetheless, it is almost impossible to evacuate a city German volcanologist Claus Siebe has been working in Mexico City He is trying to determine What would the ash do to the city? Its dense population, would seal the city's fate. Mexico City certainly is a special case because it's a metropolis, a megacity, that isn't located The city's sewerage system A case like this would lead to plagues [narrator] the ash can get anywhere. It can contaminate the drinking water, rupture the power supply and impair car and air traffic It is hard to believe that more and more people But life with a fire-spitting giant Benefits, that were also valuable Volcanoes create fertile soil. They seem to intensify the need The pact with the Gods But for Teotihuacan, Imagine! that had ever existed in Mesoamerica in political and economic [narrator] Just like Mexico City, Teotihuacan lies on a high plateau, Nevertheless, their residents There is prosperity, Soon, the city becomes larger At Teotihuacan you have to imagine a city of over a 100, 000 people, beautiful gritted streets apartment buildings. And the agricultural system Trade routes all the way down into what's now Guatemala all the way up into New Mexico. [narrator] Volcanoes supply The alleys are full of obsidian workshops. The volcanic glass is used And Teotihuacan exports weapons One of the most important commodities that could be exchanged for food, Obsidian is created that it cannot form any crystals. The volcanic glass has helped Teotihuacan to become the first trade city We have proof of Teotihuacan presence in Guatemala, Honduras, Places and people the city [narrator] Remarkably, its residents left in the 6th century. Is this where the secret 1200 kilometers away? Payson Sheets is sure for the fall of Teotihuacan. But after several centuries, Humans were also sacrificed here just like in the city. Figurines of Christian saints that have been brought up here And yet, the danger People would like to believe in this area that that's it; it won't erupt again. -Sorry. [Payson] Sorry, this is not a good place Over here you see 540. [narrator] Robert Dull has managed to This offers a decisive clue. This is a massive amount of information Ice cores and tree rings-- Here's 1257, that's the Samalas event. In a sense, in kind of a selfish, I know that there are hundreds, literally hundreds, buried by the volcanic ash from Ilopango. They all date, of course, [low rumbling] [narrator] Today, the villages are the only witnesses. They reveal how massive Judging by the measurements it must have spewed out Sulfuric acid clouds The climate is out of control. That means, that the eruption but that it was big enough to influence They got hit by this that was both a long term, of cold temperatures and drought. Both of those caused in Teotihuacan [narrator] The city faces the consequences of the largest volcanic eruption For 500 years, the pact with the Gods have kept the volcano in check. The human sacrifices seemed to They had ensured rain and with it But suddenly, The Gods seems to have forgotten There was a fire that ran along and burned the temples. Early, people thought it was No! It was set. [narrator] The enraged residents that no longer provide them with shelter. The city was largely abandoned and it never regained that kind of That was it. [narrator] History shows, cannot oppose the force of volcanoes. [loud rumbling] Fifteen hundred years in 2008, the Chaiten almost without any prior warning. Its eruption catches and it can barely flee to safety. Shortly after, and pyroclastic flows [rumbling] The Chaiten has proven how difficult it is For centuries, The city of Chaiten Due to the destruction and the constant volcanic activity, the government decides [loud cracking] Villages and people can be led to safety. But the history of Teotihuacan that can even reach cities These are especially vulnerable. In 2010, gives us an inkling of how vulnerable even modern and technologically-advanced Exactly what volcanologists Magma comes into contact with glacier ice. The steam explosions rip apart Poisonous fluorine and ash Five hundred people have to be evacuated The farmers that work the area But the consequences spread further. The wind continuously pushes and sends them across the North Sea In April 2010, they reach Germany. All air traffic is grounded. Europe is at a standstill. One hundred thousand passengers and cargo flights are canceled. And yet, the eruption isn't even the biggest one. [rumbling] The volcano ejects only about of material into the air. The eruption of Mount St Helens and the Ilopango's 100 times as big. The eruption of a supervolcano more than 1000 times of that amount. So we cannot fathom... I cannot fathom the enormity, the massive scale should it occur again today. [narrator] simply because of its enormous size. The Yellowstone supervolcano It lies dormant in the middle Henry Heasler is a geologist working for He monitors the numerous geysers: Go ahead and pan it out. [narrator] This is the largest collection Three million visitors In a way, they are like They look gorgeous, but you can have above You can have acidic conditions; You can have dangerous So how do we choose so visitors can experience the sights, sounds, and smells [narrator] It is invisible but the American continent over a huge magma bubble. The tourists deem themselves in safety while contemplating the natural spectacle Every year, 2000 small earthquakes and recurring elevations of the ground reveal that the giant is alive. Only as recently as 2014, the biggest seismic shock in 30 years Thankfully, without causing No scientist can predict, The only thing we can do One look into the Yellowstone's history has erupted several times. These eruptions put out so much It was jetting it out. It wasn't a big explosion. It was jetting it out much, like and you get steam coming out, that the ground then subsided. [narrator] Just a few kilometers magma eats its way like a welding torch. Only since 2015, do we know 46,000 cubic kilometers. The last eruption of the Yellowstone It destroyed everything [rumbling] Ash rains down even 1500 kilometers away. The rest of the world We got these big dense populations. Try to have them handle They become archaeologically but they did not do well at that time. [narrator] The cloud of the Yellowstone Under a veil of ash and sulfur, Supplying cities would become impossible to handle. These huge eruptions are extremely rare. They occur only once every 100,000 years. However, the giants are still just asleep and lure us into believing by overwhelming us with their beauty.