There may be no other that's more passionate about their internet Yes, I'm talking to you, and raiders and, of course, I am one of you. Do I need to retell the story of how I dug 50 feet of trench out to my home studio, because I was sick of lagging Yeah. Anyway, they say that fiber is if you can get it. But, how true is that? Well, let's dive in. Now, don't forget to like and subscribe, and hit the description that's going on right now. Look, first of all, I'm not going to get super technical This is just the basics, - Now, let's start with DSL, cable and fiber. Yes, dial up and satellite but neither tend to work So, what are the differences First up, DSL. DSL runs along your phone line. It's been around for a long as the years have gone on. Frankly, it can be a really good option, if you're really close to your ISP, because the primary The farther you are from your ISP, the slower your connection. Cable internet runs through copper wire on a coax connection, and it tends to be much faster than DSL, Cable doesn't rely on proximity so it doesn't really from your provider, as long as that line can reach your house. But, cable is not without it's weaknesses. Like DSL, the existing is starting to show it's age, which can occasionally affect reliability. But, the biggest weakness unlike DSL, cable is a shared connection. Think of it like a tree, laying trunk lines which that head through a and then individual lines So, if you have a lot of and when everybody logs on everyone's signal is gonna Finally, we have fiber, which or plastic, instead of of cable or DSL. Now, I'll skip the science lesson, which frankly, I'm not and I'll just say that because of the type of wire it Like really, really, fast. Gigabit internet speeds of what fiber's capable of delivering. But, fiber's biggest strength, of most of us consumers, is instead of asymmetrical. An asymmetrical connection, get with cable or DSL, a 100 megabits per but your upload speed is only, That means you're receiving but you're sending it much more slowly. Fiber's symmetrical connections though, mean that generally, because download speeds, you're also Now, for gamers who are receiving data to keep up you can see how attractive this would be. Especially if you're and you need those upload There's only one problem with all this. Believe it or not, after speed isn't even the most important thing for a gamer to worry about. Especially if you're not streaming. It's not that speed isn't important, but it is secondary to the terms for a gamer to know. Latency or ping, packet loss and jitter. Now, latency is simple. It's the amount of time to make a round trip between you and your internet service provider. When it comes to latency, lower is better. So, 300 milliseconds of ping, 20 milliseconds, you're doing fine there. Incidentally, this is with it's satellite orbiting has a hard time keeping Packets are the bundles of and forth between you and your ISP. Naturally, you don't want or corrupted in transit, which to be resent, increasing your latency. Again, the closer this number And finally, jitter. Jitter is the change in Maybe that doesn't sound like a big deal, but if your latency is usually and then it suddenly plummets then those data packets are and it creates a whole new kind of mess. So, the dirty secret is this, but not nearly as much as would have you believe. Gaming actually requires Sometimes less than a What matters more is how when it comes to latency, And, any of our three connection types, can deliver good results So, who cares about fiber and it's fancy super-fast symmetrical speeds, right? Well, the thing is, but often performs better in Fiber networks tend to The only problem here is and difficult to get Believe me, I should know. Google fiber was being in Salt Lake City but, decided it was too rich for the project right before Yeah, that one hurt. Anyway, where was I? Right, so fiber isn't but it often is, simply it tends to be. So, if you wanna check in your area, League of Legends, has a pretty great tool called lag report, that ranks your possible provider, so that you lag as little as possible, on your quest for ladder dominance. All right, you know how it goes. Like, if you liked it, and And, for even more detailed and how to get the best ones for gaming, or anything else, go check