When our vegetarian ancestors started it wasn't just because animals taste great, it was pure necessity. Climate change made many of the plants our ancestors From the discovery of fire at the latest, But over the last few years eating meat has heart disease, certain cancers, and an early death. So how unhealthy is meat, really? In this video we'll only talk about meat. Dairy products deserve a video of their own. Biologically, we need to eat for three reasons: for energy, to acquire materials to fabricate our cells, and to get special molecules The energy and most of the materials come from the Proteins are the most important resource for The special molecules are a large variety of vitamins Meat provides us with most of these things. It contains all essential amino acids iron, zinc and essential vitamins, some of which are Only one essential nutrient is missing It appears in almost all plants as well as the development of connective tissues. After a few months without it you'd get scurvy. But meat has another big advantage, Some of the nutrients in meat are broken down Spinach for example, contains more iron than meat, and the body needs more energy to digest it. Several health benefits have also been The Inuit for example, are able to survive in extreme Since they consume the whole animal including including vitamin C. So meat itself is definitely not dangerous for us. But its health effects vary, depending on When talking about meat in the Western world, we generally mean muscle tissues but also lack some of the vitamins that The most healthy animals to eat are probably fish. Fish contains polyunsaturated fatty acids like omega-3, which may lower the risk of cardiovascular diseases As part of a balanced diet, Eating fish comes with its own bag of complications though, like overfishing and the destruction of the oceans. We'll talk about that in another video. A close second is the most popular meat, chicken. It's regarded as the meat with the fewest health risks. The only negative health effect fat. It's high content of saturated fats is associated with a But this idea has also been criticized arguing high cholesterol levels might be So in general, if you want meat and are Things start to get problematic with high intakes of A recently published study recommends for which is a very small steak per week. However, large-scale meta-analysis studies have shown that eating 100 grams of red meat every day increases the risk of diabetes by 19%, This sounds alarming. But before we panic, Because this brings us to the second big problem whether meat is unhealthy or not. Most studies that linked health risks to Which means taking a group of people with a disease The more red meat they consume, the more likely The problem is that it's very hard People who eat less meat tend to They tend to eat more vegetables and fruit Most studies try to eliminate these factors, Things get worse when Processing meat means adding certain chemicals by curing, smoking, sorting or fermenting or in other words making it delicious. Bacon, ham, salami, sausages and hot dogs like nitrates and nitrites that can damage the DNA The w-h-o reviewed 800 studies over 20 years, and concluded that processed wheat is strongly Each extra 50 grams of processed meat per day When it comes to cancer risk, processed meat is now in the same category as plutonium, asbestos and smoking. The w-h-o highlights that it's research is causes cancer and not to what extent. But processed meat may also significantly diabetes, strokes and coronary heart diseases. It also makes a difference what sort of life It's common to feed large in order to prevent diseases Combined, a high consumption of could increase your chance of This means if your chance of dying This might not sound like a lot but tiny percentages They also seem harmless until they affect you. To blame meat alone for There is no evidence that the very essence of meat And even this point is highly contentious. Just like with many other pleasures in life, Most public health agencies suggest cutting while studies suggest cutting down So if you feast on meat no more than once For most people this already means The average American consumes around The average German 1100 grams a week. And many of us needs much much more. If you're not really sure, make a small note You'll be surprised how much it really is. So most people watching this video Aside from health concerns, there's still the fact that the meat industry is and has reached a scale where it's and still treat animals with dignity. We've already discussed that in detail in another video. All in all, in moderation, meat is not unhealthy to have a real impact on your health and the planet. But your lifestyle choices do matter. For yourself and for others.