Visitors to London are often delighted to in their red coats in front of Buckingham While these guards are famous for not moving with them, don't let that fool you into In fact, the queen's guards are actually one soldiers in the entire world. Sure they look like fixtures to the palace, with their duty and you'll learn very quickly The elusive practices and duties of these most tightly kept secrets the English crown inside scoop on these subtle warriors that tourist attractions for the rest of your life. Think you can handle knowing the secrets of Lets get it on! THE ROYAL BODYGUARDS. The Royal Guard are an ancient order of England's soldiers sworn to protect the British Monarch Serving as the longest reigning monarch in years, Elizabeth the 2nd has been the aim more than 10 generations of active duty guardsmen. The Royal Guards' history goes back to at Family don't hold true power, back then person in England, and one of the most powerful of course came with a need for absolute security. During times of war and revolt the Royal Guard making attacks on the king or queen both unlikely The guards didn't just stand at attention In fact, some of England's greatest military royal guard, with them having personally taken Now don't think that just because they've these soldiers have gone soft. Standards for the Queen's Guard have only only the highest performing officers and military position. WHAT IT TAKES TO BE A QUEEN'S GUARD. In order to qualify for the queen's guard, physical, mental and experiential conditions. For example, a queen's guardsman can be change made only recently. Previously, much like tinder profiles, any a left swipe! As a result of their huge stature, the guards throughout their history. On top of that, guardsmen need to be decorated of the British army which are recommended volunteer, to join the Royal Guard. SMILING CAN GET THEM ARRESTED. Anyone who's heard of the Royal Guard is still, almost like statues, regardless of This can be fun for tourists trying to get the level of restraint the guards must maintain No matter what passersby and hecklers do or in any way, unless they're physically touched case they leave crowds shocked with their allowed to say on duty. The sacred oath that guardsmen take is insanely if broken. If a guard so much as smiles, let alone laughs they'll get sent to a military prison! That's right, every tourist who tries to every year based on tourism statistics, is to prison time! No wonder they take their post so seriously! But if anyone gets a guard to laugh, they NEVER MESS WITH A GUARD. Knowing that these guys aren't just standing and battle hardened soldiers the United Kingdom a transgression as laughing will land them that messing with a Royal Guard is a one-way This is because even though the guards are duration of their posts, one wouldn't be get assaulted willy-nilly. Sure they're used to hoards of the most taking pictures of the Royal Guards and trying every once in a while someone will go too them. Being trained soldiers, you should never even have found out, it's a guard's duty to take force. While this may be an exciting experience to moving otherwise, being on the receiving end way to end up in hospital. Thankfully England's got socialized healthcare, me, that'll be the least of your concerns a Royal Guard. A GUARD NEVER ABANDONS HIS POST. The Royal Guard is probably the most serious As a result there's no room for error among abandons his post under any circumstance. And yes, that does include breaks for the If a guard needs to use the restroom, no matter entirety of their shift. Luckily a guard's shift typically lasts and other duties, so they aren't exactly Regardless, any breach of duty, whether it a step away from your post, is grounds for enough that you get them to move, be ready can dish out, as they're definitely going a whole lot more to whomever cost them their But if you think those are the most grueling I have to say at the end of this video. THE STRONGEST NECKS IN BRITAIN. The Royal Guard's distinctive uniforms aren't Their uniforms go back through their centuries of England. And while London can get incredibly cold, rain, a factor that Royal Guards laugh off While their coats can weigh up to 8 pounds, more than double their weight! But the coats aren't even half of it! The most striking part of the Royal Guard's Called bearskins, and yes, they're made headgear weigh between 5 and 13 pounds, which covered human head, meaning since they're the weight everyone else is supporting, these the planet! Now you might think wearing such heavy uniforms which leads us into what's probably the And once you hear this, you're guaranteed absolute beasts! FAINTING TO ATTENTION. I want to be clear, what you just heard is Members of the Royal Guard are so tough that And this isn't some rare occurrence, according every year. In the summer months the heat in England is Guards don the exact same 13 pound bearskins bitter winter cold. As a result of all that heavy clothing mixed guards have to stand stock-still for hours at all, guards frequently pass out from heat Even when their vision starts blacking out to these hardcore soldiers, guards maintain to the bitter end. Guards are trained on how to remain standing unconscious it's understandable that your This leads to the phenomenon that's been fall flat on their faces, unconscious long While this might seem pretty unfavorable, among Royal Guards and going through it is After fainting, guards will quickly pick themselves had happened, and after their shift they're they're treated as heroes for being so tough way of their duty!