Released in 2002 for the Nintendo GameCube, Super Mario Sunshine brought the 3D Mario with its bright and colorful graphics, simple yet No pun intended. As with any game in part of a major Nintendo franchise, An any% speedrun of Super Mario Sunshine entails which then unlocks Corona Mountain, Timing would always end on the final platform The game forces you to complete the Shines so given that the game only allows you to skip there would ultimately be 50 Shines required to finish The first ever recorded full game speedrun of Super by a runner named &quot;Dragorn,&quot; with a time of 1:59:49. This run's notable for being considered the first However, it's also worth noting that this run was what's In a segmented speedrun, the runner records the and is allowed to redo a segment over and over again, Segmented runs were more popular back in the as capture cards weren't exactly the greatest, and probably couldn't record in high enough quality So people would question: How interesting could the run itself ultimately be? Well, Dragorn himself left his own comments about his and his first paragraph reads as follows: &quot;In retrospect, I would say this was a rather poor choice &quot;The 2D Mario games have warp worlds and such that &quot;It takes ten minutes just to get through the &quot;*grumble grumble*. &quot;Even SM64 has tons of glitches and shortcuts for &quot;This game, however, is the epitome of linearity. &quot;You can't do shines out of order, you can't skip them &quot;and you don't even get to pick what shines you collect (You need the 7th one in each level). &quot;And this game just isn't conducive to shortcuts like SM64. &quot;There aren't any items like the caps or shell (not to &quot;and the replacement of the long jump w/ fludd &quot;And let's not even go into the fact that at least a quarter, &quot;is made up of cut scenes.&quot; Initially, this game wasn't always very well received, as it was sandwiched between its more successful Some would argue that the FLUDD mechanic was too and the only &quot;good&quot; levels were the FLUDDless stages Packaged with the fact that the GameCube itself was it seemed that this could only impact the reception of So, was Dragorn right? Is Mario Sunshine not worth speedrunning? Are the cutscenes just too unbearable? Is the whole game simply Hover2Win? Well today, I'll be covering the history of how the hidden became realized over time. I'm AverageTrey, and this is the world record history So as you might imagine, Dragorn's segmented 1:59 He seemed to have an irrational fear of watersliding, which, at its top speed, is the fastest The strategies used for Shadow Mario Shines were also... ...quite interesting. All jokes aside, this run definitely deserves respect for being completed in a time where there were literally It's worth noting that even in 2004, the as well as hovering through the Ferris wheel in Pinna 5. And also the red coins in Gelato 6 were still pretty annoying. A few years would pass, and no any% runs All Sunshine activity related to any% from theorycrafting in the Speed Demos Archive, In early 2009, however, &quot;Thiradell&quot; decided it was finally utilizing better movement and strategies to On January 10th, 2009, Thiradell finished his segmented run with a 1:54:44, according to SDA timing. An astounding 5 minute improvement. It's important to note SDA timing, because it's actually You see, SDA does their timing from first input, as so the timing would actually start on If I were to convert Dragorn's and Thiradell's runs it would be 2:00:55 and 1:55:50 respectively. So anyway, Thiradell mainly improved the time by There still weren't really any established strategies or defeat Shadow Marios quickly, but there still were a lot of improvements At the time, this run seemed pretty darn solid, but there was still a lot of things preventing from being considered a highly-respected speed game. For example, the eel boss fight the casino was a randomness nightmare, and there were just so many gotdam cutscenes! Would people ever get around these kind of The time period that followed this could be seen as No, one was really doing any runs in the game, at least Instead, during the period from 2009 to early 2011, a lot of important skips and tricks were found the first of which being the Pinna 1 cutscene skips In July 2010, he discovered that you could skip by simply exiting area as you were The reason this works is that time still progresses in and if a Mecha-Bowser cutscene is triggered during and the result is a cutscene skip. This saves about three minutes overall. Unfortunately, when applying this method to any exiting area simply brings you back to the title screen. The next major breakthrough, discovered by &quot;axon&quot; in Normally, you're supposed to unlock Yoshi before being able to complete all of Pianta Village, due to the entry of the secret stage being blocked This meant that originally, the any% route forced you to in order to fulfill the requirement of unlocking Yoshi: However, when Yoshi Skip came around, that completed Pianta Village much earlier in the run. On top of this, the time saved from not having to So it's no secret that the casino in Sirena Beach There are two spinning slot machines to deal with, on top of a finicky tile-flipping puzzle that opens up Thanks to a discovery from &quot;Manocheese&quot; all of the random elements in the casino can be skipped by simply gaining enough height to climb Without this skip being possible, Sirena Beach would have undoubtedly been the Other smaller skips were also found during this period, a banana clip in Sirena Beach Episode 3, some major abuse of invincibility frames to skip a and a spring clip to skip the boss fight in But who would be first to put all these skips and tricks Well, the answer isn't entirely clear, So you know how I mentioned Japan earlier? It turns out that the Japanese were the original pioneers There were two dominant any% runners toobou and chibi, who later changed his name to sincos. And I will be referring to him as such just so that everyone knows that I'm not referring to... ...yeah, you get the idea. Both toobou and sincos began learning and both strived for a run that was out of this world, to a degree much, much higher than any Western The first notable modern any% record using was 1:34:50 by toobou in October of 2011. Unfortunately, the history of world records between It can safely be assumed that the Japanese players were over the course of 2010 to early 2011, using skips that both Western and Japanese Considering how low the standards of consistency were at this time, this run was nothing short of impressive. Interestingly, the route at this time opted to complete It was probably known this wasn't but this was likely used as a way to get Yoshi Skip Yoshi Skip was a major run-killer when it wasn't very This was the first instance of modern eel strats being used. The eel fight in Noki Bay Episode 4 was extremely hard but toobou manages to pull off a four-tooth eel, meaning then he cleaned off the four middle and thus manipulating him to not go back into his He also successfully pulled off the cutscene skip, which occurs as long as you're flashing red from taking toobou (translated from Japanese) - &quot;Finally made it. &quot;[laughs] An improvement of 8 seconds! &quot;I improved my time by 8 seconds. Thanks for watching!&quot; In a couple of months, sincos would fire back with an In December of 2011, sincos achieved a time of 1:33:01. This run was mind-blowing, to say the least. Such insane levels of consistency and execution As a bit of an aside, I remember before I got as soon as I saw those windmill wallkicks, Due to the nature of how Nico Live, a Japanese both toobou and sincos used a timing method later frowned upon, and then eventually deemed It wasn't segmented, nor RTA, but they used what's A Time Attack run is a single-segment speed run that and the runner can then resume the game and timer The reason this was convenient for is that Nico Live forces the broadcast to segment Because of this, Japanese SMS speedrunners would and at a given text box, pause the game and timer, While this did solve the issue of Nico's broadcasting system, there was a clear advantage to doing this It wouldn't be until the latter half of 2012 as sincos's 1:33:01 was just that good for the time. toobou got the record back on August 17, 2012. toobou (translated from Japanese) - &quot;I'm gonna do it..! &quot;YES!! &quot;I'm gonna get it this time!!!&quot; &quot;YESSSSS!!!! &quot;I DID IT! &quot;I did it! &quot;I'm ecstatic! &quot;I'm so happy!&quot; &quot;Shaking... &quot;My hands are shaking!&quot; The route used in this run was new, as and Ricco Harbor was done really early in the route, He also utilized advanced ship which has an extremely tight window to hover to the sincos then got a time of 1:32:31 on October 7th, 2012, but unfortunately, he either unlisted or removed toobou proceeded to tie this time on November 8th. Later in the month, on November 22nd, toobou improved A notable strat used in this run was an improvement to a In May of 2012, UrBoyGraham discovered what would come to be known as &quot;The Banana Split.&quot; By backflipping into the glass wall and timing a throw, this served as a much faster method of Amongst any healthy competition of a some... shady business is almost guaranteed to occur. In 2012, racing on SpeedRunsLive, or SRL, and racing SMS any% was no exception. Racing was all in good fun, and wasn't taken too That is, until one such race would change this forever, as it would cause figureheads of SMS to begin to crack of a race they participated in. There is a cycle that was considered to be the stuff of The chance that any of these Chucksters decide to stop, as well as the amount of time that they're stopped for, Ideally, the Chucksters early on are mostly on a and the very last Chuckster is on a slow cycle, having to If the last Chuckster is slow enough that he's in this it makes a cycle that saves a minimum Before it was known that you could mash the Y button the chance of making the cycle was deemed to This very cycle plays a pivotal role on this scandal. On December 14th, 2012, this any% race took place. Now, you'll notice amongst these results that there was Well, to put it simply, Ramel spliced a mid-1:31 run for a He didn't do this just out of nowhere, however. He had consistently good race times leading up to this moment, which were also most likely faked, just to make his The early Chuckster cycle that I previously mentioned as he made this cycle in his spliced run. The SMS community quickly found out when his stream temporarily went down and then back to do a specific movement on the file select screen Funnily enough, Ramel, who later streamed would go on to legitimately get a 1:31, but it was never allowed on the leaderboards due to his previous splicing incident. From here, toobou went on sort of a tear, toobou improved his own record a few times, managing barely achieving a 1:31 before 2013. He then got a 1:31:38 on February 15th, 2013. And keep in mind that all the records up to this point or done with the TA method of timing. It seemed like toobou was such a dominant force, but it was only a matter of time before another runner That's where Samura1man comes in. Samura1man, a speedrunner from Finland, began And he improved... fast. Like, really, really fast. Samura1man - &quot;Oh. GG.&quot; Samu - &quot;That was the run, guys.&quot; Samu - &quot;Oh. My. God. I did it! &quot;1:32. 1:32!&quot; Samu is basically the kind of person who can get Coming, into 2013, Samu was definitely a top runner, but But on one fateful February 28th... ...that changed. Samu - &quot;OOHHHHHH!!!&quot; &quot;Yes.&quot; Samu managed to clutch out a PB by a minute. This was also the first time in history that the any% which meant that it was done in one sitting, This record may have only been by eleven seconds, but there is no doubt that it left a huge impact on He truly proved that you don't have to be Japanese toobou would quickly return to the any% grind, and he took the record back by three seconds once again using the TA timing method. He then beat his own 1:31:24 by one second but the important thing about this run was that it was No video footage currently exists for either of these Considering that Samu's former record was and he would need to practice and improve his skills Small movement optimizations were being developed, After a couple months of grinding, Samu managed to Samu - &quot;Oh, yeah! Yes! &quot;There you go! A new world record! A new world record!&quot; I personally saw this run live, and while it sounds cliche, it was definitely one of the best examples I've ever seen Samu pulled this run off immediately after losing two PB-pace runs in a row to Noki Bay Episode 6. Samu - &quot;Yes!!&quot; Samu - &quot;Wh- Oh! &quot;You can't be serious!&quot; Samu - &quot;What!? [distressed gasping] &quot;Noooo...&quot; Not only is &quot;The Shell's Secret&quot; considered but it's also at the very end of the run, so it can By this point, there was something on everyone's mind, Samu - &quot;I'm going to prove that sub-1:30 is possible. Kappa&quot; Sub-1:30 would be the ultimate crowning but it would just barely be possible Within less than a month, toobou managed to get the toobou (translated from Japanese) - &quot;Yes!! &quot;It was 45, 45! I did it in 45! YES! I did it in 1:30:45 just now! It was 45 seconds.. haha! &quot;Yes, yes, yes, yes! [laughs]&quot; There really weren't any significant discoveries Just a ton of grinding runs or races, and a The rivalry between Japan and Europe, and other runners were sneaking up in the background. Yamata, Stelzig, and Pyroshade, each representing a different country. Samura1man later achieved a 1:30:49. Though not world record, it showed Samu would pull in over a thousand viewers as viewers eagerly anticipated the low 1:30, Well, on September 3rd, 2013... ...this happened. Samu - &quot;AUUUUUUHHHH!!! &quot;Well. &quot;That's the new world record.&quot; This went down as one of the most legendary Samura1man accomplished this run with essentially just with insanely consistent gameplay, and But how much did luck, or uncontrollable factors The variance in Petey patterns in Bianco Hills Episode 5 can realistically cost over 40 seconds, even up to The Plungelos on the mirrors in Gelato Beach Episode 2 have AI that causes them to walk around randomly With bad enough patterns on the double it wasn't uncommon to lose upwards of 20 seconds. There's the previously-mentioned Ramel Cycle that and keep in mind that, with less polished movement, assuming you played perfectly. The manta ray fight in Sirena Beach Episode 1, was essentially random and And finally King Boo, who can randomly give you Top-level runners would almost need otherwise they would have to play out of their mind Amidst the race for sub-1:30, quite a number of strats were being developed towards toobou himself discovered two strats within He found that it was faster to keep holding the chain as well as manipulating the Chain Chomp to go into the Five-tooth eel was increasingly becoming the norm, and overall, people began really analyzing for more Samura1man and toobou were still grinding runs but the grind was nearly beginning to feel exhaustive Awesome Games Done Quick 2014 came around much of the attention within the speedrunning to supporting or even attending the event itself. Well, it just so happened that while everyone was focused on the event this is what transpired in Japan: toobou (translated from Japanese) - &quot;YESSSSSSSS!!!!!!!! &quot;I DID IT! I DID IT!!!! &quot;I REALLY DID IT!!! &quot;I MADE IT! I REALLY MADE IT! &quot;I REALLY MADE IT! I REALLY MADE IT!!&quot; On January 6th, 2014, toobou proved that sub 1:30 a run that achieved the SMS community's dream time, This started to lead to a hive-mind belief of the It felt as though there was nothing else to with the exception of a little-known cutscene skip by the famous Japanese SM64 runner, Honey. &quot;Honey Skip&quot; is a trick in which you clip into this building, and if you manage to die on the same exact frame you it will skip the cutscene. The reason that you die is that there's a death plane that will kill you if you're touching the ground Even though Honey Skip was kinda known to be possible People thought that the setup would be too slow and you can really see why if you knew that the original Top-level competition seemed to die down, and, with the exception of SRL races, toobou's magnum opus, the sub-1:30 run, So there's something I've been kind of brushing over Gelato Beach. Gelato Beach in an any% run... ...sucks. Gelato 1 is okay, y'know, &quot;The Secret of the Sandcastle&quot; Episode 2 sucks, Episode 3 is more or less an autoscroller, Episode 4 is more or less an autoscroller, Episode 5 is more or less an autoscroller, Episode 6... sucks, and Episode 7 is Shadow Mario. There is an interesting aspect to Gelato Beach, however, The Episode 8 Shine, &quot;The Watermelon Festival,&quot; Since the beginning of SMS speedruns, people would occasionally theorycraft ways to clip into the glass and collect the shine in Episode 1. - &quot;Gelato Beach Skip? Oh my God.&quot; Thus unlocking all the episodes immediately, People already knew that the Shine was because an alternate method of Gelato Beach Skip Exclusive to the Japanese version of SMS, you can use Yoshi in Episode 6 to clip through the People using NTSC-J had a slight advantage but it really didn't save that much time, since you still Obviously, years went by with no success in finding the Then one day, along comes this Spyro speedrunner. That's right, the long sought-after Gelato Beach Skip, or who doesn't even run SMS! This just goes to show that sometimes, having a fresh And if he or she is already a talented While this may seem like an obvious solution, the reason Not only does the angle require you to grab a straight but you must align the camera from this direction, rather than this direction, otherwise it still won't work. The discovery of the skip quickly went viral, and Not only would this save over ten minutes in any%, but it skipped what was widely agreed to be The race was on as a mad dash to get some After gaining enough understanding of the skip to at Samura1man started doing runs as soon as possible. The first run that Samu completed using this skip resulted in a 1:24:24, a five and a half minute improvement using a skip that saves ten minutes. Obviously, there was a lot more work to be done. I previously mentioned that the United States was the but that wouldn't stop Paperario1231, as he fully capitalized on this moment for the U.S. to Paperario - &quot;LeeDUUHHHHLL!!!&quot; - &quot;What the hell?&quot; Paperario - &quot;Screw it! If I don't get a 1, 2, 1- 1- 1- 2... &quot;Yeah, I'm not gonna get it. &quot;I don't even fucking care. I don't even fucking care!&quot; Paperario - &quot;I DID IT!!!! I DID A 1:22!!! BY- BY ONE!! FHAH!&quot; - &quot;Um, okay.&quot; - &quot;Nice- nice job, Paper.&quot; Paperario - &quot;Eurahh!! World record!&quot; &quot;What's your final time?&quot; Paperario - &quot;World record for an hour until toobou gets it!&quot; - &quot;Whuh- whuh- whuh-&quot; Paper managed to sneak in a record for America, And as expected, a mere 20 hours later, An improvement, yes, but still not even close to meeting his full potential. toobou quickly got a run of 1:21:45, but of course this Within a couple of hours, Samu not only achieved a Samu - &quot;PB! [laughs]&quot; All on February 22nd. The original GBS setup, which lasted for all of... One to disable the hitbox of the blender, As you can see, by this point the one-coconut The very next day, toobou managed to get a 1:20:08. So within just a couple of days of GBS being found, the Samu and toobou were the only runners who could so it was only a matter of who'd be first to get it. Well, one month later, toobou finally got But he didn't just get it by a little bit. His time was actually a 1:19:34, completely smashing his previous record by over 30 seconds. This run was an extremely solid run with the strats that A great surge of popularity for running SMS so it makes it all the more insane that the 1:19:34 stood for over five months without being contested! This is perhaps when toobou, already being a dominant player, was at his most dominant. A few weeks prior to performing this legendary run, toobou delivered this tweet that states; &quot;Toobou the WR hog,&quot; and at the time, this tweet Shortly after this record, Samura1man decided and the other top runners would need to seriously grind Over the upcoming summer months, and closing the gap between themselves Previously, I mentioned how Honey Skip was but Stelzig went on to develop the first By aligning Mario's forward position to where his shadow is first visible, standing in a specific spot, and ground-pounding you can buffer a diagonal sidestep and hopefully die on the exact Stelzig, a competitive Melee player and SMS speedrunner from Denmark, had a plan to eventually defeat toobou with the help which saved roughly ten to twelve seconds Stelzig kept grinding away at Sunshine over the summer When it started to dawn on him that he had the potential he shifted his focus entirely to any% Stelzig - &quot;1:20:01!&quot; Stelzig would sometimes like to grind offline attempts to take his mind off the pressure. On August 1st, Stelzig uploaded an that showcases an offline world record-pace Unfortunately for Stelzig, he just Chokes of this magnitude can psychologically As the month of August went on, Stelzig couldn't even despite proving beyond a reasonable doubt Stelzig - &quot;WHAT!?&quot; Well, there is a good ending to this story, He achieved a world record time of 1:19:24 He finally overcame his mental block, someone other than Samura1man and toobou About a week before Stelzig took the record, Samura1man started doing some SMS any% runs just to see how he would do, but wasn't entirely sure if He actually managed to get a 1:19:36, just two seconds Samu - &quot;Woah, damn! [laughs]&quot; In the latter half of 2013, Samura1man and Stelzig which is essentially the 100% category for SMS. Viewers were excited to see these two using many zigFrogs or samuKappa1s This rivalry transferred over to any% when Stelzig fully Autumn of 2014 came around, and Samura1man was but the first ever 1:18. After about a month of grinding, Samu finally bested Samu - &quot;[inhales] Ohh my God.&quot; Samu still didn't use Honey Skip at this point, so he So guess what happened just as Samu had begun to take in the excitement of once again being number one? That's right, toobou had been grinding any% but coincidentally, he achieved a 1:19:08 merely Not only was this a large improvement to the record, but in addition to not using Honey Skip, toobou's record was truly daunting, as some of the This would mark the beginning of the journey to 1:18 Many American SMS speedrunners sometimes on a nightly basis, over the next dozen months or so When racing was extremely popular, there was no denying that the US had a lot of solid players, but no one was really a world record contender. As fate would have it, one particular American I will just let the following clip introduce him: Kaffelon - [heavy breathing] [heavier breathing] &quot;YES!mm!hur!a!i!tht!r&quot; [LOUD MICROPHONE FEEDBACK] &quot;Yes!! Yes!!&quot; This is Kaffelon, a speed runner from Utah. He began running SMS during the latter half of 2013, but the incredibly active community that arose during Kaffelon was very serious about the grind, He would often win any% races amongst the other and this video from Q_qqq2 proves it: DJ Khaled - All I Do Is Win Got money on my mind, I can never get enough And every time I step up in the building, Everybody hands go up All I do is win, win, win, no matter what Got money on my mind, I can never get enough And every time I step up in the building, Everybody hands go up Everyone knew that 1:18 was realistic and Kaffelon was dead set on being Kaff - &quot;Fast boat hype!&quot; Kaff - &quot;OOOOOOOHHHH!!! Third place!!&quot; 2014 was coming to an end, and it seemed that one of Well, on January 14th, 2015, Kaffelon, but more Kaff - &quot;Yeavhh!ht!!eaa Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes!&quot; [button-mashing] - &quot;Did he do it?! Kaff - &quot;I GOT ONE EIrcGHTo*1.000.000*EcEodN!dd!oaxha!iiim!emrciv!odv!&quot; [LOUD MICROPHONE FEEDBACK] - [laughter] Kaffelon was the first American to put in the work This run was truly inspiring, especially for Kaff's Dad - &quot;Zach, you did it!&quot; Kaff's Dad - &quot;World record hug! This was an incredible way to start off 2015, and the competition would only get crazier from here. Another Japanese player that I've mentioned a couple of times earlier in this video, Yamata, was a top-five player for a remarkably long time Yamata is known mostly for his skill in the 120 Shines Yamata ended up tying Kaff's world record on February 7th. This is somewhat of a trend with toobou, but the next then later in the month, on February 23rd, toobou was back on top, but he wasn't At this point, you might be wondering why even are using the Japanese, or NTSC-J version of the game. Well, there are some minor version differences NTSC-J saves roughly a third of a second and this adds up over the course of a run. However, NTSC-J loses nearly ten seconds on due to a much stricter goop-cleaning requirement. The PAL version, which is native to most other countries has the fastest text speed when using Italian text. That being said, the Delfino load times on the Japanese version are still the biggest factor. At this point in Sunshine's Development, NTSC-J and even less than that over PAL. So overall, the version differences are extremely minor, but most people still found it necessary to play on Kaffelon didn't give up, as he pushed the record down Kaff - &quot;Can I- can I put this call on stream for now?&quot; - &quot;World record! World recoooooord! World record, bo-&quot; This was a solid run overall, with very few notable mistakes. In a matter of less than four months, the record was At this point, any% was really starting to feel like So let's introduce AverageTrey, a.k.a. me. I come from the state of Kansas, and at this point, I was known for being the 120 Shines guy, having held world record in that category extensively, However, I knew that if I put in the effort, I could and maybe even world record. Throughout the month of May 2015, I challenged myself to grind nothing except for SMS any% until I either got a 1:17, or the month of May was over. Just to make things a little more special, and called this month &quot;The May of Trey's Face.&quot; Going into this month I was over a minute behind Kaff's It's important to know that this is the point where officially changed to what we currently use today; This method starts the timer on selecting &quot;Start&quot; on the and saves around seven seconds Japan, preferring to stick to tradition, so all Japanese players' times get converted as a result. Had File Select timing always been the standard, then that would have meant that Samura1man was, Anyways, I present to you the results of the May of Trey's Face: AverageTrey - &quot;Woooooooo!!&quot; With only a few days to spare in the month of May, but this was the first time that anyone had in the four main categories at the same time. Trey - &quot;4/4 USTrey.&quot; 2015 was, without a doubt, my and it was super exciting to achieve a time that I Trey - &quot;Dude, I shrek'd the Kaff. &quot;For now. &quot;But he'll be back. &quot;Alright? He'll be back.&quot; And oh how right I was, because only a couple weeks Kaff - &quot;I actually didn't, like, I thought this was like, Kaff was on the grind for 1:17 at this point, since that On June 28th, Kaffelon was on the run of his life. Things were looking good leaning into Noki Bay, but in the very last episode before Corona Mountain, Kaff - &quot;How? How? &quot;Nooooo... Nooo! I'm sorry.&quot; This run could have been 1:17, but Kaffelon costing him about twelve seconds. This was definitely the most depressing world record and something that Kaffelon will Kaff - &quot;...shittiest run I've ever... &quot;Thanks for watching... people.&quot; So you may be thinking; &quot;but there's nothing stopping Kaffelon from just grinding more attempts, and finally achieving the legendary 1:17.&quot; Well, that would be true, except at this point a A majority of the group of SMS runners known as &quot;The in making a certain skip in Pinna Park possible. Dan Salvato, famously known for his work in created a &quot;Practice Codes&quot; hack for SMS. Using USB or SD card loading, one could and use them to reload stages instantly by holding These codes were extremely useful for making cutting out the wait time of exiting Another feature includes &quot;position codes,&quot; which allows the player to save himself at a and then using the right d-pad, warp to this point On July 12th, Sidedwilliams asked ClaytonSMS to test He wanted him to position-code himself in the loading zone for the Pinna 6 secret, and then in a mission other than Episode 6, and use the position code to test if the Well, it turns out... ...that it is there! So if there was just some way to get to the using Yoshi from the beach section, there would It had already been known for years that you can clip The problem is, as I mentioned previously, This staircase is surrounded by invisible walls that Mario and if Mario sidesteps into the wall, he zips to the Pyroshade discovered that platforms created from could pass through these invisible walls It would have to be a platform created by a purple Yoshi, as pink platforms only raise up vertically, It soon dawned on Kaffelon that in Pinna Park Episode 2, and these Bullet Bills will even shoot into the Kaffelon then realized that by standing on that are able to pass through invisible walls, Mario can actually stand on the platform and be And it was at this point people knew that this skip So here is how the skip should work, in theory: First, you would unlock Yoshi by completing then go to Episode 2 to perform the skip. You would eat a durian in order to turn Yoshi purple, then you would use a glitch known as &quot;Fruit Storage&quot; to store a fruit that turns Yoshi orange. In order to do Fruit Storage, simply grab a fruit and dismount Yoshi before he actually eats the fruit. This allows you to eat the fruit from After storing a fruit, use another fruit to clip into this door. The standard black Bullet Bills will never give you the but there are special purple Bullet Bills that can You would create a setup that allows the Bullet Bill spray it at the correct time, then ride the platform At any point during this ride, you would eat the orange And bam, you've effectively skipped the entirety of The first person to actually pull this skip off on console was &quot;kinikola.&quot; So there you have it! You can now access Corona Mountain with 43 Shines instead of 44! It goes by a variety of names, but it's most formally If this skip is done optimally, and with first-cycle But here's the thing: People thought this skip would only be possible on the as NTSC-J doesn't have fruit storage. But a day later, &quot;JaredsGiantz&quot; discovered that if you set Yoshi could eat the fruit through the door. Not only did the save time, since you could use but it made this skip possible The first world record completed using this new skip Yamata got a 1:17:58 on July 16th, 2015. There was obviously room for improvement, Later that same day, Kaffelon got a 1:17:55, making his quest for 1:17 bittersweet as he never quite The biggest problem with EYG was readily apparent: It could literally take over ten cycles before any as you're never guaranteed to get any purples This skip adding yet another major element of luck as it would mean that the chances of an amazing run Whenever a major skip is found, it's almost destined that a new up-and-coming runner Nindiddeh, a fairly experienced speedrunner at this time, He was notorious for always going for the most and would often pay the price for it. But the thing is, despite all the resets and ridicule he received, this turned out to be a brilliant strategy On July 24th, Nindiddeh left his first impact on SMS Diddeh actually skipped 1:18, which is nothing short of insanity. No one could have seen this coming. This dude who streams with compressed splits, just came out of nowhere and swept up the any% record. And people wondered; why is there no sound? Well the answer is, &quot;because there is none.&quot; A couple weeks passed with no new records, which is surprising considering there was EYG was just so difficult and random that it was hard I took the record back in August 11th by finally getting Trey - &quot;Didn't get gooped!&quot; &quot;World record!&quot; - &quot;World record, man. Here we go.&quot; - &quot;USA. USA. USA.&quot; Trey - &quot;USA! Nepal! Nepal is back, bitch.&quot; - &quot;Nepal! NEPAL!!!&quot; If you compare my Bullet Bill setup to setups in previous I was actually using the High-Bill setup, which is The reason I was still using it is that I was, uh, stubborn, If you're gonna do EYG in Episode 2, do yourself a favor A couple weeks later, Yamata improved the record by a second. So the time was slowly getting whittled down People were just losing so many runs to bad luck on On September 4th of 2015, I was on the run of my life, Trey - &quot;Really? &quot;Is that gonna be the death of the one-cycle? &quot;Oh shit! No ledge grab?&quot; Despite choking what could have been a solid run for the Trey - &quot;World reccieeee! &quot;With the worst lategame of all tiiiiiime! [laughs] &quot;Goddammit.&quot; I was pretty disappointed to say the least, Well, wouldn't you know it, toobou once again took his throne back, getting a 1:17:25. It's truly amazing how toobou had been around for and was still able to break the record every now and then. toobou had this strange sense of pride regarding his times, however. Being that he is Japanese, he stuck with reset timing so to him, his 1:17:25 was actually 1:17:32, He wanted a time good enough to beat the record Because of this, he still didn't feel it was necessary and kept on grinding to improve the record further. It wouldn't be a true SMS history video without mentioning a Japanese player named &quot;zelpikukirby.&quot; He is undoubtedly the best TASer of Sunshine, making On October 22nd, zelpiku discovered what would You can cancel the blast off of a charged Rocket Nozzle and then sidestep off a ledge to use the stored rocket. The height gained from this is even higher than a regular rocket, and furthermore, you can charge a rocket during Bounceyboy - &quot;Wow, that was quite a run. &quot;They're cheering for me. &quot;They're cheering for my sub, uh, 1:40.&quot; Bounceyboy started running Mario Sunshine and over the first year of his streaming career, he would stream practice and attempts of SMS B-boy improved extremely fast due to not only but the effectiveness of his practice. He was a major proponent of individual world runs. IWs are useful for practicing consistency that individual At the advent of EYG, he was already a top ten player, and the new skip further motivated him to push the brink of what he knew he could accomplish in SMS. And on Halloween, with the usage of Rocket Storage Bouncey - &quot;YEAH!! &quot;Oh my God!&quot; But he wouldn't stop there. Bouncey - &quot;Yes! &quot;Yo, we did it! [laughs] &quot;That was like, the easiest PB of my life!&quot; Finally, a time had been achieved that was over a minute But this only raised the question; Surely a time of such magnitude would create a Nope! So there you have it. Bounceyboy established himself as Bouncey - &quot;Oh my God! We did it! &quot;Holy shit!&quot; B-boy amassed an impressive following on Twitch, The 1:16:49 lasted for a significant amount of time, as it wasn't until the latter half of February toobou (translated from Japanese) - toobou was truly a machine. It's rare that such an old-school player of any game They often say that you can't teach an old dog new B-boy had been on a hiatus from the game ever since his 1:16, but when the month of April came around, he decided Only three days since coming back he finally got a run again that successfully There was also an improvement to the Honey Skip setup that is still the current setup used by most people All you do is stand in the correct spot, and then buffer a fully-horizontal sidestep to the left. It turns out that this method is extremely lenient. This is also when doing a Blooperless race in Ricco It had been known for years that this but no one had good enough movement until 2016 Oh, and by the way, this run was a new record. Bouncey - &quot;Yes!! Yes!&quot; &quot;Dude, it took three days! &quot;How did this happen already?&quot; It's always exciting to watch Nindiddeh play any% when he gets a run going, because of the strats that he goes for. It can make it more difficult to finish runs, but when he's nailing all the tricks, Diddeh knew that he had the potential to get the record, because his previous PB lost a ton of time to luck in EYG, but when a run came around that had good purple Bill So clearly, Bounceyboy was getting a great deal of After messing up the GBS setup and getting a bad pattern on Pianta Village Episode 1, this run seemed like it was curtains, but From what I've noticed, Bouncey is one of the When he's playing well, he will generally continue When he's playing poorly, he'll tend to make some... ...questionable mistakes. [crowd oohing] In this run, however, he wasn't even fazed Bouncey - &quot;Eyyyyyy! Did it!&quot; But he wasn't quite satisfied with this time. Bouncey - &quot;As I said early in the run, this run sucks. &quot;I'll get 1:15. Hopefully tomorrow. &quot;Oh, actually, I can't play for the next few days!&quot; People were certain that 1:15 would if only because the amount of luck throughout the run Conveniently, in the summer of 2016, zelpikukirby found Previously, this trick was always performed in Episode 2 because there's a door you can clip through, and additionally, Bullet Bills that But what if I told you that there is an alternate way that doesn't rely heavily on luck, and Well, zelpiku found just such thing. He discovered that if you create platforms at just the you can clip through objects. In Episode 3, you have to utilize the tiny Soarin' Stus. Here's how it works: You eat a durian with Yoshi and throw a papaya then lure two of the Soarin' Stus over to the side of this The reason you can't simply walk through the doorway Once you've clipped into the unloaded park, you lure spray the Stu with a properly-aligned angle, and ride the platform to the Yoshi-Go-Round. This method was super useful not only but also removing the stupid amount of luck that Using Pinna 3 EYG, which was coined &quot;3YG,&quot; with a run that had an extremely slow time Bouncey - &quot;Unbelievable, dude. 3:14 segment! This run's great!&quot; Notification Sound - Jesus Bouncey - &quot;Ayyyy! 1:16:08!&quot; &quot;This run had a 17-minute Bianco 5, SMS was on the cusp of seeing a 1:15 completion, and Bounceyboy, toobou and Nindiddeh The strats that top players could go for to save I would like to reiterate just how crazy Nindiddeh is. He will truly go for whatever it takes to be a little more optimal than everyone else. And this is the turning point at which all of that patience with going for the best strats really started to pay off for him. The final strat that I would like to formally talk about is the fastest cycle that humans can go for in Referred to as &quot;H.A.M. Cycle,&quot; it's possible to to actually reach the side with the green peg as seen in this IL from 2015 by Pyroshade. No one would Except for Nindiddeh. On July 23rd, Nindiddeh got the first ever 1:15 But in his eyes, there was still much more Considering that 3YG was a thing, and luck was he was only scraping the surface of how low After achieving 1:15:54, Nindiddeh was already saying People laughed at him. But, little did everyone know that Diddeh Nindiddeh - &quot;Okay.&quot; Diddeh - &quot;YAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAY!!!&quot; Diddeh - &quot;Nice.&quot; Diddeh - &quot;Holy shart, dude! Is this 1:14 pace?&quot; Diddeh - &quot;O... oh my God, dude!&quot; It was pure insanity what Nindiddeh As it turns out, it was a brilliant strategy to go ahead and as it clearly helped him in the long run. Before Nindiddeh started rising up, no one could have seen it coming that a 1:14 would possibly happen at all, let alone in 2016. Some of these strategies are very all-or-nothing, and it can be hard to justify going for them if it only seems like one second, but a single second saved on multiple levels Nindiddeh seemed to be slowing down the momentum a bit now, as a few months passed in 2017 with no new PBs. Other top runners had to simply work towards closing A Japanese runner named Levaten was improving Levaten had been around as early as 2013, but he took a break from the game for about a year, Levaten became good enough to even contend which he proved in his any% speedrun in 1:15:05 The nuttiest thing about Levaten is that he went for but was extremely consistent at pulling them off He could achieve times that were within two minutes which is pretty much unheard of for any other runner. Well, on May 9th, Levaten got a 1:14:55 and finally took the record... ...kind of. Not officially. [sigh] Unfortunately, he completed his run offline, and he also had a recording issue that As a result, his time was not allowed as world record times must have proper All we got was a screenshot of his splits on Twitter, and a glint of hope that someone could finally best People were a little annoyed, knowing that there was than the current record displayed on speedrun.com. Later in the month, however, Diddeh - &quot;Yes! Yes. &quot;I did it.&quot; Nindiddeh had actually been grinding any% for and finally, after five months, improved his PB again. That is a true testament to how insane the 1:14:58 was. But funnily enough, this record actually had a death which to me only further shows how insane Diddeh - &quot;Oh my fucking God.&quot; And as of today, that's where the any% record stands, at 1:14:40. SMS speedrunning went through a variety of eras, and I'm searching that as time goes on, there will be a new generation of Sunshine runners The potential of how high the skill ceiling can get as the movement in this game lends Itself to a Mario Sunshine is currently the third most only behind Mario 64 and the Ocarina of Time. SMS could have easily fallen under the radar, if not for its And I've gotta say, it is truly awesome that it's Despite once being known as &quot;the black sheep&quot; Super Mario Sunshine has been held in much as being a true classic of the GameCube era. This has been AverageTrey. Peace.