The current credit scoring flawed. And this error of being huge ramifications across Americans. There's no doubt about this. Visa is dominant. We're not necessarily urban professionals that to, let's say, an Amex card Discover really is kind of There's no reason to think have a strong customer base $6.7 trillion. That is how much Americans credit cards in 2019. More than 60% of those cards from Visa, a company payment card industry. Not only are the majority of transactions in the United there's been lots of including from the And the Department of legal decisions that show which is the legal term, as So there's no doubt about Visa is dominant. As payment cards become more lives, Visa has quickly most valuable companies in As of October 2021, Visa billion and reported net for 2020. Shares of the company have in the past five years. A really good way to think is for every $100 spent on world, they make about a an actual quarter. Every time you buy a pair get $0.25 of that. As the network has scaled, margins. And so the business naturally goes up. But Visa's success hasn't merchants who have no for payment. If I can ask Visa, for one relief in the swipe fee We are paying way too much. You're making way too much And you know the lack of with all of your issuing swipe fees across all it's really unfair. We don't do business that Other industries don't do So I don't know how you can So how exactly does Visa dominate the payment card The Bank of America nation's first licensed consumers and small to 1958. The computer is changing our business. By 1970, Bank of America over the card, passing the banks that continued to the new network in the The company grew quickly internationally by 1974 and card in 1975. Every month, British billion pounds worth of In 2007, Visa completed its the formation of Visa Inc. and went public in 2008, of the largest US public Visa was set up to be They started actually as an banks across the country. So all these banks came Visa to have this national But of course they had a was virtually all the There are still Class B are actually owned still by Today, Visa has grown to largest payment processing 3.4 billion cards in the countries and territories. Visa generated over $4 in the United States, 2021 Nilson report. In comparison, MasterCard h the market, with a purchase trillion. Visa does have a there, more than MasterCard Discover cards a little bit They have more cards than But Visa cards in both are the most frequent ones transaction counts in both And it's a profitable Since going public, Visa has revenue and its shares have S&amp;P 500, excluding just And although the year isn't to see Visa underperform In one of those years, 2020, revenue of $21.8 billion, $7.8 billion. Its total net income for roughly $10.7 billion. Their profit margins are The numbers I've seen over profit margins. Where, to give you a sense, profit margins tend to be range. So as a business, the reason because it's a primarily Once you've got that each incremental through that ecosystem incremental margins because capacity network. And so as Visa has scaled, up dramatically for that So how exactly does Visa Contrary to popular belief, from credit card interest Instead, those fees are In most cases, banks, of the risks that come with So Visa does not have direct individual consumers. The banks do. The banks And so you may get your from Bank of America or any number of these other banks. But while many Visa cards, they're really They're the bank's cards them. And Visa is the Visa's business model relies the four party model. When you use a Visa card to usually four entities that You, the customer making The bank that holds the The merchant selling the as a middleman connecting together. They're a physical network, network or an internet It's just telecom might Internet carries carries money, right? So it's a different type of connects about 18,000 banks institutions globally. And every time that you use have to run back and forth the website or wherever Going back to your bank see whether you are who you have the money to do an And then also to go back the transaction, meaning your bank's bank account bank account. A majority of Visa's gross from data processing fees complete this practice. Roughly 34% consists of Visa charges card issuers Visa-branded payment They charge a set of fees brand network that creates The trust that enables it so walk into any merchant hand them a piece of on it and the merchant transaction works. Just that didn't have that on It wouldn't work. International transaction of the company's gross Beyond the three main also been continuously payment that could bring the company in the near This is like B2B payments, payments, this is like That's when a business driver or Lyft driver or an like that. There's a lot of two people, two individuals If you're really taking a five, ten, twenty years, payment are going to be an business. Visa's success in the has also led to a series of investigations over the The Department of Justice times, has entered into everything from Visa used bank that issued their cards from Discover or was found to be an Visa had rules tying debit cards so that accept a credit card, had vice versa. Almost it's industries that have had than this one. In December 2019, Visa and $5.5 billion to settle accused them of charging The largest ever class antitrust case, according the case, Berger Montague. Visa also notably abandoned Plaid. Visa and Plaid are merger. After the Department of lawsuit on the grounds that in the payment industry. Most recently, in August certified a class action MasterCard for charging consumers and operators. Visa declined to comment on Meanwhile, retailers argue by Visa are simply too high survive. I don't think the average fees when they're using Business owners certainly Because for me, swipe fees expense line item on my Right after labor. And right Ahead of rent. In 2009, swipe fees MasterCard sat at $25.6 A decade later, it more billion in 2019, according Federation. The overall merchants to accept all billion in 2020. It tends to be somewhere in merchants pay on a I know a lot of business because so many people have what it is. And I'm like, are so ridiculous. The amount we pay in swipe to do something about it. about it. This is a central part of dominance is that this is collectively and setting competing on price like all do. Meanwhile, those in support the side of merchants Visa's business structure is anything, is actually toward the merchants. They their revenue from the that's supporting the are pretty agnostic in the there to serve as this facilitates effective balancing both sides. What's certain is that Visa world of commerce forever. Visa at some level is a in the sense that they're and so easy to use that granted. For the consumer, Just enabler of their life. I always tell people, it and you literally had to with cash and a check, what On the merchant's side true. I mean, cash is They have to have cash They have to have armored They have to have count the cash and make at the end of every shift. There's always, of course, kind of cost of taking card The reality is that the extremely expensive. And it's a very quick, contactless payments tap it and go, like it lines, just facilitates the 52.9 billion. That's the total revenues made in 2022. But despite its impressive dominating the credit card Its domestic payment volume and MasterCard, and it lags number of cards in It's a difficult business in, given the threats posed What they've leaned into are lot, spend a lot of money willing to cater to that perks, whether that's at can use every day, whether membership or Uber cash or that card, keep it at the Armed with impressive base, Amex has achieved The company's revenue has 2017, and shares of the resilience and growth in a Amex I would think of them call a quality compounder, business, growing revenues, and then they get a little On top of that, they grow double digits. They've learned a lot They've diversified their They've sharpened their their customers. And it's coming back strong. So what is the secret to headed next? American Express began as a in 1850, transporting rapidly expanding nation. It wasn't until the late its transformation into a It began to introduce travel services. Then, in the 1950s, from traveler's checks, it card to offer customers a Where the brand truly begins opinion. And you know, products come out, the gold really focusing on the card business. What sets Amex apart from the way in which their Most credit cards from MasterCard function in system. When a cardholder network to make a purchase generate revenue by from the issuers. Usually the banks that have acquirers or the merchant's Amex, on the other hand, system where it functions and the network combined. Amex is different from Visa is a lender. Visa and MasterCard are they process transactions, issuing credit. American Express is both. They are a lender of credit processor of transactions. That really enables them to customers are spending down that extra data where they different rewards spends That's going to be very MasterCard can see, which dollar amounts. It allows them to tailor especially on the merchant If there's a reason why merchant's business, they terms in order to fit that They don't have to worry about what those terms are. Whereas Visa and MasterCard This closed loop system also from interest, unlike Visa The company generated about income in 2022. It's advantageous to be paid any time a transaction And then there are also pay annual fees or carry incur charges. But interest income is just comes to Amex's total Discount revenues or fees accept its cards brought in 2022, contributing to more revenue net of interest They charge a premium to their cards and the that premium because them the most affluent, They make the discount and so they charge the rate, two and a half or This can vary by merchant But a lot of their revenue, coming from this swipe fee Because of its reliance on are Amex's most important Recent reports claim that average three times as much members. Amex targets these a spend-centric model that revenues primarily by cards. That's where rewards In just 2022, Amex spent services and rewards to its When they talk about a really talking about being And I think a really good platinum card, one of their On the face of it, this is lot of travel benefits with and all that fun stuff. But you can also get a free you can get a whole bunch credits. They're trying to not just something that you when you're traveling. That high-spend-centric can provide such strong why the customers are annual fees than for other getting the benefits of the Because the people that are this up in their spend Having a closed loop system cardholder spends is the number of transactions Amex also utilizes the through its closed loop attract and retain A lot of the tricky part kind of big, you know, kind that the rewards are a like they might have very but they might not be consumer value. In American Express's case, dynamic and because they merchant, they can create the consumer like this for me. Like they can go top hotels and all of the specialized offers and stuff to bring consumers, those hotels, to those sees benefits from their connecting those dots. Having an affluent customer advantage of decreased Delinquency rates for Amex lower compared to other Credit losses through the closely with unemployment, If you think about the they roughly go up between a recession, and the prime roughly that same sort of over that time frame, could actually see a little So if it was to go up two American Express go up 1.8 And so that makes a big cyclicality of the to earnings and returns. It's really one of the of focus on this stock in a It's considered a safety outperform with the stock In recent years, Amex has customers further, mainly underbanked Americans. I really think that Amex is over younger customers as They've talked about how acquisitions are Gen Z and they've done some creative experiences, whether it's exclusive concerts like Harlow and, you know, a younger audience. That will be the leaders tomorrow. Amex has also made scaling and improving its offerings to be more of alternative premium They continue to make They were actually the issuer to win approval in partnering with local into that increasingly In Europe, places like adoption, both by affluent businesses, is much lower, in the US, the UK and high. And so there's a huge opportunity. I think tech companies in a way and the web experiences the data that they're You know, some people say pay later could be a big They actually were the card issuer to unveil their A few years ago they came which I think again speaks everybody. The biggest threat for Amex the credit card industry. To me, the biggest weakness Express really is that and MasterCard and what it, which may or may not be Express can control. The value that they are able loop model is distinctive But as things like data get better, and the whole managing card programs their technology advances, programs can better Express is able to do So they can run better consumer spending so they rewards. But while loan loss following a period of high that Amex is more than recession. They're not by any means But at the same time, with customer, those credit significantly lower than more focused on average borrowers. And so, you think that American Express base after the next America runs on credit. The three digit score person is to pay his or her every aspect of an It's like your passport into do as an adult. And it affects so many credit. So your ability to mortgage, a reasonable car Landlords use credit so it'll affect your Insurance companies use Having a low or no credit financial consequences. 42% of Americans said that prevented them from like credit cards or loans. Life can become more as your credit score falls. But some credit experts credit reporting and issues. The current credit scoring flawed. And this error of misaligned has huge system for millions of Others say many of these The reality is that the we have here in the United crown jewel of the world. A lot of the criticisms are misunderstanding of how and how they're used. If you take a moment to not financial service for a reasonable person would are actually good for world without credit scores our bottom lines. So how do credit scores work or hurt consumers? A credit score usually 300 and 850, which financial stability and The higher the number, the potential lenders. Credit scores in the five be very bad. Credit scores in the six use terms like subprime average. But you really the seven hundreds before national average, which is then start working your way which are well into the into the eight hundreds. Credit scores and reports Reports refer to statements your credit situation. While scores are calculated from the report. The credit report is like The credit score is the One is influential over the same thing. Today, scores Corporation, or FICO, have standard, used by 90% of They're calculated using from payment history, 30% from the length of credit credit and the types of It's based on an analytic So we look at actual data us predict whether you're future. One of the main benefits of that it provides a quick of measuring credit borrowing today more than topping $16 trillion during making credit scores It allows lenders to make and have a very deep likelihood of someone Experts say that such a the reason why Americans interest rates for so many The credit scoring system and cheaply make decisions going to have credit. The to decide whether or not credit, in the aggregate, the lender and hopefully the consumers in a more Without this system, lenders do, which is they're going What that means in interest rates, because risk, they charge everybody that's posed by everyone, It's easier to say no to an applicant who you know is Representing a person's numbers also allegedly discrimination. Lenders subjective methods of invention of credit scores. Credit scoring, when it was advancement. It is better across from you and judge in your credit score, their subjective analysis experience into the And if their life is frankly, if it's some white woman of color, that If the information is not on systemically impossible for influenced by it. What is not on your credit Things like your gender, your politics, your level you make, the socioeconomic neighborhood, your level of So we're able to assess the past behavior that is only to the extent that it Yet, despite its good the credit scoring system discrimination. A survey of more than half of Black low or no credit score, Hispanics, 37% for whites Americans. Credit scores are based on So you're going backwards judgment about the future. The further we go backwards structural racism in the Intentional racism that baked into the cake, into institutions and policies And that kind of structural no intent, but it still consumers. If your parent put your name bad credit and then they turn 18 and inherit your credit report through If you're a new immigrant credit history doesn't These credit bureaus are up with nothing. And by the place to be in credit It means that you're information starts off low 19% of American adults have considered unscorable by Sadly, what the scores do is inequalities because they you're already be doubly disadvantaged of objectifies that you are being given a chance, that much higher fines and fees Errors in credit reports can miscalculated scores. A survey in 2021 found that polled found errors in Of more than 700,000 credit complaints received in to incorrect information on For me, it was a different who didn't pay their cell I also happened to live in school, and this stuck with One in twenty have an error them either the ability to apartment. However, those within the When we look at our data, it so we're constantly data. Our regulators are ongoing basis. So they're looking at all integrity, data with consumers, et cetera. Under the Fair Credit bureaus are responsible for information on their But research has suggested errors difficult to get Credit bureaus are like a the defendant. So if your you're late, even though and you have documentation will still show up as late. Fixing mistakes is expensive credit reporting and credit They are not incentivized particularly if the even out. Our entire role in the to provide reliable, If we were unable to do interest in engaging with Our position is that the only succeed if our data is accurate. And that means continually to try to make effectively managing their to effectively feel as with us about any concerns Another main concern is the oversight that can ensure within the industry. You know, I think the idea unregulated is a fiction. And, you know, we operate regulated spaces possible. You have a 50 year old Fair Credit Reporting Act, everything having to do rights to challenge freeze our credit reports, our credit reports. You Protection Bureau, which a vis credit report Federal Trade Commission responsibility. I must say that the Consumer which took over oversight years ago, they've done a reform the credit bureaus. But I would go further than laws. Over the years, credit agencies have made several criticisms against the Perhaps the biggest change alternative data to improve They've started trying to unquote nontraditional For example, if you pay month, your credit score is But if you pay your rent on happens because that We've innovated with scores the ultra FICO score. They augment traditional alternative data, such as utilities, as well as checking and savings The point of these new to find other ways besides demonstrate their ability More regulatory changes Two bills, the Protecting the Comprehensive Credit House in 2020. Aimed at overhauling the more oversight and protecting consumer credit. They have yet to be put on One of the initiatives that really think the solution around how do you help products is an alternative called the Credit Access would really encourage the utility data, bring new would allow literally access financial products But ultimately, credit in dependent on the consumer's I'll tell you the two things will be impossible for you Number one, never, ever ever. That's easy. It's writing a check at the your minimum payment. Right. Number two, you got debt. And I'm not saying I'm saying don't max out Don't use them as a to keep up with the Joneses Pay your bills on time. Stay out of excessive Lather, rinse, repeat, and fantastic credit scores. You know how you manage your responsibility. It's not. A lot of people have credit report because they not because they're bad So they got sick, they lost pay their bills and their stop them from getting a That's crazy. Credit cards are $1 trillion In 2018, they were swiped paying for products and trillion. Americans owe credit card debt, about The US consumer is doing Strong consumer sentiment, low unemployment. All of those things are industry. Giants like MasterCard, Visa network market. Chase, Citi, Amex and issuers. A quiet but a talked about competitor is We're not one of those there talking about how The number one performing the S&amp;P for a ten year average company. Discover has the 10th portfolio in the world, outside of the US. Still, there are 57 million It's not really for the kind first class to the Discover really is kind of When you think about the where they borrow and what think that they're right these issuers. The Discover credit cards Power Customer Satisfaction So how did they win over To understand the credit important to know the card network and an issuer. The network is basically transactions are processed. A card issuer is the on the credit risk. Discover and American and a network. That gives them some model. It also gives them a revenue, at least from the Very different from the where that could be a lot charging you 18, 20, 25% But there's also risk And it's also less transactors and the paying their bills in full from month to month. 40% of Americans are from month to month. We spoke with Discover CEO phone. Our model is lend0focused. We're looking for people and from people who borrow American Express's is model for issuers. American Express and two slots on outstanding Citibank, Bank of America slots 3 to 5. Discover is sixth. The Discover Credit card Sears Roebuck, the largest Back then, it was part of of Sears, and they launched They had this commercial This is the dawn. The dawn of Discover. They talked about the dawn And they really pioneered cashback and no annual fee. Sears wanted to expand into decided to accept only the stores. Many merchants actually they thought that accepting were helping their rival So that actually really led and difficulty for Discover In 1993, Dean Witter publicly traded company Sears eventually filed for that's another story. In 1997, Dean Witter with Morgan Stanley. The mid 2000s were eventful barrier to entry didn't end Mastercard and Visa were and Discover wanted in. In 2004, the Supreme Court Discover's favor. Discover claimed that harmed its business by banks from issuing credit Network. They did everything they out to merchants to tell would help Sears. After the Supreme Court started taking off. GE Consumer Finance, Walmart clients and Pulse, a debit With more than 50 million become a major player. In July 2007, only six Recession, Discover severed started trading on the New We just set up our finance function. Luckily, we had a way back to Sears of being In the midst of the received welcoming news. Visa and MasterCard paid in damages after finally Discover's strategy remains Charge no annual fee, offer cashback, conduct all US-based customer service customers who will revolve There's a relentless focus limited set of businesses. You compare us to most credit cards. They've got They have small business consumers. That consumer is a prime customers have a FICO score Competitors like American affluent customer base with and Capital One serves a borrowers than Discover. We might be more like may be more like Mercedes. I would say the typical probably a little bit more even lower middle class, parent, maybe more likely You know, we're not the affluent urban likely to gravitate to, Chase card. According to the J.D. Power Customer Satisfaction voted number one every year 2017. It's very difficult in this United States in a very business because so many But it's doing a really, the customers it has very value proposition that it's I think sometimes these more attention because redemption. Right? It's, airport lounge, all that The fact is, though, we of credit card rewards Discover's balance sheet improving finances since The investors that are here high capital return, and that 70% plus payout to and share repurchases. And so it's about having a stable but growing business Maybe it's the Midwest We're not one of those there talking about how And there are others who do But the last few years Discover stock. In a one comparison, it S&amp;P 500 and multiple On January 24th, 2020, a earnings call, the stock done in ten years. It was announced that their customers, something called restructurings, increased that has worried investors. In an email to CNBC, the Hochschild, said the market can be volatile from time Our focus is on continuing of the Discover franchise, reflected in the stock's That has showed that as enthused about credit And though people as a credit cards, revolving every year in the past two companies like Discover who If you want to continue to and give them a successful to come up with something than just steady as it It would not be surprising either making an with another credit card somebody bigger. In this day and age, it's happen. But I would say we model. We're strong on both if you think about our our deposit products. So I feel very good about