(thrilling upbeat music) (tense music) (dramatic music) (dramatic music continues) - [Narrator] Is the of Armando Zurbaran one of It is certainly one of the most detailed, rather than just being on under duress and strap to a table before being returned a short time later, Zurbaran's encounter would and would see him experience in the same way the According to the account, in the early hours of one at around 2:00 am Armando Zurbaran was driving along the road on his way to a meeting the following day. He was hoping if he he would arrive at his As he was making his way he suddenly began to feel In fact, more than feeling tired, he began to feel as though he was slipping into a severe state of lethargy. Worried he would lose he pulled the car to the side of the road. He took a moment to refocus toward the windscreen in However, there in front of him was a scene he couldn't quite believe. A short distance from his car in the middle of the road. Even more alarming, several strange men each wearing the same were standing on the He remained in his car watching then without recalling how of the car and walking At each side with a strange to the object which he stepped onto. As he looked around inside he blurted out a question asking why they had chosen to take him. To his surprise, one of them answered. He was told that he was neither the first, nor would he be the from earth for testing. Adding that they always attempted to transmit their message After going through several which he claimed were like a television in front of him, he was walked around the craft He was told that during this walk he was free to ask any He was also informed that they but were traveling through space. Zurbaran would recall from his conversation with this apparent And what is particularly interesting is that many of the details and how it traverses with whistleblower testimony that would surface decades later, perhaps most specifically Zurbaran would offer for operated using a gravity repulsion system. This system would scan space ahead of them and then dispel any objects in their path. It would then bend space time to it before releasing it again, which would move the craft that had been bent towards it. In total, he would spend eating, sleeping, and For example, he would state on the ship was similar to that gradually increased in strength before changing to damper Liquid soap was then applied to the body which was blasted dry, He further recalled how was very similar to ours of vegetables, starches, They also drank many and ate a particular fruit What is perhaps interesting is that some researchers, perhaps most prominently that many UFO encounters examining and taking particularly fruit processing ones. Might the fact that fruits in their diet be the reason for this. Another thought-provoking was that the provisions on the ship through telepathy. Essentially, they would into existence. Once more this had the echoes the ancient Egyptian creator God, who was said to have imagined and he did so from a winged chair. Might the wing chair have been some kind of advanced technology into physical manifestations? We should also keep in mind of quantum physics that of particles not physically existed until a person physically observes them. There were however further even more mind blowing revelations. They would speak to of collaboration over competition. This has led to 3000 years Of more interest, this was of the beloved number nine or the master. What is interesting about this mentioning of a beloved number nine is that during the channeling experiments of the United States government they claimed to have make contact with an other worldly entity. From the reaches of the who was an eternal presence Was this the same entity that Zurbaran's abductor spoke of? Following the several Zurbaran was returned to To his disbelief, no time Unsure what to do, he to his pre-planned business meeting, which went ahead as if had taken place, which of course Amazingly, a second incident in 1969 just outside of Mexico City. According to the account, Zurbaran pulled over to the roadside in order to give a ride to a hitchhiker. To his amazement, the individual revealed himself to be one of the crew members and a half previously. Unfortunately, that is this second meeting, with It is an encounter however by the extraterrestrial themselves. Another example of pre-planned We might contemplate how many have taken place, meetings There are several intriguing details and points we can take of Armando Zurbaran. Not least that he was purposely targeted by these other worldly beings whether he made good on other than speaking of remains unknown. It is perhaps some of the that lends it the most credibility. There was no mention of For example, at a time were claiming contact with He also made no effort to or more specifically the alleged something a charlatan Might we assume that many have been targeted and abducted by these same extraterrestrials. We should also note that in this account are decidedly human-like and not at all like that would feature so prominently of the 1970 onwards. Might we take from this investigators, and that multiple races of alien and have been doing for some time. And what should we make of the a beloved number nine? At the time of Zurbaran's encounter knowledge of the Project much less what was revealed in them was not in the public arena. Might these extraterrestrials under the guidance of this nine, be attempted to bestow through the teachings and of the abductee following that. We might also contemplate if we accept that these human-like extraterrestrials and gray aliens are different Whether there's a long one that has been raging and that is for the minds or The legends of good versus bad perhaps take on a new meaning when viewed with an Could it really be that humanity that has been fought for with ourselves at the center for reasons even we can't fully Has this constant war been and tales of heaven and hell Indeed, it just might prove to be the case that the account of Armando Zurbaran and ones like this are than even some UFO They might not only have and alien question, but could also reveal a our present, and the true nature (dramatic music) What makes the alien particularly intriguing, is the number of details in paranormal cases of hauntings At the same time, it is heavily suggestive of that sees a person perhaps during their lifetime and one that uses alien and seemingly target those In the early hours of at a little after midnight, Erwin Lohre was asleep in northern Germany when he awoke due to a sudden intense He would venture from the bedroom and seek out a strong painkiller in an attempt to go back to sleep. However, by the time he returned, his wife was now also awake and whats more they could both seemingly coming from outside the house. A sound that Lohre would later As the couple remains the source of the sound, a glowing round object suddenly through their bedroom window. The object hovered a short distance away just above the nearby trees and it was so bright including their house, was now awash in its Even more bizarre as the of their window at this they each noticed a strange overtake their mouths. At this point, Erwin went to However, when he did so, he realized he was He turned to his wife, the confused and frightened that she was experiencing the same thing. Then as they sat upright a yellow light began flashing and continued to do so Then the light stopped suddenly went into motion and disappearing into the distance. Almost immediately after both the Lohres were Now unable to sleep though and discussed just what However, around half an hour later, the curious humming sound returned. This time though the sound was coming from the back of the house. Both of them rushed to the As they looked out, they could only several hundred feet away and it was heading straight for them. As it got closer, they would recall how it with all the colors of the rainbow, while on the underside they shining downward. The futuristic craft then when it was a matter with their property, it simply evaporated as if it Just like that it was gone. The pair looked out into the night. It was now peaceful and serene as if nothing outta the They each contemplated just The following day, Erwin would and offer them details of and experienced the previous evening. The newspaper ran a on the following day, which prompted 25 other to state they too had on the same evening, including returning home from a match. Given the sheer number of that something strange was there was no possibility that to a joint hallucination Frustratingly though while to discuss their sightings none wish to talk about them publicly and put them on the official record. One UFO researcher who had Dr. Hattwig would ask Erwin if he believed he had been intentionally He replied that he believed that was hovering right as if the occupants knew The events that would follow the sighting would appear to confirm this, and they were bizarre and The day after the while he and his wife with their young daughter, like a photo bulb went off in the room, followed by a crackling sound. On that same evening at around 10:00 pm a loud ominous banging was heard coming from one of the wardrobes upstairs. When Erwin went to check, the banging suddenly stopped. The wardrobe was empty However, a short time and leaving the room, the These types of eerie for several weeks. Erwin would also suffer from in his lower back. Then by chance one morning right at the base of his spine. When these marks were two black spots were visible under them. He was booked to have a CAT scan to examine the markings more closely. However, before the the two black lumps came out of his back. Erwin attempted to preserve However, by the following day, they had each melted away into nothing. We might note that this detail of implants dissolving a short time or having fallen from a person's body shows up in many other cases involving these extraterrestrial devices. Erwin Lohre for all that declined the opportunity to and while it is understandable to unlock and raise their or that they simply don't of such procedures, it's perhaps a shame that any will likely remain locked away forever just what had happened to Erwin Lohre that Spring night in 1993? Was he the victim of alien abduction if not on the night of the in his life? After all, someone or something had to have placed the into his lower back. Might the abduction have in order to obtain the painkiller and could the other encounters We might recall that that the UFO had targeted We might also contemplate presumably far advance from ourselves and from elsewhere in the with very specific members Indeed why do they appear and have little interest in others? Might it be a certain blood group, a certain level of overall fitness, or perhaps simply after random selection a person is then tracked throughout their lives. Or might we find that Erwin's have also been victims of alien abduction and he is simply the latest and examinations going back ancestor when this bizarre and what should we make of that occurred following the sighting of the apparent alien aircraft. Might the electrical and gadgets be something to that have been placed or might UFOs and their occupants have a more paranormal explanation than many of them might think? Why for example, did appear to dissolve into thin air? Much in the same way that or spooky manifestation, Might what we know as ghosts, and come from the same realm of existence. Above all else, we might and end goal is of the apparent alien race behind Erwin Lohre's and counter might be. And what it might mean Just why are they tracking inserted discreetly into their bodies? Devices that would appear to leaving no proof of their existence. Are these interventions for our benefit or might we find the agenda a discovery we are perhaps in if we fail to understand such as Erwin Lohre's that continue to happen today? (dramatic music) Was an entire family on a lonely road somewhere in Georgia as they traveled from The Falcon family, a father, mother, and their their four year old from Tennessee to their The result of Celestian's to the sunshine state by the military. While they made their way along the road somewhere in the state of Georgia, Celestian noticed a strange following them no more The young boy watched the and when he heard his mother he realized that she had seen it too. At around the same time, the object began to move Celestian noticed that there on its underside while on the top half came a paler of glow from several windows. He also noticed how other to get away from the strange object or even performing U-turns All that is except one at the side of the road As Celestian watched this car, he noticed that the engine had suddenly cut out a short distance away. He noticed his father looking watching both the obscure object now hovering a short distance away and the other motorist behind them. With that his father reached for his gun from inside the glove box The instant his father stepped the object moved from where His father rushed back inside the car and attempted to start all of which failed. As this was happening, Celestian's mother pushed him telling him to remain still Even from where he sat however, he could still see clearly of the vehicle. He could see the other car that of the road just before them and he noticed that the had also gotten out of his vehicle. Then from out of nowhere, several strange alien approached and surrounded the man. Celestian watched as the at one of the creatures with what appeared to be a tire iron. Before he could make contact though one of the figures touched to his body which clearly and They then proceeded to wrap in strange silver blankets and into their awaiting craft. As he watched the scene a bright pink light suddenly A moment later, the car door opened and a bizarre looking hand reached inside. At this point, Celestian blacked out. When he awoke, he appeared and of more concern he had who remained together in He could still hear his The next thing he realized, a reptilian like alien was and into another large room. This one had large windows on one side and an operating light When he managed to he could see the roads that When he cast his eyes back he was met with a particularly including beneath the windows of jars that contain human fetuses. There were also several doorways that led out to this main room for reasons he couldn't were cold storage rooms He noticed his family had also His mother still very on the table and a large silver needle was used to inject her. She instantly fell calm. Before Celestian could see anything else, he was taken outta the room and through one of the waiting doorways. As he entered this room, he squinted his eyes at how bright it was. He could make out more reptilian creatures that were seemingly engaged in activities near a control panel. However, it is what he could to the young boy. He could hear a woman to where he stood as well pleading for help saying we As this was happening, Celestian noticed the had entered the room. Bizarrely each was wearing complete with helmets on their heads. Even stranger a human in a dark At this point, Celestian was on the verge of mental collapse. This mysterious man began in the room, although he What is particularly could also hear and understand this According to what he could remember, the alien entities were that had become lost in the They had, he recalled but was still missing a section of it, and so another search Celestian was taken through several rooms before eventually stopping of the ship. All around him was a hive of activity as if some kind of He picked up further most predominantly that their and somebody was on their At this point, Celestian felt a real surge of panic go through him, a panic he believed that he of the craft themselves, another voice straight into his head stating that whoever was on their way, they were getting close. Then on a screen on the wall Air Force fighter jets appeared. Several of the creatures Celestian would later recall and detailed that he could through the glass of the cockpit. He could also sense that the alien craft and their and destroy it. Activity exploded all around in the room watching All the while snippets of between the alien entities They planned to travel to before the radar had picked them up and so avoid the ensuing confrontation. Suddenly, one of the and strapped him to a silver table. He must have been administered as he blacked out a moment later. When he awoke a human in the and he and his family were Although he wasn't certain, he had the impression had been performed on him while he was moving in As they sat in the car, his parents appeared to be in Things remained calm for several and father appeared to His mother immediately started screaming, urging her husband to step on the gas and get them out of there, As Celestian looked he could see the object rise into the air and disappear into the sky. As the years went on, both his parents would refuse in question or to even acknowledge However strange incidents would continue around the family home of gray alien entities that in the middle of the night right through the bedroom wall. During these encounters, his parents would often awaken in a similar light trance state as they were being led back to their car following their abduction. And on one occasion a to have seen a bizarre object hovering over the top of their home. It would appear that Celestian was the target of repeat alien abductions for some time following on a lonely Georgia highway. If the Falcon family it gives us plenty to consider and planned abduction for reasons unknown to us and what's more there appears to these abductions. Even more remarkable, these alien entities that feature both reptilian have the apparent ability On how many occasions and might this explain are there one minute and gone the next. Above all else though, we have to ask what is the end goal of these and will they be for the benefit or the detriment of humanity? (dramatic music) Did a woman suffer an attempted of invisible aliens in France in 1950? Quite literally an encounter is without a doubt one of and perplexing accounts on record. It is also one that is that doesn't conform to other claims of extraterrestrial and in the modern era. According to the account, on May the 19th, 1950, an unnamed woman was near the river Loire in Cours Les Barres in France when she noticed a bright moving across the sky. She continued to watch until it came to a sudden stop. It remained motionless for several moments before rising into the sky, stopping and remaining still once more. Then giving off a slight flash the object disappeared high As perplexed and intrigued as she was, the woman by and large put That is until the following along the river once more, she witnessed a similar exactly as she had done This time though, the light to the woman. In fact, the light came so close that it almost enveloped her completely. Then things turned even stranger To her shock and belief, the woman watched as emerged outta the light She noticed how they had and were seemingly very strong. They remained where they were thrown towards them. As she continued to watch them and for reasons she didn't understand, she began walking forward Almost as soon as she did so, reached out and took hold and what's more they did on each side and shaking her head and in turn her entire At one point her head was pulled forward and she felt it strike an invisible torso, but one that appeared to be made of iron as opposed to flesh and bone. At the same time, she could feel the air around as the squeezing on her The fingers which felt covered her eyes, nostrils and mouth. She struggled to breathe Then she felt something run through her. Suddenly she began to swing back and forth and she got the impression were carrying her somewhere. The arms that the hands remained invisible to her, which she could almost against her shoulders. It was at this point began to hear a strange muffled laugh that while it sounded from a relative distance, she assumed it came from Without warning, they A moment later she felt a blow to her back seeming to her to have so hard was the blow that where a pressurized force and forced her to lay down flat. After a moment or two, this time being dragged along the ground. This continued for several moments before they came to a stop once more. After several seconds, she It said, &quot;There she is, we got her.&quot; Another voice replied, but and too far away for her to Before she could she found herself being dragged This went on for some time Just as she thought she was the dragging stopped. She was free of the invisible grip and found herself laying alone She quickly checked her purse and found that all of her Robbery then was not the She then got to her feet, and quickly scanned her surroundings fully expecting to find a to be watching her. However, there was nobody else there and she was completely alone, Just as she was beginning to think that her bizarre ordeal was over, she noticed a section of pressed down as if an invisible She braced herself expecting However, nothing else happened or feel was the wind blowing around her. She looked down at herself and scratches on her arms and legs. While she could feel what on her back, what's more? All of her muscles ached and in her mouth. As she looked around, she noted by the river. She started out towards it. However, after taking only a few steps, a blinding white light She wasn't sure what had happened, but she had the impression that from the ground nearby with great speed. Now extremely frightened and confused, the woman made her way straight home. She would later report the A search of the field where reveal strange scorch marks on the ground and several of the trees had However, despite these findings, there was no satisfactory as to what had happened and the case remains unresolved. Just what might have There are several possibilities Might it be that this of an attempted alien abduction? If this is the case, why wasn't she taken on like many others who make such claims? And if aliens were behind this bizarre and unsettling attack, for what It appeared that no experiments In fact, the whole episode the testing of some kind of technology that allowed someone or something, the ability to physically from a destination far away. Might we consider then that her tormentors that late afternoon near the river Loire were not of an extraterrestrial nature but were in fact human. We might recall that the in her native French Might this suggest that she in the testing of some kind one that allowed a and then control somebody from afar. We might also recall could hear the voice of whom clearly the reply she heard was muffled and seemingly much further away. Might this also suggest some with some kind of bizarre outer body remote control experiment taking place from a secret location many miles away? We know for example, that remote viewing has by various intelligence for decades. Might it be that this encounter was another branch of these experiments, ones that allowed some kind Or might those behind the not have been extraterrestrial or human but beings from another dimension? Might the light she witnessed as it got closer have been and so allowing an inter to reach through from their and if so was this an intentional on their part or something of such gateways? Of course, regardless of who perhaps the most important for what purpose was it carried out? Was it merely an opportunistic assault or might there have been that is simply unknown to those who have investigated the case. The fact is, we are unlikely ever to know just what took place to that spring afternoon in 1950. The account though continues almost three quarters of a century later. And it is very much worth encounter in the public consciousness lest other similar incidents are uncovered or indeed take place in the future. (dramatic music) - The San Fernando Valley There's been quite a reported over the last 20 years. Strange balls of light and have been cited. Though authority investigation numerous times, these mysterious But as you'll discover, may go on to have far Nobody knows for sure what were doing in the area of a local school. It's almost surprising with Susanne even though they For Susanne, her life As you can imagine, she such stories of UFOs and Though she remains curious and hopes never to come eye to eye with these beings ever again. - [Narrator] Many people take place only in remote areas. Nothing however could be In fact, aliens seemingly turn up in some of the most unexpected places. For example, the following that took place in the front courtyard of an elementary school in the middle of a densely populated It also involves one of the clearest, the most extensive researchers had ever investigated, which all started with a UFO The witness, Susanne D. worked as an art designer within 10 miles of where her encounter took place. Susanne was attending earning a bachelor's degree. She lived with her mother in Southern California. Actually, her ordeal began with near her home in the San Fernando Valley. What's interesting about was seen hovering over the and Hughes Aircraft Installations and the Van Nuys Air Force Reserve Base. It was a summer night in 1980 when Susanne and two friends witnessed of lights hovering in the sky. As an artist, Susanne with an acute eye for details Because of this, she's able to As she says in her own words, very clear, and it was very warm. I was standing there looking out and I realized that the I'm looking at the Moon and I'm It's all orange over there. It's two o'clock in the And so I was looking at it and I realized that what I was looking at was the glow coming off of these three objects. There was one really big on either side of it and above it.&quot; As Susanne studied the objects, she saw that they of the mountains. She estimated their distance but like many UFO witnesses, she had trouble estimating The objects in the middle was huge, and the ones on either side appeared to be about one third of its size. When asked what the objects looked like, she replied, &quot;Sort of a saucer shape. I mean, it was flat and but they were so far away I couldn't see under them. I was seeing more of a profile view. They were elliptical.&quot; Susanne concluded that she was seeing three separate objects. As she says, they were above it, so they formed The big one was lower and it was the the bottom She said, &quot;I sat there and watched them for a couple of minutes All the orange glow in the They, the objects didn't appear orange. They appeared shiny, maybe metallic, but all this orange glow was around them. It was lighting up the Orange, like street lights glow. That's what it was like, Susanne literally could and ran inside to get her friends. She dragged them out pointing to the sky. &quot;Do you see that?&quot; she Adlai Fredriksson remembers Many UFO investigators of UFO sightings around high And that is certainly true in this case. After the sighting, none of them thought there would be many future encounters. However, in Susanne's case, it wasn't long before she had a face-to-face confrontation with two gray type alien beings. And this encounter occurred in the most unlikely place imaginable, right in front of the One evening in 1980, about three years following she decided to take a walk She had no idea that she was most terrifying experience Here Susanne vividly describes what it's like to have a closeup encounter with extraterrestrials. &quot;I was in college and my girlfriend and I did art projects together. We had this one project We were collecting shopping trolleys that you find hanging lonely shopping trolleys with We had already collected two or three, and we were going to make out of them. We thought it was really esoteric, so we had these shopping trolleys. One night I was driving home, it must have been about It was quiet and very little I spotted another trolley. I don't know why it didn't and put it in my car. For some reason I thought and I'll take Sarah, my dog for a walk, and I'll go and get the shopping trolley and then put it in my car. The lonely shopping trolley of Strathern and Amestoy. Amestoy runs in front of and Strathern runs across it. So for some reason I decided and go back and get the Looking back at it, it would've made a hell of a and put the shopping cart I had a station wagon so the trolley would've easily gone into the back. So I called in home and got and we went to get the shopping trolley. I was walking in a circular route. I went up my street to Strathern, picked up the shopping cart and was going past the school to Stagg. As I'm going down Amestoy, I was being careful not to I guess the shopping trolley made me look a little suspicious. There aren't lots of houses, because of the school. So I thought it would be very easy to get it past the school. So I'm making my way past the school, and I got up near the where the administration block was. There, an open area, theater and the kindergarten, all and right in front of the theater, there's a big illuminated So I'm coming past there and I'm thinking I'm totally alone and I'm not going to be seen by anybody. Then I looked to my right and what I thought at first were people. I thought there were just two At this time the school's on my right, and I was on the footpath It was at this point that that something strange was happening. She could understand two people standing in front of the school, but she noticed immediately that with the way the people looked. At first, she thought they were children and didn't pay too much she realized that there was They looked much too different. Susanne continues. &quot;They were facing each I started to notice they They had on these dark green jumpsuits. They had really big heads They were like my height, but I wasn't really until they turned to look at me. They turned simultaneously and both towards me They just sort of hovered and turned.&quot; At this point, investigators asked Susanne to describe exactly what with all the details she could remember. She proceeded to give one of the clearest and most complete descriptions In Susanne's own words, &quot;Okay, They were abnormally large, like twice the size of a human head. The skulls were grossly exaggerated. They didn't really seem and they seemed to have some They had really big eyes. I don't really remember I just remember that they big almond eyes. The heads were, well, it was in their head, like two lobes. It was like you could see the lobes of their brain sticking out. Their arms were just It seemed like they had hands, and their skin was all just like they could have been dead. They were so white. You know if they had been I don't remember seeing any feet, and their jumpsuits were all and it came up like a mandarin that was just very plain. I didn't notice much of anything. At the point when they turned to face me, I was parallel with them. We see each other and as I to which I was straight in front of them, they were both standing facing me, and at that point I realized They probably weren't human. They didn't move like humans. They didn't look like humans.&quot; Investigators asked Susanne have been children but she denied this possibility. As she says, &quot;No, I didn't in masks. They were too big to be children unless they were maybe boys. They couldn't have been girls, I mean mean unless they it would've been an elaborate costume. They were identical, and they were in the spotlights but the light was behind them, so whatever was on their clothing all just kind of blended into because the light was coming So I didn't see a lot of It was mostly silhouette, it was pretty easy to see their eyes and the shape of their head.&quot; As Susanne walked along the sidewalk, she approached two within her fright at this She didn't receive any mental messages, only an intense feeling of shock and fear. &quot;I felt like I got more and more scared as I realized more and more that this was something I'd They didn't move like humans either. They didn't look like humans. They didn't say anything. The point at which I would've over my shoulder at them and all I could think about was just getting the hell out of there. And the whole time I'm pushing and it's rattling down the road. Sarah, my dog didn't freak out at all. She just kept walking She sure didn't go up I was terrified I mean, I I didn't. At one point I thought, my God, they're gonna follow me home. Oh no, I'm gonna die. I'm so scared. So I was walking as fast or without making an with the stupid shopping trolley. Once I got out of the light there was a clump of bushes. I ditched the shopping and just, well all I wanted without running, without to death. I didn't run. I walked as fast as I could straight home without looking over my shoulder. I felt that they were right but I didn't look over my shoulder.&quot; Susanne's encounter although extremely frightening, They never hurt her, followed her, or made any aggressive actions. Her fear was based solely on her own shock at seeing something so totally In fact, the shock of that Susanne says it when you are awake. At the time of the encounter, Susanne had no idea what she was seeing. She'd never read anything about UFOs, and her knowledge of to her own recent sighting. Yet her description of the alien beings matches the descriptions detail for detail, the large bald heads, the short stature, the white skin, the large almond eyes, the nose and mouth, the greenish jumpsuits, the alien's identical appearance. All of these details corroborate of which Susanne knew nothing. In fact, Susanne simply assumed that it was a unique experience. It bewildered her to such an extent that she told nobody about One detail that absolutely was the way the figures This detail has been by other witnesses. The alien abduction researcher, Budd Hopkins had written a where he list several cases leaning, blinking, and It's as if they're so to predict each other's movements. Still another detail that of her account is how it began. Susanne had the totally illogical impulse to delay the picking up of a shopping cart until she could return Her hindsight showed her how Susanne of course, had no idea that many other people's in the same way. Preludes to many missing time abductions often include bizarre impulses to drive or walk to certain areas. Susanne had no idea how close she was to having a full-blown contact. As far as she knows, she She had no nightmares of the incident, nor has she found any that might indicate an She does admit however, that it is possible that her than she can remember. She doesn't remember the nor the exact time she returned. However, if she did have missing time, she has no desire to undergo of an experience that was already One detail that made was the lack of a UFO. It wasn't until much later that Susanne even connected her previous UFO sighting to the concept of extraterrestrials simply because there with this encounter. She does admit however, that it would've been quite to have landed in the enclosed It may seem incredible that in front of an elementary However, as many UFO this is not at all unusual. Many have investigated that have taken place including hotels, even inside hospital rooms. It seems that the aliens have of technology that they can In fact, less than two an entire family experienced of UFO encounters that of starlike objects darting and became dramatic bedroom and culminated in at least four abductions complete with bizarre experiments and a baby presentation All this of course took place, over a densely crowded suburb (dramatic music) Did the intelligence government use reverse to contact extraterrestrial in the universe, and did this apparent in a top secret deal that technology be gifted to According to apparently That is exactly what happened. According to the allegedly in response to the recovery in the late 1940s and early 1950s, an unofficial consortium and NSA was put together. They would operate under and their purpose, as well as learning this alien technology was to do so with the name of making This they managed and after of asteroids, they used to send out a secret transmission. Surprisingly even to them, they would receive an He disclaimed that as a was two separate face-to-face meetings between President Eisenhower from two different alien races. This meeting was said to have taken place on the evening of February the 20th, 1954 at Edwards Air Force Base in California. What is worth noting is Eisenhower did in fact go missing, causing temporary rumors that he had died. When the White House addressed the rumors, they assured the public that emergency dental work from It is said that rather than Eisenhower was in talks with called the Nordics, or as the blues in an empty They would offer technology around medicine and enabling from fossil fuels and to want cleaner, environmentally friendly energy. Whatever the finer details no deal was reached. Almost immediately following a second race of extraterrestrials and a second meeting went ahead. This race of aliens was the the same extraterrestrials that many victims of This communication and of aliens was not a complete and those involved with the project. According to the report, the blues had warned claiming they had a formidable force just at the edge of the solar system. Once more, this fleet kept earth and was locked into the planet's orbit. The grays would also offer and in return, they asked for Essentially, they could abduct for their own learning. Following these procedures, they would wipe their memories clean and return them to where Whats more, a full list of to the government, and only a very limited number Perhaps unbelievably, a deal was made and an abundance its way into the hands under various projects of There have been some was made not only for but to prevent a similar with their Cold War If these claims were true, it is not that much of a stretch that Eisenhower would've felt it necessary to come to a seemingly drastic arrangement in order to keep such advancement on the other side of the Iron Curtain. The reason given by the grays with humans was their need This was so they could in order to address the problem Part of this deal it is claimed, was to use female as unwitting incubators Incidentally, many researchers into the alien abduction come to similar conclusions that the main reason behind is to create just such However, unlike the details upon in 1954, the real goal of these is to colonize the planet discreetly and without the population even being aware of it. It might be worth our while where it appears an unfortunate was used by these alien In 1988, professional who later discovered she witnessed a bizarre craft Later that evening, she surrounded by strange gray alien entities. She would later describe where she was artificially inseminated with a combination of her DNA and alien DNA. Only weeks later, before she was even she was abducted again. The fetus was removed during and placed inside an artificial chamber where it would eventually What's more, this was a prearranged, highly organized program. Her claim sounds almost identical by the grays in Project Sigma. While many people believe this program is far from the benefit of humanity, it is Carlberg's belief to integrate the hybrids into a similar encounter to Carlsberg in Las Vegas in 1987. Brett Olden and his pregnant claimed to have been by gray aliens and taken on They performed several experiments including the precise removal The following day when she realized something was wrong. Doctors were completely perplexed that the fetus had been removed with. Even stranger three years later, Brett would claim to have been once more. This time however, he was to be an alien human a young girl who also Although he didn't know why, he knew that this young girl that had been removed from her mother before she had been born. Was this yet another abduction of that alleged top secret deal that would result in Project Sigma? Is it further proof that as secret deals with might actually be closer to reality than any of us would ever wish to imagine? There were, although several by the grays at the time They would stress, for example, that the United States that a deal had been made, nor should they even acknowledge They would further insist on in their programs, nor should they even be The grays also required to be built by the United that they would provide to them. Needless to say these bases and they would feature both and a gray alien presence. Although figures vary depending it's claimed that there could subterranean facilities around Ultimately, and although it is thought that the from the rules of the deal It's not known if the is still in place, if or in its original form, or whether there is a secret behind closed doors of the a war that could potentially without us even realizing it. Might this inability or of the deal be the reason increased so dramatically to the eighties, and then even more so as the 20th century handed Might this group of seemingly that we refer to as the from behind the scenes. Could it be that this assumed of alien human hybrids into Might it already be too late? (dramatic music) One of the most persistent is that the United States an alien vehicle that day And what's more, they behind closed doors before to the American public in the technological The CEO of a small business named The American Computer Company. Jack Shulman burst into the 1997 when he claimed to from the Roswell crash reverse engineered under the watchful eye of the United States military. According to Shulman, the military would discreetly to various American companies who would then reverse before they would patent it in all manner of fields and industries. And while these developments to the general public in the form of the latest television, computer or phone behind the scenes, the military would have first access to this cutting edge technology and likely reserve the right for their exclusive purposes. Shulman would highlight the by the Bell Labs Company in particular, asking what if this had as a result of reverse that they had been one of the companies to who the United States military with the orders of reverse engineering it. Ultimately, Shulman claimed what he was suggesting in that he referred to as the He wouldn't initially into possession of the documents, although it would later come to light. According to an article by John Kettler, that he by the widow of a man He would claim that this offered a detailed account as well as what exactly was Shulman through his company, The American Computer of thousands of dollars on various experts in an effort to have One of the companies according to Shulman, was indeed Bell Labs and more specifically, their This was, as John Kettler writes, an invention that a from Nobel Prizes and to hundreds of patents Even more suspicious when to examine the apparent development from previous transistors to that were claimed to have been the origins of the bell transistor, not only were the two but there was no natural that would've led from one In short, the Bell version was essentially completely new technology. As bizarre as it might sound, could it really be that inventions of the so-called was not one of human ingenuity, but gifted alien technology reverse engineered. In light of Shulman's claims, it's worth our time examining of Philip Corso, who in the book, the day after Roswell with untraceable to such huge companies as as far back as the early 1960s. Corso would further offer would be forced to sign agreeing to develop the and to report it publicly as of American scientists. Further, according to Corso, just some of these technologies and advanced night vision technologies. Shulman had long connections organization himself, having gone to college of the company. He later elaborated that in late 1995, a friend and a former who he knew through his friend's family, the previously mentioned had approached him and asked documents that were the It's important to note at to a notebook is not how rather than being a small it's simply an industry term loosely used to keep documentation of and developments and this ran to 28 boxes of documentation. Some of the documents due to concerning technology outta humanities reach in the mid 1990s, but that this paperwork clearly as far back as the late 1940s. It was at this point that Shulman had the papers carbon dated. The results were certain, when their dates said they Ultimately, they were genuine. Eventually, Shulman put to online forum users if significant human were in fact the result non-terrestrial technology. Shortly after these online questions, he began to suffer a tirade To begin with, these unsettling in the form of hostile messages largely designed to tarnish Corporation's reputation and image. These would quickly on Shulman personally as well as the abuse and threats held directly at Shulman and The American Computer Corporation. There was a wider campaign and possibly dangerous individual. Even more unnerving, the business premises of the company were broken into several times, some of which would result in the planting of classified information in the offices in some kind of bizarre The company would soon taking swift legal of slander against it, as well as heightening and perhaps more importantly, Shulman began to speak of what he had learned in the and even more importantly, began putting technical information and data of these findings online in an attempt to stop and ultimately off limits Could it be possible that at wonders of our modern world of reversed engineered It can't be ignored that such searched forward from the late 1940s, coincidentally or not following the alleged Roswell crash. And we should also note that the military, that the object witness was the original military that they had a flying shouldn't be immediately dismissed. Indeed given how many this initial military it could just prove to in the United States government and military ever dodged and alien question. Could there be any truth to amount of online abuse, physical and very real attempts We might assume that with the suggestions he was making and his ultimate declaration he had in his possession. We might ask if there's that corporations overseen by had highly advanced and work with. What else might be available What technologies, for example, might be being withheld from the public so as to maintain the highest or to keep people as rabid consumers. Might technologies even exist, but are being held behind closed doors that could provide much so as not to disturb the to the energy industries. There is, it seems much than just the claims of alien technology, but what the potential of if it were to be shared and not simply drip fed and new aversions of various devices for immediate financial return. There is a saying in the technical world that whatever the public behind closed doors, the or four decades ahead. If the claims of Jack that saying could have than most of us might think. (dramatic upbeat music) (dramatic upbeat music continues) (dramatic upbeat music continues)