Falluja, west of Baghdad. The insurgent stronghold seems to wake up in the aftermath of an earthquake. Eight years after the American invasion, residents still live among the ruins. At Falluja Hospital, doctors are waging another war. Like every day, the maternity department is on alert. A deformed baby has just been born. This is the fifth case this week. This newborn suffers from serious malformations. According to doctors, he will survive, but he may never be able to walk. He needs an operation. For the moment, he is too weak, so we are keeping him for observation. We could see many other types of deformations. There are babies who are born without a skull, without organs or sometimes their legs are completely twisted. Look at those little legs. The mother of this newborn is in shock. This woman had three children before this one, born without any health problems. This deformed baby is the first case of its kind in his family. The phenomenon is booming. In Falluja, one in five births are affected by a congenital malformation. For this doctor, there is only one solution and it is radical. Today, I strongly advise all women in the city not to have children. How did we get here ? These babies were all born after 2004, when Falluja experienced one of the country's most violent battles. For several weeks, bombers pylon the city. 15,000 Coalition troops crush Falluja. Opposite, 2,000 Iraqi fighters equipped with Kalashnikovs and rocket launchers. The American air force will release hundreds of tons of missiles. In these images, we see balls of fire falling on the city. This is white phosphorus, a chemical and incendiary weapon. Today, these bombings are accused of having caused the deformities of the children of Falluja. Baghdad, winter 2011. How do we know when a city is no longer at war? Perhaps by observing these passers-by walking the streets. In Iraq, peace is gradually settling in, but the smell of war still lingers. The Iraqi capital alternates between bloody days and peaceful days. The US military has committed to leaving the country in December. It will give way to the police and the Iraqi army. These traffic jams are the peaceful side of Iraq. The city seems to be coming back to life with newly renovated businesses and residents leisurely shopping in the city center. A city center where we find the opulence of the pre-war period. But is the war really over? If the situation has improved in Baghdad, other cities are being thrown into oblivion. Falluja, for example, is my parents' hometown. After the war, this city became inaccessible. Only its inhabitants have the right to enter freely. But I have family and contacts there. And above all, I speak Iraqi Arabic. I contact a friend from Falluja. Come at 3:00 p.m. near the statue. I'll come pick you up and we'll go wherever you want to go. This is Abu Younes. He is 32 years old. He is a former football player for the Falluja team, now unemployed. I met him during a report four years ago. It was he who informed me of the existence of seriously deformed babies. If he came to pick me up from Baghdad, it is because it is impossible for me to get to Falluja without his help. This road is under close surveillance. To cover the 50 kilometers that separate Baghdad from Falluja, we will pass more than twenty checkpoints. The city is located in the heart of the Sunni triangle, nicknamed the triangle of death by the Americans. 1500 soldiers were killed in this region. This is a third of American losses in Iraq. Falluja was the first city to be fought by American soldiers. She made herself famous by expelling them from the city and causing them many human losses. So much so that people wondered how a small town like Falluja could hold out against the most powerful army in the world. In March 2004, four mercenaries under contract with the American army were killed in their vehicles at the entrance to the city. Their mutilated bodies are dragged through the street, then hung on this bridge like trophies. It was one of the first acts of violence against the United States. These images will go around the world. This was the start of an escalation which would lead to the battle of Falluja in November 2004. The results were 153 GIs killed and 3,500 dead on the Iraqi side. Falluja has become a symbol of insurgency, the bane of Americans. As a result, the army imposed very strict control in the city. The eye and fingerprints of each resident were recorded in the files of the American army. Never has a city suffered such treatment. Residents will even receive biometric cards. This badge allows me to enter and exit Falluja. Seven years later, badges are no longer compulsory. The city has come under the control of the Iraqi army, but Falluja remains the most difficult place to access in the country. To enter, you need a guarantor. He has to be from Fallujah. It is for security reasons that I am asked to act as guarantor for you. So we don't enter Falluja like that? No, not like that, no. As we approach the city, tension builds in the car. Stop filming. Take the camera down. Here we are at the entrance to Falluja, 100 meters from a real border post inside the country. The Iraqi army controls every car that passes. To enter with a camera, you need special permission and be accompanied by an armed escort. But to be free of our movements, we prefer to enter illegally. There are several cars, we are in the third. We're waiting for you, come get us. Thanks to Abou Younes, one of the soldiers will open the passage for us. To preserve his safety, we will avoid filming him. After an hour of waiting, we finally passed the checkpoint. Welcome to Falluja, 300,000 inhabitants, a city considered the most dangerous in Iraq. Nothing has really changed here since the battle. Life returns, the streets are crowded, but the traces of the war are still there and Iraqi soldiers continue to patrol. In this city, prison, it is difficult to be discreet with a camera. So, to secure all our movements inside Falluja, Abou Younes will follow in our footsteps. He will be our guardian angel. This district is one of the most affected by the bombings. Half the buildings are in ruins, not a wall without bullet holes. This former Iraqi soldier was in the city during the American assault. He lives right across the street from this completely destroyed building. During the bombings, he noticed suspicious explosions. Just after the bombing began, the landscape changed. Even the sky has changed. changed appearance. The sky turned yellow. It lasted several days. Even the explosions were abnormal. I was an officer in the Iraqi army of the old regime. I fought seven years of war against Iran, so I saw bombs and missiles. I know what I mean. But these American bombs, when they explode, they produce something abnormal that I had never seen before. These strange bombs that this resident is talking about are white phosphorus. A chemical and incendiary weapon often compared to napalm used in Vietnam. According to the Geneva Treaty, it is prohibited in all circumstances to make the civilian population the object of attack by means of incendiary weapons. Clearly, the use of white phosphorus is prohibited in population areas. The US military claims to have used it only to illuminate combat zones. However, in Falluja, thousands of residents were still in the city during the bombings. Abou Younes meets me at the martyrs' cemetery, a former football stadium. 3,500 bodies are buried there, combatants and civilians combined. This is where Abou Younes played football. Today, he comes to pay his respects to former teammates who have become martyrs. Some footballers who played in this stadium are buried here. Even the trainer, we called him Khalil the coboy, he was killed by the Americans. Thirteen players from the Falluja team are buried in their own football stadium. This man is the guardian of the cemetery. One day in November 2004, while burying the victims of the fighting, he made a strange discovery. The Americans brought me bags. I thought it was humanitarian aid. But when I opened them, look what I found. Pieces of bone and intact clothing. Their translator told me that these corpses were not American. That's why they gave them back to us. The guard reportedly recovered nearly 500 unidentified bodies. He took photos of them all before burying them in the cemetery. We asked doctors the question. They told us if there are only the bones and the clothes are intact, it's because of the white phosphorus. And this man, what happened to him? This looks like it was caused by a chemical weapon. Only God knows what it is. But that's phosphorus, too. For the guard, there is no doubt, it was white phosphorus that killed these men. Would the American army have used this weapon against the population? What is really hidden behind these photos? To find answers, I have to go to the United States. Far from Iraq and these ruined buildings, Boston. I made contact with Ross Caputi, a 27-year-old former Marine who fought in Falluja. With his teenage looks, Ross Caputi is already a war veteran. Traumatized by his experience, he decided to testify. That's me. It's in Falluja. I'm really ashamed of having posed in this photo. I had a bandana on and I wanted to look tough. That's the mentality we had. We were warriors. These are the kind of photos we dream of showing our friends. In Falluja, Ross was a radio operator. He was the one who transmitted all the information to the other soldiers. So he was on the front line. Before the invasion of the city, we were told that it would be the biggest battle since Hue in Vietnam. We were bombing heavily at that time. We were positioned on a hill above Falluja. We had an overview of the city the night before the siege began. And that's when I saw white phosphorus with my own eyes. I distinctly remember having this strange feeling that it couldn't be legal. I remember seeing the white phosphorus spreading in the wind and I asked my lieutenant who was next to me, "Is this stuff legal?" he replied, "Yes, it's legal because we use it as a smokescreen, not as an offensive weapon." But there were thousands of civilians who hadn't been able to leave the city, so there was a high possibility that it would fall on them. The white phosphorus would therefore have been dumped over the population. I feel really guilty. Today, I am aware of the number of people injured or killed. It's not easy to live with that. Ross Caputi decided to leave the army following the Battle of Falluja. He created an association to try to raise awareness among American opinion about his experience as a soldier in Iraq. I remember that in my unit, no one wanted to know who the insurgents and mujahideen were. Everyone just thought they were all terrorists, suicide bombers, anti-American lunatics. If Ross Caputi denounces the use of white phosphorus, other soldiers welcome it. In March 2005, a US Army commander made startling revelations. In this army review, he claims that the use of white phosphorus was very effective in Falluja. He adds that he used it voluntarily against insurgents. This is what the commander calls the Shake and bake mission. According to this senior officer, white phosphorus was used in Iraq to kill. Faced with this overwhelming evidence, the international press took up the subject. It was not until November 16, 2005 that the American administration officially admitted to the media that it had bombed the city with white phosphorus. Return to Falluja. Seven years after the bombings, the population is convinced that white phosphorus still kills. This is the case with Khalil. He lives in the Jholan district, one of the most affected by the bombings. In 2005, Khalil founded the first association of war victims. Its goal is to accumulate as much information as possible. And it starts with his files of sick children. This child, for example, had a brain tumor just after the bombings of 2004. It's the same for this case. A serious malformation problem from birth. We record this information, we establish a medical file and we transmit it to doctors and associations. What we want is to find a solution for these families. The office is modest. Khalil does not have great resources, not even a computer to record all this information. He seems overwhelmed by events. We did not know about these diseases before. The Americans were supposed to bring us modernity, but they sent us back to the Stone Age. Khalil agreed to provide us with records of sick children. According to him, the majority of cases of rare diseases concern children under 10 years old, like Ziyad. He was born after the 2004 assault with a serious malformation. In this family, this is the first case of this kind. He was operated on when he was 47 days old. The house we lived in was bombed. When I got home, I cleaned the whole house. Maybe it's because of that, I don't know. Was your house bombed during the battle? Yes yes. A missile hit him. Half of the house had been destroyed. Everything, the living room, my bedroom, everything was destroyed. The furniture too. We only have this cupboard left, that's all. We rebuilt everything ourselves. A year later, my child was born with a deformity and I was told it was linked to the bombing. How long did you stay in this house? Two years. We left home a year after I gave birth. Why are children who have not experienced war and who have not been directly exposed to white phosphorus victims of malformations? What do the Iraqi authorities say, is this a public health problem? In Falluja, only the Ministry of the Environment agreed to speak to us. We have not done an environmental study. It was impossible to do analyses. The bombings started in 2004. Then, in 2005, 2006, until 2010. It wasn't until 2010 that Americans left the city. When a citizen stooped down to pick up something, for example, he was considered a bomber and an American sniper could shoot him. I can tell you that this has happened several times. So, for us, it was impossible to come to any of these areas with our devices to do analyses. It was too dangerous, much too dangerous. In Falluja, no one has the means to investigate the causes of illness, not even the Iraqi Ministry of the Environment. This resurgence of deformed children is not the priority of the authorities. The former rebel city is sidelined by its own government. Omerta reigns in Falluja. Since the end of the war, only one study allows us to find out more. Published in a major medical journal, it was carried out in Falluja in 2009. This document gives worrying results on the increase in the number of deformed babies. It reveals an explosion in cases since 2005, a year after the 2004 battle of Aberystwyth, in the north of England. The author of this study is Professor Chris Busby, a British scientist specializing in radioactivity. He is the secretary of the European Committee on the Risk of Irradiation. Chris Busby is regularly a guest in the major media. With his black beret, he has become an essential figure on the BBC and Al Jazeera. Recently, he was consulted on the consequences of the nuclear crisis in Fukushima. Unlike the Iraqi authorities, he investigated in Falluja. The only thing to do is knock on doors and ask questions. How many people have been diagnosed with cancer in the last five years? Who lives here ? It's really simple. If you know who lives here and how old these people are, you can predict how many cancers they will have based on the national rate. You do a calculation and you get the risk rate. That's what we did. And you went to Falluja? Not impossible. I have too many enemies there. I didn't take the risk of getting shot in the head. How did you do it then? I simply told them how to do it. I created a questionnaire based on those I had done before. And even for the Iraqi team recruited by Chris Busby, the task was complicated. In certain neighborhoods, they were attacked. With their questions, they were taken for spies. We then asked well-known people, respecting residents, to accompany them to avoid problems. At the end of our investigation, the Iraqi government noticed this. He ran a smear campaign saying we were terrorists and those who answered questions would be sent to prison. But it was too late, we had done it. In addition to the questionnaire, Chris Busby requested soil and water samples. Hair was also taken from residents. The results of the analyzes are astonishing. When I studied these samples more closely, I found 52 different elements. There was strontium, barium, nirdimium, cobalt, cesium, calcium. The list is long. But the only element that can explain birth defects and cancers is uranium. According to him, it is not white phosphorus that condemns the inhabitants of Falluja, but uranium. In Falluja, uranium is now known to be present, as evidenced by hair samples. The leukemia rate is 38 times higher than in Egypt, for example. That of breast cancer is 10 times higher and cancers in children, 14 times higher. It is enormous. Rates of this level have never been recorded in any epidemiological study. Nowhere else, ever. This is the highest rate of genetic damage in the world. It's worse than Hiroshima. Why is Falluja compared to Hiroshima? How could uranium end up in this city? Officially, no nuclear weapons were used in Falluja. I continue my investigation in Champaign, 200 kilometers from Chicago, in the United States. This is where Doug Rokke lives. Come in, come in. For Doug Rokke, the presence of uranium in Falluja is not a surprise. This former high-ranking officer served more than 35 years in the American army, notably during the First Gulf War. He was then responsible for a research program on the consequences of a new uranium weapon. After testing it on behalf of the Pentagon, he was its first victim. He now suffers from several cancers and kidney problems. These are tests conducted in Nevada. Tanks were blown up and burned. What you see there is the direct impact of uranium munitions. Uranium burns and burns and burns. See how long it lasts. He says uranium has been used in US munitions since 1991. In missiles, tank shells and military vehicle armor. When I showed this to my guys, they thought it was great. You have to understand, the goal is to kill and destroy. Uranium ammunition is the best. It makes ultra-efficient bombs. Uranium allows you to pierce anything. In addition, shrapnel from this weapon causes fires. It burns everything inside. Uranium is a mineral exploited in nuclear power plants. A part is enriched, it serves as fuel for the reactors. The rest is radioactive waste. Uranium is depleted. Its storage is very expensive. The American army therefore decided to use part of it for the manufacture of ammunition and armor. For Doug Rokke, depleted uranium is simply a nuclear weapon. These are very toxic radioactive wastes. It's radioactive for eternity. It's a dirty bomb. It's a nuclear bomb. This is nuclear waste used to kill and destroy. They contaminate air, water, land and food. It will be contaminated for eternity. This weapon was first used in Iraq in 1991. At the time, the US military asked Doug to inspect tons of Iraqi tank carcasses destroyed by depleted uranium missiles. As a result, Doug and his team were seriously contaminated by inhaling uranium dust. Today, Doug is one of the few survivors of the group. Look how healthy I was back then. Nothing to do with now. I was in great shape. Today I am sick. It wasn't worth it. Too many people are sick, too many people are dead. Since this photo was taken, 21 members of his team have died. Upon returning from Iraq, Doug delivered a report unfavorable to the use of depleted uranium. When I told them it was too dangerous and we couldn't clean the floor, they fired me. Adios, friends. We don't want to hear from you anymore. You're doing your job, OK, but shut up and get out. The US military never heeded Doug Rokke's recommendations. Do you think they used it in Falluja? Yes, a lot in Falluja and even intensively. In all the places where they have used it, there are health problems. I tried to clean it, it's impossible. That's why I told them to stop. To find out more, I am reaching out to Colonel Peter Newell. He was in charge of the Battle of Falluja in 2004. I will never be able to get an interview, or even a response over the phone. I can't answer you right away. I will give you an email address, you can send your questions and we will answer you. The question seems awkward. The only response I will get is a link to a US Army web page. This article extols the merits of depleted uranium and downplays its danger. The only allusion to health consequences is in this sentence. The Department of Defense has studied and continues to study the health and environmental consequences of depleted uranium. We won't know more. For the American army, the use of depleted uranium is taboo. Only a former senior defense official agreed to speak. Bing West stood with the Marines during the Battle of Falluja. He produced a book recognized in the United States as the reference on American strategy in the rebel city. You believe there is a link between depleted uranium and health problems in Falluja. That does not make any sense. Uranium is depleted. A bomb is a bomb. We are not going to send a radioactive bomb while the marines are on the ground. Otherwise, they would all die. If a scientist proves that there is a link between these diseases and a military weapon, that weapon should not be used, except in exceptional cases. Moreover, if there was indeed a link, the first people to be affected would be the soldiers themselves. And I don't know of any American soldiers complaining about depleted uranium. However, it is not that difficult to find American soldiers contaminated by depleted uranium. A few kilometers from New York, Gerard, Janise and their children have all the appearance of a model American family. This dog tires me. Except for one detail, in 2003, Gerard Matthew served more than six months in Iraq. In Iraq, I was a truck driver. I was transporting armored vehicles hit by missiles. The material was moving in the truck, so we had to handle it. That must have caused us problems. We touched this equipment and slept near the trucks. Gerard fell ill a few months later. The first symptoms seemed harmless, simple headaches and vision problems. But his condition quickly deteriorated. Start of brain tumor, kidney problems, the list goes on. I no longer control my bladder. I'll show you how big a problem this is. Today, Gerard has to wear diapers. But there is worse. Her daughter, Victoria, conceived after her return from Iraq, has a malformation in her right hand. This image is reminiscent of the deformed babies of Falluja. His story made headlines around the world. Gerard is not the only one to have fallen ill. Eight of his comrades who served in Iraq had the same symptoms. Urine tests will reveal abnormal levels of uranium. I was never told about depleted uranium in the army. I have never had any training on how to handle this contaminated equipment. I didn't even know what depleted uranium was. The last time I heard about it was in chemistry class. Gerard thinks he was contaminated during his mission in Iraq. He decided to file a complaint against the American army. According to him, she violated safety rules by exposing him to radioactive material. His wife went even further. My wife wrote to every U.S. Congressman and Senator. Here, for example, is a response from one of them. At the time, even President Bush's office took up the matter. Here is a letter from Bush's secretary that I find very annoying. She said, "Through President Bush, thank you for your letter. The White House has considered your request and is referring you to the Department of Defense, Health and the Department of Social Assistance. >> That's all we received. No support or answers to these questions. I would have preferred an apology. To this day, my husband says he loves the Marines. I do not understand why. He always says he wants to be buried in his uniform if anything happens to him. And that makes me angry. I don't understand how anyone can be so loyal. And I don't understand how the government can treat a man like this when he still honors his country. The army refuses to recognize its responsibility. Six months in Iraq is enough to shatter the lives of Gerard and his family. In Falluja, thousands of residents still live in these buildings destroyed by American bombing. Seven years in a contaminated city. At the Falluja hospital, the staff is destitute. The hospital is seriously lacking in medical equipment. There is nothing that can be done to save these children. So, to keep the evidence of their birth, a photographer was requisitioned by the doctors. Why are you taking a photo of it? This is for our database. We update it every month. These photos are unbearable. Most of these babies will only survive a few hours. Every month, around twenty like them are born and die in this hospital. This is without counting other infants suffering from serious illnesses. Most families prefer that children die. A father once told me, "Every time I see my son deformed, I die." >> A generation sacrificed. And how many others? For these children, it is already too late. The Iraqis are powerless in the face of this human catastrophe. To prevent the Falluja tragedy from happening elsewhere, some in Europe are starting to mobilize. In London, a stone's throw from the British Parliament, Bunny Easton camps out every day on this sidewalk. This man has been campaigning against the war in Iraq since 2005. The location is well chosen to attract attention. At the foot of Big Ben, where Londoners and tourists mingle. Support our Internet peace campaign. Behind him, photos of deformed babies are displayed for all to see. Shocking images in an attempt to raise public awareness. Our goal is to expose the cruelty of war and weapons. The debris from bombs, missiles and armored carcasses is made of depleted uranium. This is nuclear waste that was dumped there. On our poster, behind it, we have a very clear slogan. He says, &quot;It's another nuclear war.&quot; However , this sentence and these photos of Iraqi babies do not mobilize many people. But Bunny Easton is not alone in this fight. Others campaign on a larger scale. A network of NGOs, present in around thirty countries, is trying to ban depleted uranium weapons. Its headquarters are in Manchester. Here are some documents from our organization that we use during our awareness campaigns. We made summaries because depleted uranium is complicated. We try to compile essential information in our leaflets. This one, for example, we distributed to the British Parliament during a nationwide campaign. We have even briefed MPs and we regularly inform them about the problem. Douglas knows very well the consequences of these uranium weapons. He has been working on this since the Balkan War in 1994. Since then, he and his team have developed a working method to identify and decontaminate bombed areas. His first field was in Bosnia, where the Americans have already used depleted uranium weapons. This is a map of a bombed area in Bosnia. Uranium was dumped in this region in 1994 and 1995. This area is highly contaminated. We have done a lot of work to map the sites affected by uranium. In Bosnia, the organization was able to identify 12 highly contaminated areas. With this information, the Bosnian Ministry of the Environment was able to take measures to limit the damage. This site was decontaminated in 2007. It was not known where exactly these bombs had fallen, so we had to cast a wide net to find the weapons. These are the remains of uranium munitions found in the ground. Do you see the yellow part? It's uranium oxide. There are 300 grams of uranium in each of these munitions. Thanks to the collaboration of local authorities, Douglas was able to work freely in Bosnia. In Iraq, the situation is much more complicated. The problem in Iraq is that there are three types of contamination. First there is the debris and ammunition from contaminated aunts. Children play with these debris. And then, there is depleted uranium which comes from aircraft bombings. They contaminate the soil, the environment, crops and also homes. Finally, there is a third form of contamination, that of armored vehicles which fire on homes. All of this needs to be mapped, but so far the US military has not provided information on where these weapons were used. It's a big problem. To obtain this information, activists went so far as to demonstrate outside the United States Embassy in England. But the American army still refuses to communicate. In the meantime, the NGO is attacking the British government , accused in turn of having used depleted uranium in Iraq. These accusations were even recently taken up by a British MP in the middle of a parliamentary session. I have read disturbing reports about the increase in births of deformed babies in Falluja. Could we have a debate? We would like to know what our Minister of Foreign Affairs thinks and if he could question his American counterpart on this legacy of the war in Iraq. In 2010, the British Ministry of Defense will finally recognize the use of depleted uranium in Iraq and provide information to the UN on the bombed areas. The United States' ally is beginning to express doubts about this weapon. Only Belgium, Ireland, Costa Rica and New Zealand have banned uranium from their weapons. But today, no international convention mentions depleted uranium in its texts, which allows the American administration to use it without being worried. At Illinois Law School, Francis Boyle says the United States can be sued in court. This lawyer, a Harvard graduate, is known worldwide. Agent Orange in Vietnam, Gulf War syndrome, the war trial and its specialty. Today, Francis Boyle has a new fight, to have the use of depleted uranium recognized as a war crime. The use of depleted uranium weapons violates the Hague Treaty of 1907 and it also violates the Geneva Convention of 1925. Therefore, the use of uranium is clearly a war crime. Why do we use it if it's illegal? It should not be used. But why does the United States use antipersonnel mines? It's the same thing. We're trying to prevent that. The question is how can we convince the United States to respect international laws? It's very complicated, especially the pentagon. They live in their bubble. This is why it is so difficult to bring the United States to its knees. According to him, the only way to achieve this would be to isolate them on the international scene. I think that if we could ask all the signatories of the Geneva Convention, such as France and England, to put pressure on the United States, then perhaps, one day, they will decide to stop using uranium. Francis Boyle's fight seems hopeless. The United States continues to exploit uranium to develop its military arsenal. In 2003, a year before the Battle of Falluja, Donald Rumsfeld, then Secretary of Defense, mentioned to the American Congress the use of a new weapon, the Hellfire missile, the fire of hell. This new missile can kill inside buildings leaving the structure intact. It can reach enemies hiding in cellars and bunkers. Passing unnoticed, this declaration nevertheless announces the development of a new missile. It will be tested from the first days of the war in Iraq. Experts reacted to Donald Rumsfeld's statement. This is the case of Dai Williams, a weapons researcher. This scientist is a member of the Disarmament Research Institute at the UN. According to him, the Hellfire missile is a new generation bomb. It will be used several times during the Battle of Falluja. Experts call it a barrel thermo weapon. They used thermo barrel bombs. These are new tactical weapons designed to kill locally. These weapons release extreme heat that chars everything. If a person is within 50 meters, they will die. The explosion will suck in the air. The atmospheric pressure will drop and only 10% oxygen will remain. So the lungs implode. You can't breathe anymore. Dai Williams not only analyzed photos of bombings in Iraq, but he also listed the new types of thermo barrel bombs developed by the US military. Once again, these remain very discreet on uranium. There are nine different bombs from 100 kilos to two tons. If you look closely at the description , it says "dense metal" or "high density filler". The word "uranium" is never used. It says &quot;dense metal&quot; and &quot;secret&quot;, but we never know what it is. According to Dai Williams, these thermobaric bombs would have been dumped en masse on the insurgents, taking refuge in the homes of Falluja. Look at that smoke. There is concrete dust mixed with bomb dust. If it's uranium, you suddenly have 500 kilos of uranium dust evaporating into the air all over the city. The soldiers burst out laughing, but they didn't realize they were laughing about their upcoming cancer. It's so sad. We'll end up in hell I think Falluja was a testing ground for these new uranium thermo barrel bombs. There may be other substances that we have not yet discovered. When we see these deformed babies, we might even wonder what other substances were used. Could Falluja, my parents' city, have served as a laboratory for the American army? How long will Iraqis have to suffer the consequences of the war? The Bush administration boasted about waging a clean war, but it continues to sacrifice generations of children, both in Iraq and in the United States. In Falluja, two to three deformed babies are still born every day. Most only live a few hours. In the cemetery, the place reserved for these nameless victims continues to grow.