- [Babish] This episode is I used Squarespace to build and bingingwithbabish.com. On the sites, you'll find other news and updates If I do say so myself. Get 10% off your first Squarespace order by visiting squarespace.com/babish. - [Announcer] It's the - You can do it layer by layer to get our 24 layers chocolate cake. We put the first layer here, then we kind of put chocolate, chocolate custard. - [Announcer] It's like and it happens over and over. And this one we have to put - [Announcer] Here you have 20 coming at you. - [Alvin] Hello there. Welcome back to another episode where I attempt to make that I've been watching in my spare time. Today I'll be attempting the from Strip House here in New York City, a well-established steakhouse in the city that has become very famous This video is exciting to One, instead of a frosting, they seem to be making a chocolate pastry cream or custard, which I think And two, I'm curious to see how after you do them a lot And three, well, this Fortunately for us, the recipe for this cake is actually So that's what we are gonna do. We're gonna start by creaming with four pounds of sugar. Keep in mind that this is 'cause our stand mixer Now the studio is quite cold today. So in order to make this we're gonna warm the bowl with of friendship and community And fun fact, it's actually working. Feels kind of like a butter Then we're gonna beat in 14 one egg at a time, so that doesn't get all Now we're gonna get our We're gonna combine of cocoa powder, two and quarter cup of salt. Yes, trust me. Two tablespoons of baking soda, three quarters of and just whisk it all together until all of our dry ingredients are mixed. Then we're gonna handle Two and one-third cups of coffee, two and one-third cups of milk, and one quarter of a Somehow I can never make these things without spilling a little bit, so there's our spill for the day. Basically making a vanilla which I think is pretty awesome. Then we're gonna alternate and our wet ingredients roughly to make sure that everything to incorporate and nothing gets too either wet or too sticky. We're gonna go ahead and and wet ingredients until our Now we're gonna do this all over again to make a second batch of cake batter 'cause they couldn't Then in two 11 inch spring form with a sheet of parchment on the bottom, we're going to evenly that they're the same height Then these cakes go into for about 50 minutes to an hour. Now I'm a big fan of cakes that So for this cake we're gonna We're first gonna crack and and five egg yolks into one bowl and whisk that together until homogenous. Then we're gonna bring and six cups of heavy cream to a scald. Once you see wisps of steam starting to emerge from the surface of to slowly ladle one cup and whisk continuously, until we add about three ladle fulls. Once the eggs have been tempered properly, we're gonna add this and bring this back up to a slow simmer. Then we're gonna add in a mix and two cups of sugar Then we're gonna add in a mixture with one cup of cold milk as sort of a corn starch milk of our thickening agents and whisk that in, stirring continuously as well. Once this has started to thicken, of the heat and add in one This is Valrhona chocolate, because of its shape and I'm using 60% cacao pretty good balance. We're also gonna whisk in two tablespoons of vanilla extract as well. Once this is all whisked that this is still a little thick, so we're gonna loosen this up, adding in one more cup of milk After tasting it, I realized more sugar, so we're going to go ahead and add one quarter cups Now this is looking pretty good, but there's probably a couple lumps from all that starch in there. So with Rachel's help, and strain this through a fine mesh sieve, whisking the whole time, making sure that our end silky and smooth. Now, as the person who it is your right and your right only to have the first taste of This little snack is completely entitled to you or whoever you would Now that our custard is and set that in the fridge Our cake slices have finished baking. This is what they look like, Because we bake them we're gonna allow them to cool completely before we cut into it, which means resting them It is now day two chocolate cake making. We're gonna take these cakes and attempt to get these into super, super, super thin layers. Now in the video, the chef skilled and has done this many times. He's able to get the cake thickness, which is really how hard it is to level the cake. At this point, Andrew also a great idea about how to level He said that if you started to level the cakes from the by stacking them on something and putting them on a sheet to get the same thickness of the sheet tray as a Although this seems perfect in practice, this is actually a little because the cakes are cold from refrigerating it from the day before. Nevertheless, I will chug and attempt to get them and I will say using to slide under the cake to lift off that thin layer is a when making these. They must have some really skilled, skilled pastry chefs who would make this cake every single day. They probably make this so I can't even imagine and and the skill required to make this. Not all my layers are perfect either. I'm getting a lot of holes, to patch it up with this nice because this cake is so dense and gooey that you can kind of use it as a glue patchwork situation for any holes that might arise. Out of the three cakes we to get 10 layers of cake, to make this 24 layer cake. So I asked Rachel to help for layering off to the side. Thank you, Rachel. All the remaining scrapped are gathered in a bowl for a future use, which we're gonna show very soon, and by very soon, I mean right now. So we're gonna take all the trimmings that we got off the layering process, and after snacking 'em quite a bit and exclaiming how super good and crumble them evenly onto a sheet tray lined with parchment paper. Once these are small in size, we're gonna put them into an for about 30 minutes or so, tossing them every once that they cook and dry out evenly. While our cake crumbs are we're gonna go ahead Now, in the video, they seem to assemble the cake in two different deep pans and then stack them together, so that's what we're gonna do. We're gonna line the side of with a strip of cake to help the cake keep its shape and smooth texture on the outside. We're gonna start each one with by a healthy helping of the to make sure that it is We're gonna try to be as even as possible with these, rotating it to and as smooth as possible. We repeat this process as we have filling up each until we have no more cake Rachel's extra cake that she had baked had to help lend us another four layers. So we actually have a and 14 layers of custard. So yeah, that's 28. But hey, here at the BCU and overachieving is These cakes are gonna go into the freezer for a quick chill while we work These crumbs have been or so until they've gone We're simply just gonna put them in a food processor until fine. These are just really nice cake crunchies and surprisingly crispy. I have once second spilled I'd like to say that for me to have my snacks. Oh no. Once the cake crumbs have been I'm gonna put them in a bowl and set them aside for later use. Now, Strip House also tops off their cake with a really beautiful layer of ganache as a finisher, so that's In a bowl we have 12 ounces 85% this time because I like and one and a half cups of heavy cream, which has been brought to a scald. We're gonna give this of any air bubbles and to let the chocolate I realized that the heat and the studio was kind of cold that day. So I'm gonna put this steel flame and carefully stir it and is become glossy and silky smooth. This ganache is going to get of our cake stacks, the one that's going to be the top layer. Spread out and tilted until Any leftover ganache to either your mouth or someone else that you really care about. Like to also give this a a couple times to release any air bubbles that have risen to the surface. Then we're gonna return this cake and the other cake into It is now day three of We're gonna go ahead and take these frozen cakes out of the freezer. I'm gonna use remaining chocolate between the two stacks, sparing that the cake stack that goes on top has something sticky to stick to. Now, we're gonna take off and unwrap their acetate. After admiring how the acetate peels off so smoothly and all the layers we have, the cake with the ganache of the cake on the bottom, making sure that all sides are level Gonna hit the top with that any edges of the ganache and go directly into my belly. On a cake stand, I'm gonna work quickly to with the chocolate Once all the outsides have to take those cake crumbs and add a nice sort of coating Some of the custard so I'm gonna take a blowtorch and lightly heat it up until sticky so that the cake crumbs After rotating and of this cake, we're gonna for about an hour or two just so that the inside can come up to room temperature. It is very cold right now, and I'm guessing it's gonna Once it feels a little bit and take a knife, dip it in that it is hot and lubricated and attempt our first slice The cake is still quite which makes it extremely Here's Steve also attempting He is about twice as that he can't do it means well, we gotta wait a little bit more. After reheating and making our of the cake, I thought to myself, &quot;Hey, clearly the knife is getting really cold while we're cutting. How about we blowtorch it and get the metal screaming cut through the second slice like butter?&quot; And great idea. So here I am about torching this knife until it is screaming hot and oh yeah, it kind of I didn't really think about that part. Don't worry. It's not burnt and still which made it a lot more After we have made two cuts, it is now time for the big reveal. Here we go slowly. I like how this looks. I like it very much. Now that is a slice of chocolate cake. Let's go ahead and cut another slice. For whatever reason, when it's a lot easier than Wonder why? We're gonna take a second to admire the cross section Even though I don't really work I'm pretty pleased with The tray technique with the leveling really made that we made our layers, but there it is. I present to you our version of the famous 24 layer this time with four extra A towering slice of chocolate decadence that you would be pleased any time, any day of the year. And the big question is, Here we go, let's go for a nice fork shot that goes all the way through Oh, I like this cake. The texture is quite wonderful. A lot of the chocolate custard dense cake itself, so it's chocolate gooey pudding. The salt that we added definitely makes this taste extra awesome. Here's a nice little cross section of all the layers cut from the top. And yeah, we all took a huge which means we're gonna be Maybe we should go for a I mentioned before that this the city called Strip House, and I all decided to go take a trip and see the cake for itself. We went in, got some steak, and ultimately ordered the which our server made sure to mention was 24 layers of indulgence. And when it came out, it that we had made, which was The color was slightly and the server mentioned that bulk because they do tend in case you wanted an which seems pretty cool, and curious in how it stacked that we made as this is the OG. The cake had a lot Ours was a little bit more dense and gooey where I think theirs was a The crumbs on the side were that we had done, but that's probably because they make so many to be held in refrigerators. I personally preferred because it was a lot more and I tend to like chocolate that side rather than on the Nevertheless, it was although I do look that I have at home that we made. - [Babish] Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring today's episode. They've been a great partner in supporting the Babish Culinary Universe and bringing my websites to life. From websites to online stores Squarespace is the to build your online presence. They also have SEO tools so that your site is getting found in search by more people more often. If you want to try it for yourself, you can start your free trial today by visiting squarespace.com/babish to get 10% off your first purchase. (upbeat music)