A sea of the darkest green, stretching unbroken from coast to coast. The continental north is dominated by this, Only six tree families vie for contention of all biomes. And yet its global significance is underpinned two thirds of all conifers globally, being A fifth of the biomass of the entire planet, and forbidding. Pray that you have warm clothing and a knowledgeable For you have stepped into the taiga. The boreal forest, or taiga, dominates the - North America and Eurasia. Consisting almost exclusively of coniferous by a single class of plant species - the In fact the taiga is dominated by only four larch, with some areas also featuring broadleaf And so biodiversity is among the lowest of The word taiga comes to us from Russian, which has most of the world's fraction of this It literally means "land of the little sticks". The other common term for the taiga is boreal - as in Aurora Borealis - and so simply In the LONS08 biome classification system, Many of you will be familiar with the evergreen their leaves year round. This makes up the vast majority of taiga by The seasonal type, found only in NE Siberia, loses its leaves during the extremely cold deciduous. The relationship between climate and biome It can be seen that the Koppen Subarctic climate almost exactly. The centre of the Siberian subarctic has an and birch, but this is still regarded as taiga. Note that the very cold winter subarctic types in NE Siberia, demonstrating this plant adaption Since the subarctic and taiga biomes overlap in the Subarctic video of my Secrets of World So I recommend you watch that in combination repeat myself on some details, such as the In our Holdridge Lifezones chart, we find most of this temperature band. A type of cold rainforest is found in narrow the rainfall is very high. But most of the taiga is either somewhat wet low evaporation rates so far north, promotes The taiga demonstrates perfectly the principle of whether a region will be forested, scrub-like These two graphs of Siberia and the Sahel and yet Siberia is forested and the Sahel in evapotranspiration. So why do conifers dominate so much in this It is simply that they are just better cold-adapted in earth's history, and consequently more as the Earth swung from ice-age to hot-house Conifers photosynthesise more efficiently in combination with their evergreen nature, when temperatures are favorable, rather than Needles offer a smaller surface area to volume known as a cuticle, which together makes them And as we know from Christmas trees, most of advantages in the subarctic climate. Firstly, this shape prevents snow building cause them to break, but rather distributes Secondly it allows more of the tree to receive Most of the taiga is thickly forested in this The forest floor is dominated by moss - up Lichen, a mix of fungus and algae, is also Wildflowers can also be found in certain areas, soil is richer. The soil is heavily acidic and as a result It lacks invertebrate species numbers such build-up of non-decomposed matter. This thick layer causes a cooling of the soil of sunlight through the thick canopy promotes of soil and ice below the surface. This layer of ice acts as a barrier to groundwater land in the form of swamps and bogs. The layer of undecomposed needles on the forest One would think that such a cold part of the But the subarctic summers are warm and in to often tinderbox conditions. Combined with the flammable resinous content They are so common here that it is believed a couple of centuries old since every part path within that time period. One such episode, the Black Dragon Fire of in the far east of Siberia is believed to in the last few centuries. The northern extent of the taiga blends into woodland, where the canopy of the forest is floor where tundra-like species can grow. Further north again and there is the forest by tundra, have survived from warmer climatic from the ravages of fire, and are believed reproduction as no seeds are viable in these The southern extents blend into either mixed in the heart of the continents where conditions So lets have a closer look at the species There are only six families to consider, four Pines are the most famous of all conifers all the way into the tropics as well as the The Scots Pine is the most widely distributed the Pacific coast of Siberia. The Spruce family is also very widely and Eurasia, with the Siberian spruce (Picea Urals to the Pacific, although not in the Firs are found on both boreal continents, the Cedars of more temperate climates. Siberian Fir is restricted to NE Siberia, coastal forests of Alaska and Norway. The Larch family is unique among conifers Like broadleafs, larches turn golden in autumn In North America the most common larch is common in Europe. Siberia as a whole is larch dominated, and of Yakutia and Sakha provinces NE Siberia the hardiest of all conifers. And this is why this region receives the specific The two hardiest broadleaf species families Birches, with their distinctive silver bark, Canada and Northern Eurasia. Aspens, a species within the Poplar family are found in most southerly regions of the the Rocky Mountains of North America. In terms of fauna, the taiga is host to many and wolves. In fact, the mammals in general here are larger a larger body allows for better heat retention Many seasonal birds visit during the summer, enormous populations of mosquitoes - as time will be more than happy to tell you about... In terms of threats, forestry has led to the is dwarfed by the fires that reach most areas There are no major human threats due to the Only about 0.1% of the Siberian Taiga is logged But a word can be said in regard to climate The northern and southern boundaries of the as a result of warming and cooling of the During the last ice age, in fact, the taiga and as we head into a warming phase now, the more deciduous species, especially birch and Incidentally, the earth would be significantly This is because the boreal forest is the darkest of solar radiation, especially during winter, heat back into space. And that is the taiga. I think I managed to get away with no mention Oh no... If you enjoyed this episode, please like and in the comments. Don't forget to subscribe, so you don't Thanks again for watching. I'll see you in the next episode where we barren wastes of the tundra and ice.