- Yes, that's right. I did the unthinkable. Hello, everybody, and welcome back to another video. Now, in today's episode, we're gonna be unboxing and installing this brand new, never-opened copy of Windows Vista Ultimate. What's the occasion you ask? Well, last month was the 15th anniversary of Windows Vista's retail I know, who cares, right? I mean, this is one of the worst Windows versions of all time. Who wants to sit through a video about it? Well, evidently you do because you clicked on this one. So thank you so much for that. And speaking of the phrase thank you, Skillshare, I gotta thank them for sponsoring this video and for helping me purchase this because, even though Windows Vista buying a brand new, never-opened copy is, you know, a little bit pricey. The other thing I wanna do in this video is really challenge your I mean, yeah, we've been making and that's just because I mean, as we all know, Windows Vista was meant with and all of that tarnished the I mean, I guarantee, if you were to ask the average if they were gonna they'd say something to the effect of, &quot;Heck no, I'm not. I mean, everybody I know says it's terrible and it's got all these problems. I don't wanna upgrade to that. I'm gonna stick with XP.&quot; And that's exactly what happened. Windows Vista never surpassed So today I wanna talk about why that is, why Windows Vista failed or at least was perceived and is considered one of the worst Windows I wanna take a step back and examine the criticism that it received now that we're on the other side of it, over 10 years after and talk about the reasons why it gained such a horrible reputation and the things that were quite frankly So if you were out shopping one of the first things you would notice is the newly designed packaging. I mean, putting this side you can see it is substantially different. No longer is there a cardboard box. This is made from plastic. It's smaller, it's sleeker. So opening this, the first thing we had to or this piece of tape here rather on the right side. And so we're gonna tear that off very slowly but surely here. There we go, oh. Oh my gosh, guys. For the first time ever, here we go. And now we can pull this red tab. And there it is. For the first time, seeing it since it left the factory, Windows Vista Ultimate upgrade. So we're gonna go ahead and take out our documentation here. And we'll set the packaging aside for now and we'll see what we've got. So right here, we have a and you also have the ability to kinda like what you had with Office 97. Certainly much older than Vista here, but Office 97 only came on a CD. But Microsoft allowed you We've got the same thing going on here. If you needed CDs, you could request a CD which was useful because, you needed to have a DVD drive, you were gonna kinda be outta luck until you filled this out. And here is the Windows Vista which is gonna take you you would wanna know about Windows Vista. All the programs. I mean, look at this. Isn't this glorious, guys? Tells you what's new. It tells you what you need I'm sure it's probably on the front here. Yep, upgrading or before you begin, all that good stuff. And of course, on the back, actually not on the back, where's the product key? (Michael laughs) Where is the, oh, it's on the back of the, yeah, it's on the back And speaking of the outer packaging, we can take a brief look at that here. So here you go. It tells you a little bit about some individual features here. Obviously, some of this would change depending on what addition And speaking of additions, you've got a comparison chart for the four main which we will definitely But for now, let's go ahead and swap over to the trusty Dell Latitude D610, and we're gonna upgrade, upgrade in quotes, you'll see why in a minute, to this copy of Windows Vista Ultimate. All right, so here we are on And the first thing you're &quot;Michael, you clearly got an upgrade copy of Windows Vista Ultimate. Why on earth do you have You can't upgrade from 2000 to Vista without XP in between.&quot; And you would be right. But I want to install Windows 2000 on here to illustrate one of the first criticisms with Windows Vista, and that is confusion. On this box right here, up at the top left, you see this little upgrade box, and it says, &quot;For users running Microsoft Windows XP, or Windows Vista only.&quot; So when I got this in the mail, I was saying to myself, &quot;Well, wait a second. Can you upgrade from I didn't think so. I thought you had to have XP.&quot; And it turns out that, But this wording on here would lead you to believe, you would probably think, &quot;Oh, I can upgrade from Well, you can't. If we continue reading here it says, &quot;Backup and clean install may be required. See back of box for details.&quot; So it turns out that you from Windows 2000 to Windows Vista, but you were able to get the upgrade copy and qualify for the upgrade pricing. It's just not really well-worded. And sure enough, on the back here, it says at the bottom, you have to be running So we've got the disk in the drive and we are running Windows which is required to be able to launch from within Windows 2000. And there it is. And yeah, we don't have the proper graphics driver installed. So that's why we're running and at a lower resolution. And we will accept the license terms. And right here is where it tells you that, &quot;Hey, even though you you can't upgrade from Windows 2000. You have to do a clean install.&quot; So let's go ahead and And we will choose our partition here. And right here, it's gonna let you know that because this partition contains files from a previous Windows install, it will move some of those and store them in there. So this is where you kinda because some of your It's not gonna delete everything, but it's not an in-place upgrade. It's not going directly This is still a clean install. But again, you know, that's a little confusing And speaking of confusing, let's get back to the Because forget this whole Windows Vista had six editions. Four of which were You had Starter, Home Basic, Home Premium, Business, Ultimate, and Enterprise. Now Starter, just like XP Starter, was only available in developing markets. And Enterprise was only Even still with four that is double what XP had. With Windows XP, you had Simple, basic, not confusing at all. If you're a home user, you bought Home. If you're a business user, Well now with Windows Vista, And so it's like what was Well, the major difference was that Home Basic didn't have any of the fancy Aero visual effects that was reserved for But it just made things I know what Microsoft was trying to do. They were trying to kinda version of Vista that was more affordable, but they really could have and lowered the cost of Home Premium and certainly still turn to profit and in the process, not make things so confusing for people. Because, I mean, people who looked up this stuff and knew about Vista and had followed the they knew all this stuff, right? But the average computer user is not going to be as invested They're not gonna know all this stuff. So when they go to the Store, they're gonna see four and probably be pretty confused. In fact, the OEMs, the computer manufacturers, saw this as a potential problem. There's an email from Dell sometime in 2005 before Vista even finished development, and they expressed concerns over having more than two SKUs of Windows. And so they saw the potential for it to create unnecessary confusion . And all of this wording by about &quot;this is an upgrade, but it's not an upgrade&quot; just adds to the confusion even more. And even on the back here this fourth one down here says, &quot;Best choice for laptops.&quot; Now, you would read that and think, &quot;Oh, okay. Well, one of these is for a laptop, right?&quot; No, three of them are. Home Premium, Business, and Ultimate. They're all the best choice for laptops. That doesn't really help. I mean, you're just getting I mean, what's the best for laptops? Well, there really isn't. Honestly, that probably I think personally that if with the two edition format Windows Vista would've had a marginally better The next set of criticisms have to do with advertisements But first, and I'm sure you I need to take a moment to advertise today's video sponsor, Skillshare, the online learning community designed to help you learn new skills or brush up on something whether that be graphic design, video editing, or even programming. What I really like about them is that the entire platform is designed specifically around learning. Classes are split up for convenient viewing with no ad breaks. You know, like this one. One of the first classes I was this one on which really goes into some good habits that you can implement into your workday which is so important or just work from home. If that sounds interesting to you, just click the link down below. And if you're one of the Skillshare will give you of their premium membership which gives you access to plus the new classes So be sure to check them out. And huge thanks again to Skillshare for making this video possible. Now, let's get back to Now, Windows Vista was as you would expect for Most notable was the &quot;'Wow' in which Microsoft really positions Vista as this amazing groundbreaking thing. I mean, Microsoft literally compares Vista to the Apollo 11 launch at least what appears to I spent way too much time It's clear that they cut some things and removed parts of it, but I'm just gonna say 'cause that's what it looks like to me. And when you make a as historically significant people are going to have for whatever it is you're selling. And so people did. I mean, when Windows Vista launched, it had all these new features and people were expecting a lot from it. The problem was not everybody And that's because Vista had than Windows XP. Now, of course, it's normal for these requirements That's just how technology works. But the problem was, Aero double the RAM, a one gigahertz CPU, preferably a dual core one, and a more powerful GPU. So your XP computer might have met the minimum specifications, but not the Aero specifications. And there was actually a over the Vista Capable Now, Vista Capable really quickly, these were computers sold but then users had the option of requesting a copy of Windows Vista that looked like this, an Express Upgrade to Windows Vista. It was a full copy of Vista, like in this case, this is So you could request that and your computer was to be able to run Vista. Well, you're probably saying, &quot;That sounds great, that's awesome. Give people the choice. That's wonderful.&quot; Except there was one major problem. Those computers only had to meet Windows Vista's minimum not the Aero system requirements. So that meant that people who promoting Windows Vista with And then they went to a store and purchased a Windows They very well could have thought that that meant they were gonna get what they saw in the ads, but that was not necessarily the case. And this also ties into our because having two sets in this whole Windows Vista Capable fiasco could really confuse people. Now, one of the most common is compatibility issues. And if you had upgraded to it you probably experienced some of these. Many hardware manufacturers available at the time of Vista's launch, especially for older devices. So naturally, people were pissed off because like if you're printer didn't work with the Windows Vista computer, that was a major problem. If your graphics driver that's a major problem. But blaming Microsoft entirely for this just really isn't fair because these drivers of the hardware manufacturers. They released the drivers. And if they just didn't have drivers available in Vista launch, that's on them. But people still blamed Microsoft and blamed Vista for those issues. And it's not really hard to see why people came to that conclusion, but it turns out that the largest cause of initial crashes in Vista was due to NVIDIA drivers. Yeah, even more than And we also know this from from the documents released in it. So Windows Vista, no doubt, had a rough start, but once it had been out for a few years and hardware vendors had and people got more accustomed to the four editions of Vista, it actually became, and you might not really believe this, a pretty good operating system to use. I would say this occurred by the time Service Pack Looks like we're restarting here, which is pretty great. And that's a time that I remember vividly because I got a new PC that year. And sure enough it came and I had no issues with it at all. Nothing significant that I can remember. And it's only natural, right? For software that had been out in the wild for a longer period of time to play better with the I think that if Vista's release perhaps even a year, these issues wouldn't be as severe. But Microsoft was likely pretty eager to get done with Windows Vista since they had been working Windows Vista has one of the if not the longest development cycle with the exception of Windows 10 since it was continually And that's because of Windows Vista's very complex development history. Now I've talked about this a handful of times on this channel, but the major thing of note is that it did not go to And Microsoft ended up, as a last ditch effort ended up resetting development in the year 2004 after the OS, which at that time was known as Longhorn, had essentially become a bloated mess. But one thing I will say is it's honestly kind of a shame that Windows Vista's development ended up the way that it did because it would've been really as Microsoft originally intended it. There were some pretty that Microsoft was working on to implement into Windows Longhorn. WinFS is a prime example. I could do an entire video on that. I probably should because Really cool features like that that never saw the light of And it's fun to think that, you know, what if the development and Longhorn, if they even released in 2003 and, you know, I think Windows would be operating system today. It's just kinda fun to think about. But going back to what I was saying, Windows Vista definitely once it had been out but it's perception never did. And one of the major reasons for that, I would say, is mob mentality or groupthink, whatever you want to call it. It's really incredible how word of mouth, how that really shapes Because people just heard about all these problems with Vista. People who have never used it, they saw Apple's highly which pointed out all of Vista's flaws. And they said, &quot;Well, everybody Everyone I know is saying, 'Don't buy it, avoid it. Stick with XP.'&quot; And Microsoft tried to with what they called which not the macOS version. This was a very interesting where Microsoft got a who had never used Windows Vista, but had a very negative view of it, a very negative perception. And when they were asked about it, they said things like, &quot;Oh, Vista's terrible. It crashes all the time. It has all these problems. I'm not gonna get it.&quot; So Microsoft said to them, &quot;Okay, we're gonna show you called Windows Mojave.&quot; In actuality, it was just Windows Vista rebranded to look like And you know what? Over 90% of the people there praised it. They gave positive feedback. They were like, &quot;This is great. This is awesome, I love this new feature.&quot; Some of them went into and said that they really liked it. Then Microsoft breaks the &quot;Well, we just showed you Windows Vista.&quot; And so it goes to show you how even if that's just by hearing from people that Vista's terrible, affects the overall reception of it. Because even today, Windows Vista is still remembered as one of the worst Windows You've probably seen it &quot;the worst operating systems ever&quot;, and Vista's always near the top. It's just become cemented. It's legacy is already finalized. The fact of the matter is probably won't do much to change it. And that's just how it is. I mean, it's been years Most people forgotten about it. They've moved on as the tech world does. But on this channel, we like to take a look back. We like to go the other direction. Talk about vintage technology, the old stuff, and how it really shaped And Windows Vista definitely did. Even if it was in a negative way. I mean, Microsoft learned a lot from it. Well, Windows 7's launch but I mean, Windows 8, nah. I mean, that was not. Microsoft, again, tried to kinda, I think push the envelope too much and it ended up backfiring on them. Yeah, that's Windows Vista. That is its legacy. And it will, even if it's not completely fair, this will be remembered as one of, if not the worst Windows So you know what? We're gonna explore it a little bit. Here we are at the setup screen. We've got it installed finally. And let's go ahead and go through the initial user account details I'm gonna choose a different I always go with the default one. Let's pick that one. And we're going to call because, well, it is. We're gonna change the default I always like this one. I thought it was pretty cool. Oh, I almost forgot. We're not completely We gotta go through the Preparing your desktop. It truly never gets old, man. Oh, here it is. Here it is. So I actually don't think that this computer meets Windows Vista- Lemme just pull up the So we've got, okay, yeah, we've got 1 GB of RAM and we have a 1.86 GHz processor. So we should, I think, I mean, the graphics Is this just integrated graphics? Windows Aero is not even an option. So it is disabled because, unfortunately, it appears that our graphics So there you go. I mean, what we were just talking about. If I had purchased Windows Vista Ultimate expecting that I was gonna get well, turns out I'm not Now, I mean, to be fair, you could totally blame that on the user. You could blame the whole thing that resulted in that class-action suit, on the users not doing enough research and looking into that stuff. But there is the argument that Microsoft could have and that's why that lawsuit even happened in the first place. So the first thing I'm gonna do is we're gonna load up some Let's do Chess Titans. One of my favorite games I really liked the game redesigns. I thought- we'll go intermediate here. It's been a little while since I was a huge fan of I just really, really liked them. The XP ones and the Pre-XP ones are, of course, so iconic, but it was really nice to if that's even a word, like Solitaire, Spider Solitaire, and all these classics. So let's launch Solitaire here as well just to show you if ya forgot how nice that Solitaire looks here. Certainly much better than the, ugh, gosh, it still annoys me that Microsoft got rid in Windows 8 and that went into Windows 10 and Windows 11 as well. Really annoying, Microsoft. You should have kept these in because they were fricking awesome. Although they definitely Windows 8+ design language. InkBall, too. Oh my gosh, man. InkBall, this was a really fun game. And for the longest time, I thought it was introduced but that is not the case because this was in Tablet PC Edition, Windows XP Tablet PC Edition. And this was, judging from the fact that- is that gonna go in itself? Okay, no, I had to do a little bit there. So yeah, this was in Windows and it was intended to And that's why your cursor here changes to this little stylus because you're supposed and get the balls into their And it gets a little bit confusing here, or not confusing, but complicated I'd say. This isn't really complicated. You got two different colors here, but it can get a little bit challenging. That's the word I'm looking for. Why couldn't I think of that? It gets a little challenging as you progress through these levels here because you don't want the or the blue to go into the orange. So no, go that way. Go that way, come on. No, no, go this way. No, don't go that way. So yeah, I always liked this game. I spent, I mean, I'd always spend kind And gosh, what else? I know I played InkBall. I played chess. I played... I never played Mahjong or Purble Place. I don't even know- what was Purble Place? Is this like a... Oh, is this like a matching thing? Yeah, I think it is. &quot;Try to remember what You turn over this way when you Yep, okay. I never played Purble Place I think out of all the Microsoft I played Chess Titans the most, but I did like Solitaire, Oh, and of course, Minesweeper. What a classic. And I really, really like what they did with Minesweeper here. It certainly is. It's not the same as Windows XP and prior, but it is pretty- Oh, and the whole mine animation as well. The mine exploding, yeah. That's really, really awesome. So let's see. Gosh, what else do we wanna do? Oh my gosh. I mean, this video is definitely I wanted this video to on what I was talking about just about Vista's legacy and all of the issues it had. Just really like talk about that and spend most of the This here is just kinda having fun. We've installed it. We're just exploring around Let's go to my computer. Let's go to, oh, you know what we can do? We can go into our Windows.old folder here and see all of our Windows 2000 stuff. So see it's copied over and the Documents and Settings. This is, like I said, because it does keep some of your files. It keeps everything in and it keeps all your programs. It's just not an in-place upgrade and it does get rid of everything else. So you would definitely wanna or just, at least your on your hard drive before you went and But yeah, we can go into and go to our m user. That's the account that And if we go to My Documents, right here, we've got the four Service Packs. I just copied all four of them over 'cause I didn't know if you to Service Pack 4. Turns out you can, because I did. So that was nice. So yeah, you've got that in here. You got My Pictures. We have the classic There it is, the only sample photo in all of Windows 2000. So yeah, and it's actually or not the same Pictures icon here, but it's got a custom folder icon, which is pretty nice. So we could copy this over to our Pictures folder if we want to or just move it rather. And yeah, honestly guys, I think that's a good stopping point. I think we really touched on everything that I wanted to touch on. That is Windows Vista. I hope you guys enjoyed this video. If you did, be sure to give it a thumbs up and get subscribed down below, turn on notifications, And as always, I wanna thank you all so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. (outro music)