Hey guys, this is Toby Mathis. And today we're going to be going over and typical types of the state plans Before we dive in, I want to just kind of touch base on what it actually means because there's a lot of people assume it has to do with death planning. We think about what's going to happen And I want you to think about it, your estate plan really should encompass that may occur, and make sure So if I was putting your your whole life I'd be looking at it saying there's things There's a transition period to make decisions for ourselves And then there's after we pass. Unfortunately, most people immediately go to this idea of a that immediately It doesn't really do anything for you while you're alive, because there's so many things So, for example, During that pandemic, there was people that needed because of the medical attention For example, they had a do not resuscitate order to act on your behalf through a valid of attorney or medical directive, You're called slightly different things, to act on your behalf Then quite often the rules and procedures were for that Now, I'll just say this. We all need advocates. We need advocates that know us Not saying that hospital want. What I'm saying is that if you want to stand into your shoes and advocate for Now, quite you're going to think will immediately start and they could not going to say I'm not going to say But you're rolling the dice on that one if it's somebody other than a spouse, need to make sure that is in writing And when I say empowerment, I'm not just to act on your behalf, but the authority something called a HIPA release so that a medical provider their license in their well-being, They're not exposing it to possible dings because they unintentionally So quite often they are not going to share information that they have their t's crossed and that they can share information with lest they be fined or subject to any sorts of discipline Right. So we do not want to put somebody where they are concerned about We've seen this, by the way. We've seen this where medical providers shared information with folks and got themselves in all sorts of hot end up costing them So most folks are going to air on the side close to their vest in that disclosure of a power of attorney, advanced something that says this individual and medical providers information, my medical information in that why they're doing that right. So and you could have these effective these effective immediately. Chances are if it's somebody you're married to, If it's somebody else outside the family, effective upon incapacitation go and get your medical information on So that's number one, Number two is we have things that occur with us and that's called a general power of That should also be in your stay plan. And unfortunately, a will only takes place when you pass away We'll go over that in a little bit. But we really do want to have a document gives somebody the authority if we are unable So if I am incapacity dated because I am, maybe it's during COVID, because I'm very, very sick I need to have somebody who is able to pay transact business on my behalf Or worst case scenario is or a medical condition and they're not able to act on their own This can take place while somebody is still alive, but they're And it doesn't just have to be comas If they are incapacitated and unable it's important to have that financial power of attorney I've dealt with these numerous times where before something happened or you're dealing with some sort of after somebody is incapacitated, and a mountain of paperwork. It's so much simpler for financial matters or what's called a and put it in place and it can be So I don't have to worry about somebody doing anything with my affairs while I'm But the second I'm unable to care for stepping in and acting on my behalf So there's two very simple ones, and you have the financial We have not only the power of attorney, but we also have the medical release, Now, let's get closer to passing. We're all going to do it. Every one of us has a timeline. But what happens towards the end? Do you want to have extraordinary measures Do you want to be able or have somebody advocate They're able to discuss the pros types of procedures or medical attention. And maybe you say, I don't want to have taken to continue to preserve And you want to be able to give somebody that is called a living will, not a living trust. A living will not a will. A living will is for end of life And it's where you're empowering somebody nourishment, or can get together as to what level of care This is really important because it's frustrating It's frustrating from the medical establishment Now, I've been a court I've been to loggerheads And in some cases was a gal that I represented and on three different occasions there was discussions And in all of those cases, who that I was acting on her behalf. And in all of those cases, And the interesting part of this one, and it had somebody told me this before, She died in in natural causes There was actually three occasions where there was recommendations because they did not believe or that she was going to be in such a condition that it was She recovered fully. So I just say that because without having the ability and to do a little bit of push back and knowing that knowing the individual what her values were and what she cared what she told me. It would have been a very difficult situation now, especially if it's a loved one, because you don't want to be in a situation about what happens and you on to somebody else You want to make sure that you're clear that, hey, these are the Do I want extraordinary measures? Do I want all measures? Some people are like, absolutely. And then other people are like, no. If it's like, if I have terminal cancer, And then again, you're able to communicate and take appropriate steps and somebody is empowered to act on your behalf but you want to make sure There's nothing worse and there's nothing and people are Kids are fighting, they're concerned, they feel guilt. And you just want to alleviate that Now, notice we haven't even gotten Estate planning is so much more than die and distribute. I'm not a big fan of the die I've seen that do more harm than good, especially in folks that have larger estates or have active businesses One of the worst things you could do There's a number of reasons but probably the most interesting to me is that the vast majority of the wealthy It's about 5% that inherit their wealth. The vast majority make it. And they have this kind of this old adage the second generation maintains it Other words, if you give it to somebody there's a good chance And so I tend to look at things and saying, hey, if you built up something allow it to exist for hundreds of years and to continue to bless your future generations, when you may have kids and hey, if something happens to me, not necessarily a good idea. For one, it's now theirs. They get into a divorce All of a sudden, Or if they make bad decisions, you know, and you make a nice estate everything off and buy a Ferrari Four or five years later, Who caused it? Well, I hate to say it, but because somebody wasn't prepared. So how do you how do you handle it? That's where we get into legacy I think everybody can create a legacy And it's about putting your values Now popular in the United States, and they'll use a will and they'll say, Just don't think that's a good idea. Number one, if you have a will, through the probate process You know what I mean by litigating? That will means a judge needs to sign off It's a great slide What is the probate process? It is a legal process, It can go for years. It could be as low as six months. Generally, that's probably the best, the lowest shortage period, But generally speaking, of somewhere between 12 and 18 months, And it's going to eat up approximately because there's been studies between 15 and 20% of the estate Now, a lot of you guys are already jumping up a bit, It's always easy unless there's a dispute when there's money involved, there's and boiling up I just see that somebody once told me this because I think it's true, is you're When you're going through probate, your worst on your worst day. It brings out bad behavior in people And I've seen it over the years. I've seen it. The other thing is, if I do it this way die and distribute, And I know But the way it happens is no different If you're familiar with it and Nicole playmate married a 97 year old gentleman Yeah, she married him. He immediately passed away, And the kids, of course, are ticked off I've seen this over and over again Had it actually happened in my family unintentionally disinherited their family They leave everything to their spouse. Their spouse remarries, leaves And the kids get disinherited, It's called passing away intestate and passed away intestate. Then the laws of your state control print and see what that looks like. Years and years of of legal they're trying to determine I would just say avoid it A living trust is the way out of probate. If you die with a will or without a will and no trust called intestate, If you pass away with a living trust, And you can put in provisions that say putting little teeth in that thing We can also be clear what our intentions are For example, I have real estate Pay the pay the income or better yet, use health, education, It's called hem standard. And you could debt. You could designate a bank trusted individual, CPA, somebody who's not a beneficiary could you please managers Banks do it all the time here's for whether or not to make a distribution if they need it, but they don't get to I always explain it that way. You could have it to where now nobody is entitled to go take anything And what ends up happening and if somebody looks at it I like that it's there for education, If somebody gets sick, If somebody loses their job and is in danger of being homeless, There's money to help them. And they might just say, I'm Right. Hey, I see that you created I'm going to use the same terms or I'm going to find it and leave And that's how you create a legacy. You want to talk about a legacy or I tend to draft documents. We have a 365 year statute. You could say, Again, but I can also put in things like, Maybe it's a mission or maybe it's Maybe you believe that it's important for So you just say, Hey, my beneficiary is I'll pay subject to the discretion of my trustee So I'm not going on a lavish holiday, to another country, maybe they're going to Europe, maybe they're going to they're able to get that benefit because of you. And I always think of it Grandma and Grandpa did something That would be really interesting. I would I would have thought, Jeez, people that had trusts set up I remember them going through school That would be cool, but this would also And again, the sky's the limit. You get to decide what it is If you want to leave it, you could you could put paid you could put training I want to distribute it to my kids, How about 25% when they're 30, 25% when they're 40 something, you know, just I tend to again be on their side where that I'm stretching it out because I don't know And nobody has that crystal ball. And I want to make sure that I don't And there's been a number of studies. I tend to use one during the events. I use the the Ohio State A lot of it's lottery winners. And what we see is that if you give a bunch of money within four It's on average, But worse, their level of bankruptcy the rest of the population as a whole. So the median amount of of bankruptcies, they exceed that And when I look at it is it can certainly cause you from by the big car, by the big house, By the time you realize you can't afford and the property taxes are killing you By the time that all that said you're not able to recover really bad spot. And you compound that. If you have anybody that has alcohol frankly, we just don't know So rather than leave somebody we want to leave something to somebody And you can absolutely do that. Now, I'm We talked about during our lifetime, we pass away, I'm not going to say I'm going to still have a will. I may use it for guardianship provisions for children that are under 18, I may use it for burial direction. Do I want cremation or do I want burial? I may do that because I'm expecting And if I have to, And I may still want to file a low asset just to make sure there's no creditors, of the estate over a certain timeline, It might be 90 days, might be 108 days where nobody can make But what it does is it names So there's a public record Now they don't know who gets what. Instead, we just leave the living trust And now they have no Something that we don't think about a lot And if you're able assets, people are going to know If it's a probate, if it's a living, and sometimes people forget that. Now, I bring all this up just to kind of We talked about our lifetime towards the end of life anybody can set this up. A lot of folks go into a lawyer's office, lawyer says this is for the rich, By the way, when you have a living trust it's called a dynasty trust. And there's people for tens of thousands of dollars. For us, it's just a living trust because that's exactly what it is. It doesn't require These things are all a lot My experience is that providing more expensive But let's just say that You're making it and you're looking at it and you go I just don't think your state's That's the person you walk out on. Because the way I look at it I would say I'd hired ADT And I was worried I would not expect a alarm technician and look around my house and go, You don't need an alarm. What I would expect them to do is get me an alarm system When I go to an estate planner, Oh, you're not big enough Because anybody And if you have a good idea on, you have a life. All you have to do is ensure that life. So if you don't have the money right now and you're worried, what if I set this up Just ensure yourself so that Get a turn policy, get a whole life, I'll get something. And then the then the estate plan I think that's just that. That's fine. So if you're a young person, especially a minor, kids But if you're a young person, if you're single, seen this before, seen single people get sick, and then who's there to Nobody. And they end up getting their credit I've had folks I had one gentleman who actually contracted His mom was going crazy because People were taking action against him and nobody could step into his shoes So even if you're young, but you can always fund it later insurance so that, hey, if I get a policy, Great. And what does it do there? Dumps money in for maybe I maybe I don't have kids Maybe it's animal organizations, And there's money here paid out to them And you can give your estate direction what you want your estate There's nothing wrong with that. I'll never understand because everybody needs Everybody. I don't care who you are, You want to make sure so somebody can go in there and advocate Power of attorney for health. I should be very specific. Everybody needs to have a health care Everybody needs to have a medical If you're not able to care for yourself, Full stop. Anybody who says that they don't, I don't think they've seen what typically happens We just went through this massive pandemic Yes, it can happen to anybody. And we want to make sure that we have So during your lifetime and then our state, the simplest thing is to do a living trust all those documents. The next simple thing is to at least cover If you do a will, I always say They're just two different animals. I would say yes. Are willing to live in a will because I want to have the pour over will. I still want to have it there, I need the financial medical power I need the HIPA release. I need all the little ancillary documents my life and I want to make sure who I am entrusting to act on my behalf It's very, very critical that I look at all three of those stages, not just at the end, You're going to make a mess. If you do that and you can make a big mess if you have a large estate to go through that probate process, Just get a living trust. Make sure you have your power of attorney Get make sure you rip out Make sure that your medical power has access to your medical records, Once you do that, it's so much easier. And by the way, if you do that, once you You can amend it, you can even restate it, I'm going to start from scratch It is a la it's basically a contract You're the trustee, You're the grand tour in the beginning. And if something happens to you, There's a successor. You can no longer be the beneficiary. That's all it is. It's actually fairly simple. Makes a lot of sense. And I hope you understand the wisdom of what it means And I hope you're able