-All right. We're checking where you'll literally take the bodies and turn them then take over the world with. It's Human Vehicle . Normally, I need, With this game, I actually don't, You can see I'm using and then he will boost me Now I can get- There's two human bodies like, the handlebar. I don't know what this is, You know what? I can also get this here. So, we're just gonna spend All right, so-- I'm surfing on a man. [laughs] I never thought in my wildest dreams as a means of transportation, They're like, &quot;Well, who's driving?&quot; I mean, it's technically me. I-I don't really know how to explain this. Okay. that will try and reduce my friends. Well, that's very unfortunate. Okay, we've almost unlocked I don't even wanna know what-- except made with tons of people. I got a free gift. It's a Segway. [chuckles] What do I get for the wheel of pain What is this? Does this just change Oh, now I'm just-- Now I'm going to absorb humanity Well, that's fine, I guess. Okay, Yeetus over here. Do not touch the minus five. And we've evolved to the chopper again. I really gotta get past this. Like, can I eventually some sort of helicopter or something? I can become a full car now. The thing we're just at the very beginning We're already of human bodies. Look at how stacked you get too. You just stand on each other's shoulders. We're gonna go to the moon. All right. It's an F1 car. Where's that F1 car at? Take my money. Sold. Maybe I can buy it later. I want a different color. What do we got? I'm Shadowy Vehicle Man now, when I hit the ground, Okay. We're-we're part way So, we're gonna get three-- Oh. yeah. It's-it's-it's a lot of assembly. A lot of human assembly to get past the buggy, though. Bust through some walls. Ah, can I get all three? No. I still have, like, five and we're now as tall as, Butterfly versus me? His name is Butterfly? So, what is this? Who can make the biggest car? Oh, you get to make cars big on-on this. Now, here we go. Okay, we're still mostly a buggy. This-- We're not- we're not much of a buggy left, Whoa. Okay, now my buggy And there we go. Where's Butterfly at? Does he even get to finish, HIs name was Butterfly before, because he's burning Ooh. Okay, now the- I like how there's, Whoa. Okay. And a big Yeetus We are into the buggy now. That is fantastic. Still haven't gotten-- I think that the buggy is as good as we can get right now set it up completely. Yeah, we're at- And that is a lot of human beings standing Okay. Okay. Sure it is. What is-- Oh, what-- Absolutely. For a mere 700 gems? Okay. at this point. I don't know what decides, I may have to see if I can, but I'm almost sure-- Hold on. That we have-- The truck, which is gonna be epic. So, one or three? We'll take the three. Okay. of the buggy right there. Is this a plane? You know you drew the short straw Okay, we're gonna try this. We're gonna go-- We're gonna go unicycle to Segway. So, you can choose each one of these. To the F1. I kind of want the bus. [chuckles] I think that's how this works. All right. Oh. Oh, this is gonna be amazing. All right, the bus is starting to really pull up here. This is hot. I don't know why, More of the bus is starting Any time I see-- I-I'll take the people Oh, I'll take the people all day. Starting to get all the wheels on the bus. There's even some people sitting inside, Oh. yeah. All the way up to 3.9. What new present do you have for me? What could it be? Oh, no. I love how this dude's back All right. I'm gonna choose-- I'm gonna choose the truck this time. We don't have access to this yet. We should get it in a little bit. And I actually kind I kind of want the triple motorcycle. [chuckles] Never mind, I have three friends I mean I'm literally using them Not because I don't wanna pay their bodies are what-- they're what transports me around. Okay. Nice. Oh, yeah. Oh, this-this truck looks amazing. Starting right off with the car. Barely had to do anything for it. Magnets are putting in all the work. Look at this. Truck looking sweet, going for all people We got the full truck. That's fine. I'll take the minus four Yeah, we got the fully packed truck. So now I'm curious actually gives you less points that-- So the bus is better. The people plane is halfway there. I still have yet to max out the bus, but I wanna do it. So this is like six people. Okay. We're two away Hit that wall. Get a plus one, plus one, minus three. But then-- yeah, there we go. Finally, maxed out the bus. Someone asks in class, It takes about 30 people not working. I mean like 30 human bodies. All right. And I have a feeling we're gonna win here because we're stacked tall on the car. The car is faster than whatever piece All right, speed. Woo. Oh, my God. I wasn't so much building I was literally just mowing them down. I was turning all my friends but somehow that's how you win in life. Let's try a different color here. The color is it's gray. We're keeping it. Yes. Also that-- was I sitting on the unicycle that time? It looked like I was just, like, like, sitting watching TV on the unicycle or something, it was really odd. The bus is also so wide that, like, It pretty much just picks up everything If there was literally I-- I'm not sure I'd wanna This is-- Whoa. Whoa, whoa. I was gonna say it's an easy one. All of a sudden cones chilling out Who put those there? All right. Again, it just seems It's not so much It's more of just plowing over them then picking them up and turning them into part of the vehicle. There it is, a literal airplane. [laughs] It's a bigger airplane. Oh, it's a biplane. More wings means more human bodies. So that's why we're keeping it. Oh, yeah. We're immediately in a plane Okay. Oh, this is so drunk right now. [groans] Yeah. Having the plane is amazing. Look at the height of people. Yes. Finally into the fours. What is this? I need to know. Okay. Oh, they just-- They want you to have-- if you didn't have the plane, ow, ow, ow. Oh, I could just sit here. Oh, no, you can't. It eventually blows you up. Uh, it looks like there's more people Yeah. When you get a bus in the first No. Oh, oh, whoa. Okay. And just assuming that everything to murder me really helped there. We're gonna get the maxed-out plane Okay. This is working. And then there we go. Thumbnail hole and watch this, We have maxed out the plane stack. Okay. We're more I think it's a helicopter. I kind of want it to be a helicopter, a helicopter. Like, everything in this entire game is I don't really know how I feel about it. All right, just fly straight ahead. All right. I kind of clip the top you know, whoa, ah, given There we go. And we still managed to max out hitting a wall randomly. All right. What is it? It better be something amazing. A Twinjet. Okay. I don't have access to it yet, but, oh, I can finally And I'm actually gonna do-- All right. Haven't really gotten So now getting to see it, that's hideous. It was only around for a second There we go. I don't know what happens if you hit that. I imagine it's instant death. The other ones you lose part I-I think you just-- and all your guys go flying. They curse your name They all get a horrible road rash. Ah, plus one's all down here. Ah, it's better to go up top. Yeah, we're going up top this time. Oh, no, I didn't- Oh, you have to do it. Okay, because you need the plane in order to actually get past all this. All right. There we go. Back over to the right Okay. Oh, my God. Okay. The wall actually had Like, it was a thumbnail hole I didn't realize that. Oh, where are you supposed to go here? Oh, you have to take the what, jump your tiny little se- Look at how far the bodies went. Jump your tiny little segway onto this? Okay. are getting like legitimately difficult. All right. First thumbnail hole. No problem. Second thumbnail hole. No problem. We're gonna go over through here. All right. Here we go. Oh, yes. Oh, it's like the dollar store version Come on, I gotta get the plane. Okay, good, and we did get the plane Wow. I've gotta hit as many people Again, I never thought well, what am I talking about? I-I guess I knew I would say that. Now I have to go inside of tubes? Okay. That doesn't actually seem that bad. It's actually a little bit easier than like the-the little yeety walls. -22, am I gonna have a segway left? Yeah, it's only segways. [laughs] Okay, and then murder everyone. Drop down on the tractor and then finish it off. I want my jet. I don't care what it takes. Give me my jet. And through, perfect. Uh, I'll take the top yeety tube because that's a boost. Oh, yeah. Well, that makes Oh, God. And the le- He didn't even get past the first part. Why was I even doing this for? I could have just pulled over. In the quest of- Oh, they move now. Okay. That's a- that's a new to the pain that I have to deal with here. So, -1 no matter what, into a sad vehicle of all of the people in my life. Well, it's not really anything good. It's basically just that I-- that I abuse so I can finish the board. 91% we're right there. After having a time where I was struggling to even get now it's just all plain all the time. Yes. There's a lot of gems you can get Oh, my God, it's amazing. There we go. That is about as-as and the helicopter's ready. All right. We've maxed this out, Perfect. And go over to the store. We can get the even cooler one. [laughs] Oh, and I can get the twinjet. All right, here we go. Finally, our vehicles have gotten They dodge all this completely random Crap. Okay. All right. Kind of a tight fit through here, though. I'm not gonna lie. Ow, okay. Oh, whoa. Oh, okay. All right. The tail rotor. Look at the tower. I do have to max that out, though, Now there's random blades on the ground. I'm surprised the blades than this, to be- to be quite honest with you. It kind of seems All right. We already have the twin jet, I just- I don't want to hit any-- Ooh, okay. I almost-almost knocked myself out there. Getting down on this thing because it has a tendency Ow, ow, ow, ow, All right. Ow. I have to get hit by these. Okay. -1, +5. I better get the plane Oh, I'm screwed. So, one, you have to hit one of these. There's really no choice. So, five, we should get as long as I only hit, yeah, Whoa. You have to go between double. You can possibly go between like double. I don't even know what those were All right. The tilt rotor is almost maxed out, I can get. All right, come on, everyone. I have to get everyone I know together This is your jobs now. Don't worry- whoa. Don't worry. It's-it's a good-- It's-it's worth it, trust me. Okay. So now I have to go through the hole. I kind of skimped that one, There we go. And then drop it down. Okay. That's great. There better be-- Oh, this is happening and it's nice and slow too. It's very easily maneuverable. Okay. The last two walls. Are you kidding me? We're gonna get past times five, though. 100% we're going past times five. 5.1 of three. Yeah. Okay. Well, this is working out quite well. Three on this side, three on this side. Perfect. Okay. Ah. Oh, God. Oh, no. Oh, oh, but it's okay. I can just fly over everything now And we maxed down the tilt road Yeah, 5.5. Well, I made a bunch of Anyway, folks, hope of Human Vehicle . Until the new time,