My name's Anthony Padilla. Today, I'll be spending a day to learn the truth with a severe and isolated dictatorship, the lengths they went to escape, and the struggles of adapting to an entirely new world By the end of this video, we'll find out if these escapees have been able with a sense of hope or if living that was once their reality has proven far too traumatic for them Hello, Lucy. Hi. -Cherie. Do you feel by coming on here knowing that authority in North Korea I would be very scared, but right now so I'm very protected My father got tortured and he suffered all his life. My mom's sister, recently she was sent to prison and now she's in a serious condition. Now, my mom and my sister support me This is meaningful work I feel like most people watching have Can you explain the extent -that North Korean citizens face? countless ridiculous rules a lot of security enforcement regulation. One of them is electricity inspection. Often, security officers come to check If you don't have money to bribe them, then you were sent to forced labor camps. Security officers come into your house of course without any notice, to check if any strangers North Korea is the no freedom of movement. Even inside North Korea, we cannot travel freely The government has to know -Exactly. -where you're supposed to be. the thing you'd have to have and right now Kim Jong-Un. I remember growing up, really bowing down to the picture At the time, I really thought he was God. I thought he wasn't human. It is the duty of the family Often, security officers to check if any dust on the portraits. The punishment of having dirty portraits It sounds like that's the punishment for -everything. Everything we do in North Korea is all about worshiping the Kim family Did you find any of these things or was it just a normal part of life At the time, because, if I look at my right or left, There was nothing for me to compare with. North Korean people are systematically I thought the Kim family was God. When he was born, that two rainbows appeared in the sky -He formed a double rainbow at his birth. The regime has started working so Kim Jong-un was able to drive a tank North Korean people, Yes, I mean, when you're taught it doesn't seem silly at all. Yes. Everyone actually believes it. What was your extent of knowledge I didn't know I thought the only country was only North Korea. At times, Some people in our family, they escaped this country They created these rumors you have to sell your blood to survive. You're so poor, It's better to stay here than leave. The media so we don't know about The only way we can learn When we have electricity, Your family would sneak -and you guys would watch it in secret? In North Korea, The content broadcasts all about history and like where's the Kim family so we just turned off right away. Even North Korean movies are A certain time, like it was four o'clock, This character of squirrel wearing this army uniform and we would always win. They were showing the kids Even in kindergarten, if you encounter American person they are not human, you have to kill them. Oh my god. Wow. Did you ever discuss any of your negative thoughts -with anyone else? The regime encourages people It's the duty as a citizen to report it. We don't usually share with anyone except the family members. Three of us, If she doesn't report me, Then both of us will be punished. One person could be punished Exactly. How old were you I was 10. I escaped when I was 17 years old. Were you aware of any of the consequences We are totally aware North Korean defectors, we will be sent to prison and once you get in there, you cannot get out of prison When I lived in China with my sister, and we planned on using those razors commit suicide by cutting our wrists in case we were captured. I wasn't aware until I escaped and my mom told me and she showed me in her pocket, and that was if we were to get caught, she would feed us this little things Your mom knew that you could face imprisonment, torture, and she would be better off serving you instead of having you Yes. What were the events that led up to that? My mom, I was playing with my friends. She came to pick me up at night time. Right next to her there was this guy who eventually turned out to be a broker. The broker did all the things. We crossed the [?] river, There was a taxi waiting for us. We hop onto the taxi. I was sitting by the window seat and I would just look around I had a million questions to my mom We left North Korea completely. We moved around a lot One day, the broker was like, &quot;I'm taking you We went into this private room and the next thing you know, burst open the door, and started screaming at us, As we went outside, so we had to go in. It was really funny the amount of things &quot;What are we going to do? We arrived in a destination, and they started to take off and they were wearing clothes They came towards us, You were treated like hostages and then all of a sudden We're sitting here completely confused. They feed us food. The next day and he was smiling to us like, &quot;Everything's going to be okay. Basically At what cost though? I remember that moment clearly. I started to have nightmares right after escaping When I turned to 16 years old The pleasure squad is like, the regime selects girls pretty and young The girls who got selected plus it's a virgin test as well. After you pass then you go to Pyongyang, For the Kim Jong Un or Kim Jong Il, You can be like a nurse or you can be -or you can be a massager. that you might have had to put It's so disgusting. [laughter] I didn't know. The only thing we know is honorable thing Your family members or people While through process to go to Pyongyang, I was working At the time I couldn't see I just soon felt like I was in prison The only option for me I noticed that there's some rocks Another thing I've noticed that people in the villa, they fell asleep deeply Every day that time, I came out of the room and I scatter the rocks and piled it. I piled it until I make it. I just spread the rocks again You were training yourself and see how quickly you could get it done For 15 days finally I was able to escape. When I escaped the villa, actually I didn't really know I arrived in the city I told her I'm going to see my family &quot;You know what? So why not? She said, &quot;400 soldiers are chasing you -400 soldiers? Did you have any idea that I didn't have any idea. She helped me to hide I hid in their house for three months. You thought that -after a certain amount of months. The people who helped me to hide, they are afraid That's why they said, Finally I hid in the kimchi cellar. I actually hid there for one month. My skin was getting to yellow That's why I got really sick. Did you think that you might die there? I heard the people They said, &quot;She's going to die soon.&quot; I was so hopeless. The only way I could leave Once I decided to escape from North Korea, we borrowed a military general car How did you get in contact to get into the car? My friends contact him He was in the car so it was so safe for me I cannot imagine the feeling crossing the border, -never see my family again. Once we arrived and there were another soldiers They helped me How did that feel Relief. When I crossed the border I actually cried. I can imagine. How has your life changed most Before we continue learning I want to thank Raycon for sponsoring this episode I have actually been using and let me tell you Raycon earbuds start of any other premium wireless earbuds and sound just as great They're everyday earbuds. These that I'm using today include a 32-hour battery life, and a more compact design that gives you and Raycons come You're guaranteed to look like this Create your own soundtrack with Raycon. Right now, get 15% off their Raycon order That's buyraycon.com/spent While I've got you here, I'd like to thank Kraken If you're interested but you're like many of us you should check out the Kraken app. With Kraken you can buy and sell like Bitcoin, Dogecoin and Ethereum, on the go, 24/7. It's super easy to get started and by super easy, All you got to do is download the app, and you'll be investing in mere minutes. One of the absolute coolest things is that you don't need a lot of money Even if Bitcoin is worth like it probably will be you can buy as little Find out for yourself as one of the highest-rated places Visit Kraken.com/padilla now to learn more or just search for Kraken Now, back to the world How has your life changed most I don't need to watch on my tongue. You don't need to watch what you say? In this country, even if I criticize I'm totally fine. I don't need to worry How does it feel knowing that you can now talk even here on a platform that could be seen knowing that you won't face -just for speaking out? Just it's an amazing thing We never think What is your dream? What do you want to become in the future? In North Korea there's no such question. Instead of in North Korea, they would ask us How did it feel To feel like you had At first Like having too many choices or too many choices [laughs] I have my own choice. I have my life to become who I want to be. -Do the things that I want. about your new daily life? Not having to worry if I say these wrong things, We would always talk that we wouldn't be eating this food We wouldn't be able to do Everything really makes us the things that is given to us What were som of the most shocking that you had outside of North Korea? Growing up, I got to see the plane I've actually never seen a plane People can't fly. Objects can't fly. That was my thoughts, How can they fly? You didn't even think Do you remember the feeling of lifting up I just didn't want to believe Did you get a chance &quot;Why is everything-- I was making these comments to myself and my brother ended up &quot;Act normal, like this is just-- He was embarrassed about the fact that you were seeing a million new things experiencing something that you had only When I landed in South Korea The time that we landed, and I thought it was winter because I saw ice A marble floor looked like ice. Right in front of me, you would see waiting to pick us up and he would say, &quot;This is completely normal, Do you miss anything There is no memorable lifestyle I miss relatives and friends, and I miss the times How much of a connection do you still have with your friends and family North Korea is not a country where I can make phone calls I can only contact them when they call me. I only contact our relatives once a year. We cannot have deep conversations because North Korean regime So you have to talk really quickly How much time do you get per conversation? We have very limited time, If there's anyone in North Korea is there anything I escaped from North Korea and I am very privileged I just want you guys to be safe. I just want you guys to be healthy, North Koreans are like birds We don't know so I hope if they can see this video, learn the truth and find the freedom by tearing down Josh Dove wants to know, what are some facts or ideas that are totally wrong? When people think about North Korea, but North Korea is the world's Countless people are executed for unknown charges and are treated worse than an animal. Instead of just thinking about the North Korean threat to the world you want people to realize that the North Koreans themselves They don't want to experience this oppression They are human beings like us, What do you think -about North Korean defectors? that North Korean defectors, and even at this moment, Kim Jong-un tries really hard If we are being kidnapped then there is no chance to survive. You got 5 seconds of shout out directly in the camera. -Go. Please subscribe my channel to support me I just want to say thank you Anthony -Me? Thank you. I'll shout you out. Lucy has a YouTube channel, you need to go check it out immediately. She talks a lot There you have it. I spent a day with North Korean defectors and I feel like I understand what living in North Korea and escaping a little bit more. I commend these guests for their courage in re-living these heavy experiences so we can all better understand that millions of people are living in Living in South Korea, the most common question is, &quot;What's your favorite food?&quot; The first food that I definitely the fast food, the hamburgers. Hamburgers were life-changing food. Do you remember If you look at Ratatouille, like I bite into my-- [laughs] I went through all of this escape progress and that was worth it.