All right, So I just bought this jaw crusher It's an old Arbra 60F So what I need to order for this to make it work, those are missing. So what I need to figure out It would be nice to get the weight centered to the axel I mean, if I keep this tape straight, the line should be straight to, right? So what I need to do here is drill 4 holes and then go fasten it, like this. So I got this perfect tool for the job, a magnetic drill Let's get the right measurements. So this is pretty much done for now. I will do the other side. Yeah, so I just came back from a trip yesterday. It was a little bit over 2000 kilometers So if you wondering about how much I paid The fixed plate was 950 EUR The removable plate was 1050 EUR and I think it was 200 EUR for these two and 400 EUR for these two. So the fixed plate is fastned by these side wedges So there's a hole here and you're supposed to make threads to lift it up. The bit I had broke. So the only option left is to weld Just a little extra layer of safety I'm not really trusting In retrospect, that was kind of a dumb way to do it. But it did work. I'm not really sure why the weld broke. I mean, you can clearly see the weld itself broke. You can see here, it's still attached to surface here So the next thing to do now is to make a cut out here. This is supposed to be hooked here And then the rub going through here, it makes tensions through the toggle plate that's supposed to be up here. So next step is to cut out the side plates, that I will weld here. So before moving this, I need to remove this Because when Yeah, well when the wheel start turning this will smack around and the bearing is gone so Yeah, I need to remove this This looks quite expensive. I mean, how precise can it be So it's time for the big lift, will it hold or or will it collapse. So there it is in place. I just I need to get it back to around here somewhere. Not really sure how Maybe I can just drag it, I don't know. I need to work some kind of pipe here and in the front to get this straight. So finally, it's time to build the feeder. So I've got some 10 millimeter (0,39 inches) thick steel plates or this. I actually got this plates from my grandma. So this is the plan, the feeder will look something like this. And the you coming from here at the back So the So you will come from here, now unload the rocks, and I have a vibrator here, and here I will have springs attached to it And then I will put, it will be two standing beams. Springs and the hopper or the feeder. And then I will from the beams, weld another that goes like this, that goes inside this and then goes like that. And I will weld another beam here that holds this. So the only thing that will vibrate is this hopper or feeder. So this is how it's supposed to be. I will do that for both sides and the back So I will just spot weld these on so it keep its shape when turning it around the welding underneath It is just because there is a weld underneath it. So it's not, it's not this that's crooked yet. We'll see later when releasing these So what I'm thinking here is, I'm guessing I can push this back a little, at the same time I had to think so the springs are stiff enough so it doesn't vibrate into this. This distance, just a little bit up, I think it's perfect. And the rock will come like Something like this. So I'm going to use this, this pipe to holding the spring, but it's exactly a little bit too big to fit. Because I'll need to, one small piece here, one small piece here. I have no idea how well the weld I guess it's some kind of cast iron, cast steel. If the weld not sticking to the steel, put a bolt through it, I can get it out here. What I'm going to do now is I'm going to build the sides and I don't want the sides So something you never see when filming is everything that happens behind the camera. In this case, I'm just been sitting in the chair just looking at this and thinking, how should I proceed? There's always so many options, when building, but you still want to keep it esthetic. It's easy to build ugly and functional, but somehow you want to give it kind of a esthetic. Well, I just run out of gas on a weekend. I'm thinking about keeping this in level. So I went ahead and pulled the crusher and welded some support brackets here, to hold that. I need to weld a beam from here, holding on to that. There now spot welded here and on the other side. this is, I need to be able to take it off so I can lift this off. And then lift off the crusher if needed. So what I'm thinking doing here and weld some kind of brackets on the inside Just put a bolt here or something, pulling it together. Now the beams are in place. So let's go cut out a piece that fits here. As you can see, the ends got got a little bit more. So it's straight to about here and it starts going, and weld these pieces separate. So brought in the crusher again since the weather outside So I'm going to make support and the other side So I've got to make a template for this. Yeah, somehow. What I need to do now is build a frame. I need to build here and on the back side, and then I got to to drill holes, I don't know, maybe two there and two or in the back. And after that I'm going to cut the weld So I just realized I'm to put on the inside, here. So templates goes like that. So I'm just going to cut out here, to up there, then I'm going to support this too. So I'm thinking I'm going bolt it with 4 bolts here. I don't think I'm going to bolt the other side too, I think this is enough. And then I can just put some support that the beam rests on. I was a little bit quick here, welding this bottom plate, I still need to access underneath so I need to take this off. So this is much, much better. Now I can... That side is finished now. Now I need to do this side, So with a little bit of movie magic, Next in line are this. Let's get this back here. So I was thinking using this old bolt, just getting it through and drill holes on each side for this pin. So next step, what is that? Going to put some plates here to, to strengthen the chute So I did put so weld here for sealing it up so. This is what I have done so far, and the same on the other side. The plans for today, I'm thinking about just So I have this, this is an old vibrator from an old railroad machine. I've seen a lot of feeders that have the motor making the movement like this to the feeder. So sure I could mount, (no idea what he's saying) the motor to make the feeder go like this, I don't know. I would rather have the feeder mounted underneath here, making a movement like this. It feels like it will... Up material. Yeah, no, let's put it underneath. Yeah, everything fits, so let's weld it. Might as well cut two pieces to put here and on the back, some extra strength. So I'm having a feeling it will be kind of a hard time The welding is done for this part, but I have to say, using galvanized steel, was a big mistake. It was a pain to weld it. So I'm thinking, putting it here. So there's a lot of welding to do, so let's go to high speed. So what I'm going to do now, is I'm going to make some kind of an end weld it to the a spring holder and just go underneath here and to the other spring holder. So I bought a new welder, a stick welder. Let's... Let's keep going with that and weld this, to try it out. So the feeder is now all welded. I've been welding around, It was six kilos so maybe And I have to say that in comparison I don't see a difference, pretty much the same. But this part is now welded, and I can say something is that I'm never going to use galvanized steel again for building something big like this. It's a real pain welding in galvanized. I know you can grind most of the It's a real pain welding it. So my belt just arrived. and the pulley. 6 of the belts, 5 meters long. Pulley for, yeah, 6 belts. And the bushing for the axel. So it's finally time to put the belt drive on this. I'm thinking about mounting the motor This is a hefty boy. So this is a problem, I can't get it to low, it will, yeah, it's going to touch. So I need the height somewhere around here. So if I didn't explain this piece, the motor is supposed to sit here, so I need to cut a round hole for the motor. This is actually the same size, luckily, as the motor, 20 centimeters, so I can just paint this off. So what I'm going to do now is just cut it here and bend it. So this is going to sit but I need to raise it up. Well, guess there's no other way than mounting the motor Oh, I'm tired of.. It's heavy as shit. So I'm thinking about two different types of tension device. One is putting hinges in front of here. When loosening the belts, you pull it up, So that is one option. The other one is just building it So pulling it back to tightening, the rail feels more sturdy than the hinges. It feels a little, little more sloppy, I think. Let's go with the rounds. It's alive! So the alignment is going to be important before welding it here. So I need to align it with the motor. So I was thinking one way of aligning and there. So I got this laser. I don't know if this is helping, but if I line it, with this, I should get a or something.. I'm not really sharp. I mean the distance is good, the belt starts and to over here. So I got tired of using the gas I gave a.. This is the 45i. 1100 EUR for this. So I actually owned a plasma before I bought it from ebay for, I guess it was 250 EUR I got to use it one time So this time So maybe it will hold up. At least this has some waranty to it. So it's time to bring out the 'plasmaleikkaus laite'. So I just found out why it was cutting so bad, this ground is from the welder, I'm supposed to use this. Try if it cut better now. Now I just need to do something I've been there for 14 hours now, just fixing that. I mean in the movie world, it looks fast, but I've been here for 14 hours Probably just 8 hours of thinking. Here I'm actually thinking to keep tools or something like that. But let's leave that for now and focus on something else. So now I'm thinking about building so I can get rid of the stands. So this is the cylinder I'm going to use. So I order 4 of this beam. They're supposed to fit in this beam I already had one stuck in there. It's a pretty good fit. And... First when ordering this over phone, 4 pieces, 60 centimeters long and what I got was 4 pieces of this. That's a problem with mixing centimeters He thought I said millimeters. I said 600 millimeters, So the cylinder is supposed to go inside this. And the bigger beam on this. Perfect. And the plan now is to drill a hole up and down here, for the cylinder. The reason for using a pipe is to, as far as one side as possible. Due to the hydraulic couplings, That's why I'm going to use So I did cut out a template for this I found the perfect empty tape roll to cut out the surface. Make one more. So something like this. But I'm going to leave it like this for now and do the other part. So it's the same thing here, made a little template for this too. I guess there is not much more to it than, just weld everything. So what I need to do now I can't weld this part since the hydraulic lines and everything is going to be managed from up here. No, dang it. Hmm, Let's just use the plasma for this Doesn't have to be that exact. So here we have it, two new support legs. I made the other one off the camera, and it took quite a time to make this. So if I weld this now, to this height, when pulling it up, it's going to be there. I don't want to weld it to the frame since I want to be able to take it apart from there. I found the perfect piece for this. So this project has been sleeping It's been 5-6 months. I think last time I did anything to maybe January, and it's now late July. Well... So I've done a cardboard cutout I'm going to use here. I'm going to use, to bolt this thing in place and then make something like this here. And a plate here for the bolts to go. And some... Something here, to cover it up. So something like that. The one piece here, and one flat piece here, bolted down. So before welding this I'm going to make a bracket. Spot welded here So that turned out nice. So for pulling this thing, I'm thinking about using this mounted somewhere... Here I think. one there, one here and then weld this on. Maybe it's a little bit lower than... So I had some problem with the camera but something I did was making a put on that the toggle plate. So what I'm going to need now to do it is just a threaded rod so that it's going to need to be And basically that's for keeping the jaw tensioned so that the toggle plate doesn't hop off. So this is how it looks. Here's the, the toggle plate. and this is the you call it toggle seat. So in the hole I guess the rod is going to go The crusher is moving, and weld it to a bigger nut. So it can keep on doing that a long time So I going to try to spin it a few laps. So the next step now So I've got to fit the cylinder in there. So the hydraulic fittings I have right now is coming too far out, When this is coming What I did was I ordered banjo fittings instead. So while I wait for that I'm going So for the support legs here in the back, hydraulic, takes too much time. So what I'm going to do is, I'm going to cut a beam, 25 centimeters and then have.. I'm going to weld another beam that slides into this and then just making a hole Since I have hydraulic legs in the front, and then push this down work perfectly. Having it something like this is about right. Okay. So it's all welded and ready now. I'm only going to strengthen one side, I think it's overkill to do the our side too. So both sides are weld. so I can lock this in place. So I'm going to leave it like this. At first I was thinking about cutting this off and just welding a plate there, But I mean, when you have have this, when pulling it out. So I'm just going to lock it with a spring like this. So the last thing I'm going to do with I'm going to weld this shut and on it I'm going to make some kind of handle so you can easily pull this up. So I just got hydraulic fittings, I ordered, to make this work. So the banjo is the key since it's a tight fitting. Buuuut... I was expecting it a little bit tighter. So maybe this is also being a little too much, not good. Well, let's try. The plan is one banjo fitting like so, and then the check valve and then another banjo fitting here So I want to put this as far up as I can. So cut it there Right. So this is getting out so and this is going on the pipe and then a ring and a little bit of grease on that. The other side, measure that in. How do you in the easiest way measure this length? What I've got to do is I'm going to make two hoses the stretches from the I think it's easiest to make that, make them go go out here. That's the length, and then we have... Let's get, let's take the next side. So I'm going to make this coupler, eehm, yeah, 90 degrees from the each other. So I'm thinking I will drill the connectors. Yes, somewhere around there. This doesn't touch? Yeah, I think that's good. So as you can see, it's a really tight fit, but at the same time, it's not going to go up and down, it's not a rollercoaster. just for testing a few times and then, and then it's supposed to stay down. So what I've got to do now is, so I can test it. Got some new tracks for the excavator. And I'm not sure what's going on here, but apparently the... These's wierd, flying creature everywhere. Here's to having some kind of wrestling match. The reason for not threading this is that So I'm just going to weld on this nut here. So on this top piece I'm just going to drill inside. Alright. So both, both legs are now mounted. Now I'm going to put see overnight if it's leaking or not. So now it's 12 hours later and there's So this is now all welded and done. while I was on it. While the welder is still warm, let's complete this. weld it, fix this and so you can keep stuff inside. So here I'm thinking some kind of hatch. I guess while I'm still at it, I can just cut out small sides here, So for keeping this hatch closed, let's just make something simple. So I've got to make some lid And it's going to be removable So I'm just thinking I'm going take this and weld on a lid to that Will keep debris from coming in. I think this... This one is done. So the crusher itself is pretty much ready The thing left to do, is the sweeper I'm It's not really much to do. I'm just going to disconnect the hoses from the sweeper unit and plug it in here. And that's hopefully going to work. I need to connect the hydraulic pack, So whatever I'm pulling this crusher with, I can always raise the legs. So before taking it from here, and plug in the hydraulics. So I'm thinking actually about building hydraulic pumps and the hydraulic pack, Reason for not putting it back here I'm going to build something there. So I'm thinking about welding bolts welding them to crusher. So instead of using this, I'm going to, So this will only go for the leg. And then for a shaker motor, This is proportional valve. So let's start crimping the hoses. So all the hoses are made for the support leg to get the pump running first So this pump I have is a Haldex Barne I never even tried this pump, I just hope so. I traded a cabin with a guy as some kind of payment. I can't even find any markings on this, there's no P or no T. I'm just going to start it, Alright, let's try it. Yeah, that's the P. And then just... A 90 degree here. I think that's perfect. So this is longer, so that's going here. Well, let's keep going and So I'm going to install this. to the electric pump since So this is just going to act So with a potentiometer, you can, Or the vibrating speed you want So I'm actually missing the coupler There's supposed to be a, so this is 1/2, and it needs to go I thought I had that, I need to order that. I think this leftover piece is pretty much perfect. So the support legs work fine. One thing I need to adjust so it has the strength to lift this. I'm going to leave everything as it is right now. plugging in the vibrator. So something else I'm going to do later. I need to strengthen the support legs, here to make it really steady. But that's a later issue. What I'm going to do now put it on the truck and take it to where I have the sweeper So it's been over a year since I bought this, I can't wait no longer. I need to go test it. Turned out better than expected. So that is going to give power of that Maybe this isn't the best solution, using old piping an old hoses, but if you look look at the prices for hoses this size here, it may be worth, I don't know. So I started spinning on the belt. Yeah, I need to tension that. So one thing I noticed I hadn't really thought about that earlier, you can see that this plate was moving All the hoses are removed again, I'm going to try to take it out in the forest now. You can see how much it's bent. So I finally found the conveyor for my crusher. So this is 9 meters (29,5 feet) long and it has an electric drum that's 5.5 kilowatts. This little feeding pocket I built myself yesterday. I've been digging out a trench (sarcasm) Watch the paint!