Why is so much writing so bad? Why do we have to struggle As in, &quot;The revocation previously revoked subject to savings does not affect the Why do we put up with academese? As in, &quot;It is the moment disclosing the absentation of in part through its in reading, the helplessness Why is it so hard to set [LAUGHTER] There's no shortage of theories; and the one that I hear in this cartoon, in which &quot;Good start. Needs more gibberish.&quot; That is, that bad writing is Bureaucrats insist on gibberish Pasty-faced nerds get their revenge on the girls who turned them and the jocks who kicked Pseudo-intellectuals try to with highfalutin gobbledygook, that they have nothing to say. Well, I have no doubt that true of some writers but as a general explanation, I know many scientists on important topics. They have nothing to hide but still their writing stinks. Good people can write bad prose. The second most popular theory is that digital media are ruining the language. Google is making us stupid. The digital age and jeopardises our future. Twitter is forcing us Well, if the dumbest generation then that implies that before the advent of digital media, such as in the 1980s. Many of you will remember that that was an era in which teenagers Remember when bureaucrats and every academic in the art of the essay? Or was it the '70s? The thing is that complaints of the language can such as 1961, in which a &quot;recent graduates, including seem to have no mastery Well, we can then go back of radio and television. In 1917, a commentator wrote, &quot;From every college in the country 'Our freshmen can't spell, Every high school is in disrepair because its pupils are so ignorant Well, maybe you have to go back the glory days of such as 1785, in which &quot;our language is degenerating very fast... I begin to fear that it will be And then there are the ancient &quot;Oh, for crying out loud... with a little bird.&quot; [LAUGHTER] I think a better theory who wrote, &quot;Man has an instinctive as we see in the babble whereas no child has to bake, brew, or write.&quot; That is, whereas speech is instinctive, writing is and always has been hard. Your readers are unknown, They exist only in when you put pen to paper. They can't react or break in As a result, writing is an act of pretense, and writing is an act of craftsmanship. Well, what can we do then For many decades, this question had, at least in the United States, which is that you hand students this, the iconic &quot;The Elements Of Style&quot; by Cornell Professor William Strunk, Jr. who later went on to glory as the New Yorker essayist Charlotte's Web and Stuart Little. Note, by the way, that before the turn of the century. That is, before the turn Now, there is, undoubtedly, in The Elements of Style. There are little gems of advice like &quot;Use definite, specific, concrete language.&quot; &quot;Write with nouns and verbs.&quot; &quot;Put the emphatic words at the end.&quot; And my favourite, &quot;Omit needless words.&quot; --which is, by the way, [LAUGHTER] On the other hand, there are many reasons why and other traditional style manuals like Fowler's Modern English Usage, English equivalent, why they cannot in the 21st century. For one thing, a lot of Language changes. Strunk and White declared that, &quot;to finalize is a pompous, Now, many of you will be that this perfectly unexceptionable deemed pompous But it just happened to be new It grated on his ears. He declared it pompous, but it then fell into common usage, and no one even remembers that it was ever considered Or, &quot;to contact is vague Do not contact people; get in touch with them, look them up, phone them, find them, or meet them.&quot; Of course, Strunk and White did not live you could also text them, tweet them, email them, and so on. Nor did they really appreciate that an indispensable verb, when you don't care whether or texts another, as long as they do get in touch with them by one means or another. And for that purpose, &quot;to contact&quot; is Some of the advice is baffling, &quot;the word people is not to in place of persons.&quot; That is, you should not say 'six people'. Why not? Well, &quot;if of 'six people' five went away, how many people would be left? Answer: one people.&quot; [LAUGHTER] Did you get that? By the same logic, you should never say, I have two children or 32 teeth. or two feet or any other Or how's this? Note that the word when applied to people, A clever horse is a good-natured [LAUGHTER] The problem with traditional consists of an arbitrary on the tastes and It's not based on a of how language works. And as a result, of understanding and And as I've noted, much of I think we can do better today. We can base advice on writing of language, on modern is an advance over that are ported over from Latin, on evidence-based dictionaries, on research in cognitive science easy or hard to read, and on historical and critical studies of usage. It all begins with a model of As I have been emphasising, and good style must begin of the communication scenario: How the writer imagines the reader, and what the writer is trying And my favourite model of this by the English scholars and they call it classic style. The model behind classic is a window onto the world. The writer has seen that the reader has He positions the can see it with her own eyes. The writer and The goal is to help the and the style is conversation. Now, that may seem is just one of a variety of including contemplative and practical style. But the one that they argue is one they call post-modern or the writer's chief if to escape being convicted about his own enterprise. They continue. &quot;When we open a cookbook, and expect the author to put leads to the heart of certain Is it possible to Do eggs really exist? Is food something about Can anyone ever tell us Classic style as inappropriate philosophical If it took those could never get around and its purpose is exclusively Well, I'd be defying the if I just talked about it And here's an example. It is an article by the on the theory of and one of its implications, And he wrote it for Greene writes, &quot;if space at ever earlier must have been ever smaller. At some moment in the we now see, the for every planet, every star, itself, must have to an infinitesimal speck evolving into the The Big Bang Theory was born. Yet scientists were aware that from a significant it leaves out the bang. Einstein's equations of describing how the universe after the bang, break down, similar to by a calculator when by 0, when applied to of the universe's The Big Bang thus into what might have Now, in these few has covered some fairly and physics. But he does it in a way that That is, if you can imagine you can run that and imagine that it in an infinitesimal speck. And even the abstruse of equations breaking that anyone can You can either pull and try it-- try and indeed you will or you can try to wrap your mind mean to divide the And that is classic style. The reader can see Now, many examples of are implications of the To begin with, the is on the thing being shown, not So here's an example that I have to wade through A typical article in my field in recent years, an increasing have turned their attention to acquisition. In this article, recent will be reviewed. Well, no offence, but are all that interested in how A more classic introduction could have been, all to speak and without explicit lessons. How do they A corollary of this advisory of apologising that academics to do. Again, this is the that I have to deal The problem of is extremely complex. It is difficult to give of the concept of language and the concept of children. There is much uncertainty of experimental data and a great the theories. More research needs to be done. [LAUGHTER] Now, this is the that could be deleted at a because classic prose for knowing that many and many controversies The reader is there to see what Another corollary is to minimise obligatory in academic prose. The sprinkling of words fairly, rather, nearly, comparatively, so to speak, and presumably. And the similar use by which a writer from a familiar So here's an example from I received. &quot;She is a quick able to educate herself interests her.&quot; Well, are we to take this the young woman in question is a quick study, namely someone to be a quick study And if she's been able in virtually any area that some areas that she tried to educate This habit was when I came across at an academic conference. We hadn't seen each other and I asked how she was. And as she pulled out a picture and she said, we [LAUGHTER] Aw. Why the compulsive hedging? Well, there is an imperative that the bureaucrats cover your anatomy. But there is an alternative so sue me. That is, it's better to be clear and, as the physicists Also classic prose counts of ordinary conversation. The fact that two will read between the so that not everything has to be So if I were to say, well, in been getting fatter, as meaning on average You're not going to that every last one of the 350 States have all I call these tendencies the confusion of the or field or profession that it is designed And it is not just a but it infects many professions. News media, for example, will giving rise to the notorious Much coverage of movies will tell you all about the and the number of but say nothing about I'm sure I'm not has been bored to tears where you get a and a lengthy fits into a classification But it says nothing about or what they did with it. And many government and business into the bureaucratic way to find the information A second feature is that it keeps up the seeing a world rather than And as such, it avoids We are all familiar with dispenses sentences to think outside the box in but found that it was neither So we rolled with the chips fall where they as half full. It's a no-brainer. Now, the problem with is that it either to kind of shut down and just process the words as blah, blah. Or if she actually does to the underlying be upended by the Here's another sentence from I received. &quot;Jeff is a Renaissance to the core issues and It's not clear how you can do Or this is from an article &quot;No one has yet will knock people's socks off.&quot; [LAUGHTER] And if you write be eligible for membership Who Figuratively Use Literally. And I'm told there's Now, it is perfectly acceptable It's much more problematic to And it's very, very bad to say Now, third, classic It's not about the we understand the world. And as such, it avoids of metaconcepts, that is, such as approach, assumption, framework, issue, level, model, rule, strategy, Admit it, you use these As in, this is a sentence by a legal scholar. &quot;I have serious to amend the Constitution On the aspirational a constitutional may be more valuable, I doubt that trying to would actually be valuable to aspire to it.&quot; Or this from an &quot;It is important to from a variety of strategies, assistance, but also from a Translation-- we should consult but we may also have [LAUGHTER] Classic prose narrates We see agents who perform Non-classic prose and then refers to using a dangerous tool nominalization, turning a verb So instead of appearing, Instead of organising the organisation of that thing. Helen Sword, a language scholar, because they kind the page with no conscious agent And they can turn prose into Participants read assertions affirmed or denied by the of an assessment word, which people saw sentences, by the word true or false. Subjects were tested of good to excellent we tested the students But again, it is who have this bad habit. It is also politicians. When a hurricane threatened Convention a few years ago, said, &quot;right now there there will be a cancellation.&quot; That is, right now that we will have to cancel it. And just to be nonpartisan, of the American here we have Secretary of &quot;the president is to see how we can make to find a way to facilitate.&quot; In other words, the [LAUGHTER] And corporate consultants. A young man interviewed explained that he is a digital &quot;I deliver programmes, products, clients across the spectrum And when the that he had no idea what what he really did, and he said, &quot;I teach big [LAUGHTER] And product engineers. Portable generators used to carry a warning &quot;mild exposure to CO can over time. Extreme exposure be fatal without producing Yeah, yeah. Whatever. And as a result, several every year turn their and asphyxiated themselves by running heaters and until they replaced the &quot;using a generator indoors [LAUGHTER] So classic prose can literally Yes, literally. So part two. How can an understanding lead to better writing advice? Another contributor to zombie This refers to the in the active voice, such and a sentence like the in the passive voice. It's well known that the passive as in, on the basis was made of the data it is suggested that the null For passives in one sentence. And lawyers. If the outstanding balance the unearned finance Three passives. But perhaps most infamously Here we have one of in the United States, New Jersey in explaining how it was that a three-hour traffic jam the lanes to a tunnel in order to punish the mayor of his re-election, he said, The infamous politician's Not surprisingly, all of warn against using Strunk and White say, The active voice is usually than the passive. Many a tame sentence can by substituting a transitive for some such as there is or could be heard.&quot; Well, I'm glad to that a number of people and White used the passive to use the passive. The other iconic bit is the classic essay, Politics by George Orwell, probably the bit of advice on writing. And Orwell too says, and sheer incompetence is the of modern English showing that some &quot;I list below by means of which the is habitually dodged. The passive voice is wherever to the active.&quot; A passage that has not one but to tell people not to Well, the passive have survived in the English if it did not Why can't we do without it not to overuse it? It comes down to the You can think of for converting a web of Now, the writer's thought of as a kind what cognitive psychologists That is, a collection Here we have a fragment of the tragic events brought to Oedipus Rex. So you've got a number of kill, marry. You've got a bunch of how the concepts are related. Doer, done to, Now, when you just lie back your mind can surf to another in pretty But what happens when you have into a sentence? Well, now you've got to into a linear string of words. In Sophocles play, and killed his father. That means that there's into the design of language. The order of words in a sentence It's the code that uses to express who At the same time, it of information to the and thereby affects is going to be absorbed. In particular, the early refers to the sentence's connects back to what's in the reader's mind. In the metaphor it refers to the in which the reader is looking. The later words in the sentence's focal point, In the metaphor, is supposed to now notice. Any prose that violates even if each sentence feel choppy or And that brings The passive is a for this inherent design It allows writers to convey who did what to whom, while In particular, it to start the sentence with rather than the And that's why avoid the passive The passive is, in fact, when the done to is currently the target of Again, I'll give you an example. This comes from the Wikipedia and it describes in the play in which the revealed to the audience. Spoiler alert. &quot;A messenger arrives It emerges that he was formerly and during that time The baby, he said, by another shepherd household, who had been told Now notice that this passage in a row and for good reason. As the passage opens, our a messenger arrives and so the next something about the messenger to the messenger, and thanks to He, the messenger, Well, now we're looking at the baby, at and the next sentence should And again, thanks to the The baby was given to the Well, now we're looking and the next sentence telling should begin with that. And again, the passive The other shepherd had been Now imagine that the had either followed the advice literally or was the victim that turns every passive then you would have a It emerges that he was formerly and during that time Another shepherd from he says, whom someone had gave the baby to him. Now, I think you will agree Your attention is from one part of the And participants without warning or a More generally, English with constructions that while preserving the meaning. Oedipus killed Laius. Laius was killed by Oedipus. It was Laius whom It was Oedipus who And writers must that introduces ideas to in which she can absorb them. Well, why then is the writing, as it surely is? It's because good a story, advanced who make things happen. Bad writers work backwards writing down ideas in the order They begin with the because they know And then they throw in the and the passive makes So why should this be so hard? Why is it so hard for writers available by the to convey ideas effectively? The best explanation that I know and it's called the The fact that when it's hard to imagine what not to know it. Psychologists give It's also called mind blindness, about half a dozen others. Perhaps the best from a classic be familiar to any of you psychology, the M&amp;M can call it the Smarties Study. A three-year-old boy comes into The experimenter gives He's all excited. He opens it, and he finds that the box contains pencils. So the child is surprised. And the experimenter puts closes it, puts it And he says, OK. Well, now another little boy What does Jason And the boy will say pencils. Even though, of no way of knowing that the boy knows it, but And in fact, if when you came into did you think was in the box? And he'll say pencils. Now that he knows recover the innocent state in Now adults, of course, kind of, a little-- because many studies have shown People will tend to attribute to the population at large. If they know of fact, they And in one study, the more a complicated gadget the less time they estimated to learn it, because the the obviously easier it must be, I think that the is the chief contributor It simply doesn't that readers haven't don't know the seem too obvious visualise a scene in the writer's mind's eye. And so the writer doesn't or spell out the logic or supply writing for professional peers. It's a lazy excuse that they don't have because, after all, for their professional peers. But because of the even prose written is often surprisingly opaque. I'll give you an example. This is a passage from an written in a journal In Cognitive Science, which short, readable for the benefit of cognitive another's work. So here's a passage. &quot;The slow and integrative is confirmed behaviorally by illusion&quot; and its in which a stimulus is is influenced by arising several after the original stimulus.&quot; Now, I've been in this and I have no idea what I have never heard of though I know an awful And I know what the but I have no idea about when they talk about perceived. So I went to my found one that had an called the cutaneous works as follows-- the subject closes his The experimenter on the wrist, three three times on the shoulder. And the person experiences it the length of his arm, kind of the rabbit illusion. Well, why didn't Not only is it no to spell out the but it's actually because knowing that that's I can then follow the logic namely what it allegedly does not track sensory But our brain is constantly after the fact to make Well, knowing what the I can then ponder whether whether that's a correct or whether it might have something that I can't do with that. The temptations of are I think best So a man walks into a Catskills and walks into the sees a bunch of retired sitting around a table. And so there's an empty chair. He joins them. And he hears one of the and the others break out Another one says 112, all just burst out into peals of And he can't figure So he asked the guy next to him. He says, what's happening? And the guy says, these old timers, they've been all though the same jokes. So to save time, they've and now they just have They guy says, that's ingenious. I'll try it. So he says 31. Stony silence. He says 77. Everyone stares at him. No one laughs. So he sinks back down into his uh, what happened? Why didn't anyone laugh? The guy says, well, it's [LAUGHTER] So how do you exercise Well, the traditional solution the reader over your shoulder. That is, empathise see the world from her point walk a mile in her Well, this is good but it only goes so far, because has shown that we're not what people know, even when A better solution a draft to a real-live and you will often discover isn't obvious to anyone else. You can even show after some time has passed, And if you're like yourself thinking or what did I mean too often, who wrote this crap? [LAUGHTER] And then rewrite, with the single goal understandable to the reader. Finally, how should we of what is right or wrong, Which is the aspect of writing attention and arouses Now, some usages There is a famous and beloved known as Cookie Monster, and Sesame Street, is, &quot;me want cookie.&quot; Now, even, and can laugh at Cookie by their own lights, they has made a grammatical error. Many of you may be familiar with humour called the lolcat, the humour in which resides incompetent at English grammar. If we didn't recognise that the error, we would at least those people [LAUGHTER] Is our children learning? Even ex-president acknowledged that this in a self-deprecating speech of his own past speech errors. But others are not so clear, the Democratic when he was running had as one of his &quot;give Al Gore and I a chance appalling the nation's who pointed out that this is between you and I error. And it should be &quot;give to bring America back.&quot; Another Democratic said no American should live just because of The infamous singular Captain Kirk of Star Trek, of the Starship where no man has gone before.&quot; Split infinitive. The Beatles, &quot;you think Well, I saw her yesterday. It's you she's thinking of, Anyone? Sentence with a Preposition at the And then I doubt many people icon. This is Dick Cavett, of our short-lived and witty, intelligent talk show. And in an Op Ed in which he reunion, he wrote it was nice to see a few of my Anyone? [INTERPOSING VOICES] Anyone go to school Yes. It's a dangling participle. Well, what do we do with these They have given rise to called the language war. On the one side, there who prescribe how people They are also known as the peevers, snobs, snoots, language police, usage nannies, gang, according to whom rules of To obey them is to uphold To flout them is to dumb degrade the language, and hasten Now, according to the scenario, we have the descriptivists, how people do speak to whom rules of usage are of the ruling class, should be liberated to Now, I think there are reasons war, however beloved it is a pseudo-controversy. If it were really true, would have to insist that the song should be, it's you And the descriptivists to claim that there is can has cheezburger, they could not get the I think we need a of thinking about usage. So what are rules of usage? Where do they come from? They're certainly that you could prove in nor are they officially And I can speak here, because I am the Chair of Heritage Dictionary, and I asked the editor do you guys decide what And his answer was, to the way people use words.&quot; That is, when it there's no one in charge. The lunatics are [LAUGHTER] So a way to make sense is that they are tacit, A convention is a that has no particular that everyone else is doing it. Paper currency is an example. A piece of paper with has no inherent value that everyone expects as having value. There's no particular reason to to driving on the left. There's nothing sinister about or socialist. [LAUGHTER] But there's an excellent on the left on this namely that's what Unlike the rules of traffic though, the rules of They emerge as a rough of careful writers without agreement, or legislation. And the conventions evolve, of &quot;to finalise and to contact,&quot; time. So should writers And the answer is, it depends. Some rules just extend the to more complicated cases. So let's take is our children W. Bush but the checker flags as an error with &quot;Is our children learning&quot; is is learning.&quot; Everyone can see that is ungrammatical, and therefore is also ungrammatical. Or a slightly more complicated have not been felt yet. Why did Microsoft Word put Well, when you think &quot;the impact have not been felt.&quot; If you delete the that just jumps off the Of course, it's &quot;impact and so it's &quot;the impact of The writer was just cuts that happened to be cheek Also, there are some that make important Fulsome is not a fancy-schmancy Fulsome means And so one ought for their fulsome that if someone gives you a a bad thing, not a good thing. Likewise, you should someone's elegant theory Simplistic means overly or incorrectly simple. Nor if you think that you call it meretricious. If you don't know why, you in the dictionary. In general, one should avoid to replace a humbler synonym. If you do, you might of Inigo Montoya in when another the word inconceivable to refer He said, you keep I do not think it means On the other hand, not of grammatical folklore lesson from Miss is a legitimate rule of usage. And many supposed to violate the grammatical turn out to be routinely and often have always been singular they being A recent article in a in the United States they was a feminist plot our throats by angry women's of a gender neutral and that we should resist and go back to the crystalline Whoops. Turns out that Jane 87 times in her novels, began to have their vexation.&quot; Likewise, if you've with sentence final should go back and when he wrote &quot;we are such And the same is true dangling participles, and I, and many In fact, not only is obeying it can often make prose worse. Here is a sentence that I got from my own in one of its &quot;David Rockefeller has to increase dramatically for Harvard undergraduates.&quot; Now, this writer twisted to avoid a split infinitive that, as far as I belong to the English language. [LAUGHTER] In fact, obeying bogus lead to a crisis in In 2009, Chief who was a famous was charged with administering to Barack Obama. And the wording of as stipulated in the US Barack Obama, do solemnly execute the office of President But Chief Justice Roberts in that oath, and so he had do solemnly swear that I will of the United States not a stylistic calls the legitimacy of into question. And so they had to in a private ceremony later that afternoon. So how should a careful writer of usage from bogus ones? Well, the answer is Look them up. If you turn to a dictionary, say split infinitive, all right to split an infinitive since clarity is the this advice means merely whenever you want to.&quot; Encarta World &quot;there is no grammatical split infinitives.&quot; American Heritage Dictionary, none of the dictionaries wrong with a split infinitive. So modern dictionaries do not ratify pet peeves, or bogus rules. And that's because on evidence, on the practises on the practises of the in some cases on polling in contested cases, and on consistency with the Also, we should keep correct Now, I do think that to respect the legitimate rules. But in fact, they're the least They pale in significance classic style, coherent overcoming the to say nothing of factual argumentation. And also, even about some undoubtedly we should keep in mind of the decline of language. And this is nicely captured by Randall Munroe, in is haunted by a vision by a ghost in the and says &quot;I bring a cautionary This is the future. And this is the future if you literally.&quot; [LAUGHTER] And yes, they are So to sum up, I've suggested and cognitive science provide our writing, a model namely classic style, is a window on the world; language works, namely as a way into a string of words; a so hard to write, namely and a way to make sense of rules evolving conventions. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] It seems as thought the way is definitely speeding up And I was wondering if you with usage and grammar. Are we seeing an at which things are changing?